If you haven't opened up your Bibles yet, would you please do so as we continue? We will be in the book of Ruth, chapter 4. So as we enter into the last chapter of the book of Ruth this morning, we see that there is a hope. For a future. But what will that future look like? Based upon Boaz's promise to marry Ruth, But because there is another kinsman redeemer in line before Boaz, we don't know whom Ruth will eventually marry. Thus far, having been exposed to Ruth and Boaz, I think that perhaps our sympathies lie with Boaz. But it is not guaranteed that they will marry, as Boaz himself brought up the fact that there is another kinsman that is in a higher priority in fulfilling the role of the kinsman redeemer. Within their very clan. Will Ruth and her excellent reputation with Boaz's integrity ultimately separate them? Or will we discover in God's providence that Boaz will be the Redeemer, and Naomi will have an heir by him? So before we get too deep in the text for this morning, let's take a quick look at the context under which we find ourselves. The City Gate. was known in antiquity as the place where the elders or the magistrates of the town assembled to adjudicate issues regarding contests on land rights, commerce, familial matters and felonies. Our story today is taking place at such a location. However, we should not look at this as a legal case requiring some sort of judicial action. We know that this is the case because after the folks are assembled, Boaz and his relative are the only ones that are speaking The elders are not asking questions or are ultimately speaking to the issue and finality. They are not voting on anything Nor are they being asked to vote on anything. This is more like a family law situation, where land, wives, heirs, care for widows are being discussed and resolved publicly. And the elders' role here is to act as witnesses to what is ultimately agreed to. If any issue arises in the future, or if anyone or anything is contested by other family members, this same body would be called upon to rule on any such complaints. Nonetheless, whatever branch of law this is being conducted under, it has the force of law and thus has permanence. As we shall see, this process has two phases. The first is determining the right to redeem, and the second is the actual act of doing so. Having laid this foundation, let us turn our attention to our text this morning, which is from the book of Ruth, chapter four, verses one through twelve. Would you please be so kind to rise for the hearing of God's holy and inspired word? The following is from Ruth chapter 4 verses 1 through 12. Now Boaz had gone up to the gate and sat down there. And behold, the Redeemer, of whom Boaz had spoken, came by. So Boaz said, Turn aside, friend, sit down here. And he turned aside and sat down. And he took ten men of the elders of the city and said, Sit down here. So they sat down. Then he said to the Redeemer, Naomi, who has come back from the country of Moab, is selling the parcel of land that belonged to our relative Alimelech So I thought I would tell you of it and say, buy it in the presence of those sitting here and in the presence of the elders of my people. If you will redeem it, redeem it. But if you will not, tell me, that I may know, for there is no one beside you to redeem it, and I come after you. And he said, I will redeem it. Then Boaz said, The day you buy the field from the hand of Naomi, you also acquire Ruth, the Moabite. the widow of the dead, in order to perpetuate the name of the dead in his inheritance, then the Redeemer said. I cannot redeem it for myself lest I impair my own inheritance. Take my right of redemption yourself, for I cannot redeem it. Now this was the custom in former times in Israel concerning redeeming and exchanging to confirm a transaction. The one drew off his sandal and gave it to the other, and this was the manner of attesting in Israel. So when the redeemer said to Boaz Buy it for yourself. He drew off his sandal. Then Boaz said to the elders and all the people, You are witnesses this day that I have bought from the hand of Naomi all that belong to Elimelech. And all that belong to Kileon and to Malon. Also Ruth the Moabite, the widow of Melon, I have brought to be my wife. to perpetuate the name of the dead in his inheritance, that the name of the dead may not be cut off from among his brothers and from the gate of his native place. You are witnesses this day. And all the people who were at the gate and the elders said, We are witnesses. May the Lord make the woman. who is coming into your house, like Rachel and Leah, who together built up the house of Israel. May you act worthily in Ephratha and be renowned in Bethlehem, and may your house be like the house of Perez, whom Tamar bore to Judah, because of the offspring that the Lord Will give you by this young woman. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, we thank you for the privilege of coming to worship you and the Father and our great Redeemer, the Lord Jesus. Be with us now as we gaze upon, read through, and delight being in the presence of God's Word. Help us to understand Help us to apply. Change our thinking. Help us to conform to our Heavenly Father's thinking. And grant us the grace to be able to do so. And we ask this in the name of Jesus. Amen. Immediately, we see that Boaz is doing exactly what he said that he would do from the previous interaction in chapter three. He went to the city gate and had a seat. The city gate served several functions, of which we have already briefly spoken about. It was a place where people ultimately came in and out of the city. Most cities at that time. Is what we would call sort of like towns, had really only one city gate, as most were typically small But if they were large, they would have other minor gates throughout the city, but there would be only one major city gate. Since it was the primary way in and out of the city, Boaz would anticipate that his relative, who had a priority to redeem, would eventually pass by the gate. City Gate was a place where people did commerce. They made deals with one another, and it was also a place of judicial action. It served as the city's courthouse. And this is where the administrators assembled, heard cases, and gave judgments. It is there that Boaz sat and waited, hoping that by chance the relative would pass by the city gate. As our author relates, behold, and that's where the joke is, suddenly Any monotony of waiting is ended when the relative is cited as passing through the gate Just as a side note, we don't have a name, if you notice that. He's not even addressed by his name. In the Hebrew, literally, it's Mr. So-and-so. And we're going to return to this later on. But that's not a major concern of our author. His priority to redeem and his desire to do so and the ability are of major importance. So Boaz calls him over. Hey, friend. Again, no name. Come over here and let's visit. Have a seat. And he does. And after his relative is seated, Boaz needed to assemble the elders of the town, and after he had what is perhaps understood as a quorum. They also sat down. Sat meaning that they were actually in session. Being in session means that they're ready to do business The elders were men of age that were typically family heads and possessed biblical and historical knowledge and were called upon for their collective wisdom. Wouldn't it be neat if that in perhaps an airy every area of society Folks had a group of elderly men who are biblically wise can be called upon to offer wisdom in making decisions that people face. We, those within the church, are blessed to have that. Every member of the church has, a formal member of our church has a shepherding elder. You have a session, and of course myself, to hear and to offer biblical wisdom on direction or decisions that you are currently faced with. Now, their authority extended to the following areas of the law. Murder, disputes over virginity. Asylum, leverett marriage law, and in this case they are now called upon to ratify or bear witness to the settlement of family redemption rights. In case anyone is wondering, it is unclear why Boaz has gathered ten elders There is no specific number that is defined. Perhaps that is what was required within the city of Bethlehem. This may have been the minimum legal requirement for a quorum, and that this body would be a witness to whatever transaction would occur. Now, having established that this is now a Formal-ish proceeding, Boaz lays out the issue. Now I have to tell you that much has been written regarding the land that is in question. Some argue that the verb tense implies that it already had been sold or has been sold. But later on, we shall see that the final purchaser of the land purchases directly from Naomi. I think it's entirely appropriate then to think that the land has not already been sold. But due to her circumstances, she is putting it up for sale. Being that this land is owned by Klimalek, Boaz and his fellow relative are now eligible to redeem the land. He is formally Bringing attention to the kinsmen that Naomi has put up her property for sale. And as such, before anyone can purchase it, he would like to know If Elimelech's closer relative would like to redeem the land before a stranger goes ahead and purchases it, However, he continues, if this relative does not wish to exercise his right to be the redeemer, then he should let him No, and those that are witnesses know, so that the next in line, Boaz himself, has already decided to exercise his right to be a kinsman redeemer for their Beloved relative Alimelik. Now, let's remember, to be a kinsman redeemer, you have to one, be a close relative. Two, have a desire to redeem. Three, have the resources, the finances, to redeem the land of the relative and perhaps even to redeem the relative if they have sold themselves off into servitude or slavery. Now, would this man want the land? Does he have the money to buy it? And would Give the land back to, if they have a child, to Elimelech's family, his descendants, his children, his grandchildren, if you will. Well, we know that Naomi's old. She's too old to have children. Alamalek's boys are dead, and they themselves had no children of their own You would think that everybody knows this. Naomi made that clear when she wished to be called Mara, Peter, when she came back from the land of Moab. So it may seem as if it's clear that should this relative redeem the land, since there are no heirs, The land he redeems would ultimately become part of his own land. This seems like a win Win situation for him, doesn't it? Just as a side note here, what is clear is that he, Boaz Is making the statement in the presence of the elders. However, in the passage, this states that in the presence of the elders and those that are seated. Some have wondered exactly what is meant here. Now it's possible that what is meant here is the elders who are seated But it's equally possible that it's another group of people, which may be other magistrates, or perhaps what I think is the onlookers or inhabitants. citizens of day-to-day citizens of Bethlehem. In the end, it plays no big role other than If it is a broader community of people present, the witnesses attesting to this whatever transaction it would be would be enlarged. Now, if you notice, Boaz presents this as a case of redemption. Not a straightforward purchase. However, he hasn't gotten to the presence of Ruth in this transaction as of yet. At this point, if he were to buy the property, it would have meant that provision would have to be made for Naomi Perhaps that would come from the prophets of the land, but the land would still remain in his name Now without getting any further, the man spoke up and stated that he would be the Redeemer. Knowing that there are no heirs, Naomi unlikely to bear any more children, and even in the events of the year of Jubilee, If it were even applicable, it would be no threat to the perpetual ownership of the land by this redeemer. For a low price, he would increase his own land. And let a portion of the prophets care for Naomi while she was alive. And his family name would benefit from him playing the role of the kinsman redeemer. Seems like a no-brainer, right? What would happen now? Just when he thought the issue was solved, Boaz continues as if to say, wait, wait, not so fast. There's more. Should you decide to buy the land from the hand of Naomi, you also acquire Ruth, the Moabitis. And he continues, the widow of the dead. The dead being Elimelech and his sons, in order to perpetuate his name, and here's the catch, his inheritance. And this is where the Leverett marriage concept comes into play, which we spoke about last time. What we said was that it is a law to perpetuate the family name by siring a child with a relative's widow. This would mean that should a child be born through the widow of Elimelech, or in this case now his dead son, that child would be the heir of the property that he is now buying This means that he would be sacrificing, as a redeemer, his own set his own resources. He would be giving up of himself as a redeemer to literally give life to another. By calling Ruth the wife of the deceased, he is invoking a legal term, the wife of the deceased. It is related to the Leverett marriage laws. And some, if you were to buy the property, Ruth comes with the package. And with her comes the possibility of giving the land to her child so that their relative Elimelech's land and family can continue in Israel. Now, let's take a moment here to sort of understand why this is important. Israelites didn't mainly look at life through an eternal spiritual existence. But they were seemingly more concerned with the physical existence. They believed that they lived on in their descendants, in their memories, of their name and reputations which they passed down through their families. One of the worst things a family could experience was to not have their children to pass their name and property and their land too. In fact, if you take a moment to think about the worst curse or worst cuss words that you could hurl at someone The equivalent of them would be to say something like, may you have no descendants. May your wife be barren. May the memory of your family be wiped off from the face of the earth. Somebody who said that. Those would be fighting words. Mentioned to you earlier that I grew up in New York and I don't know why, but it was always like during recess time we'd have fights. If you wanted to pick a fight, You knew what that to say. Your mama. Your mother. Those were fighting words. If you want fighting words, you want a curse, this is what you said. May you and your family's name be wiped off the face of the earth. Now, associated with this is the belief that if a family experienced this, it was because God cursed them. A punishment of God for some sin upon your family. Getting back to our text here. There's something here for us to plumb. See, our translation says to perpet perpetuate the dead, but it really can be translated if not literally s figuratively as to resurrect, to bring back to life the dead. This is an interesting play on words. We are to see that the kinsman redeemer is able to resurrect, if you will, the dead. Now, in this case, we're not saying that this relative or Boaz literally can raise the dead, but this is a figurative language But for those after the cross can look back to the concept of this kinsman-redeemer, to see that the kinsman-redeemer, that they were to look forward to, Christ Himself. Was to resurrect those whom he redeemed from the dead. Now, with this provision, the moment of truth has arrived for this man. Boaz, Ruth, and perhaps their fledgling romance, would he accept Ruth and marry her as well? The man responds, Well, in that case, I cannot perform the duty myself His response indicates that it's not that he is unwilling, but he is unable Man explains to do so would put into jeopardy his his own inheritance. What he's arguing from is that of expense, really. After doing the calculations in his head, What he would be incurring is the expense of caring for Ruth, Naomi, and all the children that Ruth would mother Then lose the land to the child birthed by Ruth as Elimelech's proper heir, and then perhaps having the same children lay claim on his current land. which he may have already worked out for his current children. So, reason of the added expense, he has backed out of his right to be the kinsman redeemer. He uses legal language here as well. For I cannot recall that a redeemer would need to be able to redeem. Just in case in this action we see how these men sit side by side, these two relatives, differ in remarkable ways. Both facing the very same situation. Very much like what we saw earlier in the story. two young widowed women facing the same situation. Orpha goes back home, but Ruth stays with remarkable fidelity. Our author does not take the time to excoriate Orpha or this man. They respond normally, like most people would. But here, like Ruth, who showed self-sacrifice, Boaz does the same. Both showing extreme fidelity, faithfulness, going beyond what anyone would expect. sacrificing for others at great expense to themselves In verse 7, our narrator interrupts the speech of Boaz and his relative to provide for us information regarding the process of completing this transaction. It is fair to ask why he would take the time to do this. I think if some time had passed from when this actually occurred, that is when he is writing this down. This practice may have been lost or perhaps may have become archaic at that time. He does begin verse 8 with, It was the custom in former times, or back then in Israel. But he does explain that the to confirmate to confirm the transaction, not to purchase But to give up one's right to redeem to the next in line was to give your sandal. to that person and tell them publicly to buy it for yourself. Which is exactly what happened here Now I don't know about you. But if you've ever walked around in your sandals All day on dirt, on roads that are traveled by animals, and so forth It seems kind of like really icky, doesn't it, to pull off your sandal and give it to that person But the transfer of the sandal symbolized the transfer of the right from one Goel, Redeemer, to another Goel. By giving Boaz his sandal, he publicly declared his intention. He passes off his rights and exits the stage, never having been heard of again. There is much written regarding why the relative, Mr. So-and-so, was not addressed by his proper name. The writer of the story, possessing such detailed genealogy, genealogical information, surely would have known the name of the relative. Some have posited that the writer did not wish to embarrass the family line by identifying them as those that did not fulfill their moral responsibilities. Some have implied that this was judgment for one who refused to raise The name of a deceased kin deserves no name himself. The focus of attention now turns to Boaz. With sandal in hand, as the Goel, he has the right to be the kinsman redeemer. Boaz, if you will, having the mic, proclaims before the elders and all those that were present watching the following. They that are witnesses to the fact that it is he who has bought the land from Naomi which includes all that belongs to his relative Elimelech, all that belongs to his sons Hillion and Malon, and finally this also includes Ruth, the Moabite, who is the widow of Malon. He continues, whom he has bought to be his wife. Now he's making reference to the leverick marriage. He continues, to resurrect the name of the dead to his inheritance, so that the family would not be blotted out of Israel, the people of God. And he closes with, you are to serve as witnesses to this transaction. Perhaps as he said that, he held the smelly sandal up in the air. And so The moment the crowd, including the elders, accepted their role as witnesses, and in this case, they are basically living notaries They would verify the validity of the transaction should any challenges arise in the future. And now the people, along with the elders who had witnessed what had transpired, responded with the following. Then all the people who were at the gate and the elders said, We are witnesses. May the Lord May the Lord make the woman who is coming into your house like Rachel and Leah, who together built up the house of Israel May you act worthily in Ephrathath and be renowned in Bethlehem. May the Lord must take note of the fact that it is the community of God who is invoking God's name to accept Ruth. The Gentile, like the founding mothers of Israel itself. This is incredible company to be with. And it signals that they have accepted this Moabitus, this foreigner into the community of God. She is to be considered like one of them. Previously, as we have noted, that it was Boaz that spoke with acceptance on behalf of honorable believers of Yahweh as to Ruth's character But now, it is the community that is accepting this Gentile into the community of God. She has passed the test. and been accepted into the church of God by her faith and the character, proving her genuineness. But here we see that it is because of the work of the kinsman Redeemer, who has sacrificed for Testified for, and given greatly of himself. Now, this is surely a picture that should resonate with us, shouldn't it? Everyone seeking to be a formal member of this body of Christ must attest to their faith in their Savior. That he is their kinsman redeemer. Please note the fact that they, the people, the elders, call her Ruth, your wife. Which is about to enter into her household. What's missing here? Conspicuously, what's missing here is her ethnicity. She is known simply as Ruth now. In this proclamation, we see Naomi's wish and prayer fulfilled. God has given her rest. Her desire for Ruth to have rest. There's a broader implication here. With the people of Israel wishing that Ruth have something big. To do with the future of Israel. Let's not miss this. See the people appealing to God to make roof. Somewhat equivalent to, or be like the foundational mothers of Israel, causes one to stop for a moment and wonder if these words are perhaps prophetic in nature. Or perhaps can be appealed to at some future date for some great purpose or legitimacy. Now the people continued in their blessing. They wished at the very end of verse 11 that his family would achieve great acclaim. The word may mean honor, signaling perhaps a family name with and two dynastic proportions that come out of Bethlehem. Now, if we're to look forward to the rest of the book, which I know you all haven't read yet, we can see that the author may well be making reference to this dynastic figure. But for what that we shall have to wait till next time. Now as we close in verse 12, I find it fascinating. One of the most prominent and leading houses of Israel was the house or the mine of Perez. He was born to Tamar, who was under similar circumstances. She was also a widow who was also childless. Needing the Leverett marriage process to continue her husband's name, who ultimately had children, of which one of them was Perez. And by the way, Tamar was a foreigner, just like Rit. So in reality, Not only are the people of God invoking the names of the founding mothers of Israel, but also that one who was a foreigner. that was engrafted into the community of God and coming from her was one of the most prominent, respected Honored and revered families within the house of Israel. And in Bethlehem, he was like the patron saint of the city. There was really no one that was not related to him in some way. May Boaz, sire, one within the city of Bethlehem who has more honor and dynastic power than our beloved Perez And so we close this section of Ruth with joy and relief. But two questions now remain Would Naomi have an heir? Or would Ruth be as infertile as she was in her first marriage? And the second is, would God answer the petitions and proclamations of the people of God if Ruf gave Boaz a son? Would it lead to the prominence in Israel? Prominence of perhaps even dynastic proportions So that we shall turn to next week. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your great love for us. Our great Redeemer, we thank you for the great sacrifice that you made of yourself for us. Holy Spirit, we thank you that you have preserved and taught us. Of so much of what has happened in the redemption, in the history of redemption, through the covenants that our great God has made with us. We ask that you would help us. To also experience the joy and the relief of knowing, of being known by the great Redeemer Himself In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.