Chapter 19. If you wish to be turning there, you might. I have a little confession to make. I had somewhat of a selfish interest in ministering to this congregation. Not not uh uh skipped friendship as part of that to be sure, but uh You celebrate the Lord's Supper each Lord's day. I've never been like Calvin, my uh hero, uh, who believed that was right, never had the opportunity to practice it Nor have I. And this gives me an opportunity, and I have really enjoyed the opportunity to try to work out the transitions from sermon to the table. And uh it's been a joy to be with you. I've one more Sunday with you, and then I think Skip will be back the following uh Sunday and uh we continue to pray for him and his return and continuing ministry. 19th chapter of the book of Revelation, I'd like to read verses 11 through 21. Revelation 19, 11 through 21. I have been somewhat remiss with you. It is your practice here to stand during the reading of God's Word. Am I correct? And I have not done that consistently and I apologize for that. I do it today. Hear the Word of God, Revelation 19, 11 through 21. Then I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse. The one sitting on it was called faithful and true, and in righteousness he judges and makes war His eyes are like a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems, and he has a name written that no one knows but himself. He is clothed in a robe dipped in blood, and the name by which he is called is the word of God. And the armies of heaven, arrayed in fine linen white and pure, were following him on white horses. From his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. He will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty On his robe and on his thigh he has a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Then I saw an angel standing in the sun And with a loud voice he called to all the birds that fly directly overhead, Come, gather for the great supper of God, to eat the flesh of kings, the flesh of captains, the flesh of mighty men. the flesh of horses and their riders, and the flesh of all men, both free and slave, both great and small. And I saw the beast And the kings of the earth, with their armies, gathered to make war against him who was sitting on the horse, and against his army And the beast was captured, and with it the false prophet, who in its presence had done the signs by which he deceived those who had received the mark of the beast and those who worshipped its image. These two were thrown alive into the lake of fire that burns with sulphur, and the rest were slain by the sword that came from the mouth of him who was sitting on the horse, and all the birds were gorged with their flesh. Would you bow with me as we come to God's word this morning? Father, we thank you once again for your word. We thank you for this truth which is spoken to us, and we receive it as truth from your mouth through The Apostle John, under the inspiration of your Holy Spirit. Father, that we may learn of you, that we may learn what you desire of us, how we may serve you acceptably. And we ask your blessing as we study this passage, above all, that we might in your word see Jesus Christ, who is the chief thing revealed here, that we may know Him and serve Him. We ask it for your glory and his name. Amen. You may be seated. Those of you who were here last week will remember we were in Revelation chapter 12 as I kind of go through a thumbnail sketch of the book of Revelation. We're not going to deal with all of the details. But last week we caught something of a glimpse of the unseen battle, that heavenly spiritual unseen battle that provides the background and kind of drives the things that are happening. in the world as Satan continues his warfare against Christ and the church. Satan, the dragon, that ancient serpent, and his hosts, are continually seeking to destroy the church and Christ who comes as champion of his church. But Satan's attempts are forever frustrated. Messiah's saving work goes forward. Christ continues to fulfill his promise that he would build his church and that the gates of hell would not prevail against the building of that church. But now still the battle goes on and continues, and we must begin to ask, how long does the battle go on? You may recall back in chapter 6, we looked at those under the altar. They cried out with a loud voice, O sovereign Lord, holy and true. How long before you will judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth? Now in chapter 19. Verses 11 through 21, heaven is opened, and we see pictured something of that final battle. Indeed, those saints pleading under that altar have an answer. The Lord Jesus Christ will complete all things in Himself, He will establish justice once and for all, He will destroy Satan. and his hosts. And we must know that. We must know that the battle belongs to the Lord and to his Christ. Justice and evil will not ultimately prevail. The faithful saints will be vindicated, and they will be brought at last to an eternal home. We notice, first of all, the Lord of the Last Battle, verses 11 through 16. In verses 11 through 13, the first part of that section, we find a description of the one who comes forth to execute judgment and make war in this last battle. He is pictured, and it's a majestic picture of a majestic figure upon a white horse. As the description begins, there's no definitive identity of Christ, and it's kind of interesting how it builds. And by the time you come to the last part of the description, oh yes, it is Christ, indeed. Uh but the picture of the white horse and the one riding the white horse is a picture of uh Old Testament uh uh victories. It pictures uh uh righteousness moving forward. He is then described as faithful and true, one who does not swerve, but is absolutely faithful and utterly truthful. It was the faithful Jesus, you see, who went to the cross of Calvary after that battle in the Garden of Gethsemane. Where it is resolved that he will be faithful, not my will but thine be done, as Jesus offers himself to the Father for the awful work of the cross It is that faithful Jesus who does not shrink from the awful duty of the cross. Therefore, holy brothers from the book of Hebrews, You who share in a heavenly calling, consider Jesus, the apostle and high priest of our confession, who was faithful to him who appointed him, just as Moses also was faithful in all God's house. It was Jesus who said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. The way, the truth, and the life. Here is the faithful One, the true one. His eyes are like a flame of fire. So much Of the modern church, it seems to me, which sees Jesus as kind of a buddy And it's a blasphemous thing when you get right down to it. And what the book of Revelation does to correct us is to show us this mighty one. This one who is not to be trifled with. This one who is holy. His eyes are like a flame of fire penetrating to the thoughts and intentions of our hearts. O Lord, you have searched me and known me, says the psalmist, Psalm 139, in a very practical way in 1 Chronicles 28. Uh David knew about the penetrating vision of God as he charged Solomon his son. And you, Solomon, my son, know the God of your father and serve him with a whole heart and with a willing mind, for the Lord searches all hearts. And understands every plan and thought. If you seek him, he will be found by you, but if you forsake him, he will cast you off. Forever. This God exercises not only a keen and complete insight into our hearts and lives, our motives and our desires But he stands as judge to declare what is righteous and to distinguish it from what is false. I think one of the overall dimensions of the warfare in our day is that we live in a culture which refuses to make distinctions. Things that God declares to be distinct, we declare to be all one. And if you look carefully at the scriptures, from the very beginning of creation, God is a God who makes distinctions. God declares that the light and the darkness Will be separated and distinguished. They are not the same, they are different. Righteousness and evil are not the same, they are different. God is a God who makes distinctions. And when unrighteousness is going on in our hearts and lives, not only does God perceive it and know it, but He has business about it. It is his business to address it. God has infinite knowledge, and none can escape discovery. One of my favorite uh sermons on the book of Jonah is entitled The Inescapable God. Jonah thought, of course, that he could uh uh take a ship going the wrong way or the other way than what God told him and he could get away with it. And of course what Jonah discovered was that God is indeed the inescapable God. And the preacher of that sermon of Brit named uh Richard Lucas uh says, uh and if your God is not inescapable, your God is too small. The God of Scripture is the inescapable God. You do not run from Him, you do not hide from Him. You have to face Him either now by bowing and receiving His Son Jesus Christ as He is offered to us in the gospel. or you will face him then as final judge. The many diadems upon his head reveal his supreme authority The diadems of the satanic host are always limited to a finite number. Here the diadems upon the head of this one are many. God has supreme authority. He has a name written that no one knows but himself. That idea comes up several times in the book of Revelation, and there's more study to be done on it, I'm sure. I believe G. K. Beale is right in his comment the mysterious essence of the divine being is not at issue. In other words, this is not some uh secret mystery uh or name by which we understand the intimate character of God, but rather it is that which is coming to be revealed in the judgment. But rather God's actions of judgment, as Beale puts it. So it is in the execution of his judgment that his name reflects his true character. And it is in that addressing of evil, in that execution of judgment that his true character is revealed. For this word, you see, is not simply a dead word, is not simply a word which communicates certain cerebral information. But this is a word which creates, just as the word of God at the initial creation, God said, Let there be, and it was, the creative word brought into being that which it called forth. And so now this one in judgment goes forth, and this word goes forth to declare what is right and to make the distinctions that God makes and to enforce those distinctions. Finally, at the last day. He is clothed in a robe dipped in blood. It's tempting to understand the blood here as the blood of the cross. I don't believe that's correct. And the clue to that is in Isaiah 63. Rather, the blood here, according to Isaiah 63, if we are to connect those two, it's a picture of the blood of the enemies. splattering the garments of those who are engaged in the battle Isaiah 63, 3. I have trodden the wine press alone, and from the peoples no one was with me. I trod them in my anger and trampled them in my wrath, their lifeblood spattered on my garments. and stained all my apparel. And the name by which he is called is the Word of God And here's where the picture kind of comes into sharp focus for us, because we know that language, don't we? From the prologue to John's Gospel, in the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, and the Word was God. That whole doctrine of the Word of God, as God under the or John under the inspiration of the Spirit, unfolds that for us. And here it's abundantly clear that this rider is none other than the risen Lord Jesus Christ. Presented now as the Lord of the last battle. the sovereign of the final judgment, the final effective word of judgment upon Satan and his hosts In the next verses, we see pictured the preparation of this Lord for the battle. First, we note that he has an army. He is not alone. We have seen that in Revelation, these dressed in white linen are those whose robes have been made white in the blood of the Lamb. These are Christ's redeemed people, his ransomed army. And we who have come to Jesus Christ are engaged in this warfare with him as his people. We have not an escape from that. We speak in the New Testament, New Testament writers speak of sharing the sufferings of Christ. We are intimately engaged with Christ, and if we are intimately engaged with him, his enemies are ours, and our enemies are his. The cosmic conflict, writes Dennis Johnson in his uh good little uh book on Revelation, The Triumph of the Lamb. The cosmic conflict is not only between Satan and his beast and God and his Christ. Rather, each stands in the midst of a community. And the destiny of each community rests With the success or failure of its champions. You see, here is our relationship to the risen Christ. Expressed in this particular way. He is our champion. He is the one who leads forth in this battle. We are his servants. We serve his goals and his purposes and give ourselves to his ends. If you are a Christian today, you are reminded of your continued need of your Savior Your faith in Jesus Christ is a daily exercise of knowing Him and following Him. It is a daily exercise of offering yourself to Him afresh, not my will but thine be done. May it be unto me, as you have said, and offering ourselves daily to him as our Lord and Savior to be engaged in those ways which bring him glory. There's a beautiful picture in chapter 14, where the church is pictured as 144,000. And they follow the Lamb wherever he goes. Uh you see the Lamb going forth into battle. Where are the saints? Where are God's people? They are with their Lord. They are sharing in his life. Ministry. Even here at the last battle, the saints are identified with their Lord. From his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations. Isaiah 49, 2 is particularly important as a background here. He made my mouth like a sharp sword. In the shadow of his hand he hid me. He made me a polished arrow. In his quiver he hid me away. This is one of those uh songs in the Old Testament book of Isaiah called the Servant Songs. Where Isaiah pictures Jesus as this servant of Jehovah, the servant of the Lord. And here is Jesus. Serving in this business, and the servant has business in the salvation of a people, but also business In the judgment upon those who reject God's call to faith in Jesus Christ. The writer to Hebrews Connects the ideas of word and sword. For the word of God is living, you know the passage, and active, sharper than any two-edged sword. Piercing to the division of soul and spirit, joints and marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. See several things kind of coming together there in that wonderful verse. Next, he will rule them with a rod of iron. Our Old Testament references back to last week where we had several from Psalm 2. And we're back to that here. We saw it last week, and it pictures Christ as the one whose rule will be total and final. And then he will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty. We see the connection to Isaiah 63. And it is in Isaiah 63, as it is here, a picture of judgment, all the injustice and sin which has not been paid at the cross of Christ. Which has not been due for Christ elect and thus taken upon Christ, all the remaining is due at this time. And the fury of God's wrath is meted out. It's a picture of judgment upon sin and injustice. And then on his robe and on his thigh he has a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. I cannot, in my own mind, say those words without uh having a little echo of uh uh handles Messiah in my mind, the great hallelujah chorus, King of Kings, Lord of Lords, as it uh as it kind of builds uh to a great crescendo. Lord of Lords and King of Kings. But you see, for us as his people, that's a very personal thing It's not simply a matter of a bombastic chorus and a great oratorio, but it's a matter of personal daily submission to Him and seeking him and loving him, following him in all the places we are called to go Have you come to know Him by faith and yielded to Him as your Lord and King? Is he king of kings and lord of lords? Not only in some ethereal conceptual way, but in a personal everyday business of life away. Secondly, we note second major division in verses seventeen through twelve The battle is won, the enemy is defeated. In verses 17 and 18, God sovereignly announces victory Then I saw an angel standing in the sun, and with a loud voice he called to all the birds that fly directly overhead, Come, gather for the great supper of God. It's frankly a gruesome picture, isn't it? Uh i i i it's a harsh thing to get a hold of. Uh The announcement pictures a call to all the unclean, the scavengers, to feast upon the scraps that are left over when this battle is done. It's a total battle and a total victory. Not only is the victory total, but it is certain, and there's nothing left, you'll excuse me, but roadkill. Now, understand that we're not talking about literal animals, the kinds of things that you might see on the road. But we're talking about God's complete destruction through Jesus Christ of all those forces that have come against his Christ and his church. A great battle. In verse 19, we see the enemies of Christ gather for the battle Who are these enemies, you ask? We noted in chapter twelve the introduction of Satan, the dragon, as the person who is the spiritual force behind the attacks upon Christ and his church. And then next we're introduced to this beast. In chapter 13, which we have not had an opportunity to study, the dragon engages and brings one from the land and one from the sea, these two beasts. And engages them in his war against the Lamb and against the Lamb's people, the church. In chapter 16, The dragon, the beast, and the false prophet appear together in the pouring out of the sixth bowl of wrath as they gather together at the place called Armageddon. It pictures the same last battle. Here in chapter 19, verse 19, the beast is identified with kings of the earth, which is consistent with other places in the book of Revelation. And this leads to the conclusion that the beast pictures how Satan will engage earthly governments and powers and authorities. In his war upon the Lamb and upon the Lamb's people and the Lamb's church. The mark of the beast symbolizes the prejudice of anti-Christian governments oppressing the faithful followers of Christ. Those who govern are often used of Satan to call for religious commitments from their subjects, and so they become, in a very real sense, antichrists Now, I want to be careful. This has to be nuanced a little bit. We are called as Christians to obey, to be subject to the authorities that are over us. But when those authorities require of us what is contrary to God's will and purpose for our lives, we are called to be faithful witnesses and to stand for the truth in those places. Martin Luther once said, if we fail to stand at the at the real point of the battle, we don't stand at all. And we are facing in these days, I think, in our own uh our own country. Uh those kinds of issues. I was out in Denver this week visiting uh our daughter, son-in-law, and two grandchildren. And uh did you catch one of the big items of news from Denver this week? It happens that this little conclave of nuns is located very near where my son-in-law's sister lives. And they go by there all the time. The Little Sisters of the Poor, I think, isn't it? Is that the name of it? who are being who are challenging the uh Affordable Care Act and uh on the basis that they are being called To compromise their commitment on the sanctity of human life in order to comply with the government. Now Well, there may be more complexities to it. I saw one thing on the internet from the Los Angeles Times article, and I didn't have time to read all that. I I think it was from a perspective that I don't share But these kinds of issues, brothers and sisters, are facing us. And we have to be clear about whose we are and the witness we bear. We are to be obedient insofar as we can, but we understand that our loyalty ultimately belongs to him who is king of God. of Kings and Lord of Lords and none other. What about the false prophet then? What is noted especially is the deceptive signs which the false prophet has done. There is surely some background in the magicians of the Exodus period from Egypt who sought to duplicate the signs which God had given through Moses. Here are pictured the pretenders of religious authority and the apostate church, which is no true church. 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. And then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord Jesus will kill with the breath of his mouth and bring to nothing by the appearance of his coming. The coming of the lawless one is by the activity of Satan, and all power and false signs and wonders, and with all wicked deception, for those who are perishing, because they refused to love the truth. And be saved. Remember, John reminds us in 1 John chapter 4 that many false prophets and antichrists We're already in the world. And I would challenge you that there is not one great world visible figure that we ought to be looking for, but there are hundreds of Little things going on all around us that express that working of Satan to deceive and to compromise his church. In each generation, Satan will engage authority structures. Economic structures, religious structures, to pressure Christians to deny their Lord. And we are called as God's faithful people in each generation. to stand firm at those times and to stand for the gospel of Jesus Christ, to stand for the truth of the scriptures and the distinctions that God has made. Only the dragon remains here, and his end comes in chapter twenty. Well, the images again here in Revelation are very visual, and our tendency is to see them as single events in the material world or perhaps our temptation. But in so doing, I want to warn you that if we're looking for some great thing in the newspapers, we may miss a lot of stuff that's going on all around us. And I want to warn you to be looking out for all these things. And those points where your faithfulness to Jesus Christ is being challenged. And to stand firm at those places. According to Revelation 20, 11, all people will face God in judgment The defeat of Satan's hosts pictured here in chapter 19 is not annihilation, but the utter defeat of their attempt to challenge Christ's lordship They are not annihilated. They don't go to nothing. They go to destruction because they have not yielded and bowed to the authority of King Jesus. Jesus himself taught two ultimate destinies, and that is taught here in Revelation as well. I quote from Matthew chapter 25. Then the king will say to those on his right, the words of Jesus, Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. Then he will say to those on his left, Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. There will be judgment upon all who fail to acknowledge God and his Christ The supremacy of Christ will finally be established over all his enemies. So you ask, what is my part? The images of war and weaponry are tempting to our worldly impulses. But remember, our biggest battle is not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers, as Paul reminds us. In Ephesians 6. Your business is faithfulness to Jesus Christ. In the book of Revelation, one of the great themes that follows through is this faithful witness. Bearing witness of Jesus Christ when it's unpopular. Bearing witness to Jesus Christ when it may cause persecution. Bearing faithful witness to Jesus Christ when it may be very unpopular and you may be hated for it. It's that standing for Jesus Christ, that representing Him, that sense of being called by Him to be part of His great family. Those called to be his people, called as his elect. Oh, what joy there ought to be in that, and that far exceeds all of the gain that you may have in yielding to the temptations of the present world Great Psalms. Way to remember these Psalms about complaining, about The uh righteous not doing as well as they should. 73 and 737. You just flip the Numbers, two of the great ones. 73. I want to just uh a couple of quotes from. Truly God is good. And here's kind of a complaint. Truly God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart, but as for me, My feet had almost stumbled. My steps had nearly slipped. For I was envious of the arrogant. When I saw the prosperity of the wicked, I'll share with you something very silly. We traveled to Denver this week. I purchased for my wife for Christmas a bag of a suitcase. That meets United Airlines requirements for overhead storage. Twenty-two inches, fourteen, and nine. How many bags over in those overhead compartments do you think matched or were below that limit? Maybe two in that 757. I was tempted to take a tape measure and go around measuring people's bags. And I would have gotten a hold my wife said, Don't you dare. We'll get kicked off that plane and never get to Denver or back. It's a silly thing, you see, but we live in a world where the rules don't mean anything It's all the same. It's whatever you can get away with. And of course, from United's point of view, what's silly is the compartments are much bigger than 22 by 14 by 9. And I noticed that both Southwest and Jet Blue have larger requirements. I didn't check any others, I just checked those two. That's a silly illustration. But what I want you to know is that from God's point of view, God has set standards And his standards are going to be measured precisely. Righteousness is going to be measured by the law of God And people are going to be measured by whether or not they are in Jesus Christ and know him and have bowed to him and submitted to him as Savior and Lord. Hundred and some people got away with it on the airplane. In my cilia I'm still mad about it. I'm gonna write to United. But you know, when we stand before the throne of God, Not a single one is going to get away with it who has not bowed to receive Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord. Would you bow with me? Father, it is unpopular in many ways in our world to speak of A sovereign God who would exercise judgment. And yet, based upon the authority of your word, we can do no other. For you have declared these things. These are not ideas that we have manufactured, but they are things which you have revealed about your own character and your own purpose in our world. And so, Father, on the one hand, we are intensely grateful that you have been pleased to send your Son in the likeness of sinful flesh to be a sin offering, for we are those sinners We are those who have transgressed your law. We have need of one to make payment for our sins, and just that is what Jesus did. And we are so grateful, Father, that you have provided for us through Him. But then we face the other side. And we pray for the church and its witness in this world That many more may come into the gospel net, that you continue to gather your elect and bring them at last to an eternal home. And then, Father, the battle for us is simply to be faithful. To keep our eyes fixed upon Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith, and to follow him wherever he leads. We ask your blessing to these ends with thanksgiving in Jesus' name. Amen.