It's certainly good to be with you all again. It's Carrie and I were talking on the way over. I think it's been a little over a year since we were last with you. And uh I bring you greetings from uh your mother church, from Wallace. Uh and Uh certainly want to uh let you know how delighted I am for this opportunity to bring God's word. We'll be looking this morning at the Gospel of John, the opening verses of the Gospel of John. But before we turn our attention to the reading of the word, let's pray. Our God and Father, we come with expectant hearts that you would speak to us. You would speak a word both of judgment and mercy. And Father, we ask that As we stand condemned by your holy and righteous law, you would by your spirit and by your gospel, by your word and by your sacrament, lift us up again To your throne of grace, reminding us of our salvation in Christ Jesus, and assuring our hearts that we do in fact belong to Him. And so would you minister to us for Christ's sake? Amen. Amen. I'll be focusing on verses one to five of John chapter one, though I would like to read uh the the prologue of John was known as the prologue in its entirety, and then a brief section from John chapter twenty. John chapter 1. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him. And without him, not anything was made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. There was a man sent from God whose name was John. He came as a witness to bear witness about the light that all might believe through him. He was not the light, but came to bear witness about the light. The true light, which enlightens everyone, was coming into the world. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him, but to all who did receive him. Who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. John bore witness about him and cried out, This was he of whom I said, He who comes after me ranks before me, because he was before me. And from his fullness, we have all received grace upon grace. For the law was given through Moses. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has ever seen God, the only God who is at the Father's side. He has made him known. And then over to John chapter 20. Starting at verse 30. Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name This is the word of our God. May he add his blessing to it. Amen. Well, this morning we have before us what are arguably the most Profound, the most grand statements in all of Holy Scripture In the beginning was the word, the word was with God, and the word was God. The great Dutch pastor and theologian Herman Ritterbos said about this. This verse, it is hardly conceivable that a deeper issue could have been expressed with greater simplicity and in fewer words With the greatest simplicity, with the greatest elegance, the greatest power The Apostle John proclaims the very heart of the gospel that Jesus is the Word of God. Who is this Jesus? That's the fundamental question that the Gospel of John sets out to answer. Who is Jesus? And unlike all the other Gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, none of which explicitly state their purpose for writing the gospel. John tells us exactly why it is he put pen to paper. That's why I read to you from chapter 20 when John says that Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, but these are written. in this book, so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life. John, you see, wants us to believe in Jesus. Very simply, he wants us to believe in Jesus. And in order for us to believe in Jesus, we need to know who Jesus is. We need to believe in Jesus on his terms, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, sent from the Father. You know, in Jesus' day there were countless opinions about who he was Some thought he was a prophet from God. Some thought he was a great teacher. Some thought he was a wise sage or some sort of magician. Some thought he was a messianic pretender. Some thought he was demon-p-possessed. And this list could really go on. And what's striking is that as you work through the Gospel of John, what you see is time and again, Jesus confronting people with who he really is. As he meets people, you see them trying to fit Jesus into their own mold. And to their own horizons of expectations, what they believe is possible, what they expected God to do. And time and again, Jesus challenges these people. With the reality of who he is, saying, I'm not who you think I am. This is who I am. Believe in me. And in this way, not much has changed for us today. Many today are uncomfortable with the question, who is Jesus? And are much more happy with who is Jesus to you and who is Jesus to me and what part of Jesus do you like? And the Gospel of John confronts us, therefore, in the same way. Right? We meet in the Gospel of John a Jesus who refuses to conform himself to our desires. to our expectations. Jesus, you see, is not ultimately our word to God. John tells us right from the very beginning that Jesus is God's word to us. He's what God has to say to us. Jesus uniquely reveals God and tells us who God is. We could say that Jesus is God's final and best word to mankind. His final and best word to mankind. And it is as the final word to mankind that Jesus, in a way, turns all of our questions on their heads. He says, This is who I am. Who are you? That's a good question. This is who I thought I was. This is who I believed I was. But when I come face to face with God incarnate, I become unsettled. I become disoriented. And I now need to ask the question: now who am I? Who am I? Jesus asks us, are you one who believes in me? Are you one who accepts me for who I am? Are you one who rejects me, finding my message unpalatable and my work unnecessary? Who is Jesus John in the opening verses to his gospel tells us who Jesus is. And he does so in a way that would have made complete sense to the ancient mind. In the ancient world, if you wanted to understand what something is, you needed to know where it came from. It's a question about origins. And so John, in explaining who Jesus is, tells us Jesus' ultimate origin. Says Jesus' origin is as the Word of God, who was from the beginning. So the first point I'd like to draw your attention to is John's claim that Jesus is the divine. That's what John says here, that Jesus is the divine word. With these opening words, John is recalling for us the opening words of Genesis. Very familiar, I trust. In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. And so John begins, in the beginning was the word. The very same Greek words. In the beginning. And by beginning in this way, John is making a very important point for us. That Well, perhaps the very first thing we learn about God in the Bible is that God existed from all eternity, and God is the author of creation. And John then is saying to us that just as God has always existed and has existed before there was any creation, existed before there was time itself, so too he wants us to know the word existed. The word existed. John says the word was with God. This is a tremendous statement because with this little pronoun with, John is clearly distinguishing the word from God. And he does so in a way that really lends personality to the Word In fact, this word we translate with, in almost every case in the New Testament, refers to individuals who are in a fairly intimate relation with one another. The word is something that is unique. The word is something that is separate from God and resides with God the way two people might reside together. But no sooner does John distinguish the word from God than he immediately seems to flip this on his head by telling us that the Word was God. The Word was with God, and the Word was God. The Word is distinguished from God, yet identified as God. Children, this would be a little bit like someone telling you that John was with Harry. And John was Harry. You would think that John might have a a mental condition, but that is effectively what John is saying, that the word was with God, and the word was God. We typically respond to such a statement by uh saying, well, you can have it one way or the other, but You can't have it both ways. But what I want you to see is that John, without explanation of the mechanics of it all, with no equivocation, with no hesitation, he simply declares that the word was God. At Wallace, we have neighbors whose religion is based on denying this very claim that the Word was God. Perhaps you've had them show up to your door on occasion. Right. And they want to tell you about how the Bible has mistranslated here, and that where where you when you're told That the Word was God. What it actually says is that the Word was a God. And that Jesus isn't actually God Himself, but just a divine being. And very often, this group, the Jehovah's Witnesses, will appeal to the Greek and tell you that the word here, God, doesn't have the definite article. That John says the word was a God, not the word was God, and then they'll ask you if you know Greek, and they'll be very surprised if you tell them yes. But what you need to know is that this is a trick. This is a trick. The New Testament refers to God 255 times without the definite article, 254 of which are correctly translated. in the Jehovah's Witness Bible. There's only one, one that for theological reasons they refuse to translate into very normal, very common Greek. As the word was God. John states in the simplest of terms that Jesus, the Word of God, was none other than God Himself. These words are perhaps so familiar to us that they have ceased to be To be as astounding for us as they really are. Because what John is claiming here is that the man Jesus With whom he traveled around Galilee and Jerusalem, with whom he ate and drank, with whom he prayed, at whose feet he sat, who he could touch. This man was none other than the eternal God who created the heavens and the earth. That is an astounding, astounding claim. That the eternal God entered into time and space in the person of Jesus. That's what John is saying here. This is a claim that in John's day would have been considered utterly and unquestionably blasphemous. To ascribe deity to anyone other than God was a crime punishable in Jewish law, at least, a crime punishable by death. And you'll perhaps remember. When Jesus was on trial and he identifies himself as the Son of God, the high priest tears his clothes And cries out, he has uttered blasphemy. What other witness do you need? What is your judgment? And the counsel answered, he deserves death. Brothers and sisters, Jesus was not killed over a confusion, over a mistaken identity. They weren't talking past each other. Jesus knew what he was saying, and the council knew what he was saying. This conviction. That Jesus, the Word of God, is God, has been at the very heart of Christianity from the beginning. That Jesus is God. Countless Christians have paid for this conviction with their lives, as they wouldn't bow the knee to Caesar, confessing Caesar as God. And it's important for us to remember how it is that this came about. This didn't come about by a bunch of theologians having an academic discussion. you know, sort of getting together at the Hilton at Nicaea and saying, well, how can we make our our new religion sort of mysterious and difficult? That's not how this came about. This came about, as one pastor put it, by a bunch of good Jewish boys worshiping a man, Jesus. A bunch of good Jewish boys who have confessed from their earliest days the Shema. Hear, O Israel, the Lord your God, the Lord is one. And all of a sudden they're bowing before Jesus and worshiping Jesus. And wonder of wonders, Jesus is accepting their worship. No divine being would ever accept human worship. Ever. You remember when angels appear to men And men fall down on their face before these angels in a posture of worship. And you remember what the angels do. They kick them and they say, get up, right? Don't worship. You don't worship me. As glorious as I am, you only worship God. And yet Jesus calls all men to himself. Think of Peter in Luke five, telling Jesus, Depart from me, O Lord, for I am sinful. Think of Thomas when he meets the resurrected Jesus. He declares, My Lord and my God. And Jesus doesn't say, wait, wait, wait, wait, slow down there, Thomas. Slow down. Jesus himself claims, I and the Father are one. If you have seen me, you've seen the Father. Before Abraham was, I am. Yet he also prays in the Garden of Gethsemane. My Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me. Jesus does those things that only God can do. Heal the blind, heal the lame, restore the leprous, calm storms with the word of his mouth, raise the dead to life. Jesus acts like God. He claims to be God, yet he prays to God. How do we make sense of this? It's from statements like John's here in the opening verses that the church formulated her doctrine of the Trinity. Confess the doctrine of the Trinity that we believe in one God who exists eternally as Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. The Father is God, the Son is God, the Holy Spirit is God, yet we do not worship three gods, we worship one God. This is a deep and profound mystery. Yet it is a mystery that is at the very heart of our faith. It undergirds our worship, it undergirds our prayers, it undergirds our piety. It undergirds our confessions and it informs our very relationship with God. It's not an abstract doctrine that's sort of take it or leave it if you're into that kind of thing. The Old Testament, brothers and sisters, is perfectly clear that there is no hope, there is no refuge, no safety. In anyone but God alone. And John wants us to know that when we come to Jesus in faith, we come to God. When we pray to Jesus, we pray to God. When we worship Jesus, we worship God. When we call on the name of Jesus, in whose name all men may be saved. We are calling on the name of God. Just as in the Old Testament, God revealed Himself by the name Yahweh. And called his people to worship him as their covenant God, the name Yahweh on their lips, so too in the New Testament, God reveals himself finally, perfectly. And most clearly, under the name of Jesus. Jesus is the divine word. Secondly, we see in these opening verses that Jesus is the creative word. It's a famous play by Goethe, Dr. Faust. Perhaps you've read it. And Dr. Faust in this play at one point objects to translating John 1. 1. As in the beginning was the word. And he says, oh, this the word, that's too weak. That's too weak a translation. In the beginning was the power, or in the beginning was the deed. These things might be might be better. But as every student of the Old Testament knows, That in the Old Testament, the word of God is in fact the power of God. The word of God is the deed of God, the working of God in the world. It is by his word that God accomplishes his purposes. We see this most clearly, don't we, in the opening verses of Genesis, that where God creates the whole world, not as in ancient Near Eastern myths, where the gods create the world by fighting. Monsters or fighting gods and k death and violence, but God creates the world by the word of his power. He speaks it into existence. And God said, Let there be light, and there was light. We're told in Psalm 33, by the word of the Lord the heavens were made. Just as the Father is the origin of creation, and the Spirit you'll remember was hovering over the face of the deep. John wants us to know that the word was there too. He tells us in verse 3, all things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made. The Word of God, the Son of God, you see, was not absent in creation. I think we can typically get into that mode, it's easy for us to get into that mode of thinking. Well God was sort of in charge in the Old Testament, God the Father. He sort of created everything and then the Son got involved at the incarnation and at the cross, and then after the Son we have the Holy Spirit really taking over. It's sort of like different shifts at work. What John wants us to know is that the Son of God did not get involved at the incarnation. It wasn't like a lazy teenager. The father saying, get up now, it's your turn. Saying the Son was there from the beginning, active, working. The Father created the world through the Son. By the power of the Holy Spirit. So Paul can say in Colossians 1: For by him all things were created in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible Whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things were created through him and for him. And the author of the letter to the Hebrews says: But in these last days God has spoken to us by his Son, whom He appointed the heir of all things, through whom also He created the world. And it wasn't just in creation. From creation on, all of God's actions in history have been by the power of his word. Psalm 107, verse 20. God sent out his word and healed them and delivered them from their destruction. God tells the prophet Isaiah, Here, I put my word in your mouth. See, I have set you today over nations and kingdoms, to pluck up and to break down, to destroy and to overthrow, to build and to plant. Do you hear what God is saying there? He's saying, Jeremiah, nations will rise and fall at your word. Not because it's your word, but because it's my word. I've put my word in your mouth. It is by his word that God creates and destroys. God heals and delivers. And John, therefore, finds in this word of God throughout the scriptures. An appropriate description of the person and work of Jesus Christ Who is Jesus? Jesus is the ultimate working of God in the world. And so he says, what I do, the Father does. What the Father does, I do. Jesus is the ultimate self-disclosure of God. And so he can say: if you've seen me, you've seen the Father. Jesus is the ultimate expression of the power of God and the purposes of God. And so we can say, I have come to do the will of him who sent me. Imagine that, a man saying, what I do is accomplishing the purposes of God Himself. Just as Genesis tells us that through the word God accomplishes his purposes of creation, John is telling us that through the same word, God will accomplish his purposes of creation. Recreation. See, he's beginning this account of God's work of redemption and salvation. He's saying he's doing it by that same word. The work that Jesus came to do, brothers and sisters, is so radical, so fundamental, so uh sweeping in its scope. That the best way to describe it is as a a completely new beginning. You'll remember then in John 3 that Jesus will describe the beginning of the Christian life as a new birth. You have to be born again. It will be as men and women, boys and girls respond to Jesus' words, Jesus' work with faith, that Jesus is healing and restoring. Jesus is renewing and redeeming. Jesus is forgiving guilty sinners and enlightening minds and enlivening hearts. And this is a new creation. That's what John wants us to see. A new creation here that Jesus has begun in his own body and he's begun in the church The church is a new creation, and Jesus has promised that one day he will consummate that work of new creation when God says, Behold, I am making all things new. Jesus, the incarnate word, is no longer with us on earth. But what we need to remember is that God is still at work through his word. We have the scriptures which we call the Word of God. Because God inspired his prophets, God inspired his apostles to write them. And all of them, Jesus tells us, bear witness to him Every page of Scripture leads us in one way or another to Jesus Christ. And it is as the church proclaims Christ from all of Scriptures through her preaching and teaching. It's through this means that God is still at work in the world. So Paul can say in Romans 10, how are they to Call on him in whom they have not believed, and how are they to believe in him whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? Through the faithful preaching of the Word on Sunday mornings, brothers and sisters, you hear the very word of God. The word read, the word preached, this is God's appointed means in the world. And you should ask yourself, do I come to church with that expectation? As Cliff reminded us at the beginning, that God is here to speak to you and to do that work of recreation and renewal, putting together that which is broken. Finding that which is lost, healing that which is sick. Do you come with that expectation? Finally, Jesus, we're told, is the life-giving word. John tells us In verse 4, In him was life, and the life was the light of man. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. This is John's description of Jesus' mission. Why did the Son become man? Why did the word become flesh? Why did God, who is light and life in himself, enter the darkness of this world, characterized as it is by sin and death? John tells us that the word came to shine the light of his life into the darkness of the hearts of sinful men. Jesus, you see, is God's word to mankind. Children, why do you why do you use words? Why do you speak to others? Why do you talk to your parents? Parents. It's to communicate something to them. It's to tell them something, right? John is telling us that Jesus came as the Word of God to man. What did God have to tell us in Jesus? Well, the message of Jesus is twofold. It is a message of judgment and mercy. It's a message of judgment and mercy, of condemnation and grace. Jesus, we need to remember, had a lot of harsh things to say, didn't he? It's tempting to play those down, but Jesus could speak very stridently. He spoke, think of, for example, the woes and curses. That Jesus speaks against the religious leaders in Matthew 23. Here's just one of them. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For you travel across sea and land to make a single proselyte, and when he becomes a proselyte, you make him twice as much a child of hell as yourselves. It's a message of judgment, isn't it? But Jesus' message of judgment was not unique to his mission. Mankind, Paul tells us in Romans 1, as it was read earlier, mankind knows all about God's judgment by nature. We ignore it, we suppress it, we deny it, but we know it. Our consciences bear witness to it. That God is a holy God And God judges sin. And Jesus affirmed this message. He reinforced this message. But it wasn't his primary message. It wasn't the message that he came to bring. He came to bring primarily a gospel message, a message of good news. And this is not a message that we know by nature. It's not a message that we all have deep in our hearts, and so we can just stay at home Sunday morning and and look inside ourselves and find God's gospel. We can't find it in nature. You can't go trouncing through the woods and find it in the trees and see it in the stars. It needs to be proclaimed to you. It needs to be spoken to you. And Jesus came to declare this to us, that our sins are forgiven through the blood of the God man who died at Calvary. Or to use John's language, Jesus came as the light of the world to offer light and life to those who stand under God's judgment. This is what Jesus says to Nicodemus in John chapter 3, for God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world. But in order that the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God Do you see, brothers and sisters, how this is a foreign message? This isn't native to us. This isn't something we we we know by nature that our sins really are that bad and God really is that loving. That it would take nothing less than the death of the Son of God on the cross to buy my guilty soul back. The offensiveness of this message is why John says that the darkness does not understand it or does not comprehend it. Because by our sin-darkened hearts, this is not something that would ever resonate with us But by the for the grace of God, but for the regenerating work of the Holy Spirit, who enlightens our minds, enlivens our hearts. And when we hear this word, we say, Yes, that's me. And yes, that's my God. To believe this foreign message, a message Bart describes as the true God, as the true God, Jesus is obedient to God. As the eternal Son of God, he becomes man's brother. And that as Lord, he becomes man's servant. And that as judge, he becomes the one who is judged in our place. But to those who are born of God, John tells us, Jesus is the message of life. It's the life-giving word. Brothers and sisters, Jesus, the light of the world, was snuffed out Experienced utter darkness so that you and I might have life and light. Jesus, who has life in himself, underwent death on the cross for our poor sake. Jesus, the word of God, was silenced. And he cries out to his Father, with whom he had had Eternal fellowship. He had had communion as the Word of God. He cries out to his Father on the cross, and he was met with silence and rejection. So that God can speak to us this word that I'm speaking to you now: a word of life and light. A gospel word. Brothers and sisters. This is our God. This is our Christ. What do we do with this? It's always something we come to church for, especially as Americans. Give me give me something to do, Pastor. What can I do? Well, I would point you to John. What does John tell us to do? He says, believe on the name of Jesus. In a way, he says, stop doing believe. Stop doing belief. Remember that the gospel is not first and foremost about what we do, but about what God has done. That's where it begins. And then all of our doing, all of our doing is simply a response, simply the overflow, the outflow of hearts melted by God's grace to us in Jesus Christ. So we believe on him, brothers and sisters. Believe in Jesus again. Trust him for who he is and what he's come to do. Let us pray. Our Father, we thank you that it is not by our doing, but by what Jesus has done, that we may stand in your presence. And call you our Father, because you have first called us your people. We thank you that in Jesus we have a sufficient Savior whose blood is sufficient to atone for every one of our sins. We thank you that in your Holy Spirit we have the life-giving Spirit who has changed our hearts and renewed our minds so that we might With all of our doubting, with all of our sin, with all of our frailty and failing, we might still call on the name of Jesus and know life in his name. We thank you for this. In Jesus' name, amen.