This morning. We're beginning a new sermon series this morning. And I want to encourage all of you to camp out on the book of Galatians The teaching in this letter has transformed many people. I've seen it in my own ministry as I have preached it. And it has been so in the history of the church. And I'm convinced in this special time of transition that you especially need, we need this book together. We need this book to help unify us in the gospel so that we have a greater sense of unity of purpose. And we need this book if we're going to walk out what it means to be ambassadors and witnesses and to carry out the mission of bringing Christ to those who were strangers. to him. And we need the teaching of this book to renew us both individually and corporately as a church. And although every sermon has to stand on its own, The teaching of this letter is cumulative, and so that's to ask you to do what won't surprise you. which is to go get the sermon that you miss. If for some reason you miss a sermon, go get it. The rest of the whole series will mean more to you if uh if you do that I want to invite you to stand. We'll open up to the book of Galatians, to the first chapter. And we're going to focus on verses 1 to 5, though I'm going to read all the first 10 verses here, first nine verses. Father, may you be pleased to grant that the very purpose for which you caused the apostle to write this letter would bear its same purpose and fulfill that purpose in our lives today and in the weeks ahead. For we ask in Christ's name. Amen. Paul an apostle, not from men nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead. And all the brothers who are with me, to the churches of Galatia. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. who gave himself for our sins to deliver us from the present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father, to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. I am astonished that you were so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel. Not that there is another one, but there are some who trouble you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel Contrary to the one we preach to you, let him be accursed. As we have said before, and so now I say again, if anyone is preaching to you a gospel contrary to the one you've received, let him be accursed. You may be seated. We desperately need the teaching in this letter. Why? Well We think that we understand the gospel, but in fact we don't understand it nearly as well as we'd like to think. This is true of both those who have professed Christ, who are believers in him, and those who are non-believers. The attitude is this, I know all there is to know about the gospel. For uh those who are non-believers, what it means is that they've looked at Christianity and they've they already know what it says. Even if what they know is really quite defective, it's just just a caricature, and they've dismissed it. This really isn't an option for my life. Others, believers, those who come to church, tend to view the gospel as the ABCs of Christianity, as it contains some truth and teaching that open the door to a relationship with God. But once you're in the door, you move past it. You go on to the deeper things, the higher things, the more spiritual things. We have heard the gospel, and we think that we've experienced its power. But in our living, it's clear that we haven't grasped its basic principles. because we're not experiencing its power on an ongoing and daily basis. You boys and girls the power to do what your parents ask you to do, or to treat your brothers and sisters with kindness, Or to live as God asks is simply not in you. You can't do those things out of your own strength and willpower But in fact, many, if not most professing Christians I've known are trying to live the Christian life out of their own resources, out of their own energy and strength. And in trying to live that way as Christ's followers, they have either, on the one hand, discovered that they actually don't love people selflessly. And without any expectation that they will be loved back. And actually Many, if not most of them, have some area in their life where they continue to fall into sin again and again and again. And they're ashamed of that. They're in the grip of it and they cannot change. And as a result, they feel like failures. Or, this is the or, or they actually think they're living it all out. They're meeting all the expectations of the Christian life in its fullness. They're proud of their obedience. They're harsh, critical, and even condemning of people who in their eyes do not measure up. They glory in. They recite to themselves in private just how moral and upright and responsible they are. And as they do that, they're looking down on other people. They're relying on their obedience and their rule keeping in their relationship with God. And often the tip-off that this is so is they're puzzled and perplexed When God allows suffering to touch their lives, they think, why would he do that to such a compliant child as myself? And the lack of power that's actually seen in the lives of most Christians comes to expression in a slavery to various hungers. and desires and needs that keep them from being truly free people. They experience a hunger and a need for approval, acceptance success, affirmation, beauty, athletic prowess, wealth, and this shapes the way they think about life and how they relate to other people. When any of these things is missing that they desire so intensely, they simply cannot be happy. I know this to be true. Because in fact, for many years it was exactly how I was living, although I wasn't aware of it. And as a pastor, I've come to see that many people come to church and they smile and they see your smiles and they think this must be working for them but I can't let on that it's not working for me. And so and so they wonder what's wrong. What's wrong with them? Like the people whom Paul writes to in this letter. You can have a genuine experience with Christ and yet fall back into spiritual slavery. You can have a genuine experience of Christ and remain blind to your functional gods. So the things that you actually serve and live for and find your meaning and identity in, and you can lose your joy. This is common. In fact, well, all Christians and all churches need to be renewed on a regular basis. They need to have Christ reformed in them. This is not something that happens once and it's done. It's simply not like that. Now, Paul in this letter. And admittedly, on first glance, this letter seems very remote. It just doesn't seem at all like it relates to life. But this letter explains the very fundamental principles of the gospel. And it's powerful. It's explosive. It's like a bomb. In fact, Paul will say that the gospel is dynamite in the letter to the Romans as he opens it up. And it Paul's gospel is powerful because it comes with the full authority of Jesus Christ. Now, one example of this was a little group of zealous people who were friends of John and Charles Wesley. Charles is a well-known hymn writer, and both those names are famous in the annals of church history. They were at the epicenter of one of the most powerful spiritual movements that impacted millions of people on both sides of the Atlantic. It actually reset the history of the Western world. And many scholars think that we avoided a bloody a French Revolution in our own land because of the Great Awakening, as the historians call it This movement brought a sweeping change to life in colonial America, which was much more like our times than we might imagine. And scholars estimate that 10% of the colonial Americans came to Christ. Their lives were transformed. They started hundreds of churches. And those churches, most of them, bear the name Methodist on them. They were a group of seekers. They were trying to find God. They were very religious, but they had no spiritual power or joy. And a man named William Hollard and Charles Wesley agreed that they would read out loud to each other Martin Luther's commentary on the book of Galatians. And as Charles was reading it, he wrote about this experience and described it this way, at a certain moment there came a power over me. As I cannot describe, my great burden fell off in an instant, and my heart was so filled with peace and joy that I burst into tears. I almost thought I'd seen our Savior. And John Wesley was there too. And that's when he described this experience as my heart was strangely warmed. I felt that I did trust Christ. Charles took the preface to Luther's commentary on the Galatians and he knocked on people's doors. and said, could I read this to you? It was so transformational for him. He wanted other people to experience this same power This letter is a spiritual bomb. And it contains the longest and most intense opening of any letter that Paul writes. Now, in his day, letter writing is very different than in our day. You know, we always start with the recipient, the person you're writing to, dear or And then there's the body of the letter, and then we put our name at the bottom of the letter. But in Paul's day, letters were written with the name of the sender first. and then the recipient, and then the body of the letter. It was kind of like the way we write memos today. And if you take this letter, the letter of the Galatians, and you set it against the other letters that Paul writes, You'll immediately notice that it's intense and it's abrupt. And unlike the other letters where Paul has a word of thanksgiving, And the prayer, there's none of that here. Paul sees the issue as a matter of life and death. I'm astonished that you're so quickly turning from the gospel. He warns that even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a different gospel. which is no gospel at all. Let him be accursed. He calls down God's wrath on this error. And it's clear to him that this error has entered these churches and there are people teaching this error. And so the very first word after he writes his name and title, Paul the Apostle, is the word no. Why? I can tell you I have never received a letter. Dear Rick, no Now some people have said something like that to me, but it's never been in a letter. But that's exactly what we have here. As we read this letter, it becomes clear that these people, that that into these churches, people have come These churches that Paul started, it's in the area that would today be southern Turkey, and they've been teaching them that Paul's gospel was incomplete. They insisted that a full and complete gospel included keeping the Jewish ceremonial law keeping various feasts, rules about food, and most importantly being circumcised. And the people in Paul's churches Of course, they wanted everything God had for them, and so they embraced this teaching, which said, in effect, you have to become fully Jewish. to receive all the benefits that Christ has for you. They were saying in effect, Paul's gospel is defective, and they added he's not really an apostle Now knowing this, Paul writes two no's right after he puts his name to make clear that men did not make him an apostle. Paul the Apostle was sent with immediate divine authority. That's what the phrase, not from men, nor through men, is driving home. Those who are called today to the ministry by the Holy Spirit, they're not from men either. The ultimate cause of the call to ministry is Jesus' call. And the ultimate authority for speaking as I am doing today is Jesus' words in the Bible But I, like all other ministers, are appointed by men This means that though ultimately the call is come from God, they are called through intermediaries. And it's either a body of human ministers or through the election or a congregation, or in our form of government, it actually takes both. We want to be sure that uh we've got the right people uh in this uh work. And Paul is claiming though more than what I could claim or any uh minister could claim. He is claiming that he didn't receive his apostolic commission through anyone else at all, but he received it directly from Christ himself. on the Damascus Road. And that's the story is told in Acts chapter 9. Why does this matter? Well It is that Paul's gospel comes with the full authority of Jesus Christ. Paul speaks for Jesus Christ. And no one who ever stands in this pulpit can claim to do that in the way that Paul does. The issue of authority is so important because these people were losing touch with the gospel. The gospel that comes from God and they were going back into spiritual slavery. Now, the point of this book and why it is that we need to hear it in this moment of transition in the life of the congregation is that you think you know the gospel. But I want to tell you, you don't know it as well as you think. You don't know it as well as you need You think you know how to apply the gospel. I'm going to tell you that you haven't worked out the fullness of what it means to live out of the gospel. You think you've worked it into your heart. I'm going to tell you it's not worked in enough. The issue of authority is very, very important. Because look, I'm bringing you a message from the Bible. Inasmuch as what I say is in fact a teaching of what's in the Bible, then my message comes to you with authority. It's not that I'm just up here saying, well, I had a warm thought, but these are my opinions. about spiritual matters. No, the message I'm giving you today derives from the scripture. It's up to you to judge whether in fact that claim is true. And to the degree it's true, I can say to you, this is not from men. It's not human opinion. Now there are only three places in which you can find authority in your beliefs. The first is the traditional view of authority. I believe what my family or my tribe, and we all have tribes, probably the tribe we're most aware of today is our political affiliations. But our tribes are just the people who we uh like, that we identify with, that give us a sense of belonging. That's a tribe. And they're always sending messages to us about what to believe or what my church says, my family, my tribe, or my church. That's the traditional view of Zaradi The modern view says, I will look inside myself, my feelings and thoughts, and I'll decide for myself what's true and false, what's right and wrong. It's kind of what my mother meant when she said, Let your conscience be your guide, as I went out the door. But Paul is saying, don't uh look inside or out, but to apostolic revelation, the revelation from Christ Jesus Himself without human addition Now this is very hard for modern people because we actually want to judge the Bible. We want to decide what's okay, what we can like, and throw the rest out. And it's hard for traditional people because Paul is saying you need to bring what your family, your tribe, and your church to the Bible. It needs to be submitted to the Bible. We have to conform to it. And actually, it's hard for people in the Reformed tradition to do this because they think that the Reformation is finished. that uh what took place long ago has given us everything we'll ever need. And we've embraced that. And so there's no more need to reform our lives. or the church. Paul continues in verse 1, who raised him from the dead And Paul's going through this letter saying, this is the gospel and this is not. This is the gospel I got from Jesus Christ, but what you're doing is you're turning from that gospel to another gospel. And even in the very first verse, he begins to telegraph what the gospel is, and he points to its power. That's why he adds these words, who raised Christ from the dead. Paul's gospel is the good news. that God's power and kingdom have broken into the world with Christ Jesus through his life and death and most especially in his resurrection. In fact, the resurrection is the way every sermon in the book of Acts ends. The resurrection means that the new age has dawned in keeping with the expectations of the prophets. And then Paul adds these words that are more than they might seem when he says, and all the brothers with me in verse 2. What Paul is saying is, as these brothers were drawn from other churches, is that this gospel is not original with him or uniquely taught by him. It is the gospel held by the churches. I want to have a little digression here, and then we'll come back to the main body of the sermon. Beware of teaching that has only one or two people teaching it or teaching that is truly novel, that's never been said before in the history of the church. Now And this is the digression. In the history of the church, God has been so gracious as to give a teaching office. That's in Ephesians 4. Which one of the things that means is the idea that you and your Bible alone are going to discover everything that's being taught is just nonsense. The history of the church reflects the work of the teaching office, and in the early church, the church wrestled with how to relate the humanity of Christ to his divinity. And the teaching office wrestled with how the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit are related to each other. And actually the teaching office borrowed the technical language of philosophy in the day to give exact explanation. expression to what the scriptures themselves were teaching, to make that teaching more explicit and clear. And you could walk through the history of the church right up to the time of the Reformation, for instance, where the doctrine of justification was not discovered. but was clarified and its preeminence was made clear in the work of salvation. And in our day, from about the end of the late 19th century through the 20th century, the clarity of the authority and the inspiration and the inerrancy of Scripture Was further clarified and defined and affirmed against the background of the development of higher critical theory in Germany, especially And in this century, there's been a wonderful rediscovery and understanding the riches of the doctrine of the Trinity. Which hasn't been written about seriously for 400 years. And one of the great uh things that has happened in the 20th century and still is happening. And here I have to doff my hat to Pastor Glenn because as I would come in and try to pick up the crumbs in his office, he handed me a volume called Biblical Theology by Gerhardis Voss. And he said, this is gold. And ever since I've looked for gold. And when I went to San Area almost 40 years ago when I graduated, there was hardly any gold beyond that book. Now people were beginning to work out the gold that had actually been seen by others through the history of the church. But today there's just a plethora. of resources. It's embarrassing how much there is that's written about the Bible to help you see Jesus Christ in every passage. No, it takes brain power to do that. And that brain power resides in the teaching office of the church. It's hard work. So that's the digression Beware of teaching that only resides in a few, that's truly novel Paul summarizes the gospel with a single word here. In the version we've read, it's the word deliver. Other translations have the word rescue. The gospel is the power to rescue us from our helplessness and hopelessness. The gospel is not mainly a set of instructions or ideas. If someone is drowning in the ocean, what they need from the Coast Guard is a diver to jump in the water and to put a ring around them. They need to be rescued. They don't need swimming lessons, not a book on how to swim, not an explanation of buoyancy and the mechanics of swimming. What they need is to experience the power. of being rescued and brought to safety, a change in their circumstances from the circumstances that threaten their lives Christianity is a religion of rescue and power, and not primarily about teaching. Christianity is a religion of rescue and power, divine power, and not primarily about teaching Jesus has come to rescue us from this present evil age, Paul says in verse 4. Just what is that? Well, this present evil age means that all of human life is dominated by sin and is opposed to God. All of human life. We as individuals, our families, our communities, the nations of the world, the leaders in our capitals. the political parties, the pursuit of every uh human endeavor, whether it's philosophy or science or economics, or psychology or medicine or carpentry or cooking or needlepoint. Every relationship, every activity, every human desire. Every one of us lives in the presence of wickedness and sickness and brokenness and death. And try as you might, take care of yourself as well as you can, you're going to die. All of us have death coming for us We are helpless to rid the world or ourselves of evil. Our helplessness and hopelessness is so profound that we never even ask for rescue. Apart from God's grace touching us. Unless God's grace touches us, we would never see our need to be rescued And so we're just sharp to ourselves, trying to make life work on our own terms. And it's usually only after we've messed things up really badly. that it begins to dawn on us that something is really wrong. That it's not just other people, it's not society out there or the system, but it's within us. Something's profoundly wrong in us. And Paul adds, the initiative for this rescue lies in the will of God. Who gave himself for our sins to deliver us from this present age of evil according to the will of God our Father? The reason Jesus came and gave himself to rescue us, who resides entirely in the love and the mercy and the compassion of God the Father. And so all glory goes to him, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. And so the grace and peace that Paul speaks of here are gifts. They're given. And this is where we go so wrong. Yes, you and I go so wrong. Because the human heart is hungry for glory. It craves glory. And so we want to have the glory of contributing something to our standing with God. Now I know that probably all of you could recite the basic doctrine of justification with great clarity. And many of you could recite some portion of the catechism or confession that deals with this. But you see, we really do want something to do. We want to boast in our consistency, our obedience, our moral uprightness. Of our being responsible, of our church attendance, our use of scriptures, or prayer, or our spiritual attainments, or our spiritual gifts. We want to depend on these for our standing with God. It's the hunger for glory that we would get our own glory that pulls on us. And this hunger and the temptation to have glory, to go this way, are lurking beneath the surface of our conscious thoughts. It's down there. It's like what's below the water in the iceberg, this hunger to have glory. And it's that that keeps us from grace and peace. You see, you need to rest in what God has done for us. You need nothing. You must bring nothing to him. And you must come daily with open and empty hands, with a sense of desperation, that on your own, that relying on your own, you're going to mess it up today. And you can tell if you really understand this when you embrace your weakness, when you glory in your inadequacy. When you own that you don't measure up. You can tell at a practical level that grace and peace are affecting you when you realize just how dangerous morality and religion are. How dangerous it is when you begin to think I am noble or better than other things. Now I want to digress at one more point to you students. So many of you who grow up in the church, actually, the net net of what you hear Is that being a Christian is being a moral person. Though that's a terrible thing to believe. That is not what Christianity is Christianity is not about being moral. Christianity is about the rescue and power of God, taking you out of the hopelessness and helplessness, the presence of evil within us. and in our world. You know, you can tell that grace and truth have really gripped you When you see that it's wicked and smug to be satisfied with your accomplishments, your spiritual attainment. When you see it's wrong to comfort yourself by comparing yourself to other people or your family to other families, to take refuge in the goodness of your children. Grace and peace are far from you when you bristle, when you're criticized, when you fail to see the depth and gravity of your own sin. This is the humbling truth of the gospel, that you need a rescue that has nothing to do with you, Paul. You need the Coast Guard diver to put you into the ring and to keep you there so that you can be brought up Tim Keller has a way of putting this so memorably. I don't know if it originated with him. It's possible it came from something Paul Miller said. It's so much like Paul Miller. It's this. We are far worse and more desperately wicked than we dare think. And we are loved far more than we can imagine. I just love that. That captures the essence of what I'm saying. And we need to be renewed in this every day. so that we are renewed in grace and peace daily. This rescue is found in the one who loved us by becoming one of us. He lived in obedience, in poverty. He walked this life in weakness, experiencing the opposition of men. He died in weakness, unjustly condemned, cruelly tortured, and depraved. He died in our place. He took what we deserve. And he rose in power so that we might be rescued through him. Have you fled to him? If you're here this morning and you've seen the impossibility of setting yourself free, of healing yourself in your brokenness. that you can't make life work, then come to him Come to him. As we come to this table. If you've never come to him and identified yourself as a part of his church, then take these moments while we come to this table. And come to Him. You have but to call on Him and acknowledge your need for rescue. And you who are here who have identified with Christ's Church. You're to come too, because you need Christ afresh. That's what this table is for. The gospel's so hard for us to believe in the depths of our beings that we really don't have to add something. That Jesus Christ instituted this meal. to communicate with us by sight and smell and taste what the gospel itself announces to us. That grace and peace are given freely to those who abandon all hope in themselves and turn to Christ. Let's pray. Gracious Heavenly Father, may Christ be set before us in all his beauty today. Lord, for those who are here who've yet to respond to the summons of the gospel, may you be pleased by your spirit to draw them to Him And Lord, here we come and we humble ourselves. We see within us that impulse to gain glory, to have to add something to our standing. Oh yes, we know we came to Christ that way, but now we want something to do. Father, forgive us. And here as we come to this table and repent, we turn fully to Christ. Enable us to come and to eat and be filled with him. For it's in his name