There is that okay our final principle that we're gonna uh talk about is related creation. And essentially this fifth principle is the uh glue to the whole thing. And um it's a sense of the related creation, or if you want to retitle it a little bit, unity or or unity in diversity, or you could say diversity. And unity too. Either way. And uh we what we find here is essentially that uh the uh God is the Trinity And this is uh it's amazing to me how uh as I work with uh young people and Christians how little they think about the trend. The center point of our our uh uh uh our um understanding of God, and that's uh how confused we get about this Um and so the thing that I like about going to Genesis is that you can see the Trinity in Genesis. And In the creation of the world. We read in Genesis 1. 1, of course, in the beginning God created. And we know here we refer to this and we we confess this both in the Nicene Creed and the Apostles Creed that God the Father is the creator of the world. Okay. He created the heavens and the earth, now the earth. And then it goes on to say now the earth was formless and empty. And darkness was over the surface of the deep, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the waters. We see the Spirit at work. And then it says, and God said, And we know that by his word the worlds were created. And we know that this word is Christ Himself. John 1 tells us that, that in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was Was with God and the word was God, and he was with God in the beginning. So we see the whole, all three persons of the Godhead working and and striving to create this uh Marvelous work in creation. And this principle existed before creation, but is well demonstrated by creation. Um when we think about the the creator, the the uh again uh refer back to Jonathan Edwards and please I I'm the worst when it comes to Jonathan Edwards titles because I never Remember, I read him and I never remember him, but he's written on the Trinity as well, and it's well worth reading what he says on the Trinity, too, because he's got some marvelous thoughts there. How the Father loves the Son and the Spirit so much that everything he does is for the the son and the spirit. How the spirit loves the father and the son so much that only everything he does is for the father and the son. That the son loves the father so much and the spirit so much that everything he does is for the father in the spirit. And so in doing everything for everybody else, they build each other up and they just only get more glorious. It's just a marvelous uh concept of uh an understanding that the the communication of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit to do everything in unity uh together, um uh uh the communication, the personalities of the, you know, three personalities working absolutely together. And this, again, bearing the image of God, this whole concept of personality. Just a side note here, this is personal relationships. And this is rooted in our in our the concept of the Trinity that that Because the Trinity is personal with each other and communicates and has koinonia within itself, that we too can have that same personality. in that coinia. And uh music is is um when most of us think unfortunately when most of us think about music today, we think in two ways. We think usually listening to some kind of electronic device Listening to music, or we think of the concert stage. And these are modern ideas of what music is like, and these are probably the two most impersonal ways to to to deal with music. And the uh Bach would be shocked, to be literally honestly would be shocked at knowing that that's why most people think about music because to him music was the home, the coffee house, and the church. And when We're gonna look at that a little bit later, uh how that works out in in uh as well. But to him they they were all re all his music making was re Relational. He was the coinany of the congregation. It was the fellowship over Lutheran Beverages down at the coffee house. And um the uh at home around the the table or around the s the uh the harpsichord or whatever they were the the So it's relational. Even when he was in the court, that's just a glorified home. And even the prince himself in the court played in his orchestra. So these are these are uh these are concepts that that we need to understand. The the Trinity works uh w when we understand the Trinity we would we would begin to despise in a sense the just listening to music on a CD or just going to a concert and here we got m excuse me, but we got God on the stage and we got the people in the audience. Think about this. Have you ever gone to a concert that uh and uh w a really great concert and but you how much relationship you have with a person on stage. I've been to zillions of concerts and I I probably, you know, talk to those people in the back very rarely. There's no relationship. You're just there and so you it's it's it's almost like a worship of the or worship the con the the uh the performer on stage. And uh that's That's the sad sad state of affairs. Um not that you shouldn't go to concerts, by the way. But just think about the what what we've come to. Uh I'd much rather have you make music in your home. But we're we're much richer by making music in our homes and making music with each other in the church and uh with people in our workplace than we are in any other countries. kind of music making. Alright, well back to the the question before the composer then uh in in as we look at the Trinity uh is whether the uh think about the in the personality Of God, you have three persons but one God. And this is this is crucial in our understanding of, and this has been, by the way, the great philosophical question of Him. History, hasn't it? One of the great ideas, if you study the great ideas, but probably the one idea, the one great idea that ties all other ideas together. And it's the uh the major controversy in philosophy is what? Platonic thinking against Aristotle, Aristotelian thinking. Those that have studied Francis Schaefer will recognize this from How Should We Then Look. live too, right? That he in the in Plato you have Plato holding up the universe as being the key to understanding all things. To understanding of our life to understanding why we're here. And uh Aristotle says no, the key is in the particulars, the diversity of nature and creation. And uh and the question becomes which one is right? And um th but the the the answer is that both are equally ultimate. Both are equally ultimate. So we cannot live without university, universality, nor can we live without diversity. And um and uh There's a John Rushdun Rush Dooney said this in his book, The One and the Many. All factuality in the universe is created or understandable only in terms of the ontological trinity, that is the trinity in relationship to itself or in terms of its own being. Because he created it, its meaning is also created meaning, derived from him who made it. Now think about that. That all meaning is derived from the from the Trinity. There's no meaning that is not derived, no true meaning that's not derived from Trinity from the Trinity. And that's that's crucial to what we under how we understand Meaning then is as derived from the triumph of God. Man is a creature created in God's image. Meaning in anything that man makes is also derived from the triumph of God. So that everything we do artistically has derived meaning. Now it's either the truth of God Or it's rebellion against God. It is there's no neutral ground here, see. It's like sanctification. You're either being sanctified, and by the way, sanctification is is parallel with this, it's all part of this or you're sinning. There's no, there's no, you can't be neuter neutral about this whole thing. And uh we're always moving one direction or the other Uh we're all either approaching the city or we're we're backing off. And that when we understand that, it it sort of gives a whole new dimension to how we deal with our own lives, how we think about how our lives are. So a composer also understands understanding that all the union is derived from the tr the Trinity, he must compose his works within biblical boundaries. He must and that's what these principles are all about. I hope you really See that they're broad principles. They're not they're not narrowing. They're not saying that you can't do this, you can't do that. They're saying that this is this is the way God created the earth and uh the world, and as imitators we we should Create like him. He must not we must not allow then the unity of music to be all encompassing at the expense of its diversity. A composer who slavishly follows textbook form without inspiration uh is one of these kind of guys and he's the fault generally leads to boredom in music. It's um uh likewise the um one who uh without unifying the elements in music the music becomes unintelligible. Alright? So think there's a a movie, um, oh uh what about I guess it's almost twenty years ago now, called Amadeus. Okay, good. I I I'm getting to the point where I I used to be able to use this a lot because everybody had seen it, but uh nowadays with the especially with young people they haven't seen this movie, which is probably a good thing. Um but the movie essentially takes and by the way the the historical facts of the movie are Totally off. And it's it's truly historical fiction. I mean actually it's just fiction. But uh the but in the the yeah. But Mozart and Salieri are two composers who truly did exist. And Salieri today is the only reason anybody knows Salieri is because of the movie Amadeus. Otherwise, people wouldn't probably not have heard too much of him. And there's good reason for him. And I I if you read the biography that you know uh of Solari the American biography of him. Uh the biographer himself says that his music was s uh he didn't use these words, but he might as well, was slavishly uh following the textbook forms of the And his music literally is boring. I mean it's it's and he was the great he was of the at the time the the higher paid professional. Um Mozart had a hard time in life. Uh but Mozart uh what made Mozart's music more interesting than Salier's? Well, the concept his the un see, the unity of think about uh symmetry. Perfect symmetry can be boring. Or I should say absolute symmetry can be boring. So uh if you have something that if you if you arrange your mantle with everything perfectly on balanced on one side and the exact same thing on one side and the other and so er if you actually folded it together it'd be the same thing. So I might hope I'm not getting to I found this out because it's happened to us. We were we were doing this and and uh some of you know Denise Greenway, she came in and and fixed it. She's an artist and and she she said, Oh, you don't want that. And she she moves a few things around, you know, same stuff on the on the mantle, and all of a sudden it looks good. And and it and it's balanced, but it's not absolute symmetry anymore. And and all of a sudden I think why does that look good? And ours didn't, you know. Uh because ours was boring after a while And uh and a house that's uh perfectly exact you know, like the White House not again or the uh Capitol building. These are all built built on classical models where man was a attempting absolute symmetry as per Perfection. And uh and it and clas the classical musical period was one of these periods. Salieri was a classical musician. Um No, that why is Salieri sort of a a dud composer? And Mozart a good composer. Well, Mozart, we're going to listen a little, Mozart. Okay? What you expect in perfect sonata Legraform of the classical period is four measures, four measures, four measures, four measures. That's your your theme. Then you expect four measures, four measures, four measures, four measures. This is what Haydn does. And even Haydn doesn't do this always, sl uh slave. Either, and that's why he's a good composer. But some pe some do. But let's listen to Mozart just a little bit here. And uh way. Okay. Uh oh. Yeah, it's quiet so you can't have to No, I've done around one. I think I need to go to five. Is that cage? Yeah. There we go, let's try that. I know. Oh there I I had it on seven didn't I? See up from here it looked like one. All right. I want one. One or six? One one, yeah. Oh there we go. Okay, after can I repeat that? Let's see if I can do this right. Okay. You're gonna have to have it quiet because you have to it's so quiet at the beginning you'll not catch us if you don't if you We'll try. There we go. Why did he do that? All right. See, his expect your expectation was what? Four four four four. And what do you? And he he keeps going and what does that do? It's like a joke. See what's a joke? A joke is expectations dashed. And that makes us laugh. That makes us delighted. That's Trinitarian. See. The the the Trinity is the the expectation and then the expectation um uh changed so that it delights the personality. And this is the unity and diversity. So the textbook form is boring. If you always got what you expected, after a while you just go to sleep. Now you can take the opposite, which is complete diversity, and uh well maybe I'll let me just do a I can I can do this in about five seconds, hopefully. And this is this is diversity at its ultimate Now there's something you go whistling home, won't you? Yeah, that's one of my favorite tunes. I I sing it all the time. The um there's there's where diversity actually comes into play so great that it's it's even it's it's It's non-memorable, it'll completely unmemorable. There's the uh yes. Yes, sure. Yeah. It is. It is. It's systematized diversity. Well I I meant I wanted to play sh the P Rollinaire, which actually is not unified, which would be better. example, but I had this one out. So uh yeah, d exactly. And seriously actually what do you what do you mean by What does that mean to a layman when you say it's successfully unified? Well let me let me go because this this is uh this goes into one of our our concepts. Um remember we we said that when When we when we what we want to do is look at creation and and create as God, imitators of God. What Schoenberg does uh uh So he he sets up w w when we look at creation we see the logical systems. In in creation we can we find d by the way, we find this scale or these notes, and it doesn't matter which order you point. And there's a reason for that we put them in that order. Uh uh they're they're based on a harmonic system. In other words, in this note, there's this note, this note, this note, this note, this note. But if you if you build a scale from that first partial, you come up eventually with a diatonic scale. It's a white note scale. And if you keep on going you come up with the the black notes on top The um white note scale then, or the diatonic scale, uh is something that is observed in creation. It is what we build most of our what we what we like in music. Schoenberg, uh, what he does, he builds, he works with this diatonic and the chromatic scale, but he says And I'm no longer gonna do it by well you got see remember when we did the half step like this? That that naturally leads And by the way, there's a hierarchy of of leading in each of the notes. We also that note leads into that note, and it's part of two scales. It's part of this scale. It's also part of this scale. No, now we're getting into technicalities. Okay. And but each note has a leading one way or has a strength moving to one note or another. And and a composer understands this and works. This this that relationship is very strong in composition and composer works with that very much. Notice on our um uh so that there it is. Schutz begins with that interval because he knows Knows of the strength of that interval. And he uses that. Well, Schoenberg says, well, I'm going to do something, I'm going to take all thirteen of these notes, and he devises a completely logical system. And he says, well I'm going to do play this note. I might play it in this order. And he may say, Well, that's the order and I'm gonna keep that order, but uh well I can't I'll tell you what, for diversity let's do this. I'll I can play it backwards. it upside down and I can play it upside down and backwards. Those are the four permutations that I have, or the three permutations of the and so he calls this the dodecaponic system or twelve tone system, a serial technique, the serial, the series, he develops a series of these notes over and over and over and over again. And you can't play the first note until you play the other twelve. It was very completely logical. Completely ugly. Alright. There's no way you can put together a full 12-ton. He came pretty close sometimes, by the way He he understood harmon when he when he tried to develop them so that they fit uh our harmonic scheme that we know of the of the common practice period or the nineteenth century. Then he came pretty close to making some nice music sometimes, but he could never quite perfect it because it's impossible. with the notes given notes. But he serialized it. Now series, a series of notes, and then he also serialized the pitch uh the harmonies and the um he He could serialize the the uh timbers, he could serialize the uh volume, he could serialize the uh um of a variety of different rhythms Now the problem with a series is what? Is that the unity you're talking about is realization that's the with sense of Right. What's the problem with a series? Where do we see where do we see absolute series in creation? Maybe you can help me out there. You know of any absolute series But Fibonacci sequence is not a symmetric series. It's not a symmetrical series, exactly Time. Is time? Can't you stretch time by going faster? I don't know. I mean I again I'm not a farther e yeah, there's differences in time but all at the same time. Yeah. See, creation's sort of strange this way, isn't it? It's not uh we w in our peanut minds we want to joke And we should be delighted. That's exactly right. Well, Schoenberg's a joke, and we shouldn't be delighted. All right, because what he's done is it's and again, he can't escape totally being made in God's image. We have to understand that. But what we what he does do is he's in rebellion. He's trying to move away from creation. And he's trying to create his own alternate reality. And it's impossible. That's the whole point. And what it does is brings ugliness into the world. That's just ugly. Really. Uh I sat through all of Piro Lunaire once in in Vienna. And it was one of the longest nights I ever. I kinda thought what hell might be like. Um so well yeah. Let let's get back a little bit to the uh I hope that helps a little bit to understand uh but uh man is think about unity and Think about God. When God created the world, the um or what when God creates, it looks like God. Doesn't it? Right. Well there's one yeah, one God. Everything the whole personality uh uh of the three personalities of God Are not separate in a sense. Because Jesus said, if you've seen me, you've seen the Father But have you but is Jesus the Father? We confess no, right? All right. And that's the whole point. I'm not going to try and explain that. I'm just that's the truth. And and do we see this unity and diversity in in in creation? But uh think of a tree. What tree are you thinking of? Are you thinking of a maple? Oak? Pine? A tree? Sycamore? A tree. Alright? See, how many different kinds of trees are there? Thousands of kinds of trees. Let's say let's just take a maple for instance. A maple tree, how many different kinds of maples are there? Lots. And if you take a maple, let's take the sugar maple for instance, is a Canada flow. You can all relate to that, right? If you fold of course you take the Canada flag and fold it on top of each other, halfway that take that leaf and fold it, maybe Fold right on top of each other. They're absolutely symmetrical. Are there any maple leaves that do that? No, not likely. We haven't found one yet, right? Okay. We haven't found one yet. Now if we take No, you know that's a good way to get government money. Maybe you should try. Uh and it keep you busy for the rest of your life. The um then the other thing is if we take all the maple leaves off the one off the one one maple tree and put them on top of each other, will you find any two alike? But they but they're all from the same maple tree. Are you beginning to get the concept of well how God and sugar maple leaves, exactly Exactly. There's unity and diversity. Ex per precisely. And uh I was f there was a uh the magic house in St. Louis you go in and you can look at your face in a mirror, they probably have an other place. here where you see put two sides of your face together in that you talk about funny. Uh um I mean people's mouths, you know, one goes up, one goes down. down and and when you put them both you really look funny when you have if you were absolutely symmetrical on one side or the other. Um so this is a picture of how God creates. And think about this this is this is my one of my arguments for creating a Or for understanding that there's a triune God from creation. Not that we need, in order for salvation, of course, we need the scriptures, but God says in Romans 1 that Everyone knows who God is by looking at creation. And uh think about this. If if if let's say say imagine Bach was the only composer, would we say that this music is by Bach? Well we would probably say, oh this is just music, isn't it? And see, this is the problem. When when God creates, we don't think, oh, this is God's creation because it looks like him. We say, oh, this is creation. If there were, you know, impossible here, but if there were different gods creating, each God would create as his personality would be, wouldn't it? Alright. So let's say Allah did create the world. What would it look like? What would people look like? Think about this. What would people look like? Would we would we be a Oh don't want me created. But if if Allah had created the world, what would we look like as people? Is it You got uh only one God, one person all the same. Exactly. That would be the nature of his being, wouldn't it? All right. That's right. And what would and pantheism, what would we look if if let's say the Greek gods were the real gods and they created us, what would we look like? Well, first of all, you probably couldn't tell that we were people. We'd all be different kinds of creatures. See the particularities would be so diverse That we wouldn't God has made us, you know, we look at each other, we can see we're all people, but every one of us is distinct from each other, aren't we? That's that's really Trinitarian, you know. That's about and uh i i there's no no no confusing who we are, and yet we all have the same features. We can see that we're all people Um it it's a c it's just an incredible thing. Um well anyway, we're uh I don't want to g get onto this, but this is this is uh i uh uh God's intention in music is to to be this way as well. The delightful music is that which is unified and diverse. And I uh w um take two minutes just to take or uh let's just take a h the hymn, Be Thou My Vision. Can you all pretty much sing that together? Let's I I want you as you think about this. Think about the five principles that we've talked about. Think about the linear aspect of this melodic line. Very simple tune that really embodies many of these principles very well. Think about how it grows it to the inevitability of the end. Think about its formal structure of four phrases and how they work together. And think about um the tension that's created all the way to the third phrase and then rests on the fourth. fourth phrase and think of the uh the unity of sound uh unity of of rhythmic aspects and and then the diversity of of melodic aspects and how it is such a it becomes in essence a good Great tune. Let's just sing together. Be thou my vision, O Lord of my heart. Not be all else to me save that thou now my best By day or by night, waking or sleeping, I present There's the Sabbath principle in the four. And it if you take it bum bum bum bum bum bum bum pum you got eight m little ones in there as well. Uh all the way down to the micro unit. Okay. There's a there's that aspect. Notice that we can't just stop at the third phrase, could we? Could what if we would happen. It's inevitable that we have to go all the way to the end, isn't it? There's a line there's the bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum Pum pum pum pum pum pum pum pum pum pum cause and effect. Notice the two lines are very similar shape, aren't they? So one gets its information from the previous This shape line, shape of the line, and then adds to that shape cyclical ideas, its patterns growing. And then we reach our climax. And come to a point of rest. This is a this is a picture of what a a good tune Can do, very simple. See, we're not talking about necessarily complex uh artworks. We although complex artworks can come into play, all artworks, doesn't matter simple or complex, work in this in this understanding. And you're saying we see that pattern then in creation, you know what I mean? Right. There's a reason for this to be in the in the church why this this hymn is so loved by everybody. And and and it and works and has worked and will work for ever. You would see that the same place you'd see that scale. That's why you say that's right. So are there other scales that are used in the world besides just the one that we use that um I well the minor scales I think actually re reflect and you'll find that the great Musicians will use more minor scales than they do major scales. I think d wouldn't you agree that it's probably a a higher percentage of minor great minor works than there are m major works. Minor actually shows more in my mind the the the um schematic structure of the scale is much more um uh allows for more uh unity and diversity than than the the major scale does. But I mean I'm not talking about ha like microtonal scales and things like that. Yes. We're talking about Western music and I'm talking about Are there other musics throughout the world that don't recognize our type of Well, they all recognize ours, but they all have their own as well, like the microtonal systems of of India and uh other places you have I would say that uh correct me if I'm wrong but something that I've found is that in um in the universities in academia today they like to point out that Western music is just one just one part and they're completely different scales in the world that have nothing to do with art and that's the way it it's really talked about. This is not the case. No. Uh if you listen to Aboriginal music uh Um if you listen to Indian music or Balinese music or whatever, the more music I listen to, the more I realize the prominence of the perfect fifth that every every culture uses the perfect fifth like you was playing on Yeah, every culture uses it. Or the minor third. The minor third is another w place. Yes, you'll find that the most prominent folk uh scale is the pentatonic scale scale which is not a complete which is a uh is an incomplete chromat or hum um dietonic scale. All right. It's uh chromaticism is something that is development. It's not something that And and again I get correct, but when you say folk scale you mean this is the the the scale that people, common people use to make their own music. That's right. The ordinary person writing music to sing for himself, and that's the common scale. See, I didn't when you do that textbook this show to be something that made you um if you were an artist you visualize that as a um a classical Um a weak supposed supposing meaning that the posing will or something like that. There actually looks looks like it's sitting there. Yeah. Um wrestling on it. Yeah. I don't know if you understand. Well, I I know what you yeah. Uh huh. I think I'll I'll Because we're made in the image of God. We can discover that via creation as image bearer Now, again, the Bible, and this is the whole point of all this, we take these four principles, these five principles that we uh let's take the five uh the five um uh elements of music, pitch rhythm, tambor. harmony and form and if those are our elements that's what we discover in creation. That's that's there for everybody to do in creation. And we as we manipulate those in creation, we're free to do as we want. But when we Bring these alongside I say of the this is where I'm coming from. Okay, now we see how God uses creation principles which are beyond music. They're architectural, they're ar artistic their dance, their drama. And we take these principles and we and we line them together at when the paradigms of the two are lined properly, not like this, but like this then we re we begin to realize, oh we're now we're creating as God wants us to create. Does that make sense? This is the hard part. This is the now we now but if we get there, then we have some place to move together as a as a as a body of believers. Saying, okay, wh why does this work and why does this not work? So rather than argue about this style and that style, we need to argue, we need to work with principles Just like the Ten Commandments are principles. We understand all of we have a whole law system in the West built on essentially the Ten Commandments. uh when we were with Christian roots. So and the same thing can happen then this way as well. Um Well, I I'm gonna put this I got five minutes. I'm gonna take I I do need to cover uh th this I'm gonna do this as quickly as possible. Maybe I can I take ten? We don't actually eat till twelve thirty. Okay. Um this is the this is supposedly the icing on the cake. Okay. Um and I get it, yeah. Uh when we take the Principles we need to understand how creation then see Genesis three is so the culmination of all this and we begin to see in the fall uh uh well first of all we see the the kingdom model uh in in Eden. And I'm going to do this very quickly, but it says in the Bible, and I'm gonna not gonna read so much from the Bible, I'm just gonna do it quickly here. But it says that God took man and formed him uh and and and uh uh in Eden. He was placed in Eden in the garden east in Eden. So if we have Eden here, well I'm sorry my well I don't know what it looked like, but we'll just make it that way. Box And east in Eden there was a garden. Yeah, the golden rectangle. And we find that in the garden Adam was placed here in the garden in order to dress and keep it. The words dress and keep are really fascinating words. The word to dress is the word um uh Uh I can't remember the right Hebrew word, but it goes into the Septuagint rather rather interestingly as Leitreu. Betrayal, which is our word, the verb form of liturgy or service. Liturgy in the Greek sense was service to the state. You are a slave to the state. Okay. And in the word in Paul uses uh liturgy as service to the Lord. Well when we have a worship service, we have a worship liturgy, literally. All right. And our our service is to God and and actually it's interesting that there's liturgical service to us as well from God. It works both ways. ways. And um but this is this is all designed from the garden. This is the place, the garden was the place of worship. So we have Eden. And we have the garden. And uh Adam was placed here, and there were two trees, the tree of knowledge and uh tree of uh knowledge of good and evil and the tree of life. And uh Adam was is told not to eat of the tree of the knowledge tree of knowledge uh uh evil, good and evil. Um in the uh The keeping aspect is also important. To keep it is to guard it. This same word is used later on when the cherubim guard the garden when they're when Adam and Eve are thrown out. It's the exact same word. So to keep it is to guard it. And uh and Adam was was uh so we have we we begin to see here Then there was a there was a river that flowed out of Eden. I'll use purple since I already got blue in there. And when it got into the garden, it fli it broke off into four headwaters. And And the uh there are the the Gihon, the Pichon, the Tigris and the Euphrates. And uh and the the one of them there's all this Bedillium and Onyx and gold at the end of it, and it goes into the land. Of Havila, which is Arabia. And uh the gold there is good, it said. And we see in Badillium and Gold and Onyx are essentially you've got precious metals and precious stones. And uh the precious stones are black and white. Badillium is white and and onyx is black. So it covers the spectrum of the uh of the of the rain well of the colors. They're non-colors, but they cover the spectrum. But what we have here, now North Rivers, when we think of rivers, we think of you have ever heard of rivers of civilization? You know, people always use rivers to show the flow of civilization because rivers always move civilization, don't they? All throughout all history, rivers have moved civilization somewhere. We went out west because of the river. didn't we? And we we use the rivers. I come from Kansas City and Lewis and Clark. You know, we know all about rivers and and and moving culture. Well the ri you notice This is the rivers are flowing out, so we know which direction they're going. They're going downhill, aren't they? This way. And uh and Adam was placed in the garden and the naturally how did he know there was gold badillium on Onyx? Well God told him. Well what did why did God tell him? Well he had to dress and keep the garden, didn't he? So what's he going to do? He's going to go out into the world and get these raw materials so he can dress and keep the garden. Dress it up. Cultivate. So he's he's moved out, the rivers move him out, and he brings back the raw materials. Now we understand this is God meets with Adam In the sanctuary, doesn't he? That's where Adam was when he was in trouble. All right. And God was walking there with a looking for him and and Adam Adam was hiding. And but this is where they were to meet, and God was who see, God was going to teach him how to dress and keep the garden. He was going to instruct him. And until but Adam rebelled. But anyway, the the point is this this is where this is where we meet with God. This is where God lives. Eden was Adam's home. This is where he was supposed to live. And he was supposed to find out how God was going to make his home. And then he would make his home, he would as a servant, because he's serving. He's the He's the he's the servant of the garden. Well, if you if you know you got a good master and you like the way he makes his home, what are you gonna do? Ephesians five again. Imitate God. So what are you going to do? You're going to imitate God. You're going to make your home like his. Think about the tabernacle. What do we got in the tabernacle? You got the throne room, which is what? The God's living room? You got the table of you've got the holy of place, which is where the table of showbread and the lampstand and the altar of incense are. That's his dining room, right? And you got the altar outside of the tent, which is his. Kitchen. That's where you cook his sacrifice, right? Alright, this is his home. Judgment goes on in you know in the in the Holy of Holies and and and other things going on. So we we design our homes a lot like that, don't we? We have places of we gather the family in the living room for the where the father is the judge of the family. And we eat around the table and we cook in the kitchen. And uh this is the the way our our lives work. But and the other thing we see here is now sanctuary, home, and then the world. And if you think back to Bot, church, home, tavern, somewhere, or workplace, you know, the the coffee house, where he meets other people, the work. people outside. And so we s begin to see that the pr the point of all this is that we see raw materials in the world, are brought into the sanctuary. God teaches us how to how to make things, how to make his dress his sanctuary. We dress our home that way. And as we deal with people in the outside world, they see our homes and they make their homes like our homes. So the pagan becomes is is influenced by the Christian. That's the way it's supposed to be. Unfortunately today we do the opposite. What do we do? We don't go out and get the raw materials. What do we do? We go out and get the finished product from the pagan and bring it back into the sanctuary and we baptize it. Got Jesus. See this is w we we can't come up with we we we don't listen to Jesus on how to make the world, we listen to what the world says, and we think that we can bring them in that way. That's not the way God tells us to do it. He says, You listen to me. You know, you got raw materials in the world. I'll show you how to fashion them. And how do we do that? We do that in our worship. This is why worship is so important. This is God speaking to us. And we need to listen to Him and not to the world. Because we're supposed to transform the world. We can't be salt in the world if the world is the salt already. So we need to bring we need to make the salt so that we can salt them and not have them salt us. So that's that's the the pattern that we see in Genesis. That was a quick version of that. Sorry about that. And uh uh one other thing, I'd like to look at the fall because this is this is crucial In the fall, we see that Adam was, where was Adam when Eve was approached by the serpent? Where does it say in the Bible? Notice that? He was with her. That's what it says. And Adam, who was with her. Now, think about this. What is the first command that God gave Adam? First command is 126. and twenty-seven, which is take dominion. Okay? What's the second command that he gives him? It's not the eating, not eating. It's they actually to dress and keep the garden. And then it's the tree. Alright. So remember that what did keep mean? Remember it's guard the garden. So what was Adam to guard the guard from? I didn't know there was something he needed to guard. Well there was because b uh I'm and again this is a this is a me and I you d you can take it for as it's worth. I think that the fall happened on the s the first Sabbath. I think that it happened on on the first Sabbath. And that that it happened actually perhaps even the sixth day before this first Sabbath. Um and the cool of the day, which would be the evening or the early of the First Sabbath. And that here they they Adam and Eve are in the garden, and sir the serpent enters. He's already fallen from heaven. We can read about that in other parts of the book. Bible. And uh he what what should have happened? Adam should have s had been the have been the keeper, shouldn't he? He'd been the keeper guard. He should have said, Satan, what are you talking to my wife for? Who's in charge here? But instead, like a typical male, Sorry guys. He says, well let's see what happens. Let's see what, you know, I'll I just I just kind of let let it play out here and we'll see what happens to her if he if she eats, you know And he's sitting there and she eats, nothing happens, and he eats. Then, of course, God comes. And all of a sudden, it's like the little boy with a cookie pen in the cookie jar. caught by mom who's handing cookie job. And and he blames the woman. And and so w we get this in the fall, because Adam didn't do his job of guarding Eventually, God has to put cherubim in front of the garden to keep him from there, to keep him out. Somebody has to guard the garden. That's a crucial, that's so crucial. If you don't understand that that that somebody has to guard the sanctuary, then we don't understand what it means to be a Christian. Because we're all in the priesthood of believers. I'm going to get to that in a just a second. Now the um Adam uh takes uh uh uh well the curse comes on Adam and Eve. Adam is cursed to in this by the sweat of his work by the sweat of his brow woman is cursed with the desire for her husband and the desire interestingly uh the study the idea that she wants to rule over her husband and of course men being lazy they'll allow that and And uh and uh men are because they're supposed to work, that's why they're lazy, because they're supposed to work. So it our curse works against us in our fallen nature, doesn't it? When I teach, you know, it's it's amazing when I teach, especially it it's so transparent in in elementary kids. Um in invariably in my teaching classes the little girls will want to try and tell me what to do and what my class. Invariably the little boys won't want to do anything in my class. Alright. That's that's the sin that God God has you know that's the curse working on our lives. Well, uh now with that we understand that the curse has caused this problem, and but then God, in his infinite mercy, comes and develops a system for his people. And that is in the priesthood. In the Old Testament, it's this priesthood of Israel. Israel was a kingdom of priests. And we see that the priests had various duties to do. Eventually the Levitical priesthood took over these duties, and these duties include prayer. We can read about I won't give you all the but ex Exodus 27 talks about this, Exodus 30. Other priestly duties, offering of sacrifices, Leviticus 1, 1 through 17, blessing of the people, numbers 6, 23 through 25. The teaching of the law, Leviticus 10. All these are priestly duties. But my favorite priestly duty, well, favorite for this purpose is found in numbers. And I'm going to read this to you, numbers 338, if you want to uh look at it with me. Uh this is one that we forget, unfortunately. In 338 it says Now those who are to camp before the tabernacle eastward, before the tent of meeting, toward the sunrise, are Moses and Aaron and his sons, performing the duties of the sons. Sanctuary. So we see the priests are performing the duties of the sanctuary for the obligation of the sons of Israel. But the layman coming near was to be put. The priest had a duty to guard the sanctuary Now, what is that how does that translate into the New Testament? And very quickly, and I think you can all go with me here, our priestly duties are defined by Peter in 1 Peter. When he says that we are a nation and kingdom of priests, we are a royal priesthood, a holy nation set apart to do his work. Okay? I I wish we had more time to develop this up. Luther's done this so marvelously. Read Martin Luther on the Priesthood of Believers. It's some of the best stuff. So we have a vocation. Our priestly calling is our vocation. We all have a special vocation and we all have a general vocation. Our special vocation is our is what most of us do on our daily lives. So it may be a homemade. Some of it may be a lawyer, someone may be a physicist, someone may be a preacher, someone may be a musician. Those are our special callings, and we are called as priests to guard the sanctuary in our calling. So if you're a a lawyer, you make sure that the law that that uh it follows that you you keep the law in a proper way. All right. If you're a uh um Um then as a musician, I have, for instance, and those that work in the church have a calling to guard the sanctuary of the music that goes in, so that what goes into That's a tough calling because most people don't want us to do that. area and say, oh, well, I want to make everybody I'm I'd rather make people happy than God happy. And they know that sometimes I know I deal with these guys a lot. So that's the that's the special vocation. General vocation. You have a general vocation as a Christian to guard the sanctuary. We all do. We all need to be prayer warriors, right? We all need to be ready to give the gospel Teach the gospel, disciple nations. That's one of our duties as priests. We all need to attend worship and bring the sacrifices, the living sacrifices, to Christ. See these are and and and what was I forgot my uh the blessing of the people. We we need to bless each other in our koinania, in our fellowship with each other. In the church. We all need to guard the sanctuary. And in music, by the way, this is how, this is going to be my suggestion. This is where you can argue with me if you want But this is where, this is my suggestion as the priestly duties. What duties do you have? Because God, and we'll deal with this a little bit in the sermon, God calls us to sing to him. And in that scene, that we have an obligation to sing skillfully too. Believe it or not. That's what Psalm 33 says. That means, as priests, We have the responsibility of being able to sing music and read music. Now, I know this is a hard burden for all of us old guys that haven't learned how to sing how to read music. But we have we have we're only ever one generation from having a a church that can read music. Why do we you know why would we want to be able to read music? Well, it's fun, but you know I'd never sung the the um the one we just yeah we just sang. But I was able to sing along because I could read music music. Imagine going to a church, you're you're visiting now somewhere and you go to a church and you pull out the hymnal and you'd never sang oh I never sang this hymn, but oh I can I can See. But then also as we uh there's more than just that too. The the whole the participation though in worship. We are people of the book, by the way. Uh I it's so good to have hymnals, by the way. That that's a that's a Christian concept. Uh um I mean I'm not against things on the walls, but but we're people of the book. And and and the problem is when it goes on the wall it often doesn't have music on it. If you c for m for me to go into uh or for somebody that can read music, you go into a worship service and all there are are words. You can't participate. because you don't know the tune. And that's not good. As soon as you put the tune in there, I you know, no matter what style, you can sing it. Um so we have an obligation there as the priesthood to, I think, to teach our children how to read music so that they can play skillfully before the Lord. And we'll deal with that a lot more in the sermon. So well that close that off quickly. But that that's where I wanted to go with that. So I'm sure that oughta get a few more questions and uh things stirred up. But