I'm on. Now I can't move either. Oh that's okay. I don't know how what I do if that's what I'm doing. Um First off, I believe I gave you the something about the theology of music. I think that's what I said in my title. But I think I'm gonna change it just a little bit. Actually I always do And it's really not just a theology of music, it's a theology of worship. Music, of music and worship. And the reason I do that is because um The uh as we look at culture, uh I don't know if anybody's familiar with Ken Meyer's book, uh all got So in the Buddha tooth that he talks about various types of culture, the pop culture, the folk culture, and the high art culture. And uh the one thing that I would might add to his brilliant work, but one thing I might add to that was uh uh a liturgical culture. So Um we often there there are some things that are very difficult to put into those other three categories that we use in our liturgy when I'm using I'll use that word liturgy quite a bit you'll have to forgive me uh being uh uh but we'll use that word because it's actually good Greek and that or Greek and uh Hebrew words that well the Hebrew word is a different word. Um but the uh uh Well when we when we think about the liturgy, the worship that we do, our worship, is what um is what teaches us about all of life. And that's why worship is so important to God. It's uh not only is it bringing him glory, but it it uh because we're made in his image. We bear that glory back into the world through our worship. And it's not in the world's eyes a very practical way to do this. It it seems kind of silly to sit around together as a body of believers of the world and worship a god that we can't see uh that we can touch. And uh that's why so many people make gods of stone and silver and gold So uh this is this is uh in a sense not very pragmatic but very uh um under understanding that we this is this what God expects us. Now so that's why sort of a little pilot channel We're a theology thing from worship. So as we as we worship them, we'll learn how we live. Um and uh I'd like to begin with uh just uh a little of my history uh about twenty-six years ago, uh Tim and I were uh students at Washington University studying music and uh we were at a Presbyterian church there and we were singing in the choir. And all of a sudden the uh choir director, organist, quit. And uh he said he saw a storm booing on the drive and he decided he didn't want to be in the storm. We didn't we were too stupid to know. And so Uh one of the elders came to us and said, Well you guys are musicians, why don't you do the music on the chase? And we looked at him like, uh, we're starting to study nothing. And uh but we said yeah we will do it and so my wife uh beautifully in two weeks learned how to play the organ and uh I took over the choir And in the process we of course all kinds of questions started coming up to us like what should we do Um and people started immediately, oh here's the new people, the young new people. Let's put some pressure on them to get our way and uh worship service. And so people were I mean we I can't tell you how we were bombarded with but why don't you do this, why don't you do this? And uh Kim and I was gonna ask myself, well what? what right here? What do we so in a moment of uh you know it took us a long time to really come to some conclusions. We we made a lot of mistakes on the way. We we allowed I think, you know people desire to get in our way and and to start doing what people wanted to do if we were discovering that something was wrong. And by the same token we were doing things that we wanted to do and we were finding that things were wrong. And so the questions start coming up, well what What does God want? And that's a difficult question to ask because we don't like gossip. Um we are very happy with what uh we want And we like to tell God what we want, but we're not quite re ready to listen to see what pleasant means. That was the hard part for us. And so that uh led us to do a uh a lot of soul searching, a lot of study um in uh this area and that's what a lot of this uh the result of uh I've been actually working on it a little bit of this theory. And um So that's what that's sort of an introduction to you. The question becomes, and this is a very difficult question. People don't like it, but Um so what is what what does this God? Is is God you know, just by the that the question itself is it can make people very angry. uh and we can upset people in all kinds of ways because um how can you know the first question even comes back to how can people And that of course that was the question I who are you tell us what God likes? I don't know. I I don't think so uh I'm gonna show you how some of the conclusions I came to and again I'm open to all kinds of discussion. This is not open and shut to work. Um, although the longer I the older I get, the more shut I get Um let's begin with uh the today tonight we're just gonna sort of lay groundwork. We're not really gonna talk too much about media Uh but let's let's start all good uh theologians understand the start with presupposition, right? Are we all in the same position? And of course, what's our basic presupposition of Krishna? Well, I I would hope that you would say that the Bible uh is the the Holy and again you'll recognize this phrase the Holy Scriptures of the Old and New Testament are the Word of God the only rule for faith can be Yep. Good. And with that, and this is uh another quote from the Western Confession I use these because they're already proved. I don't have to deal with all the proven and I don't want to waste all of the time doing that. We have to spend hours doing this, but Uh I think we'll all come to the same place. The whole counsel of God concerning all things necessary for his own glory And salvation. By the way, that's where a lot of Christians would like to stop. I could skip the next phrase and they'd be very happy Faith and life is either expressly set down in Scripture, or by good and necessary consequence may be deduced in Scripture, under which nothing at any time is to be added, whether by new revelations is still or traditions of hand chapter one of the web fashion. What we hear in there what most Christians will like is the part about uh that we find in scripture that everything is necessary for uh God's glory and man's salvation and faith. We'd like to stop it. That's where we want to stop because once we're saved, then we don't have to do the same. Then we don't have to then there's no demands on us once we're saved. But the confession doesn't allow that, and there's a good reason for it. We could get into all the scriptural proofs for this, but it's absurd, just the two little words, and life. That means that we have to live a certain way that is pleasing to God, not pleasing to ourselves. Although when we when we clear stuff, you know what's gonna happen? Uh and that then the other hard part about this is that It says is either expressly said by the scripture. Now we can talk about man's salvation of faith. That is expressly said by the scripture. how we live our lives is that always expressly set down in scripture. You know, we can look at all kinds of things that are not uh set down in scripture that we do in this culture way. uh that we have to do we have to figure out by necessary consequence deduction So for instance we have laws about building parapets around our houses. Now how many of you have a parapet? Why not? That's what it says in the Old Testament. Well, because we know that that is the that scripture says the it's abrogated in the sense that we don't have to do it culturally Uh because we're not in that culture, but that the understanding of that law will still affect how many foot railings on your staircase It's the same law. Although there's nothing about railings on staircasing, how many buckle up your children when you go into a car? See these are all ways to keep people safe. So the parapet was there because people slept on a roof and they didn't want to fall off the roof. Right? And so we understand that that we when we have people in our houses, we keep them safe. by giving them a safe uh place with the same with the house. So these are deductions we can we can come to from scripture. Now that's the easy one. Those are very obvious. Now the harder ones are uh w practices in worship and practicing and uh when we get that right down to the nitty degree here which we're talking about that what kind of music is Can we discover that in Scripture? Well, if this statement from the Western Confession is correct, it does all things necessary Or why are set down expressly or completely So we're w we're in dangerous areas we if we we we are so is uh we're like fish in the water, we don't know that there's water around us until we're taken out of the water. Um and then we can't breathe. The um when when we're so uh uh surrounded um by our own culture, which is all often difficult to see that and answer this question of what is proof to God. Um so that's that's sort of where we're where we're starting from from and we need to uh realize that maybe there is something in scripture that teaches us how we can uh come to an understanding. That's that was the that's what I was struggling with. especially as a new music director in a church where everybody wanted what they wanted. And I wanted what I wanted. I remember you doing uh you know, somebody came and said, Well, I my daughter plays a real nice Beethoven Scout on the film and do that for worship it and I and I knew, you know, well that's great music, but uh when you tell them, why don't you want that to show? Is that right? Something in me said no that's not what belonged to. But I didn't have a way to express that, so that was one of the the difficulties there Alright, so the the the next logical step is that if all things can be uh deduced from scripture about life, that means that if touches every aspect of life, including music. Um we we don't want to be relativistic about this. See it's easy w we're we're live we're I was going back to the my fish example. We live in a world of relativism is the uh the working the operating uh mechanism of our culture. And we all we know that, but oftentimes we don't realize that we get caught up in that And I would say in music was probably one of the questions, well relative is probably something to play more than the other medium because we're um We we often don't think about that aspect of our life. So if that's tr uh the case then if the Bible gives us answers as to what kind of music then will be acceptable in the worship of God. Um that's a bold thing. I mean I I don't think it is, but a lot of people think And uh it it took me a long time to get there. Um so with that, let me just test you a little bit here again. How did God create a little question, right? Is that a good help me out with that? God yes. Alright. Good. God created man in his own image, right? And what? And yes. Well, huh? And with death. Well three things. Uh yeah. We're not quite there yet, yeah. That's the end, yeah. In there's three things in knowledge, righteousness And holiness. We're going to come back to those three things. Those are but you'll you'll see three several things here. Man is created male and female in his own image He's got three attributes, knowledge, righteousness, and holiness. And with those things he's given dominion over the creatures. Now, the reformers are very wise in putting that answer to that question uh the what in the order that they did because that's the order that we need to conclude of. We start with the image of God. This is what began to meet made for me the key of understanding what was going on here. And this is where I began. Um the Bible says, and if you want to turn with me to Genesis 1, 26 and 27, we see this uh where he talks about being made in his image. It says, then God says, let us make man in our image according to our likeness, and let them rule over the fish of the sea And over the birds of the sky and over the cattle and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. And God created man in his own image. In the image of God he created him. Male and female, he created them. Now um so man is given dominion Now w we have but he's made in his image of God. What does it mean to be made in the image of God? This is what we have to wrestle with. And theologians have of course been wrestling with this. And I'm not going to answer all the questions about this, but I take it for our purpose here. we can answer some of these things. And uh because uh there's another passage in Ephesians 5. 1 says that we are to be to be imitators of God And if we're imitators of God then, uh that that that is tied up in our image there. Now there of course there's a vast difference between the infinite creator and the finite creature Yeah, twenty-six one twenty-six ten one twenty-six and twenty-seven emphasizes but not the difference of club license. Now let's just take a look at uh one thing that helps us to express that difference though. That's in 2 Corinthians 3. 5 And this is the uh a rather fascinating passage because this is a commentary by Paul on in a sense on 126, Genesis 126 and 27 uh sort of a bad hand of play, but it's still there. Uh and I wish we had time to just be all this out, but we're gonna just pick out A few verses here. It says in uh three five, uh, second Corinthians three five, not that we are adequate in ourselves Consider anything as coming from ourselves but our adequacy God. So we bear the in it, but the adequacy does not is not internal. It's External. It comes to us from God. And this passage goes on and talks about the glory that uh was given. Uh the ministry of the Spirit comes with even more glory. And then it talks about Moses receiving this glory and his face shown and they was so bright they couldn't uh look at him when he came down from the mountain. And uh then in the passage later on It says 2 Corinthians 3 seventeen, now the Lord is the Spirit. And where the Spirit of the Lord, there is liberty. But we all, with unveiled face, beholding as a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from glory. To Lord. This is from the Lord. Now it's un I find this is a hard word, this liberty. Let's go back a little bit to the sort of an interesting word. Uh Luther liked this word because he often used this word for his name. He changes German name in Greek it's Lucario, he tell you that. And uh so he called himself the Free One. called himself Eutheria sometimes after this idea. But now the Lord of the is the spirit and where the spirit of the Lord is, and I think this is often we misunderstand this, there is liberty. The word Eutheria The liberty, the freedom here is a freedom of generosity. And in fact, that word can be translated generosity And that's a different aspect. We usually think freedom is what? Liberty is what? To do what we want. Whereas Paul uses the word to mean more of not what we want, but what is expected of us. So our liberty is responsibility. more than it's freedom to do whatever we please. That's the usage of the word here. So when we read it that way, we begin to see that Uh the spirit of the Lord is there is. Generosical there's a generosity. There's a liberality in you to give of yourself. And that is what produces the uh this transformation into the same image from glory to glory. So we're we start glorious just because we're made in God's image, but we are made more glorious by our seventh faithful prophet This we see this all all the way through uh scriptures and even at the beginning. Um Adam was placed in a garden. Was it a glorious garden? uh it was called paradox. We we tend to call it paradox thing. But what was he supposed to do with it? Leave it as it was. No, he was he was commanded to graph and keep it He was to make it more glorious from glory to glory. And that is the way that we see the whole uh scriptures move uh even after the fall of man, moving towards more this we'll finish that even more even tomorrow. Alright, this is uh so what we are We are a picture then on earth of what God is to all creation. Man in the image of God is the uh image-bearer and the glory-bearer of God. Now, let's take a look at what uh Genesis 1 and 2. mostly Genesis 1 says about uh what this image is, or how God created this image. So let's begin with Genesis 1. 1 And uh we read there that God in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. And the earth uh and we read from this Um we we understand in Hebrews it says what that all things nothing was created without Help me out. See if I the uh created. Yeah, and and it was that so and it was all through the his word his word So it can't we understand from this that if that the the theological thing we call creation has mean or from nothing. Creation from nothing. Now this is uh the so as a creator he creates a kihula. Now that's something that we don't do. That's one of the differences between God Then we see in verse 2, and the earth was formless and void, and darkness was over the surface of the deep, and the spirit of God was moving over the surface of the water. The Spirit of God. Here he has, we see that God has a spirit spirit he is he's a spiritual being and uh in fact he's one of the persons of the God then um and Meredith Pine writing in the image of the spirit says this is the glory Spirit, the glory, class, and exodus, a theophonic presence of God as the creation, a specific divine model or reference for the creation of man as the image of God So the model is creating the world. Think about it, a creator makes things that uh look like himself. This is why God tells us to look at creation, don't to know who He is. We're going to spend some time with that a little bit tomorrow. Um but you uh really when you look at creation and think about it There's only one possibility of a God, and that's the Trinity. God of the Trinity. There's no other God possible but the creation. He knows that. He tells us that in Romans 1. We even as Christians have a hard time believing that. That's the truth. Um then uh so this is the this uh glory of the of the uh spirit of royal majesty at the center of heaven the place of God's atonement. This glory is expressed often as light. 1 Timothy 616. Um stairs uh who alone, speaking of Christ, who alone possesses immortality and dwells in unapproachable light, whom no man has seen or can see So this is this is uh this is the picture of uh of God. Music uh I believe in this sense uh as image bearer should show forth the light of God's glory. It should be a reflection of that glory as well. Um, Genesis 1. 3, we read that God creates uh via his word. It says, uh God said, let there be. He speaks an area. It's not very easy, is it? I don't think anybody else has ever done that before. Alright, so he trains through his words. Think about what kind of dominion that is And that that's uh that's an amazing thing. He speaks gonna happen. I I always like to think about this a little bit, you know. If God stopped thinking about you, what would happen? If these stopped thinking about anything, they would go be gone. It wouldn't be here And that's an amaz that's an incredible thing. He thinks this isn't we we exist by his word. There we are. Uh and then it says in Genesis one four, and God saw that the light was good. This uh Here's it. This God's personality comes out, the enjoyment of his creation. He looks at his creation, he says, wow, this is good. I mean that's personal. This is his stuff. Um the divine figure is enthroned in glory. Uh we see this is an anthropomorphic aspect of him uh but it's identified as the personal presence of God. God's presence is there so that he can enjoy his creation. Um so God has morality, he can evaluate his creation. There's a moral aspect of it. In some, as in fact decline in the mission script, in some, what we find is that the biblical exposition of the image of God is consistently in terms of a glory like the glory of God. So this image of God It is a glorious thing. Now, let us compare the image bearer to God in context of Genesis 1, 24, 2, 25. Okay? So let's compare ourselves Now some of these things obviously we don't create us. Nihilo and obviously that we don't we can't speak and bring things into existence. So these parts of the image of God are not born in us. But as image bearers we per we possess personality. Look with me at Genesis 2, 7. It says, Then the Lord God for man of the dust from the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. And man became a living demon. Uh God just this breath of life, this fascinating because the word rua in Hebrew is breath, but it's also spirit and wind. And it was the same in in Greek as well pneuma, it's the same word. And so we find here that when God breathes into uh uh nostrils, this is something that he doesn't do in other times he just speaks in their head. But now he takes some of God and breathes into it. And and he puts his in essence his the spirit you put the spirit in a in a way that's different than than anything else. God's And then the other thing we see here is that man therefore is a living soul and that separates him in that he can worship God. You know, chipmunks don't worship God. We just don't do it. They all gather together and have to worship. We're the only creatures that do that. And uh Then let's take a look at uh 128-29, Genesis 128, 29. It says God blessed Adam and Eve. blessed them and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth, subdue it, rule over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the air and over every living thing that moves on the earth. And God said, Behold, I have given you notice what he does with the quote. God who be stupid who directly to Adam and Eve, behold I have given you every plant plant yielding seed which is on the surface of all the earth, and every tree which has fruit yielding seed. This shall be fruitful. And he goes on and he's talking to them. Here we see that God speaks with man. There is a communion between God and man. He speaks with man This is a a spiritual aspect only that a man has with God. In communion we have we we can communicate And relate personally to to God. Um in one twenty-six, we've which we've already read uh we see that man has dominion and this thus he has freedom and responsibility. We talked a little bit about freedom and responsibility already And this is in essence a functional and ethical glory law. In other words, God calls something good, we're called to take dominion, and in in so doing we have to uh We have to project an ethic on a morality that uh is uh that bears the image of God. And so we have morality as well We see in uh two nineteen, and out of the ground uh the Lord God formed every beast of the field and every bird of the sky and brought them to man to see what he would call them. Whatever man called a living creature. The man called the living creature, that was his name. And the man gave names to all the cattle, and to the birds of the sky, and every beast of the field, but for Adam there was not found a helper suitable. Here we see that man has to think. He has to be reasonable. He has to take a look at at a at a lion and not call it a chipmunk. He has to call it a lion because it's a lion, right Now they use names differently. They're not our names. But they you know, he might have called the draft the one with the long neck and I tell him the one with a long nose. Who knows what exactly but but names usually have meanings in them. And so he had to He had to look at the creation. He had to be reasonable about it. And he had to use his intellect to think this thing through That's part of case school. You ever thought about what school is, kids? What are you doing? It's really just a study in taxonomy. You know what that is? That's a study and classifying and ordering everything. Once you get everything at your your ducts in a row, then you know then you know what what going on in the world. If anybody ever take a biology course, all you really do is learn vocabulary. That's all you do for a whole year. You learn vocabulary. Once you learn vocabulary then you know how to deal with it. And same with music, isn't it? And once you get the vocabulary down, then you're able to work with. You can't work with it until you have a vocabulary. But God understands this is the way God would see. Even though man can't create via the word He can name. You want to take dominion. See, this is where Christians have fallen down a little bit recently because they don't they've allowed everybody else to name things. They don't name things themselves. We need to name You know, they call uh things what they really are, you know, we don't have to do them all that well. You know what I mean by that Alright, um so let's go one more step. If man is the image bearer, then how do we relate to the archetypal glory of God? We are an earthquake temple in the dwelling of God. You are the temple. Where the Spirit dwells within us And uh also then Jesus is our pattern as a royal glory image of God And that Hebrews 1 and 2. Hebrews 1, 1 and 2 describe that. We know that he is going to include that very quickly. Um God after he spoke long ago to the fathers and the prophets, portions of them anyway, in these last days has spoken to us speaking. whom he appointed mayor of all things, through whom also he made the world This is the vote of Christ is of the loyal glory in his God And then and this is now we're going back to our question. God created man, male and female, he created them. In what were the three things again? God? In Knowledge, righteousness, and holiness. Now there's a there's there's a progression to that. And by the way, you know where those come from? They come right out of the scriptures, don't they? They actually come in parallel passages. Um it says in 424, and put on the new self, a movement back up that twenty-three, and that you be renewed in the spirit of your mind. and put on the new self, which in the likeness of God has been created in righteousness and holiness of the truth. And its parallel path would be quash and three pin, which reads like this. It's a little bit different, but with the same concept. Um he's going on I'll back up just so you can put this in context. And Do not lie to one another who laid aside the old self with its evil practices. We've got this old self that we have to put away and have put on the new self who is being renewed to a true knowledge according to the image of the one who created them. So reformers understood this. But think about this. Can you be holy without righteousness And you'd be righteous without knowledge. See, where do we start? We have to start with the one that we don't like to start with. knowledge. That that's that's antithetical to today's church, isn't it? W the the idea of knowledge, uh of course w where where do people always go? They always go to Paul and they say, Well knowledge puffs up. Well what's Paul talking about then knowledge diffuses. But knowledge is not is not something that we are to shun just because of what now we need to understand that passage when Paul talks about. Uh where does the Proverbs say about knowledge? Well it's the beginning of wisdom. One of those things, isn't it? Knowledge is the beginning of wisdom. So we have to start it with knowledge. With knowledge, in other words, we need to know the law. The ig ignorance of the law, right? Ignorance of the law. is no excuse. If you go fifty-five in a thirty-five zone and the police pulls you over and you say, Well officer, I just decided what you didn't say And if there are kids in the street, what's the face of the day? And this is the thing. Ignor ignorance of the law is no excuse. And that's the way it's going to be on judgment here. Knowledge and truth come first But does knowledge necessarily provide you? No, because you might know that the speed limit was 55, but you went or 35, but you went fifty-five anyway So you have to go thirty-five, then that's what makes you right this is by by not ignoring the truth the knowledge. So righteousness comes next, but does that necessarily make you oh can you can you live your whole life and not murder somebody Unnecessarily beat to much dot. Not at the time. So the progression is but in order to be holy you have to be righteous. So uh that is that re see uh reaching the holiness then is another there's a there's more to that than just being righteous But this is the process, by the way, we call moving from knowledge to righteousness. The wholeness is the process of sanctification. And sanctification is crucial because this is the this Get back to our question. If I'm pleasing God, how am I doing that? Sanctification doesn't allow us to remain stagnant. It requires change, constant change. But in it but not any change. Knowledge, righteousness, the holiness. That's what change. That's a pattern of change. And we have to constantly monitor and meditate on scripture to do this the way we live, everything we do in life, even brushing our feet. Alright? I tell him you can pay the dental bill and uh um all right, man has judicial discernment Genesis three twenty two uh says The Lord God said, Behold, the man has become like one of us, born good and evil. Now let's stretch out his hand and take also from the tree while we live forever. So he takes him out of the garden. Man Has judicial determinants. He had he had discernments whether to eat that fruit or not. He didn't have to eat it. And once he made that decision, then he has to live with constant lifewise. We see from Genesis 9:6 that the image is not totally destroyed. Whoever sheds man's blood, by man his blood shall be shed. For in the image of God He made men. See, the the image is the image isn't lost just because we what tells it's in. Image is independent. But it's still there. And uh so man is assigned the judicial responsibility to discern between good and evil. It is part of his kingly office And and we'll talk more about that in third episode lecture. But uh he does have a kingly office and and this does affect music. Um so God's creation is a representation of his glory, his image bears, and we imitate him by making our surroundings glorious, not because we are glory. Not because the Holy God dwells in us through the work of Jesus Christ And once we have once we have Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit dwelling in us, then we are made always. And that's that's and that's why our righteousness is that's where where we get it. Not from our own not it's not internal external No, out of outside of that. And this uh we imitate him by surrounding ourselves with his glorious. Now do you begin to see where we're going with it? We need to see what makes makes God glory and then around ourselves with that. Now, uh and as you said, put on the new man with the renewed in knowledge after him, the creation. Now this is an important concept because it by it we understand that we can perform music written by non-conscription composers. We can composers optical to the gospel and still enjoy their music without sinning. We can even effectively use their music to the fit for worship and our worship services of God is glorified. Does this mean that all music therefore is fit for worship? I don't think so. That's that's where we're gonna have to wrestle a little bit. Christ redeemed us from the from the sin and the fall, and by his death and resurrection we are able to regain our uncarnished image. We can read about that in Hebrews too. But along with this we regain our responsibility to live a life consistently. That's the hard one. Christ with the glory spirit was present and active at the creation of the world. And just as his presence is Theophonic glory is the presence of an archetypal the design uh pattern for man. God's creative work is the pattern for man's creative work. In order to glorify God, our music must fall under this pattern in the same manner that the Spirit glorifies the Father. Because all men are created in God's image, all music it's interesting, all music will bear some sound of that image, no matter how bad or black, it will bear the image of God. We'll look at that just a bit on our own. Man cannot escape bearing the image of God. We can't we can't become non-man by our own choice. By the same token, because all men are by nature sinful, no music written by man will perfectly glorify God. It is hard for me to say about Father God until man is glorified in heaven. Until then we have the pattern of creation itself to guide us in finding that music which will impart glory to God as best we can. Because we are made in his image, and because we are in the royal priesthood, we are assigned the solemn judicial responsibility of discerning between good and evil. In all areas of life. Clear. Let us take the solemn charge and obligation apart. So we can worship our creator.