And I'm hopefully you can all see the whiteboard. I'm gonna probably do a f a few you'll see how g uh I'm about as good an artist as I am a piano player. Which my stick figures look really good. The uh before we get started I just want to uh say that as we talk about music today, uh I just want to uh to or talk about has text to it, the confusion often gets, well, what makes good music? And most people immediately zero in on the text. uh if it's texted. And um that's uh you know, so if the text is good and and we don't care what the music sounds like that's often the thinking. And I'm I that's not where I'm going with this. I'm gonna deal with uh la music as a language of its own and that it speaks to us. I'm I'm assuming this. I could uh um I could take another couple hours to talk about how music speaks and we could talk about the various parts parts, but uh we don't have that luxury at this point. The other thing that uh I I'd like to have you think about um and again I I wish we had um uh a couple semesters to teach music theory to everybody so that we could talk in in um a vocabulary that is more technical, but But we don't have that luxury as well. But let me just give you this. Music, there are five elements of music. Really there's only four, but I we divide them tend to musicians tend to divide them. Vitamin 5. And the five elements are pitch. That's the vertical aspect of music where we hear So we hear pitches high and low. And that's graphed vertically as well. And we hear rhythm, which is graphed horizontally, and that's essentially the movement of sound and time. Time. It's the time element of music. Pitch rhythm, which is the patterns that uh how we gather the pitch and the rhythm together in such a way and when we put uh pitch, rhythm and form together we come up with melody. Melody is not one of the the uh the elements of music. It's a combination of three of the elements. And then uh the fourth element, which was really a subset of pitch, truly, but we because it's such a broad area, we deal with it in a its own element and that's harmony and that's when you put two or more pitches together sounding together at one time. Harmony. Mm-hmm. Let me put them up on the board. That might be a good idea. Since I got a board now. Uh pitch, rhythm. Form, harmony, and then the last one is tamber. And timbre is the sort of the all-encompassing element is uh the way I define amber is the shape of the sound wave. So uh that can include a large sound which means it's loud or a small pound of way which means it's um soft so it includes it includes that includes texture of um uh how we put sound waves together, so how many sound waves are coming at you, that's texture. And then it can also include the shape the actual shape of the sound wave. So if there are sound waves on top of the sound wave, which we I'm not gonna get into all the physics of this, is what we call tone colour. And that's what distinguishes uh the different instruments from each other. with different different voices. But you ever notice how uh we you can tell who's talking to you uh but when it's a uh if it's in a family sometimes it's hard to because the the shape of the head actually determines the shape of the sound bird. And so if you have people in the same family have a kinetic makeup there's the heads are shaped same. My brother when we together uh and and with my dad there's four group boys and my dad when we get together really you can't tell which one of us talking about I get into I can't believe I just said that. I did say it. So I'll be referring to these elements in this next part. Now the the next what we're going to do is we're going to look at uh our proposition before was that um that there is uh the creation being made in God's image is the reference for our creation creating work. And that's I hope we establish that. And now the question becomes how do we imitate God? How do we imitate God in music? because how many in here have ever heard a competition like that? Well, we have. It's not in a in the same sense that we hear competitions quite a lot. But we have uh what we can do And this is the second, my second major proposition, is that there is since there's one act of creation found in the Bible, Genesis 1 through 3 must become the model for man's creation. that and that's where we're going to go with it so I'm going to talk about it specifically about music but some of these uh these ideas actually carry over into all of So if you're an artist, there will be ideas here that will uh affect that as well, or architect or whatever. So uh and we sp um by s then by looking what God does in his as he makes the world, then we we have an idea of how we bear that heavy and how we are close to our energy. And um Henry Van Till in his book The Calvinistic Concept of Culture has said that culture the activity of man is image there of this creator informing nature, informing nature for his purpose is a good concise uh understanding of what uh I kind of get culture. And uh so let's turn to the uh Genesis one. And we're going to begin uh with at the beginning. Uh Genesis 1, 1. I know you know this by heart, but it's always sometimes good to look By the way, for those uh I'm using the new American standard, do you guys still use that in it's uh always you always know what the buy-in In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Uh here we've seen that there our first principle that we're gonna we're gonna look at we're gonna see five principles that uh that help us to uh show what it means to bear God's image. The first principle is the historical principle. And uh before I write it down, let me just read the screen 2-1 says, thus the heavens and the earth were completed, and all their host. So we see that there's a beginning and end to creation. And this is what uh we uh by the way I've I picked up these some of these ideas from uh man named John Bevington who wrote a book on uh of history and our uh since music is a time art we have to view it in a historical perspective um and our first principle is that that uh uh music is linear because history is linear. In the beginning God created there There's a process of six days of creation, and thus the heavens and the earth were finished. There's a completion of time in the uh So Christian view of history has a beginning, progresses to the eschaton. And time as we know it ends at the judgment. These are some of the concepts that we get in the man's view of history. Now, you say, well, yeah, this seems So this is the way I think of history. Well we're gonna, as we look at four or five more views of history, we'll see that this is not really the majority view of hi view of history. Um it is in in uh it has its proponents, but it's not always uh the major view. The Christian view of history then uh It the process of creation had a beginning and an end. And history is parallel. If you look at this, I hope uh in your theological mind you begin to see that that history is works out in our own history of each individual life, doesn't it? It par is paralleled in that we have justification, we have sanctification, And we have glorification. This is the uh our own life is is uh Is a microcosm of God's history. So he works this out in a lot of different ways. history that are crucial to uh to our thinking is that cause and effect are clearly seen in this linear uh Christian We see in Genesis 1. 3 it says, and God said, Let there be light, and there wasn't light. Light? No, there was light. Why? Because he said, let there be light. Cause and effect are are are the um uh the prime uh movement of this linear history. Uh we uh if you're interested in this kind of thing, I again we because of time we won't be able to go into this, but Jonathan Edwards has written a whole sermon on this uh or essay on the the idea of the of God as the prime cause. And it's a it's rather fascinating view of Uh so if you're interested in that kind of thing, that that'd be that's well worth reading. And don't ask me what the title of it is because I can never remember. I always have it marked in my Jonathan Edwards at home. But I I can never remember the title. So we and I've drawn a picture of what linear history would look like up there. So how does this affect our music. And by the way, we start with this one because it's the true view of history. And uh we start it's just like uh if you're studying t uh I know that people that are working on trying to figure out what is a uh counterfeit bill, what you do is you study the real bill first and then that uh the real money and then then it's easy to see what where the counterfeits are gone wrong. So m music essentially should begin and end in such a way as reflects this view of history And then it should move through its process in cause and effect. The whole concept of cause and effect is a very uh Christian view. Think about it, we have refrigerators because of Christian thinking, history. Um w you know, they don't have refrigerators where they don't think about, you know, you kill your you kill your deer and then eat whatever you eat and then just throw the rest away and then you y you know, then you have to go out and kill another one. You don't don't save, but a Christian says, Oh, we've got this meat, we need to save it. So we come up with a way to preserve it. And we we'd we'd make refrigerators. This is this is Christian thinking. That progress in that sense is very is a is um a very important aspect. And y in in many I was I was listening to some things Chi the Chinese culture and the Arabic culture had um oh it was Francis Shay I was we were just doing that. Um they had times of great learning, but it never uh continued as in Western culture because they didn't have the Christian base. the foundation. So there was no reason there was no reason for it to continue. Uh and you know they built on the foundation of man's uh ability to a certain point until distress essentially made it collapse, much like Rome collapsed. So this is uh another offshoot of linear history, which is a corruption of it, is what we might call progressive, a progressive view of history. And this is where the linear ideas are are. maintained but without God in the the equation. And um that's uh that's the a lot of people think that way. And uh again that'll cause all kinds of uh interesting problems. There's uh and they actually causes other kinds of of uh historical thinking. Probably the the the largest uh we'll move on to our n next uh style or next hi view of history and that's cyclical history. And cyclical history is um Is the uh probably the predominant view, has been the predominant view through history. It is a pagan view of history. We see it in ancient cultures, Oriental Cultures and now, particularly in the New Age culture, linear, or one of the things that linear implies is judgment. If you're going to come to a point of ending, there's a point of judgment. We don't like that, do we Or people don't like that. And uh and in cyclical uh there you actually become you're on an inescapable wheel. So uh time uh uh is um is keeps coming back in it on itself. Um I usually use a an illustration from the book Siddhartha by Herman Hesse, where uh the uh river um is is looked at as the continuum of history, but that you're always entering history and uh in the same spot in a sense Um it's sort of a strange strange idea how they come up with this, I'm not exactly sure, but uh in this you have reincarnation to be reborn in another body over and over again. And the only way to escape really there's it's inescapable but there's a uh what they call a state of nirvana or absolute blessedness. which is supposedly a a release from the cycle of reincarnation, but how you get into that is almost unexplainable. And music that reflects this cyclical pattern would include Oriental music, a lot of Oriental uh gamelon music, New Age music. and much of rock and roll surprisingly is the uh the remember those are of my age probably remember the Beatles and uh the their uh movement out of the bubblegum style of music into uh the uh more rubber sole era and that's when they began studying with the Maharishi and studying all these uh new age uh oriental uh cyclical ideas. Um uh another w one was the uh sitar player um Yeah, Ravi Shankar. And and I I've read some of the things he says, and of course it's much of the same kind of thing where you enter the music That's the the eternal music that's going on eternally and you can leave it, but it's always going on and you just enter and come in and out of it like that. It's it's a strange concept. I'm going to play a little excerpt from uh uh sort of the Western view uh Western um sort of version of this. It's a New Age style. And many of you will recognize this particular composer. His name is George Winston. And we're going to look listen to something I'm going to show you some things that happen in his music that uh reflect this view. Now th I'm not Help me out here, but uh I'm not very yeah, can you do you know how to do this? Power. What do we got? Uh How do you get this thing? Get the Xverse here. It seems like and I'm not an expert on these on these astrophysical thinkings, but it just seems like uh uh many uh uh astronomers and astrophysicists sort of are on a quest to identify a uh an expanding but a contracting and expanding unit That's yeah, that's interesting. I I didn't know that. Um yeah. All right. one will be perfect. It doesn't matter which track you hit. Now just listen to this just a little bit. I mean there's n muse or melodically there's nothing Offensive about this at all. I want you to think in terms of the repetition that you're hearing Um but not so much that is the um the reason for this idea. What what are where is it going? In other words, the cause and effect is really what's what's at at stake here Now he'll go on like this for about a minute and a half with this same idea over and over and over again. Um there will be some expansion of the idea. This is a Western thinking, expansion um and development, which is good He's got a little heavy foot on the pedal sometimes. You probably get in trouble for that at school, don't you? Yeah, but he's got a real nice object. Yeah. Actually I uh well while w while we're waiting for it to get to where I want it to go. Um Uh the um I I really would say, you know, if if I were uh sadistic, I think think if I were to make a torture, I would make a a w room of all white walls and no doors and no windows, only speakers, and put a person in it and make them listen to George Winston For twenty four hours and I think they could go I could make them nuts at the end of twenty four hours. Actually it creates tension. What will happen if you actually listen to it? If you don't listen to it it yeah yeah it oh now here we go. Now the question becomes, we're on a new idea. What is the relationship of this idea to the old idea? It's in the same key. That's about the only relationship. Alright? The the relationship there's no melodic reason to move there. This is a completely new idea. That now he's gonna work this one over in the same way. So you move from idea, I think He this is the uh and he'll do this throughout the whole piece. He'll he'll just move from idea to idea, and there's no cause for this idea. Now when Beethoven writes and I wish we if we had time, what we would do is listen to Beethoven's physical symphony. He takes this da da da da uh four notes and he develops thirty minutes of music on it. Four notes. Two ideas essentially, you know, and he every that becomes the germ for every idea. So in linear thinking you have thematic ideas. You have themes And and these themes develop into greater themes. And so everything expands on this simpleness into complexity. Now, he used some of that in there. Again, he can't escape God's image. We need to remember that. He's gonna there's gonna be some reflection, and he's obviously influenced by Western thinking. This is not Oriental in the uh in its um uh in in its uh uh in its melodic content, but it's in the thinking the philosoph philosophical aspect it is. And um uh so he's he's um there's no reason to go to this next theme. I I have another uh uh another piece that I could play for you standing Stone by Paul McCartney. And it's the same kind of thing. But there's no reason. When Beethoven writes an idea, it moves from this idea and then expands into this idea. And by the time you get to the end, it's a different idea, but it's it's developed from the original idea. It's like the covenant. The covenant expands. We're going to talk about that in just a bit, I hope. All right. Then another view of history is historicism. Historicism is the granddaddy of relativism. In hell historicism, oops, forget right now, we have This is, by the way, the prime view of the professors in college. So if you study most professors in college, this is what you'll get. And that's the belief that processes are at work in history, that man can do little to alter. And the historian must avoid all value judgments in the stu in his study of past periods or former cultures. So each culture in history is distinctive and is not necessarily related to any other culture. And we can picture this sort of like here's a culture here and here's a culture that goes along at the same time maybe it proceeds later. They may touch each other, they may not, they may be a separate culture, but we can see that Totally. Uh and but they're they're in essence their own culture. Uh this is the current philos philosoph philosophical base for judging music or in no judging at all. This flies into the face of the idea of judgment, of an endpoint. Judgment requires us to hit an endpoint and a completion, a perfection, the word perfect meaning complete, a perfection of idea. And uh glorification is that perfection. This is not part of the historicism. Historicism says that uh everything is relative, there's no endpoint, uh you know, destruction may come, but uh and as far as we're concerned, if everything goes on fine, there's no end point, it just happens. This view is found in the eclecticism of music today. And I would The fourth view of Mar uh history is Marxist dialectical materialism. And there are two ideas here, dialect the dialectic uh and uh the materialistic aspect. The Marxian interpretation of reality is that viewing matter is the sole subject of change. There's only matter. You think the way you do because the what's chemically going on in your brain has nothing to do with God at all. And all change is the product of a constant conflict between opposites arising from internal contradictions in here and also So in this Hegelian, it developed out of Hegel's philosophy is that you have an idea, a thesis, this ideational entity, the idea, and then somebody comes along with an antithesis which is the opposite of the thesis or is different than the thesis and and these two ba heads and they transform into the synthesis. So that here's the thesis, here's the Antithesis, they butt heads, and you have synthesis, which is the new idea, and there it's resolved into a higher form of truth, which now becomes the new thesis. And this may this this process may go on in in infinitely until you uh and the idea is that you eventually reach uh the um the the final thesis which is the final truth. Um and but meanwhile everything else is true for what it is at the time. This is this is the Darw uh Darwin provided the scientific and we I would put that in quotes. It's a SIC, the S-I-C, sick, uh, basis for this view of history. And um uh it's hostile to cause and effect And again, this is reflected also in New Age music and mu mostly in some twentieth century art music. Uh Schoenberg in particular uh would have b would espouse this kind of thinking in his uh music. And again, I'd like to play you some of that, but there's no point in that. That's just ugly. So we won't bother you with that. Yes. Um talk briefly on it seems like I don't know how those naturally go together. We talked about dialectic and materialism. What's the connection we have? Yeah, again this gets in what Marxists uh it's more of a theological thing than it is anything else, that that they just don't like the concept that there's a personal God or any kind of uh force that that ha has an effect. So only the material world is what exists. There's no non material world. There's no there's no uh angels, there's no demons, there's no uh um spirituality in essence. Is it fair to say that matter and energy ultimately That's right. Exactly. And so that's what that's what causes the thesis and antithesis. That's what causes the the this idea to form in one man's mind. Which can be true for that man and the odd then the idea forms in this man's mind and it's true to him, but as they hit together they may be not logically correct with each other. And so as they've what happens oftentimes there's a compromise or it could, you know, it could look more like this where this one is this they where they butt heads, but this one actually comes out the winner. Or it could you know it could be maybe a little bit of the truth of this one is taken, uh, etc. So it there's a sort of a A constant working of this truth and this truth get together and form a new truth. Well, this is illogical, obviously. But that's that was the the thinking that and And of course we see w what the result of this is in uh w we saw we've seen the the destruction of the Soviet Union at at this point. Uh but questions uh feel free to set these aside at the end but it seems like that sort of a uh that can take place for example if students are struggling with The understanding of actual current seems to mean that that you can improve with an actual thing. Whereas we're we're well we would we can we can see some of this this dis the but see there what one of these in logic thinking one of these is is not non-truth and one is truth or one has part non-truth and part truth and one has part non-truth and part truth and as they work uh work together they come up with closer to the truth perhaps. Or they may come up with less truth. But we still the the point is that somewhere there's an absolute truth. Whereas in this truth is determined by the winner. Okay? And that's that's so the the survival of the fittest, in essence. Darwin's uh uh um scientific aspect See how that's different. So yeah, and again, uh remember the counterfeit bill is gonna look as m deck they make the counterfeit bill look as much like the truth as possible. And that's always the case. So there, and as we and that g takes us into the other uh the the uh so linear view of history, and then um our second Concept is not that history is only linear, but history is also in cycles, and that's our second second uh point. History is governed by cycles and patterns. History is governed by cycles and patterns So it it looks your linear history has a sort of a that effect to it. This is not a visual. This is right. Right. This is not a view. Right. This is going back to our original. So now this is I've got five uh principles, creation principles that will help us understand. how to work deal with music, how well how we can talk about music. And this is based on the concept I would in Genesis, if we go to um Each of the days we see in God called the light day, and the darkness he called night, and the evening and the morning were the first day. We go to the next day, the evening and the morning were the second day, etc. I just wonder if it would help for clarity to say that linear history does include or is governed by cycles and patterns. So that would be confused with the false. Yes. This is not the cyclical history of the pagan world. Okay, this is this is where and see this is where where it's getting with this going with this is that the false view of the cyclical history Is based on the truth of cycles and patterns in history. And we see this very clearly in day four, where God said, Let there be lights in the firmament. Of the heaven to divide the day from the night, and let them be for signs and for seasons and for days and years. Okay. And then he sets the lights in the heavens to divide the day and dark and night. Okay, this is, as I said, this is not cyclical history. This is, I would maybe describe it more as spiral movement in linear time. And there's an expansion as we go. So you begin, you have days, and then we months, weeks, actually weeks, months, and years, and we we've expanded even. into uh larger units, decades, uh centuries and millennia, but in the Bible we we see at least the the the um days and ye uh m weeks and months and years Cyclical history could be seen as a just a tract. Whereas cyclical linear history could be seen as a spiral staircase right and it make and it actually expands too so it's like a cone rather than than uh like a cylinder you might say I don't know if Yes, I think that exactly we perceive time in various ways and we need to perceive it the way God perceives it, the way He set us in time. Now I'm not going to talk about what happened before the beginning and what's going to happen. I'm talking about right now. Right. The way we perceive it now, yeah. Uh that's way beyond me, the other beyond that. Alright, so God's movement in creation is from night to dark today, dark to light, and so we have this progression to the eschaton, to the the final times. So there's always this progression. Um the uh you might you you see this in the covenants. See when the uh when with the fall of man the there was supposed to be expansion in the garden. They were supposed to take the garden and make it more beautiful. Um but because of the fall they were thrown out of the garden and they had to start from thistles and thorns and then God in his kindness gives uh these uh he gives the proto evangelion to uh Adam and lets him know that there is going to be a seed, there is going to be some something a seed that's gonna come and s bring salvation. And that's the hope that they had. Enoch had that. And uh then then he comes to Abra or Noah and he says uh he gives them the sign in the rainbow that says, I will I will remember. And uh and then he comes to Abraham and and says, you will have seed and land. And then he comes to uh David, well we we can go through each one. Moses and he said, not only you're now here's here is the land, here is your seed, and now you're there. And then then he expands even further with David. And then finally we get to the fullness in Christ. And and well we'll have it fully realized when we when we come into this New Jerusalem. So the there's an expansion, a covenantal expansion, uh all the way through. But each one of those promises is the same promise. Each of those promises Salvation in Christ. And that's what we that's the key there. So we're moving from glory to glory, and works of art should cause us to see the world anew. They should cause us to grow, and this is Ken Myers, they should cause us to grow rather than to remain stagnant. Um so uh I would like to take more time with this, but those are the historical aspects and those so those sort of deal with the rhythmic uh concepts. concepts of uh music but also um there are other things that we could deal with and I uh again I wish we had a lot more time to listen to music to say oh yeah here we're gonna try I'm gonna try and get to the point where we have one piece that we can listen to at the end and say, look at it. The third principle, creation principle, is the principle of formal structure and creation. Form in creation. And um we read in That when the earth was first created, it had no form. It says the earth was formless and void, and darkness was upon the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God moved over the face of the waters. So we move from chaos. To cosmos. Okay. And in what is made cosmos distinguishable from chaos? Well, it's God's handiwork, his separation. He separates, He creates this essentially uh and again this this ooze or whatever it was that that that was there at the beginning in the the heavens and the earth and then he separates out of this he takes the light out. How he does this I don't know but he takes the light out. And then and so he separates the day from the night and light from the dark. And he's then he start takes takes the uh waters above the earth and the waters below the earth. Then he takes the land out of the waters, and before you know it we've got this beautiful Cosmos. And not the cosmos that Carl Sagan talks about. It's the cosmos that God created. And you're saying it's significant that it goes through the Yes, very significant. He doesn't simply create order for the beginning. Right, right. It's not it's n he could've he could have just spoke everything into existence as it was. But he didn't. And they're uh and and then these interesting take these two distinctive different entities, light and dark, and God gives them names. He gives the names to the waters above, heavens and and earth. He gives land, he gives the name of land to the to the place that we walk on. There's um there's also formal structure the in in the This formal structure, there's this characteristic of personality. The personal, see, had to exist before the creation. And then the creation was not by chance, but by God's personal intervention. And his personal love and thinking goes into the creation of it. And so that time and space are out of God's thinking. uh and and out of his personality. And so as we observe time and space, we can understand a bit about God. So a musical composition is the result of a composer's thought and communication. It is not merely a random series of sounds, even when that is the intention of the composer. It cannot be. Now, what kind of formalized structure did God use when he created the world? This is rather fascinating, too, because creation is binary, first of all. You have day one. Two and three. Day one, you have the light from the darkness. Day two, you have the waters above, the waters below. Day three, you have the land coming out Day four is parallel to day one. What happens? You have the sun and moon stars created. The governor of the light is created on day four. See, there was no sun and moon and stars determining light and dark up until the day four In day five, you have the governors of the waters above, which were the birds, and the governors of the water below, the fish and the whales. Created that day. And then day six you have the land animals and man, the the a p pinnacle of dominion of of the creation, uh the governor of the land. And uh and it's uh a fascinating we could go into all kinds of concepts on this, but um there's the there's the uh the structure and then you have a day seven which is sort of a coda you might say. to the whole thing, which is the point of rest. And we'll get into that concept in just a bit. But there's a parallel then. call A and the poor the second three days four, five, and six, are A prime. They're parallel, they're the same idea, only expanded. Again, more of that uh uh pattern uh developed. Um there are um Let's see. There is also other literary structures within each day. We could break this down. Each day has a literary structure of seven or five different uh parts, and this is uh developed from Klaus Westermann's book on Genesis. You have the announcement in each day, and God said, you have command, and let there be, or let the You have a report, and there was, and it was so. You have evaluation, and God saw that it was good. And then you have the temporal framework, and there was evening and there was morning the first First day, second day, etcetera. So this there not only is there this sort of tripartite, bipartite, but you have uh uh you have the movement within each part, each section, there's a There's a each day has its own has its similar structure. So this was not and God's an architect. He's not think about if you went and built a building and and and you went to a let's say you went to the lumber yard and said, I'd like, you know, uh Uh I'd like two hundred and fifty two by fours studs and I'd like a uh uh you know about oh maybe twenty or thirty uh ply pieces of plywood and I'd like some shingles and I'd like some cement block and some cement and and and and I'm gonna build a house and they bring it by your h and and you but you but you start with the shingles first and you I say I like the my favorite part of a house is the roof, so I think I'll build the roof first. And you think it's funny, but you see, this is what a lot of people think God made the cre creation that way. He didn't. He he laid the foundation light and dark first. And then he he separated the right things for and and and brings out the land last, there's a reason for all these things. And so we see the architecture of God's ideas as they come out. So what we see a logical progression throughout the creation that includes both complexity and simplicity. So that's one of the things. We see that there's a balance within the form without slavish attention to perfect symmetry, which is rather fascinating. We're going to get into that more in the Trinitarian principle if we get there. Oh I'm running out of time here. Uh there's a conclusion or perfection to the form as seen in the creation of the Sabbath. That's an important that again, that goes back to our linear idea, doesn't it? See, a lot of these sort of overlap a little bit. Form is not limited to the overall structure, but is found at various levels. Form is the musician's plan. for the ordering of his music just as an architect's plans are for a house. Tim, do you have an idea when you put the composition together or is it stream of conscience? Yeah, I kind of thought so. Those that do stream of conscious work usually you can tell immediately it has it doesn't go anywhere. God had a plan when he created the world and he followed it. And then form is the skeleton for those things which are beautiful to be placed upon. Without the skeleton, no sense can be made out of the individual beautiful things. Running out of time here, and I've got two more principles to hit. I'll I might have to sneak those into the uh the next one. May I get the same Alright, now put the other one in the that's um let me do the the shorter principle first then. I The Trinitarian one takes too long. Oh I le I erased all the principles, didn't I? The the f uh linear cycles The fourth principle is Sabbath rest. And uh in the fourth principle based on uh Genesis two, two, and three. And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made, and he rested on the seventh day from all all his work which he had made. And God blessed the seventh day and he sanctified it, because that in it he had rested from all his work which God had created and made. God's week is six days of work, one day of rest. And this climax is in man. It's not accidental. It's God's greatest act of creation. The Sabbath day is made holy. It's blessed by God. It's a day of rest and is an act of worship. That's really important to understand that our rest is an act of worship in the special sense. We worship all week long, but in the special sense, in the fellowship, the koinonia of believing we rest on the seventh day with each other. The artist follows God's week by creation of tension and work. and it culminates in a point of rest. And this is so tension and rest are the the key to good art. And um I use Usually use this curve right here. They call this the artistic curve. I uh learned this from in my Shakespeare, well, my drama class, English class in junior high, when we're studying Shakespeare. Uh I have had a teacher that that talked about this. And what you have here is you have the in in drama, and this works out by the way in music as well. You have the beginning point and And then you have the progression of the creation of tension to the climax. And then Uh and at the climax then there's a you have what we call the denouement or the falling off and then the point of rest. And and this This is uh uh there a very important concept in the whole idea of of of music and art and drama and uh think about uh here are any Tolkien fans I I'm constantly Bombard with his home. If you read the Lord of the Rings, does he end, does the Lord of the Rings end at the throwing of the ring into the fire? That no, that's the climax. But there's still m couple chapters left. Why? Because we have to wrap it up. We have to this is so you have denouement, you have to come to a point of rest. You have to have you have to be satisfied that that the climate Did its work. Okay. And and we see the same thing in Hamlet. It doesn't end with Hamlet dying. We have all this getting everybody, you know, to understand why this happened. This the uh Shakespeare is always then the other thing you have is fascinating but you have this uh what I You have the it within the pl um in the artwork you also have these other smaller ones of the same things, the artistic curves inside. So in Hamlet it Imagine Hamlet without without York. Okay? Ah York, he was a fine fellow too, you know, he carried me around on his back. And he was and y here he's the Hamlet's talking to this skull and he's remembering how he was uh he was a great he was a the court's jester and he carried him around uh you know he was played with him And it's a it's a hilarious scene. And and without the hilarity in you know, all you get is death otherwise. And so it sort of relieves you. Oh yeah. So you get points of rest all the way through. Um, but this in in music you have the same thing. You always move from tension to r uh you create tension in order to have rest. Tension, rest, tension, rest. And this is the Sabbath principle at work. The music uh it can be put into effect with all the el this can be put into effect with all the elements of music. For instance, if I were to notice how much tension I can create pitch wise. See it's just a simple activity, isn't it? So I just leave it there. What do you want to sing? Okay. And we can do the same thing with harmony. All right, there we go. And uh the the we have to come to that point of rest. Uh And we have so leading tone resolves to the root, dominant seventh chord into the tonic chord. Meter is determined by accented and unaccented notes. uh form. So this is fun because why is the did you notice how that himiola at the end of the uh the The back of the Psalm that we're singing in one nineteen, it brings it to a close, doesn't it? You're going bum bum bum bum bum bum pum pum pum. It brings it to a cl point of wrath. It's a rhythmic aspect. There's syncopation used in a delightful way without being over overly taxed or overly burdened. When we sing some of the Janine Psalms, we sing the same see the same thing. So these are these are some of the ways that it's used rhythmically. Form has points of return arrest. In form, we didn't get into the I didn't do the whole thing. I always like to spend time with with the Sonata Allegroform because it's such an a beautiful form of of of drama. But in essence, uh in the Sonata Allegro form, which is you have um a a A theme or an exposition, and then they develop the exposition a little bit, and then they come back to the ex uh recap the exposition. And so you you get this dramatic form that follows this artistic curve all the way to the point of the end of the development and then you sort of have this the recap brings it to a close. So you have this tension and rest built in the form as well. Tambour of instrument is described as bright or mellow. I always think uh, you know, if you had why is it uh why is it that no one uh why no one just listens to recorder music? I and I'm a recorder player so I can say this the uh because recorders don't have very many much many over Tones on them. The the tone of the recorder can get old very quickly if that's all that you hear. And and likewise um Uh the uh uh why is it that string orchestras aren't more popular than the full orchestra? Well I would suggest because The timbre, I mean it's nice to hear a string orchestra, just the strings, but the timbre of the woodwinds and the brass give it more interest. And so the uh the the tension created and then the rest created by these aspects in timbre uh are very important in in the in the effect of what they have on our understanding. So these are just some things we I I wish we had more time to go on all of those, but that's a couple things. The formalized use of this principle can be seen on more than one level of the music. Thus there can be tension and risk Between two or three notes, as well as tension and release within two or more sections of music. And there's been a lot of marvelous work done on this rhythmic aspect. as well. Um I would suggest this print principle perhaps more than uh uh more than the others uh at this point best set apart the great artistic gate great artist from the mediocre arc artist The one who uses tension and rest the best way will be the better artist. And uh the last principle we'll deal with in the next session will be the cap stone. of all of this and brings it all together. I think we'll we'll close there, yeah. All right, well let's um let's apply this by seeing how many of you have a uh a simple cell