Grace and peace to you in the name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and from the Father and from the Spirit. If you'll remain with me in Psalm, or in Isaiah 30, we're going to take a look at this and see exactly What uh Isaiah, or try and see what Isaiah is is talking about in this particular passage. What we have here is a prophecy against Assyria. And as you many of you know, Assyria was one of the uh great um nations that uh brought Israel into um exile. And in this particular instance, uh th there's a the this promise from God. We don't know exactly when this prophecy was uh was um uh exactly what it was for at this time, but um The the what I want to look at here is how God comforts the people of Israel We didn't read verses 18 through 26, but he's comforting the people of Israel, telling them that all the bad things that have been happening to them won't happen forever. And he goes on to explain to them that Assyria is going to be receiving his wrath in a particular way. And we see in verse 27, and I want you to observe as we go through this, the the words that are used for uh the mouth parts in particular. Behold, the name of the Lord comes from a remote place, burning in his anger, and dense is his smoke, his lips are filled with indignation. This is a the y the word for lips here is rather a fascinating Hebrew word. There are other words for lips as well, but this is uh y often used for the lip of a cup and the pouring out of of Um the wine oftentimes is used as a sign of judgment. So here they use that particular word at this point. Then it says his tongue is like a consuming fire. And his breath is like an overflowing torrent. And here again, we talked about this yesterday, but the breath here being the ruach, the same word for the spirit. And it reaches to the neck to shake the nations back and forth in a sieve and to put in the jaws of the peoples the bridle which leads to ruin. So we know that something terrible is going to happen to Assyria. And then he turns his attention away from talking about the Assyrians, and he comes right back to the comfort of the people of Israel. And he says this. You will have songs, as in the night when you keep the festival, and gladness of heart, as when one marches to the sound of the flute, to go to the mountain of the Lord, to the rock of Israel. This he's telling the people that you you must sing. You will have songs, and just as you sing at a festival And these Sabbath festivals were uh would be at the mountain of the Lord. That would be Mount Zion. So we know that what we're talking about in here is types of worship that the people will be going to. And he says, when you have songs. It says in verse 30, and the Lord will cause his voice of authority to be heard. Now this is a fascinating word. This is one of those words that's used quite a bit in scriptures. The Shema of Israel is also based on this basic word too, but it also is used in other places to be actually to be for the word to be sing, to be singing. And I would suggest that what we have here is that when we sing, God sings with us. And this is uh this is what he wants from us. He wants us to sing, and then he will join in the song with us. And then when he sings with us, this is what happens. And the descending of his arm to be seen in fierce anger. And in the flame of a consuming fire, in cloudbursts downpour in hailstones, for at the voice of the Lord, Assyria will be terrified. Well one of the things that happened when when the uh uh Israelites sing, and we're gonna look back at this a little bit in Chronicles, But when when the choir would begin singing during the burnt offering, they would start with a trumpet sound, and the a loud shout would come up from the people, and then the singing would begin. And this is uh we can see this, for at the voice of the Lord Assyria will be terrified. And so we see that as we sing this way, that God sings that way as well. And and um Then with every blow of the rod of punishment which the Lord will lay on him will be the music of tambourines and lyars. And in battles. Now notice where are the tambourines and lyars coming from? Those are coming from the people. But then it goes on in uh and in the bat in battles brandishing weapons, he, God, will fight them. We do the singing. He does the fighting. We don't have to do the fighting. He does that for us. For Toffith, which is a the um But it was a place outside of Jerusalem where they uh it was the garbage dump where they did had all the burning going on. For Topoth, which has long been ready. Indeed it has been prepared for the king He has made it deep and large, a pyre of fire with plenty of wood. And then All of this, we see the enemy ready to be ignited. And who does it ignite? And the breath of the Lord, like a torrent of brimstone, sets it afire. That's a very powerful statement. What we see here then is that I guess the question becomes if if we want the enemy to be taken care of, how do we do it? And we often, in our human nature, say, Well, let's go at them. Let's go get them. Let's go get them with our tongue, with our with our swords, with our with in any way we can destroy the enemy. Or rather than saying, let's sing to the Lord, let's worship, and then let Him take care of things And we see this worked out probably in one of the best ways in 2 Chronicles 20. Let's uh turn to there. Many of you know this story, but we're going to walk through it just a little bit anyway. Second Chronicles twenty And in this we s we see uh King Jehoshaphat and the people of Israel are being surrounded by some uh other countries, including Moab and Ammon. Uh let's just begin at verse twenty. Now it came about after this that the sons of Moab and the sons of Ammon, together with some of the Ma'unites, came to make war against Jehoshaphat. Then some came and reported to Jehoshaphat, saying, A great multitude is coming against you from beyond the sea, out of Aram, and behold, they are in Hazazan Tamar, that is in Geti And Jehoshaphat was afraid and turned his attention to seek the Lord, and proclaimed a fast throughout all Judea, Judah. And so Judah gathered together to seek help from the Lord. They even came from all the cities of Judah to seek the Lord. And then Jehoshaphat goes before the Lord in prayer in the assembly of the people. And then out of after the the uh um The prayer we read from verse 14, then in the midst of the assembly the Spirit of the Lord came upon Jehaziel, the son of Zechariah. the son of Beniah, the son of Jael, the son of Mataniah, the Levite of the sons of Asaph. Now this is fascinating that they the this prophet who stands up, uh Jehazael, as as he stands up, we get his lineage as well. And if you'll follow down the lineage, you we end at he's a Levite of the sons of Asaph. And Asaph was one of the three singers of David, and he's one of the psalm writers as well. So we see here from the this prophecy comes from one of the singers himself. And Jehaziel, he said, Listen all Judea, Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and King Jehoshaphat, thus says the Lord to you. Do not fear or be dismayed because of this great multitude, for the battle, and notice here, the battle is not yours, but God's. And the battle is always God's, not ours. Tomorrow go down against them. Behold, they will come up by the ascent of Ziz, and you will find them at the end of the valley in front of the wilderness of Jeruel. You need not fight in this battle, station yourself, or station yourselves, stand and see the salvation of the Lord on your behalf. O Judah and Jerusalem, do not fear or be dismayed. Tomorrow go out to face them, for the Lord is with you. And Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground, and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell down before the Lord, worshiping the Lord. And the Levites, from the sons of the Kohathites and of the sons of the Korahites, stood up to praise the Lord God of Israel with a very loud voice. Now the the the the fun part begins here because this this is how they approach the enemy. Verse 20. And they arose early in the morning and went out to the wilderness of Toah. And when they went out, Jehoshaphat stood and said, Listen to me, O Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem. Put your trust in the Lord your God. And he and you will be established, put your trust in his prophets, and succeed. And when he had consulted with the people, he appointed those who sang to the Lord, and those who praised him in holy attire. As they went out before the army and said, Give thanks to the Lord for his loving kindness is everlasting. And that particular phrase pops up quite often and of course where it's most famous is in the Psalms. And uh and is uh obviously they're singing psalms here. And when they began singing, and I want you to note this, and when they began singing and praising the Lord, praising, the Lord set ambushes. against the sons of Ammon, Moab, and Mount Seir, which had come against Judah. So they were routed. When the singing starts, God does his work. The anger of the Lord comes down upon them and takes care of them within their own army. Look how it happens, verse 23. For the sons of Ammon and Moab rose up against the inhabitants of Mount Sair, destroying them completely. And when they had finished with the inhabitants of Seir, they helped to destroy one another. That's an amazing thing. That's just not that's not logical, is it? Although God can make a lot of things that don't seem logical happen sometimes. And when Judah came to look out of the wilderness, they looked toward the multitude, and behold, there were corpses lying on the ground, and no one had escaped. Now, what I'd like to do with this now is maybe take a look. How did uh Israel they had this standing choir that went out in front of the army? And um I think we need to understand a little bit about oftentimes we we sort of have this idea of what the the choir was and and uh where it was but we don't really understand exactly how God put that all together. So let's turn to first Chronicles six. And we're going to just sort of walk through a lot of different passages. Oftentimes, 1 Chronicles is one of those books you read. And uh you kind of have to fall asleep, you fall asleep because you're going through all these names and all these numbers, and it just doesn't mean a whole lot to us sometimes And we need to take sometimes step back and just say, all right, what are these what are these names? What are these numbers all about? And so what we'll try to do is pick out some of the highlights of this so that we can uh see how God puts together his choir. And what he uh intends for them as well. First Chronicles six thirty-one We read, now these are those whom David appointed over the service of song in the house of the Lord. So we know that this this uh choir really, the the the choral Leva the Levites of the choir began during David's reign. And we don't know exactly what happened before that, but we know what happens here. After the ark rested there. And they ministered with song before the tabernacle of the tent of meeting until Solomon had built the house of the Lord in Jerusalem And they served in their office according to their order. And those are the and these are those who served with their sons, from the sons of the Kohathites. Remember, we heard about the Kohithites earlier. The Kohathites were Hemon, the singer, the son of Joel, the son of, etc. And we go through all the different names of the sons. If we move over to 39, and Heman's brother, Asaph, stood at his right hand, even Asaph, the son of Barekiah, and then we go through his line. And then verse 44, and on the left hand were their kinsmen, the sons of Morari, and then his line. And then verse 48, and their kinsmen, the Levites, were appointed for all the service of God, of the tabernacle of the house of God. So we see these that we have these singers. who are uh appointed to do the work of of um um in in the house of the of God. Let's go to 1 Chronicles 15 And we read in verse sixteen. What more of their duties? Then David spoke to the chiefs of the Levites to appoint their relatives, the singers, with instruments of music, harps, lyres, loud-sounding cymbals, to raise sounds of joy. So not only are they singers, they have to play these instruments as well. They are trained to play the instruments. And um and so the Levites appointed Heman, the son of Joel. from and then his relatives, the singers, uh verse 19, so the singers, Hemon, Asaph, and Ethan, were appointed to sound aloud the symbols of bronze. etc and they and then everyone's given their assignments but fascinating one verse 22 and Kenaniah chief of the Levites was in charge of the singing He gave instruction in saying because he was skillful. And here the word instruction is the is also the word for reproof. which is rather a fascinating word. It's it's not um uh the the instruction is not, you know, just kind of like a a s a nice little school. It's it's hard training discipline. It's the one that's used for military service as well. So it's um it was something that was they uh that was required a great amount of effort and uh um skill to to uh go through this course that that And they would be trained then also to become instructors themselves. Uh turn to uh first Chronicles sixteen, and we see uh some more here at verse thirty-seven This is during the time when the tent uh uh was uh the ark was brought into the tent. And there's we have this the psalm being sung, and then at verse 37 it says, so he left being left Asaph and his relatives there before the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord to minister before the ark continually as every day's work required. So we've a s when the ark is brought into the tabernacle on Mount Zion, it is, we see that that the um choir is to minister continually before the Lord. And um and this is uh this is going to take some work. And how does he how does he set this up? Well, let's uh and by the way, in particular, if you go down to verse 40, to offer burnt offerings to the Lord on the altar of burnt offering continually. The burnt offering was the center offering, the central offering of the sacrifices. It was the the um the uh the main point of worship and I'm um and I uh this is like maybe I feel a little bit like Calvin. Many of you probably you know Calvin came back to Geneva after uh four three or four years. uh leave and and he uh began his sermons right where he was. And some of you remember I preached the sermon, maybe you don't remember, on the whole burnt offering And when we looked at the whole burnt offering, what we saw was that the the the actually the term in Hebrew is the Ola, the ascension offering. And the and the uh the the point of the whole burnt offering was that uh we are torn apart and uh because of our sin And then in the burning on the altar, we're put back together and we become the smoke in God's nostrils that plea this pleasing aroma before him. And it's in the whole burnt offering, we are whole all of us. are put I mean the whole of us is put on the altar. Um no one else gets to eat us. No only God gets to eat us. And uh uh so he we are made his And he makes us whole again, and then we are brought into his throne room, ascend into his throne room, and the picture here is that we can hear, we can be instructed by God. This is the The sacrifice of the whole burnt offering, then, is the service of the word. It's the point where the word is brought to us. And we hear his word and are instructed by it. That's really rather fascinating to see because this is the point where the music is where the trumpets come in and and and the choir starts singing. And then verse 41 it says, And with them were Heman and Jedethan, and the rest who were chosen, who are designated by name to give thanks to the Lord, because his loving kindness is everlasting. And with them were Hemon and Jedethan with trumpets and cymbals for those who should feel sound uh who should sound aloud, and with instruments for the songs of God, and the sons of Jedethan at the gate. So we see this, this is the center point then of the music is during the whole burnt offering. So go to 1 Chronicles 23, and this is one of those sort of sleeper passages that I was talking about, 23 and 24. Verse 5 of chapter 23. Well, he's going through the various offices of the Levites here. Verse 3 says, And the Levites were numbered from 30 years old and upward. And the number by census of men was 38,000. So when you became you gave you came into service of the Levite, at thirty years old. Well what are you doing all that time before then? Well, you're under instruction. You have to be you can't just come in here untrained. You're you're spending uh probably at least ten to twelve years in specific instruction for your job. That's a fairly long time. Uh of course they've already gone through instruction uh earlier through the Hebrew instruction that they would have gotten as well before that. And of these 24,000 were to oversee the work of the house of the Lord, and 6,000 were officers and judges. And four thousand were gatekeepers, and four thousand were praising the Lord with the instruments which David made for giving praise. So we see that there's a specific number that are trained for the singing to the Lord. Um and then in chap or verse thirty of this chapter. Um It says, and they are to stand every morning to thank and to praise the Lord, and likewise at evening. Now this immediately there's this is uh this would bring up the the concept It says in verse 31, and to offer all burnt offerings to the Lord. Because this is when the burnt offerings, there was specifically a burnt offering burnt in the morning and one in the evening. on the Sabbath and the new moons and the fixed festivals and the number set by the ordinance concerning them continually before the Lord Thus they were to keep charge of the tent of meeting and charge of the holy place and charge of the sons of Aaron, their relatives, for the service of the house of the Lord. There again that idea, the word service, again, is the uh if we had it in the um in the Greek Septuagint would be liturgia there. Um then in the next chapter or chapter twenty-five He starts giving the divisions of the Levites in 24, but in 25 he talks about the musicians in particular. And verse 1: Moreover, David and the commanders of the army set apart for the service, some of the sons of Asaph and of Heman and Jedethan, who were to prophesy with liars. harps and cymbals, and the number of those who performed their service was, and then it goes on, of the sons of Asaph, of the sons of Jedithon, and of the sons of Heman. And then verse 5, all these were the sons of Heman, the king's seer, to exalt him according to the words of God. For God gave fourteen sons and three daughters to Heman. And then I like this uh This is the this sort of cryptic, but uh you know, people always wonder about this, but it says all these were under the direction of their father to sing in the house of the Lord. And my guess is that that means the the daughters too. Then it gives the divisions of the musicians. And this is where we can get some information. And they cast lots for their duties all alike, the small as well as the great the teacher as well as the pupil. Now the first lot came out for Asap to Joseph, the second for Gedaliah, etc. And they go through all the different lots. And there are so there are 288 of these musicians. And their lots are there are twenty-four divisions of the priests, the Levites. And these twenty-four divisions then, they each have a Uh if you multiply this out, that gives them uh if there's forty that gives them if they serve in in Jerusalem for two weeks of the year, that's forty-eight weeks, and then there's about four weeks of festivals. the Passover, the Feast of Booze, and other things like that that they serve as well. So they're serving in Jerusalem uh six weeks of the year. And the question becomes then, what are they doing the rest of the year? Here they are. They're actually we aren't getting into the um portion where they are to be provided for, they're essentially paid for by the the State of Israel, the temple tax and all these other things will take care and provide for their well-being. And they're working six weeks out. Might sound like a pretty good job, right? Work six weeks and have your life taken care of. But they weren't just working the six weeks in the that was when they were in uh praising the Lord in in Jerusalem. But when they were home, they were after their instruction, they were giving instruction. in music to their own constituency, to their people in their towns, much like the other Levites and the priests would be teaching in the synagogues and uh and and running the Hebrew schools and and and things like that. And what it's fascinating because the Hebrews were well known for their singing. They were known all over the world as great singers. And the only way you can really do that is to produce great singers. You can't just do that uh with rep uh without any you have to have in order to have a reputation you have to have something behind it. And uh we even read in Psalm 137 that uh in derision the the uh Babylonians were saying, Sing to us one of the songs of Zion. And of course the uh Israelites say, how can we sing the songs when we are in a we're in a in a foreign land? And um and so this is uh This is what this is how it is going on in their life. So this is how they become uh musically literate. They they actually it's designed into the system to provide for that for all the people of Israel. Think about even in there, when we even go to the New Testament, we see Um Jesus, many of you if you remember the story where he's in the synagogue and he it's his turn to read uh from the uh uh the scriptures and he i is given the Isaiah scroll and he opens the Isaiah scroll and reads to the people. Well first of all he had to learn how to read so he had to go to Hebrew school to do that. He also has to learn how, believe it or not, to sing. We don't think about this often because we don't we're not in a culture that sings much, really. But they would have they would have not have even thought about Reading the script. They would have never read the scriptures. They would have always sung the scriptures. And the uh the Masoretic text, the Masoretes, knew that they were sung and and were worried that uh uh they that all this would be lost, so they actually put accents in the text when they put in the bowel pointing, even though they didn't know what it meant. But they they they knew that they were musical signs and that they ha and they wanted to preserve them. And it's it's a um a marvelous thing they did. There are uh scholar there's one scholar who has worked on this, gave her whole life to it. and uh perhaps has found uh the what the music of David sound like. It's it's rather fun to sing some of these psalms as uh perhaps the uh just as David wrote them or Moses wrote his or or whatever. So the whole Old Testament is it was sung. When Nehemiah uh has the the the scriptures read, it would have been uh sung. It wouldn't have been uh just spoken. So they have to learn who how did Jesus learn how to sing these read uh sing this this he would have been learning in school Um, we see Mary, a young lady, uh who when she visits Elizabeth breaks out into a song. And and you know, if you know the Magnificat at all uh from Luke you realize that uh that the scripture references are numerous, dozens, literally, dozens of scripture references, uh especially from Samuel and other places, Deborah and um uh uh that that speak to her knowledge of scripture. Well, she wouldn't be she would have been not able to have a scroll the scrolls in her own home like we do so where did she learn all this? She had to learn it from somewhere. She was taught these things. And it was a song as well. She would have sung it as well. And uh where did she learn to sing? See, this is this is uh uh because it's so uh pervasive in the culture, they didn't the the the writer doesn't say that this is what they were doing. They just assume everybody realizes that. And unfortunately we don't think that anymore because it's not pervasive. in our culture anymore. Uh when we do poetry, we do, we speak poetry. Um poetry would have never been spoken in the ancient world. Even the Iliad and the Odyssey would have not been spoken, but sung. Beowulf was sung. And so these are uh this is the an an ancient uh concept that uh we have lost. So the um we see that turn one more place to Second Chronicles twenty-nine Um verse twenty five. So David has set up this um this uh way of singing and and and choral music in his in the service of the Lord. And here we see Hezekiah Referring back to this and and and and uh we have this wonderful passage in 2 Chronicles 29, verse 25. It says then ha he, Hezekiah, then stationed the i the Levites in the house of the Lord with cymbals, with harps and lyres. According to the command of David. See, we see there, so that's hearkening back to 1 Chronicles, and of Gad the kingseer, and of Nathan the prophet. And then this is a great line here. For the command was from the Lord through his prophets. So you know you give credit to David, but where does the real command come from? It came came from the Lord. This was not something that David made up. It was something that he was commanded to do from the Lord. And the Levites stood with the musical instruments of David, and the priests with the trumpets. Then Hezekiah gave the order to offer the burnt offering on the altar. When the burnt offering began, the song to the Lord also began with the trumpets. accompanied by the instruments of David, king of Israel. While the whole assembly worshipped, the singers also sang and the trumpets sounded. All this continued until the burnt offering was finished Now at the completion of the burnt offerings, the king and all who were present with him bowed down and worshipped. Moreover, King Hezekiah and the officials ordered the Levites to sing praises to the Lord. with the words of David and Asaph the seer. So they sang praises with joy and bowed down and worshipped. So you have this The the scene is ca is equal with the worship. It's it's considered the worship. And um and this is uh later the technical term for this in in is called the sacrifice of praise. And I I believe that God institutes the sacrifice of praise through David in the whole burnt offering as the as So when we come to the New Testament and the bloody sacrifices are put away with, we can continue in the sacrifice of praise in our own worship. And um and this is the this is his uh uh way he provides for us to continue in a uh um a long line of the way he wants us to worship him. And um and so we move from the bloody sacrifice to the sacrifice of praise. We uh turn with me to Psalm thirty-three. We sang that earlier uh a marvelous psalm. And and the psalms are filled with uh ideas of of of singing to the Lord and and um They're filled with actual commands. There they're more imperatives to sing to the Lord in the Psalm than any other imperative in the whole whole of the Psalms. I th I find that rather fascinating. We uh we sometimes think of them as the ins the suggestion instead of the imperative, but they are imperatives. Um Psalm 33 begins, Sing for joy in the Lord, O you righteous ones. Praise is becoming to the upright. Give thanks to the Lord with the lyre. Sing praises to him with harp the harp of ten strings. Sing to him a new song. By the way, the word new song, uh Dr. Fen Granigan when we were in seminary, was I w I he was talking about this in class. I was so thankful that he talked about this. The new song. And he says that essentially the word new in the Hebrew here means with freshness. So that we can sing the same old boring dull songs, but it's up to us to make them fresh and new. It's not it's it's I say that with tongue in cheek Understand. All right. The the the freshness comes from the heart. And this is what van Dr. Van Gronigan taught and I didn't push him to say this. It was really nice when he said this in class. So, um uh and so it says, sing to the hymn a new song, play skillfully with a shout of joy. Um you know it's it's easy to say, well, God wants whatever we got. It doesn't matter Uh well and I and I there to a certain extent that's really true. He wants us to come before him where we're at. But he also wants us to become more skillful. and um at what we're doing. Now this happens to be with instruments. We'll look at 47 that that deals more with the singing aspect of it. But he says that that he wants skillful playing and singing And it's just it's it's a lot like, you know, when a child comes in with a stick drawing at age three or four of the family and you post it on the refrigerator because it's really cute. But if that same child came in at twenty one with the same stick drawing, you might not put it on the refrigerator. You expect maturity. And the same thing, I think God expects that with us As we grow with him and walk with him in our sanctification in the Lord. And then it here's the reason why in verse 4, and there's a great conjunction here. For The word of the Lord is upright. When we sing, we're bearing the word of the Lord And we want to give our best when we give the word of the Lord. So and all his work is done in faithfulness. And I'm going to skip some of this, but it's fascinating that in this same psalm, then he goes on to move away to deal with various things. But he says in verse 17, Or ver this start at 16. The king is not saved by a mighty army. A warrior is not delivered by great strength. A horse is a false hope for victory, nor does it deliver anyone by its great strength. This i i after reading the story of Jehoshaphat, this becomes much more uh obvious, I think. And then uh think about that, you will have songs as in the night season, as at a festival. And when you sing, the breath of the Lord, or the mouth of the Lord will join with you. All right. Turn to Psalm, and we'll close with Psalm 47 Psalm 47 is one of the Psalms of Korah. It is a psalm of the greatness of God and how we bring our Praise to him in worship. It begins, O clap your hands, all peoples. Shout to God with a voice of joy. And this word shout, I it's the same word that's used in Psalm 95 to shout and uh which one of the words that I studied out in my uh psalm class uh in seminary and they the shout here is a controlled uh musical shout which is rather fascinating. I would I maybe we could liken it to something that might come out of Pavarotti's voice, which is what opera is, it's controlled shouting. And uh uh and well it is. And um but you know, very musical shouting. And uh you ever been on stage with w in front of one of those yeah, I n I can never figure out how when they're you know singing these love duets at each other and they're facing each other, singing each other, why they don't knock each other other with their singing. But anyway, that's So shout to God with a voice of joy, for the Lord most high is to be feared, a great king over all the earth. He subdues peoples under us. Notice the subduing is from God Himself, not from us. All we're doing is worshiping. And he subdues peoples under us and nations under our feet. He chooses our inheritance for us, the glory of Jacob, whom he loves. God has ascended with a shout. See, who began with this shout? We shout to God, and then when we shout, God ascends with a shout. And uh and not not only that, the Lord with the sound of the trumpet. So what if as we've studied before, what is probably going on here? This is probably the whole burnt offering, isn't it? So when the trumpet sounds and we shout, God joins us in the shout, and the peoples are subdued under us, the nations under our feet. Now the clincher. Verse six. Before we get to verse six, I want to just say that when you study Hebrew poetry, you be you find out that there is a line and then a set the second line that follows. is sometimes a commentary on the line that goes before it. And um so that uh or it it's it has something to do with the line they they work together in parallel of some sort And here it's an actually just a double commentary on the same same thing. But then the other thing you when you study scripture you realize that excuse me That um they don't have a comparative and a superlative in Hebrew. That they, in order to do the comparative, you double something. Uh I remember my uh uh My son used to do this. He'd say it's it's good and good. He would do that. And they do the same thing in in in the Hebrew scriptures And so when you hear something double, it's like it's it's really it's like really good. And if you really want to make something good, this the superlative, you do it three times. Holy. Holy, holy. And it's not found very much in scriptures to see the a three times uh that. And usually holy, holy, holy is about it. Well here we find a double double, which is rather fascinating. Watch with me. Sing praises to God, sing praises. Sing praises to our King. Sing praises. So we have a essentially, I want you really to sing praises. And if you didn't hear me, I really want you to sing praises. It's right there. And and it's it's just short of the superlative, but it's it's but it's more than just the comparative because it's two times two. It's like, wake up. You gotta do this. This is what I want. And um it's just an incredible passage. And it's not an indicative and it's not a subjunctive. Let us sing praises. It's an imperative To sing, he's commanding this. Sing praises to God, sing praises. Sing praises to our king, sing praises. Verse 7, for God is the king of all the earth. Sing praises with a skillful psalm. God reigns over the nations. God sits on his holy throne. Amen.