Philippians chapter 2 So if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection and sympathy, complete my joy by being of the same. mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind. Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interest of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped. But made himself nothing, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every knee tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. This is God's word. Let's pray. Father, we ask now that in this word of God, which has such uh profound theology and And such a challenging exhortation that you may give our minds understandings, uh give our hearts uh warm faith, and give to our wills uh happy compliance. So we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. One of the real classic American movies is uh Cool Hand Luke. And you may remember what probably is the most famous line from that movie, which is what we have here is failure to communicate. Uh but that's not my favorite line from the movie. There's a scene where Luke, who is constantly getting in trouble in the prison camp, uh has been out doing disciplinary work digging one of those meaningless holes in the ground over and over again and as the night advances and he's still out there with the boss man looking over him, Luke looks up from the hole and he says, Boss, I got my mind right. Of course, sadly Luke never got his mind quite right, but at that point he was saying, Now I've got the right outlook. Now I have changed my attitude or as a Song says, Now I have undergone an attitude adjustment. Well, there is something about having a right mind. And the right mind for Christians and the right mind for churches is the mind. that we see in Jesus Christ, the way Christ looked at things. And that's what we want to do first this morning is to look at Christ and the way he looked at things, at his mind. And Paul shows us Christ in his great exaltation, first as the eternal Son of God. Paul says he was, he is, in the form of God. Now, theologians have stumbled and spilled all sorts of ink over that word form, and uh there have been actually contradictory meanings put forth for it, and in fact it is a word that It functions in Greek very much like our English word works. And there is a meaning that says a thing could look like something which it is not. It has the form But it doesn't have the substance. And that could even happen in the Greek language. For instance, Paul will tell Timothy later that there are people who have a form of godliness, but who deny its power. But that's not the only way the word functions. It's not the usual way the word functions. And what we have to do is look at the context to determine what it means in any given setting. And there are two clues. In this passage. The first is that this word seems to stand in parallel with the use of the word form later, where we are told that Jesus was in the form of later. of a servant and in the form of man. And so there seems to be these two forms to be in the form of man, to be in the form of God, and these are set forth in contrast with one another. Another thing is that it seems to be a parallel thing when Paul says that he being in the form of God did not consider equality with God a thing to be grasped. That is that he had this equality with God that he did not hold on to in a certain way. And so when we put together the evidence, and I've just sketched it out here very briefly because our purpose Is not to look in depth at the doctrine of the deity of Christ right now. But when we put the evidence together, we can come to this conclusion that Jesus Christ had the appearance, he had the form of God, because that's who he was. The form, the outward appearance, was consistent with the reality. He was in the form of God because he was God. He was equal with God, and later he took another form. form which also was real, the form of a servant, not an appearance of a servant, but a real servant, not an appearance of being truly human, but being fully human. And so our Lord is God. And he is the Father's equal in terms of his essential deity. In the early church there was the great debate and it was over the difference between between two words. And one of these words was going to be the confession of the church. They were either going to use a Greek word which said that Jesus Christ was of like substance with the Father Or they were going to use a word that meant Jesus Christ was of the same substance with the Father. It was a great issue that hung on a single word. And by God's grace, when the church came together at Nicaea, they chose to say that Jesus Christ is of the same substance as the Father. That is, with With regard to the qualities of deity, with regard to what it means to be God. He is not merely very, very, very much like God, but he is exactly the same as God. There is no distinction. of deity between the Father and the Son. There is a distinction of personhood. There are personal distinctions, but in terms of Godhood, they have the same substance and they are one another's equal. The Son is not subject to the Father in their eternal relationship, for they stand together on the same level with the same dignity and powers and prerogatives. This is Jesus Christ in eternity, in the form of God, God's equal. And that has been the truth which the church stood on. very early, and a truth on which the church has continued to stand. And wherever the church cannot say, of the same substance with the Father, the Church has departed from the apostolic Catholic faith. This is absolutely essential to what Christianity is. But then, in addition to his exalted status as the eternal deity, he also has an exalted status as the elevated Messiah. We will see in a few minutes that Jesus Christ became man for the purpose of working out our salvation, but a future was promised to him. The future that was promised to him as the Messiah, as the Son of God become man, was that when he had done this great work, he would then be Exalted and elevated. It is not that as God he would attain something he did not have before, but it is as the Messiah, as the God man, that he would attain something that had not been been his during his incarnate life, and that was that he would be highly exalted by the Father. Paul is looking here for an adequate superlative in order to talk about this. this elevation of Christ as Messiah and he says he was highly exalted. You just go up there and go up there and think about how far up there you can go and that begins to give you some clue of what it means for Christ to be Exalted to the highest place. And he is given a name that is superior, that is elevated above every other name. And that name apparently is the name Lord. And everything that goes With being acknowledged as Lord. He is the exalted Lord. He has already ascended to the right hand of the Father and sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high. He is now ruling and reigned. reigning over this whole creation, over the entire universe. It is all under his control. And the blessed great day will come when Jesus Christ will have brought every single thing in all of creation into subjection to himself, when everything will be placed beneath his feet and when every tongue will be confessing that Jesus Christ is Lord. We are thankful that we are among those who by the gracious wooing of the Spirit have been brought into his kingdom of salvation, so that we happily confess him to be our Lord. We can give our faith in the words, Jesus is Lord. We are glad that He is Lord. We are glad that we have been brought into His kingdom where He rules and we are so happy that that is a saving rule, which is a blessing to us. But one day everyone will be compelled to confess the reality. To bow before Jesus Christ and to call him Lord, because they will no longer be able to deny what is now true. They will see him in his lordship, and they will not be able to withstand him, and they will bow before him and confess. To their everlasting shame that they did not do it before, but now they must confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. And so Jesus Christ has in eternity. And if we can talk this way in eternity past, his exaltation as the eternal deity, as one with the Father in Godhood, as one who is in every way the Father's eternity. As one about whom we can say no less than we say about the Father, that He is infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in His being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth. And he has now entered into his exaltation as Messiah. And he will continue to exercise this great authority of his until everything submits to him and every one who has ever lived confesses his lordship to the glory of God the Father and then having reigned until he has put all of his enemies under his feet as Messiah, he as Messiah will hand over the kingdom to God the Father, and God will be all in all. But then this passage speaks of Christ's humiliation in some detail. Occurred to him between his eternal deity and his future exaltation as Messiah. And he goes very low. Paul said. There's a word here which many have stumbled over even more, and it's the Greek verb that means to empty, and so you may have heard theologians who wanted to impress you that they didn't speak the common language talk about the canonic theory. Well it's the theory about emptying, about Christ emptying himself in some way, because this is what the verb means. And they have asked themselves the question of what? Of what did he empty himself? Of deity, of attributes of the deity? Just what do we mean when we say he emptied himself? Well, what we really mean is what how this is translated in the metaphorical sense because the word to empty came to have a metaphorical sense and it means something like made himself nothing or made himself of no reputation. That is He did not stand on his rights and prerogatives and dignity. He did not give up his godhood by what he became, but he was willing to become something he had not been before, which was for him A humiliation. For Christ, the emptying is not by subtraction but by addition. He empties himself by taking the form of a servant. And what does a servant do? A servant lives in the interest of others. He was first the servant of the Father, the Son who has been the Father's equal throughout eternity now comes into the world and puts himself at the disposal of the Father's will and carries out the Father's plan and speaks the Father's words and does what Whatever he is directed to do by the Father. This is the one whom the angels have served forever. This is the one about whom no distinction was made in eternity, as though he were in any way less. And now he comes into the world to do the bidding of the Father as the Father's servant. But he comes also to be the servant of those the Father has called him to save. Jesus can say, I came not to be served, but I came to serve and to give my life a ransom for many. He could describe himself in saying, I am among you as one who serves. never forget this second aspect of his servanthood. His servanthood to us. One of the pictures we always need to keep of the life and action of our Lord Jesus Christ is our Lord Jesus Christ. in the upper room with the shadow of the cross cast on his soul, wrapping a towel around his waist, and picking up a basin of water, and kneeling at the feet of the of his disciples and doing not what one of them was willing to do by washing their feet. Promised and exalted status as the elevated Messiah has now become God's servant and our servant. He becomes made in the likeness of man, the creator, becomes the creature. The one who has self-existence took his life from an ovum that came from his mother. The one who was wholly self-existent. self sufficient, took his nourishment at his mother's breast. The one whose voice was like the thunder cried For his mother's attention. The baby in the manger is God still upholding the universe, but the baby in the manger is a real baby. And now the Son of God has become something he had not been before. He has taken to himself our human nature. He has been made in our likeness, in our likeness as created dependent. Beings. But there's more to it than that. For our human nature is now cursed and weak because of our sin. And when he became one of us, he did not take the human nature unabat. Affected by the consequences of sin. He did not become a sinner and he did not commit sin, but nevertheless he came into this world as a mortal man. He came sharing with us in all of the weakness and all of the curse that has come upon our humanity because of our sin. He came as a servant. He came as the one who takes the likeness Of men, and having then come in the form of man, he humbled himself and became obedient. The word for humility in the Greek language was a word that the Greeks didn't think very much of. It had the idea of lowliness, and their idea was that it was the kind of word you'd use to describe a poorly treated slave or perhaps a dog who had been beaten repeatedly. That's what it meant To be lowly, like one of those creatures. But then Jesus Christ came. And Jesus Christ was obviously bold and courageous and strong. In no way was he weak, and yet he could say in all situations. Sincerity, I am meek and lowly of heart. Because he was truly humble before God. And because he was humble before God, he became humble in the work of salvation for us. To the point of being obedient to the Father, to whatever degree the Father asks. And submission. When we become church members, we say that we have to be able to do that. we will submit ourselves to the government and discipline of the church and it almost sounds archaic to use a word like that. Or if there's a wedding service and uh they use some kind of traditional language where a wife promises to submit. or even to obey her husband. It shocks people who are not a part of that congregation when they come in and hear such language that they thought had gone away a long time ago. Obedience is not a popular idea. But here is Jesus Christ in absolute, unquestioning obedience. He obeys. He's like those cavalrymen in the charge of the Light brigade. Ours theirs is not to question why. Theirs is but to do and die. And that's Christ. He is here to do whatever has to be done and he does it To the point of dying. All the way to the point of death. And the death that he dies is no ordinary death, but it is death on a cross. And Paul, in speaking in these terms about the doctrine of the person of Christ mainly, cannot stay away from bringing in something that emphasizes the work of Christ. And so he talks about the cross. where atonement is made for our sins. And yet he's still talking about the humiliation of Christ because the cross was such a gruesome and despised kind of death in Roman society that they didn't even say the word in polite society. It was a death reserved for slaves and for insurrectionists and no Roman citizen could be crucified. It was a shameful death where a man stripped of his clothing hung between heaven and earth with people looking at him and having fun at his expense until he mercifully ran out of breath and died. die but it also is in addition to being a humiliating death it is a cursed death because the Jews saw Jesus Christ dying on the cross and they knew the text from Moses. Cursed is anyone who Hangs on a tree. He is dying there under the curse of God, not for his sins, but for ours. The question is, how could this exalted Christ go to these depths of humiliation? And the first answer is because he did not consider this equality with God a thing to be grasped. That is, he did not consider it something that he had constantly to use to his own advantage and in his own interest. interest. When we have something, you know, we're pretty good at plotting it. And especially if somebody challenges it, we are going to make sure that they know our status, that they know the dignity we have, and that they recognize who they're dealing with. I'm the boss. I'm the general. I'm the head of the home. We emphasize who we are and we seek to use our positions. To our own advantage, but that is not the way Jesus Christ, the Son of God, looked at his status of equality with God. The second reason he did it is because he knew as Messiah the only way up was down. The only way for him to receive the exaltation promised by the Father was for him to go through this humiliating experience. He would not listen to the devil who offered him the kingdoms of the world for bowing before Satan, one quick act of worship and the kingdoms are his. No, he knew that real glory, permanent glory, holy glory, would come to him only by his submission to the humiliation ordained for him by the Father. Now, the interesting thing about this doctrine, which is so profound, is that Paul brings the doctrine in order To reinforce an ethical command. He brings it in to say to us, I want you to look at Christ, because in Christ you see the way I want you to be. So he first gives them the motivation. If there's any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection and sympathy, then I want you to complete my joy by being this way and doing these things. When I was a teenager I spent a great amount of time getting in trouble with my mother, and an equal amount of time trying to argue my way out of trouble with my father. And when I would go to make my plea to my father about why what my mother Wanted him to take away from me or do to me ought not to occur. I would give him every reason I could think of. I mean I would throw everything up against the wall hoping that something would stick. And Paul here Is really exercised emotionally, and he wants to get done what he is seeking. And so he now isn't just throwing up anything that pops in his mind, he's but he is compiling and piloting. On top of one another, the reasons that they ought to do what he wants. Do you have any encouragement in Christ? Does it encourage you to know that you are in Christ? That he died for your sins, that through him you are reconciled to the Father, that you are united to Christ in his death, which gets your forgiveness, but also your victory over sin. United to Christ in his life, which gives you a new life and enables you to endure through this mortal life. Does it do anything for you to To know that you are ascended with Christ, and in one sense you are already seated there with him in the heavenly places. Does that encourage you, Paul says? And do you have any comfort from love? What does it mean to you? to you to know that God and Jesus Christ love you no matter what. He who did not spare his own son but delivered him up for us all, how will He not also with him freely give us all things. Can anything separate us from the love of God? No, nothing can separate those who have become objects of his love. Nothing can separate them from the love of God that Is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Does it make any difference to know that no matter what, no matter your sin, no matter your weakness, your failures, no matter that other people hate you or other people don't like you, that there is someone whose love is constant and it is Christ. Is it of any help to know that you are a participant in the Spirit? That he has come into your life. And you have been born again by his work, that now he dwells within you, and he dwells within you to sanctify you and preserve you and to equip you. Does it make any difference to know that the Holy Spirit of God has made a temple out of your body? And is there in you any affection and sympathy? Church was in tough times. Paul's told them they need to stand up, they need to be courageous, they need not to keep letting their knees. shake and cowering before the enemies of the gospel, inside the church or outside the church, but the work of Christ and the work of the Spirit in making us strong and courageous. Does not make us cold and combative. Especially not toward God's people. And so Paul is adding up all these things, and he is saying to them, Do you have any of these things? these things are these things in your life? Well, as Christians, of course they are. Now what difference should it make that you have this encouragement, this comfort, this participation, and that God has given you this affection and sympathy for one another? Paul says, I want you to complete my joy. That's remarkable. He's in prison. If you were going to in prison and you were going to say the one thing that would make me happy is what? Getting out. And Paul says, Says, what it takes to complete my joy is for you to have these attitudes. To complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord, and of one mind. John Calvin, when he knew he was dying, uh and had stopped preaching, and got the ministers of Geneva together one last time. And one of the striking things he said during that talk was I have lived here amid continual vicaries. Sometimes that can help a preacher to know that John Calvin lived that way. He said, My whole ministry here in Geneva has been amid continual bickeries. Vickerings. It wasn't that bad yet in Philippi, but it was on its way. And so again, Paul pulls together all these phrases which ultimately mean the Same thing, complete my joy by having the same mind, the same love, being in full accord and of one mind. It's like if a woman says to a man, I want you to love me and care for me and be Be there for me. She's not really saying three things. She's just saying what I want from you most is for you to love me. And if a man says to his wife, I want you to I want you to look up to me. And I want you to respect me. And I want you to defend me. He's really saying one thing. What I need from you is for you to give me your respect. And when Paul says these things, he's not saying several different things, he's saying simply This. I want you to be unified. I want you to be together. I want you to have the attitudes that lead toward togetherness. And so Paul says: here's what I want you to do. Do. Let each of you look not only to excuse me, do nothing from rivalry or conceit. How do you look at other Christians? uh I don't know about skip, but many of us ministers have a the setting sin. And it's that every other minister is our rival. And and I've often thought this. I mean I thought what would it take for you to be satisfied, Bill? And you know, I hate to say that But in my most honest moments I say I'd have to be acknowledged as the greatest preacher in the world. And nothing less is going to satisfy me. I just have to be the greatest in the world. And everybody'd have to know it. Nobody argue about it. At least I I know what I want. But uh we are rivals and we are territorial and we Protect our turf. And we are very concerned that nobody step on us, let no one forget who we are. We are rivals out of our conceit about our. ourselves. And Paul says, I want you in humility to count others more significant than yourselves. To look at other people in the congregation, the ones who were struggling perhaps with some sin, the ones whose gifts seem to be hard to recognize. The ones who seem to contribute very little and to be able to look upon those people as people you are going to treat as more significant than you are. This isn't a false humility. You don't have to after singing And I guess to be a member of this congregation you gotta be able to sing parts. But anyway, you uh you you uh if you're standing by and I'm sure there's nobody here that that gets that is this, but if you're standing by a monotone and you s are a wonderful soprano You don't have to turn to that person after the singing and say, Boy, you sing a lot better than I do. That's not what Paul is talking about. There is an honest recognition of how God has blessed us with gifts natural and spiritual. But nevertheless, Less in our treatment of one another, we are to say, I'm not the most important person here. And I'm not going to treat myself as the most important person. I'm going to treat other people as though they are of great. significance than I am, as though they are more worthy than I am. And so Paul says also, let each of you look not only to his own interest but to the interest of others. Most of us don't have to be taught to look out after our own interests or even to know what they are. We know what they are and we look out after them. It's like Paul in telling husbands, Love your wives as you love your own body. He's saying to them, Look, I I'm working with something here you know about. It's instinctive and intuitive for you to take care of yourself. You know what you need to take care of yourself, and you just go get it. And what Paul is trying to tell. Well, husbands there is that I want you by the grace of God to be as intuitive about your night wife's needs, as instinctive about meeting them as you are about your own. And here Paul's extending that idea. He's saying, I want you to know other people's interests. And as you seek your own interests, there's a legitimate meaning of your own interest. I don't want You to make that the only thing or the main thing, but be concerned for the interest of others. All in the interest of being unified as God's people. When we are not not unified, it is very hard for us to be edified. You ever gone on a vacation where the kids were bad the whole time? And all you could do was deal with bickering. and settle problems and separate people. I mean, it can get bad. We once made a trip from Pittsburgh to Pensacola. We decided we'd do it all in one trip. And uh and I mean we gave the kids some money and we we we decided we were gonna do it. They were getting older and we decided, well what we're gonna do is give you some money for the vacation and when we have to we'll find you. Well we we got where I mean they didn't have any money left and we weren't home yet. I mean that was awful. But What if a whole vacation were that way? Well, you wouldn't come back rested or relaxed. You might as well stay at home. You could do that at home. In fact you could get away from it better at home. And so it is in the church. When we come back. together in the church and there's victory and complaining and fighting and when we are divided into groups based on our own particular interests and our common interests with a smaller group. When all of that is going on in the life of the church, it's very hard for us to, as we say, get anything out of it. We're not going to be edified by the means of grace that we employ in worship. And also, when there is not unity, it's very hard for us to evangelize. Because When people come into our midst, at first they may be very impressed with our warmth and they may go out and say, That's the friendliest church I've ever been in, because sometimes we almost descend on visitors like they're locusts and uh being sort of a shy business Or myself, I sometimes wish, please, just let me be here. But when people are around us for a while, sometimes what they have found in the warmth for themselves. They do not find amongst us. And they see that there are tensions amongst us. So have you ever walked into the middle of a family fight? Ever walked into a situation where it was obvious a husband and wife were having one of those Knock down, drag out, verbal confrontations. And what do you do? Well, it's very uncomfortable, it's embarrassing, and what you want to do is get out of there.