Let us now give our attention to God's word as we find it in Paul's letter to the Philippians, the second chapter. As Paul writes to his dear friends in the city of Philippi, who are members of the church which he has founded by his preaching of Christ. And Paul is now speaking to them about their lives as Those who have been reconciled to God by faith in Jesus Christ. Beginning at verse twelve. Hear the word of God. Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now not only in my presence, but But much more in my absence. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure. Do all things without grumbling. Or questioning that you may be blameless and innocent children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation, among whom you shine as lights in the world, holding fast to am glad and rejoice with you all. Likewise you also should be glad and rejoice with me. I hope in the Lord to send Timothy to you soon, so that I may be cheered by news of you, for I I have no one like him who will be genuinely concerned for your welfare. They all seek their own interests, not those of Jesus Christ. But you know Timothy's proven worth how as a son of with the Father he has served with me in the gospel. I hope, therefore, to send him just as soon as I see how it will go with me, and I trust in the Lord that I shortly myself will come also. I have thought it necessary to send you Epaphroditus, my brother and fellow worker and fellow soldier, and your messenger and minister to my need. For he has been longing for you all, and has been distressed because you Heard that he was ill. Indeed he was ill, near to death, but God had mercy on him, and not only on him, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow. I am the more eager to send him mercy. Therefore, that you may rejoice at seeing him again, and that I may be less anxious. So receive him in the Lord with all joy, and honor such men, for he nearly died for the work of Christ, risking. Asking his life to complete what was lacking in your service to me. These are the words of God to us, his people. Let us pray. Our Father in heaven, we do not live by read alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. We are dependent upon your word, so that the ordinary means of sustaining and improving life are effective to us. But even more we need to hear this word of redemption, this word which comes to your people to shine upon them the light of salvation. To heal them from their sins, to restore them to your fellowship, and to lead them through this earthly wilderness to the land of promised rest. And so we ask now that by this word the word which came with such life and power to the Philippi, we might know your life and your power, that we might be fed and nourished and so live, for we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. If nothing else, last night's talent show showed how deeply ingrained in many of us is the desire to be a star. And even if we have not found the nerve to stand up and perform in front of others, we have at least done it in our minds. We've seen ourselves catching the winning touchdown pass in the last second of the game. We've seen ourselves on stage performing to the acclamation of a great crowd gathered before us. We've envisioned ourselves in this in Stockholm receiving the Nobel Prize for Science. We've seen ourselves in places of glory ever since I first watched that old Harry Grant movie. movie, The Bishop's Wife. I have always been a crypto episcopalian for I've envisioned myself as a bishop, uh, operating in a hierarchical church with people around me there to do my will and to allow me to get my work done. I've always identified with with uh Churchill who once said in all sincerity about his relationship with the Admiralty. All I ever wanted was for them to do my wishes. The stars are those who are the center of attention and they are often taken as our examples for good or for bad. In what we've read today, Paul calls upon all of us Christians to be stars, but stars of a different sort, not those who are the super Center of attention, not those who are seeking adulation from other human beings, but those who star in things which the world and sometimes even the church does not admire. Of sanctification and of peace. Paul points out to us our starring role in sanctification as he says, work out your own salvation. When we hear the word saved, we We sometimes limit it too much. We think about the question, have you been saved? And we look to a past event, or maybe to something we know occurred in the past, but which is not. not a distinct and memorable event, but we call that our salvation, and in a sense rightly so. For we know, as we've already said today, we are justified by faith. And we can never be more justified than we were at the moment we came to faith. Our salvation is complete. It is not perversive. It is not continual. It does not. grow. Justification is perfect and complete, and we are as justified now as we ever will be. But there is also a future salvation that is to be ours. And that is when we are finally fully saved from sin, Satan, and death. And that will come to us on the great day of Jesus Christ, when we will be glorified and made like him in his perfect. humanity, then we will be saved fully and finally saved forever. But what is occurring between our justification and our glorification? Why, it's our sanctification. And that's what Paul is speaking about when he says, Work out your salvation with fear and trembling. This is indeed a progressive work. It is a continuing work. And it is a work with which we have something to do. You work out your own salvation. This is what our confession speaks of when it talks about About sanctification, as a work in which more and more we are enabled to die to sin and to live unto righteousness. Paul speaks here of it as a work, not as the Though it were a work we can casually perform, or perform with less than our full attention and energy. The word Paul uses speaks of very strenuous draining. meaning labor and indeed the work we have to do is very difficult work which requires all that we can give to it. We are called upon to choke. To starve, to execute, to kill, to crucify ourselves and our sin. And that is not something that is You remember how Paul says in Romans seven that part of his experience as a Christian is that the good that he wants to do, he does not do, and the evil that he would not do, he does do. And that's why it's so important for him and for us and one part of our sanctification to kill, to mortify sin, to do whatever it takes to weaken the impact of sin in our lives. And we are to be embracing righteousness. We should be looking at the Ten Commandments at what That they reveal not only about our conduct, but about our inner life, about the heart and the character of the Christian. And of course we should be looking at our Lord Jesus Christ in his earthly life as one man. Who at every moment of his life loved God with all of his heart, soul, strength, and mind, and as one man who never deered from loving his neighbor as he loved himself, it is in the Ten commandments that we see the character and the will of God revealed. And it is in Jesus Christ that we see those commandments and their principles lived consistently. And so we have hard work to do to kill sin and to enliven righteousness in our lives. It's serious business, for we must do it with fear and with trembling. Paul is not talking about an anxiety which puts us in doubt of our salvation at every minute, as though if we do not work hard enough and constantly enough, we will lose Our salvation, we will no longer be justified, and our destination will no longer be glorification. But Paul is emphasizing to us what a serious thing it is, what a great response. God has given to us in this world for this time to work out our salvation. If someone is given the job of dismantling a bomb, you don't want him him to be filled with an anxiety that distracts him. But you want him to respect that bomb and you want him to carefully perform what he's been trained to do in order to bring that bomb to the point that it is harmless to those who are around him. He in that sense works with fear and trembling. If you submit to the surgeon Knife, you do not want his hand to be trembling as he cuts into your flesh. But you do want him to understand that he has your life in his hands. And you want him to concentrate all of the natural ability and skill and all of the training and experience he has on you for your good. And it's that that Paul is speaking about. out when he says, Focus, be serious, concentrate, let nothing distract you. Give your all to this matter of working out your salvation with fear and with trembling. And it's possible. It's possible not because of anything you ever were or are or ever will be, but it's possible because God is at work in you to will and work accordingly. According to his good pleasure. God is in you to will. One of the things that we find about killing sin and embracing righteousness is that we often lack the will to do. It. You know, I have found, because sometimes I have to do it, that I'm capable of walking a fairly long distance at a very brisk pace. And I do it without symptoms. So I probably do not have sufficient clogging of the arteries to keep me from doing it, but my problem is that I lack the will. I don't like to do it. And I don't want to do it. And it requires something unusual for me to force myself to go out of my place that I live and to go into the streets and do it and come back. I'm glad that I did it when I've done it, but I'm never glad enough to do it to make me do it. I need something done to my will. And as we struggle with that struggle, Paul describes in Romans 7. Part of God's work in us is to make us to want to do the good and to hate the evil. evil so that we don't want to do it. To be able to say to the Lord, Lord, what I do desire, though I don't see it very far advanced in my life, is to be free from sin because sin is my great enemy. I see what damage it does to me, what damage it does to those around me. I see how dishonoring and displeasing it is to you. And what I sincerely would like is that I would be so Free of sin that I would never sin again. But then there's not just the matter of the will, there's the matter of the work. Suppose my wife has a piece of furniture and we need to get it moved and I hate to have to go find some help and so I look at it and I say, I believe I can move it and I will to move it. But Then I go over and I begin to wrestle with it and I try to pick it up and I find that though I have the will to do it, I don't have the strength, the power to do it, and so now I've gotta call myself son Jeremy from across town and have him come over and when he comes over he will probably show me up by picking it up himself and moving it without my assistance. I have the will but not the power. And so that is in our Christian lives. We do not want to do the evil that we do, but we do it for lack of strength. We do want to do the good, but we do not do it for lack of power. And so God is at work in us not only to give us the desire to be free from sin and to reflect his beautiful righteousness in our lives, but God increasingly gives us the strength and the power that is not our own so that we are able to do those things which we ought to do and to stop doing those things which we ought not to do as we work out our salvation. If God were not at work in us willing and working, there would be no hope for us. But we can work out our salvation with fear and trembling and with hope, because we know that God is already at work in us and that He is able and willing to give us the willing and the power of that we need. We might be a little f afraid when the text says that he's there to will and work according to his good pleasure, because we sometimes have this attitude toward God that God's pleasure Pleasure is our displeasure, that what makes God happy is making us unhappy. But that's not the way it is. Our family has always made as big a deal of Christmas as we could afford to because we like it. And my wife has made this rule which uh she has sometimes consistently enforced, which is that you may not come to the Thanksgiving dinner table without having made out your Christmas list. And so she stays after our kids and she says, You must give me the list. And when they don't give her the list, she bothers them and she will use that motherly power she has, which is greater than fatherly power in this instance, to say, you are going to do it. And so far none of them have challenged her in the sense of disobeying her will. Well we get those lists and we look at it. And then we look at our money. And we say we're going to buy as many of these things as our money will allow us to buy. And sometimes we look at it again and you say Well, maybe we can squeeze out a little more money because we'd like to buy more of the things that they have put on their list. And why? Well, it just gives us the most incredible pleasure. It just feels so good to buy our kids what they want and give it to them. That's part of the fun of being a parent. And what pleases God? What pleases God is the salvation of sinners. God is not going to will or work anything in your life that That is contrary to your eternal blessedness. He is not going to will or work anything that does not contribute to your true and permanent happiness. God's will and God's work is our salvation, our becoming like Jesus Christ in his human resurrection glory. And that's what God is always. doing. That's what he always has as his goal, as he wills and works in us, so that we can work out our salvation with fear and trembling. Well, somebody in Philippi might say, Paul That's rather abstract. We get the point. We understand something of what you mean. Work out your salvation with fear and trembling. But could you maybe show us something more concrete, something that we can get our And so Paul goes on to say, one of the ways that you work out your salvation is by the peace that exists amongst you as a congregation. And so he says, Do everything. all things without grumbling or questioning. Well, when is it in your family there's most likely to be grumbling and questioning? It's usually when you're under some kind of stress. It may be external stress because of problems at work. It may be internal stress because of tensions between mom and dad. It's when the stressors begin to work in the home and upon the family, that the family is most likely to fall into a state of grumbling. and of complaining and of questioning and doubting. It's then that we begin to show some cracks in this vessel of unity we want to have. Sometimes think we have the besetting sin of Israel in the wilderness, where they faced one hardship after another was grumbling and questioning. when they came out into the wilderness, just having come across the Red Sea on dry ground, just having seen God destroy the Egyptians in that same sea, just having celebrated with great joy Their deliverance on the other side of the Red Sea, and they came to bitter water. What did they do? They immediately began to grumble and complain. And when they went a little further, and back there in Egypt and we wish we were back there. Can you imagine people who've been enslaved for four hundred years say within less than three months after leaving the place of slavery we like to go back for the cuisine and yet they crumbled. And when a little later they came to another case where now there was not even bitter water, there was no water. They Rose up and were ready to put Moses to death. Their leader they wanted to kill because he was responsible for taking them there. Grumbling is always a very serious thing. In the Bible, because it's always something more than just complaining. Grumbling is an expression of unbelief. And grumbling. Grumbling is an act of rebellion against God who gives us our circumstances and places our leaders over us. We're never just grumbling against against what's happening or against people we hold responsible. We're always grumbling and questioning God in these situations and we need to be warned. Because the Bible says that with that generation of grumblers God was not pleased and he swore in his wrath that he would not let them enter the promised land of blessing. Now, as the writer of Hebrews says as he considers that experience of Israel. And brothers and sisters, I believe much, much better about You I do not believe you are such grumblers that you are in rebellion against God and that your heart has been overwhelmed by unbelief. But I do say that it As we work out our salvation, one of the things that most ought to be evident is that we are able to live together without grumbling and questioning, to live together in a state of unity and And of peace. When we do that, we will shine like stars in a dark universe. There are many things involved in this shining like stars. stars, it's because we have the light of God's revelation in a world filled with the darkness of ignorance. It's because we walk in the light as He is in the light, while the world walks in the darkness of ignorance. evil and perversity. But what I want to underscore just now in light of what we've been doing this weekend is that part of what it means to shine like stars is that we live as a people of peace in the midst of a world of conflict. What is more characteristic of the world than people grumbling and complaining? We saw that during this recent hurricane, or the two hurricanes. It it I I know it was bad. I have been in hurricanes, none that severe, and and I understand how much uh distress I felt and how uncomfortable I was, but sometimes it gets to the point of expecting That things can be done which are impossible to do. How can anybody prevent a hurricane? And how can anybody do for everybody immediately what needs to be done? And how could anybody have ever thought that a city the size of Houston could be evacuated without a traffic jam. And yet we want to find somebody to blame. We want to grumble and complain and question and doubt. That's human nature. And as we do that, we turn on one another, we fight with one another, we pursue our self interest, we are people who are out for ourselves, we want what we want and we will shove other people aside and we will get into fights with them because it's our right to have what we want. The world is characterized by selfishness, by grumbling, by complaining By conflict and argument and fight. But the church is supposed to be a new kind of society. It's a society in which these walls of partition, That divide people from people have been taken down through the cross of Christ. The cross of Christ has taken down the veil that separated us from fellowship with God so that we can go right into the Holy Spirit. of holies right into the sanctuary and there offer our worship to God. But it also has taken down the walls that divide us from other people. It's in the cross that peace is made with God, but peace is made with one another. And the church is supposed to be the kind of institution where in its fundamental life we don't pay any attention to whether you are A male or a female, a slave or a free person, a Greek or a Jew or a barbarian. Because we all have the same fundamental belief. Blessings, we are all saved by the same Savior. We all offer up our worship to God, and therefore, whatever may be the differences, and the differences are great among us. Differences of personal Personality, differences of politics, difference of interests, difference of all sorts of things, which can quickly become a reason for us not to have fellowship with one another. But the gospel. Of Jesus Christ overcomes all those differences and we live together as a community of unity and peace in this institution which is absolutely unique, which is different from any other institution in the world. An institution which has been established by God and which is necessary for our salvation. I speak of the church, of the Lord Jesus Christ on this earth. the visible church of Jesus Christ. And one of the shameful things is that too often when people see the church, They see the church at war with itself. And too many Christians are able to say, or have to say, that the greatest hurts that have been inflicted. inflicted upon them in this world have not been inflicted by unbelievers, but by believers. Unbelievers we understand. We can do almost like Jesus told us to do. to rejoice and be glad when we're persecuted because that's what unbelievers did to the prophets. What we don't understand and what hurts and damages Is that we have experienced that kind of treatment from those who confess the same Orthodox faith. who profess the same Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who worship the same God. I wonder why it is, and I wrestle with it and I have I've on many occasions tried to work through it for the help of people who've come to me, and at times I've tried to work through it for myself. I don't understand it, but I only say it ought not to be. that the church should be shining in a dark, perverse world filled with conflict as that unique society that God has established through Christ, the society of peace and unity. But finally, uh the Philippians might say, well, Paul, that's good, but is there anybody who shines like a star in these matters of sanctification and concern? for the peace of the church. And so Paul, as he comes to the end of this section of Philippians, and is preparing them for the ministry of two men, does point them and us, I think, to two Two men who can be for us something like a star to look at and to be guided by. We think about Timothy, and I would underscore about Timothy only two things. The first is his selfless service. Paul says, I don't have anybody like Timothy, for they all look out for their own interest. But Timothy is sincerely concerned for the interest of you, of the church. Well, Paul, I think, is speaking not of every other Christian in the world or every other Christian worker he knows. He's speaking out of the experience he describes in chapter one of those who preach Christ out of rivalry to advance their own careers and hope to take advantage of Paul's imprisonment in order to get themselves into higher and more glorious positions. But here's a man who is an example to us. Because He doesn't look to himself. He looks to others. And here is a man who, in the context of the ministry of the church, has proven his worth. He's not one who is devoted to the church. church until something goes wrong, till something displeases him, until he's disillusioned. This is not a man who has concern for the church for a while only to let it diminish. Over time. This is a man who, by his ministry, has proven his worth to the church because he is concerned for the health of the church which belongs to Jesus Christ. And then there's Athaproditus. And again, just two things I would emphasize of this many in this section which could be used, and that is first his attachment to the church. Paul says he is yearning to be with you. He longs for you. Epaphroditus is a part of the congregation in Philippi, and while he has come to Rome as their emissary, he is glad that Paul is sending him back to Philippi. Because there is an attachment that Epaphroditus has to that congregation. He loves God's people. And rather than being glad for opportunities to be away from God's people, there is a emptiness. A void in his heart that cannot be filled until he is restored to the fellowship and life of that congregation. And there is his sacrificial service. In serving the church at Philippi, going to Paul, Epaphroditus has put his own life at risk. And as a result, Result. He almost died. Again, we see a man who is devoted. He was given a job by the church, and he understood what the church commissioned him to do was actually a commissioned. Mission that he received from the head of the church, Jesus Christ. And so if the church sent him as their emissary to minister to Paul by taking him a gift and by encouraging him in his imprisonment, then Epaphroditus would go and he would take his life in his hands. And he almost lost his life because he wasn't one who played it safe. He wasn't one who protected himself. For the sake of the church he was willing to risk his life. The great thing about these two exemplary stars is that they're not Paul's. Paul intimidates me. I read things that Paul Paul says, and I say, how can he say that? I don't know if I've ever been able to say that. I don't know if I'll ever be able to say that. But then there are these ordinary fellows in the scriptures. People like Timothy. retiring, chronic stomach problems, worried about his age and relationship to the usual leaders of a congregation. There's Epaphroditus, a man who otherwise we know very little about. We only know that the church found him trustworthy and sent him on this mission, and we know that he came close to dying and doing it. And these are people that we can look at and say, there are men who show us something of what it means to work out our salvation with fear and trembling, dependent upon God who is willing and And working in us. And here are men who care so much for the church's peace and health and unity that they serve the church with selflessness, with selflessness. sacrifice who are willing to deny themselves for the sake of this bride for whom Jesus shed his blood, this bride whom Jesus will one day have before him as a radiant bride adorned for her husband without blemish. As we think about our life in the church, as we think about this matter of being together, all together now, let's work out our salvation. With fear and trembling. Because God's working in us to will and to work according to his good Satan pleasure. And altogether now, let's live. In unity and in peace, so that the church can shine like a star in this dark world of complaining and victory and conflict. And let's all together now choose examples. Choose some stars, like Timothy and Epathoditus, and determine that by God's grace we will follow. Follow them in their service to this body of Christ, of which we have been made members. This is the word of the Lord. Amen.