I've been wanting for some years to express thanks on behalf of Betty Jane, my wife, and myself. For the great kindness that you showed to our daughter Janet when she was part of this flock. She and her husband John were here for some years in the earlier days. As you may know, Janet is now with the Lord for five years, but you showed a wonderful care, pastoral attention, great love and practical help. To that couple. And we appreciate it. It's not forgotten in the halls of heaven. Every one of those works is written in God's book, especially to the infirmed, as Bennett was. We thank you for that kindness. And I find this a great privilege to be with you today, an honor indeed. That honor has not been given to me much since Um I retired from the active ministry a little over a year ago. But you are brave souls to have us here. Thank you for that kindness. I want to begin by reading the scriptures that are printed for you, Genesis chapter twelve and then Galatians. Uh chapter three, certain verses from those places The Puritans used to say, if you have a choice between few verses and many verses, always choose many verses. Oh, Skip may have already taught you, prepared you for that. Uh I'm sure you're a well taught congregation, and I may today be bringing Coles to Newcastle. after his thorough, in-depth teaching of the word. But hear the word of God as it is in Genesis chapter 12, verses 1 to 7. Now the Lord had said to Abram, Get out of your country, from your family, and from your father's house, to a land I will show you. I will make you a great nation. I will bless you and make your name great. And you shall be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him who curses you, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. So Abram departed as the Lord had spoken to him, and Lot went with him. And Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran. Then Abram took Sarah, his wife, and Lot, his brother's son, and all their possessions that they had gathered, and the people whom they had acquired in Haran. And they departed to go to the land of Canaan. So they came to the land of Canaan. Abram passed through the land to the place of Shechem, as far as the Tarabinth tree of Moray. And the Canaanites were there in the land. Then the Lord appeared to Abram and said, To your descendants I will give this land. And there he built an altar to the Lord who had appeared to him. And then to turn over to Galatians chapter three. I want to read from verse six through verse fifteen. Just as Abraham bel Abraham Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness. Therefore, know that only those who are of faith are sons of Abraham. And the scripture foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith beforehand. Preach the gospel to Abraham, saying, In you all the nations shall be blessed So then those who are of faith are blessed with believing Abraham. For as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse For it is written, Cursed is everyone who does not continue in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them. But that no one is justified by the law in the sight of God is evident, for the just shall live by faith. Yet the law is not of faith, but the man who does them shall live by them. Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law Having become a curse for us, for it is written, Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree. That the blessing of Abraham might come upon the Gentiles in Christ Jesus, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. Brethren, I speak in the manner of men, though it is only a man's covenant, yet it is conferred. Confirmed, no one annuls or adds to it. Now to Abraham and his seed Where the promise is made. He does not say, and to seeds, plural, as of many, but as of one And to your seed, who is Christ. The grass withers and the flower fades. But the word of our God endures forever. Let us pray for God's illuminating spirit to be upon us. Lord, we bow low before you in humility. We come not to correct your word Or to distort it, but to be channels by which the Holy Spirit can bring that word to our minds and hearts Grant us the mind of Christ as we seek to interpret and apply your holy scripture Let none be glorified but yourself and your Holy Spirit move freely among us all. We pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. Amen. I want to trace uh my thoughts this morning. Back to a blog that I read on the internet Put there by an organization called Bibles for America. I had never heard of this particular agency. Do not know anything much about it, but I read that piece which caught my eye and instructed my mind and moved my heart. It allowed me to think about Thanksgiving differently from the many years that I had been preparing messages on Thanksgiving. I had a new understanding from that piece that you might say I accidentally discovered on the internet, but As Presbyterians, we don't do anything by accident, do we? We have God's sovereign hand over us. It was very interesting to me to read what was written there. Let me give you the essence of that thought and then try to. Perhaps build upon it somewhat. What the brother was saying was that Paul traces his gratitude Not so much to material blessings as to Abraham and the spiritual blessings that came from him. That's especially true here in Galatians 3:14, that the blessing of Abraham might come upon the Gentiles in Christ Jesus. That we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. That said to me that Paul was going deeper To lay the foundation for thanksgiving than we might normally go. In doing so, he passed by material blessings that often become the subject of our gratitude. And that is not wrong, of course. Praise God, who daily loads us with benefits. And it's rather common in Thanksgiving services to To list, name, enumerate the things which God has given us. But they are material things And Paul's pointing to something spiritual here. What I'm calling in this an Abrahamic thanksgiving. He's pointing us to. How wonderful that is, is it not? Because the material and the spiritual are joined together in the God's Word. Often the material things Are kind of an evidence or a pointer to the spiritual realities of life. And that may be what we have here before us. It's wonderful to see how these spiritual blessings that come from Abraham called here the promise of the Spirit. So supersede anything we can see or touch. How much greater is that blessing than our health or wealth? Our home or car or family, these are all good gifts of God. I would not disparage that for a moment But this is light years ahead of them in Paul's catalog of the reasons for Thanksgiving. They find their culmination in this phrase, the promise. Of the Spirit. Now, the promise of the Spirit, I think, is Christ experienced in the believer's heart. And expressed in the believer's words and thoughts and actions and dreams. The promise of the Spirit of God Is what he's grateful for. And I want to challenge you today to make that the centerpiece of your thanksgiving as well. Now, how is it possible that this promise of the Spirit could come to us? Who are outside the pale of God's revealed religion in the beginning. It was restricted, as you know to the Jewish people. Gentiles were not allowed really to take part in the Faith of God or the religion of God at first. But what Paul is saying here in verse 13 That Christ redeemed us from that separation, that curse, so that he broke down the wall of partition. Between Jew and Gentile. And that meant that the promises that were made to the Jews suddenly became available. And flowed to us. Some of you may be old enough to remember the day the Berlin Wall came down President Reagan had gone there and challenged uh Premier Gorbachev, President Gorbachev of Assembly. Soviet Union to tear down the wall, publicly challenged him. And it wasn't long after that wall came down. Not many of us that I know were even praying for that to happen. I only knew of one prayer group, a group Of professors at Hope College who every Tuesday morning met to pray for the Berlin Wall to come down. They had a large prayer. It didn't seem possible, but suddenly. The partition was over, and the citizens of Berlin could move back and forth freely. That's what happened here. Paul details it, as you know, in Ephesians, how he broke down the middle wall of partition and made one out of two bodies. So it was that fact that Paul is celebrating here, uh, in the fact of the death of Christ, was the sudden moment that broke down that division. That he redeemed us in his death. He talks about Christ hanging on the tree and absorbing the curse. And he says in verse 14 with that great word that the blessing of Abraham might come His death unloosed the floodgates and brought the blessings of Abraham to you and to me. And chief among these blessings is the promise of the Spirit. The Promise of the Spirit. I have one whole book in my library, maybe you do too, titled The Promise of the Spirit. I have many books on the Holy Spirit, as your pastor does. I love to read them. But this one stands out. to me, and even more since I read that blog, which turned my heart toward the true meaning of things Thanksgiving for believers. It's different than it is for the secular world. They all they have is material blessings to give thanks to Thanks for, but we have this deeper secret that the promise of the Holy Spirit is now available to us. Praise God for that. That's a remarkable thing. Now we think together About this subject of the promise of the Holy Spirit. And we have to ask the question How does the promise of the land of Palestine relate to this promise of the Holy Spirit? Because what we read in Genesis 12, I will give you this land. And it's going to be yours forever, speaking to the Jewish people there through Abraham. This is your land. But how does that translate into the promise of the Holy Spirit Well, let the imagination roam a little bit. Our teacher used to call it sanctified imagination. I hope so. So uh, but you see, when God took Abraham to Canaan, he said, see, look all I have given you. He showed them the far reaches. This broad and vast country was all his and his descendants. Now there's the likeness to the promise of the Holy Spirit, because this was an immense land, and the gift of the Holy Spirit has no limitations. It is an immense, wonderful, vast blessing for the believer. It's where we live and move and have our being, is it not? Immense. It's full of possibilities. No doubt when God spoke to Abraham about it, he could see in his mind Buildings and villages and cities, he could see a country whose builder and maker would be God. What possibilities there are in the promise of the Holy Spirit. The sky's the limit for believers. We can go as far as we will In attaining toward the likeness of Jesus Christ. That's our destiny. Nothing can hold us back It's our future. That's where we're going to be. He's bringing sons to glory, and we will be among them. We'll march in when the saints go, because he says so. This is the promise of the Holy Spirit. It's so like the wonder of the land. The land offered the future. And the promise of the Holy Spirit gives hope and certainty to you. How wonderful that is. The promise of the Spirit in you. Means that there will be understanding of God's word. There'll be the inner presence of Christ, which Will yield to you joy and peace even in the midst of difficulty. Just think of what that promise can mean to us As big as the land. Now the land itself does not come to us as Gentiles. But it comes to us through Christ as the promise of the Holy Spirit That's what verse 16 means. Abraham and his seed were the promises made to them. He doesn't say to seeds, but to seed, singular, as of not many, but of one To your seed, who is Christ. Christ is the seed of Abraham. And through him He brought the Gentiles into this wonderful position we have now. And so we are the seed of Christ. That's a marvelous, gracious, lovely thing for us to think about. Because Christ died, we have been admitted into the promises. of God. Hallelujah. Now maybe some of us uh are not convinced by the land and the spirit having a connection here, but Let me put it this way. Many of you have wedding rings on your hands. I'm glad you do. The wedding ring is a symbol of a promise that the groom makes. He promises to take care of his bride, to provide for her, to protect Protect her, to love her throughout their whole life. It's not the ring that does that. The ring is a Symbol of his loyalty, his commitment, his faithfulness. The ring could be lost at the lake. It could be lost on a hike. I've often heard of people who lost their wedding rings, and I had to have mine redone once But I wanted to wear it further. But the point is, the ring is not the essence of our union. It's an expression or Symbol of our union. And even if the ring is gone, the commitment remains. The oneness is there. It's the same way with the land. We did not, as Gentiles, inherit the land in the same way that Jews did. What we inherited was the other promise, the promise that is annexed to the land, that is symbolized in the land, that in its vastness is communicated in the land. That's what we gained in the death of Christ. That's what we rejoice in. That Christ can indwell us We can experience him in our inner person. He doesn't say in the promise of the Spirit. He says, you will dwell in the land. We will dwell in Christ, and Christ will dwell in us. And it takes the whole New Testament to develop and expand on that theme. Christ in you, the hope of glory. It's not Christ ahead of you to be your guide, not Christ by your side to come You, though he does both these things, of course. But it's Christ within you. Jesus Christ dwelling in these temples of flesh. Which we have at this time in our journey. He dwells in in these mortal bodies, which are often broken and ill and Discouraged and weak, and so on. All of the impairments that we find in our bodies do not disqualify them from the indwelling Christ. Christ in you. That's what the promise is: that he would be ours and we would be his forever and ever. Now think with me a minute how much God paid that we, Gentiles, could have this promise of his Holy Spirit. What it cost him, how carefully he prepared that it should happen, and even that it should be preached to you on this Thanksgiving Sunday. From the foundation of the world, he saw the picture, the unfolding drama of the promise of the Spirit being given to us and announced today to you. First, he had to call Abraham out of paganism. He was a moon worshiper, as you know. That was an amazing, amazing change, a paradigm shift to suddenly worship the invisible God, the creator of heaven and earth. What a work of grace that was, that Abraham could respond to it. Anytime anyone responds to the call of God, it is A supernatural work, mine and yours together. But he called Abraham, moved him out of Ur the Chalvis, moved him to Haran first, and then on to Canaan. So he'd be in a new place, to get a new perspective, without the old distractions. Even family had been forbidden to accompany him. Though he disobeyed there, but nevertheless God overruled that, he endured that. And Abraham suffered some for that partial obedience of his Then, after he had called him out, he made an oath to him Perhaps the most solemn oath there is in Scripture where he vowed to Abraham that sooner His very being would be cut in two, destroyed, then he would not keep his covenant. What a solemn oath. It was the basis of our own covenant view of theology and of the Bible. He made this dramatic. Amazing covenant promise to Abraham. And with that came the land. And wrapped inside the land as a gift was the promise of the Spirit, which was the ultimate purpose of The oath itself being spoken. Then Of course, he raised up Christ, preparing the way for him, and in the fullness of time sent him forth into the world to be the mediator of the covenant. To bring the Gentiles along with the Jews, that all might be in him. After his amazing incarnation, he was raised up on the cross to suffer. And redeem us, prepare us with the Jews who believe for our new gift, the promise of the Holy Spirit Then he exalted him after his death, brought him to his right hand, to a place of authority and power, exalted him on his own throne. so that Christ could pour out upon his people this promise of the Holy Spirit. No wonder the disciples were so excited on the day of Pentecost when the Spirit in copious portion Flooded over them. They saw the fulfillment of Isaiah's great promise. I will pour water on the thirsty land I will bless my people with floods. I will give to your descendants my Holy Spirit and to your offspring my blessing. They announced to the Jews there that God had done what he'd promised. He'd opened the gates and sent his Holy Spirit upon his people in mighty power. This is the ultimate gift of God, the indwelling Christ. God makes his tabernacle in you. He's chosen to dwell in the world in our hearts. In real experience, in daily fellowship, in deep understanding, and precious Insight given to our own hearts. You know the experience. You know the inner voice of the Spirit in your heart. You know what it is. to have Christ in you, in your daily work, in your life at home, in school, and in the church. Does anyone understand what God has done in the promise of the Holy Spirit Do we see what lengths he went to to bring this about that you and I today could speak of that blessed promise? And share heart to heart our own intimate experience with the indwelling Christ. How when you were sad he came and brought you joy, You were grieving, he lifted you out of your darkness. You were confused, he said, This is the way, walk in it. You had a decision you didn't know how to handle. And he said, Follow me, I'll lead you forth. Oh, what a blessing there is. There's no greater gift given, is there? This is the gift of all gifts. Out of this gift, the indwelling spirit, come all the gifts of the Spirit. All the work he does in the churches, all the blessing of our families, everything comes from this fountain of gifts which Christ has given us. There are two little words here I could not possibly omit in this brief exposition of this Text. Verse 14: That the blessing of Abraham might come upon the Gentiles in Christ Jesus. that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. Those are the two words that I commend to you for your meditation. We do not gain the indwelling Christ by moral perfection. We do not gain it by keeping rules. Only by faith can we seize this wondrous promise of the Spirit and make him our own. Only by faith Faith is acting upon the whole will of God It is a decision made enabled by God but made in our own hearts as well. A decision to trust in the will of God for us. a decision to confide in him, to yield our whole being to his will It is the choice to prize the indwelling Christ above every possession. Every relationship, every desire we may have Faith. No wonder the New Testament keeps saying to us, according to your faith, according to your faith. No wonder Mary could respond to the angel. Behold, I am the handmaid of the Lord. And it was said to her, according to your faith, it will be. And Christ will dwell in your heart. Has he in his human body dwelt in the body of Mary? By your faith This is the greatest cause for Thanksgiving we have, the greatest blessing. The greatest joy of the believer's holiday is to trace the promise of the Spirit from its origins in Genesis to its fulfillment in Pentecost. Let that be your seasonal gladness, your conversation with each other, your meditation in the quiet place of your own devotion. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen.