This morning's sermon text comes from the Gospel of Luke, chapter 17, beginning with verse 11. And as it is your custom here, I understand, I'm going to ask you all to please stand. as I uh read God's Word. Luke chapter seventeen. On the way to Jerusalem He was passing along between Samaria and Galilee. And as he entered a village, he was met by ten lepers who stood at a distance. And lifted up their voices, saying, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. And when he saw them, he said to them, Go and show yourselves to the priests. And as they went, they were cleansed. Then one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, praising God with a loud voice. And he fell on his face at Jesus' feet, giving him thanks. Now he was a Samaritan. And then Jesus answered, were not ten cleansed? Where are the nine? Was no one found to return and give praise to God except this foreigner? And he said to him, Rise and go your way. Your faith has made you well. This is the word of our God. May be seated. This text undoubtedly familiar to many of you is at its heart about worship. Now when we hear the word worship today, when we think of the word worship, we tend to think of it Almost exclusively in religious terms. Worship is what religious people do. They worship their God. And it's tempting to think that if you're not religious, If you're not participating in acts of devotion, whether individual or corporate, it's tempting to think that maybe you're not a worshiper. The Bible, however, takes a strikingly different view of worshiping than we're accustomed to thinking According to the Bible, all mankind worships. Everyone is a worshiper. Everyone has something or someone to which they give their ultimate loyalty, their ultimate devotion, their ultimate affection. We all serve something. And so the question though the Bible is concerned to answer is not, do I worship, but who do I worship? And is the object of my worship, that person or that thing that I am worshiping, is that object able to deliver on its promises? And what we see in this account of the ten lepers is the uniqueness of Christian worship, what the Bible typically calls true worship, Christian worship. Because what it shows us about worship, about Christian worship, is that Christian worship is a grateful response. It's a grateful response of a sick and sinful heart. That has been healed, restored, and forgiven by the mercy of God to us in Jesus Christ. And what I want to consider with you this morning is what this text has to teach us about worship. I want to consider what it teaches us under three headings. First, the subject of worship. Second, the object of worship. And third, the nature of worship. So first, the subject of worship. Who is the subject of worship? Or to put it in a way that sounds less like English class, who worships here? Who worships? This account opens with ten lepers calling to Jesus, right? We're told in verse 12 that they call to Jesus at a distance. Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. And yet, while ten cry out to Jesus, we actually only meet One worshiper. One worshiper. The Samaritan who returns to Jesus to give him thanks. We're told he fell at his feet praising God. It's worshiping Christ. It's the Samaritan. Now, the Bible Has a surprising amount to say about leprosy, doesn't it? If you've read it, ever read it straight through, you would have gotten to Leviticus, right? That's typically where we slow down. And Leviticus, Leviticus chapter 13, Leviticus chapter 14, whole chapters on leprosy. Now it's important that you know that when the Bible uses this word that we translate as leprosy, it does not refer to what modern medicine typically thinks of or or or has in view when it talks about leprosy. I think it's something called uh Hansen's disease or One of you probably knows better than I do what what modern leprosy is is. But uh that's not biblical leprosy. Uh the the word leprosy is used to refer to a variety of highly contagious skin diseases in the Bible. Skin diseases where, especially where your skin would break out, uh become flaky or scaly, uh, and often have open wounds. that would ooze and bleed and so forth. That's what the Bible means when it speaks of leprosy. Now, what I think is even more surprising for us than the sh sheer amount that the Bible has to say about leprosy is actually what it has to say about leprosy. Because what God tells Israel throughout the Bible, throughout the law, is that anyone who contracts leprosy, this horrible skin disease, This person is to be declared unclean and to be cut off from the religious and social life of the community. Right, lepers were not allowed to enter the temple precincts to worship. They were not allowed to live in the city. They had to live outside the cities, uh sequestered in specified leper colonies. They were not allowed to approach anyone who was not a leper themselves. And when they when and if they ever had to walk through a public place, they had to declare their presence, shouting out, unclean, unclean, letting people know that a leper was in their midst. This is why we're told at the beginning of this account that the ten lepers called from Jesus from where? At a distance. They were not allowed to come near to Jesus. They had to call out to him from a distance. So you could imagine the isolation. The rejection that these individuals would experience on account of their disease. If uh I imagine that this strikes you a lot like it strikes me as uh cruel Initially, pretty cruel treatment of individuals who have uh had a bad turn in life So if it's not bad enough that they have a disease, now they have to live outside the community. They have to experience a psychological, emotional, spiritual, religious isolation and rejection. Why? Why did this disease make you not just unwell physically, but unclean? This is a religious category, unclean. The reason is that leprosy was one of a number of realities. in the ancient world that was associated with decomposition and death. Decomposition and death A leper would often die from his or her leprosy. And as they walked around with this skin disease, how it appeared is that this person was dead already. Their body was already decomposing before our very eyes, right? They were considered the walking dead. And this connection with death explains why so many other conditions in the Bible would render one unclean. So, for example, the blood from a woman's menstruation. The blood that accompanies childbirth, seminal emissions, contact with the corpse, all of these things would render you unclean, that is unfit, unable to enter into the public worship of Israel. Why? Because these things partake of the world of the dead. And if there's one thing that Israel knew, they knew that their God is not the God of the dead. But what? Of the living. God, Yahweh, is the God of life, not death. And those things, those people associated with death, have no place in his presence. Death for Israel, unlike the other religions around them, was not a natural thing. They understood this. Death was not, you know, just the the the end of the circle of life or the beginning of another circle. No, they understood that death was an intrusion into the natural order. It was a disruption of God's creation. That was the direct result of human sin. Of human moral failing. This was the origin of death. And so, in the very same way that Israel knew that an immoral person Oh, could not stand in the presence of a perfectly holy God. They also knew that the dead had nothing to do with the Lord of life. And so those who had contact with the dead were cut off from the holy places, from the holy things. They were cut off from from worship in the temple. They were cut off from the cities in which God's holy people dwell. These cities were to be clean, and these unclean individuals were cast out. However, it's important to understand leprosy, to understand this account, to know that That this practice of Israel, this cutting off of the lepers from the life and worship of the community, this was not a statement about these individuals' personal salvation. It was not. It was not saying anything about their spiritual condition. It was a statement about everyone's spiritual condition. And the statement is this, that those who are under the dominion of sin and death have no claim on the God of life. That's what this practice preached to Israel loud and clear. Those who are under dominion of sin and death have no claim on the God of life. And what they need is the extraordinary healing power of God. to come and touch them from without. That they are completely helpless and hopeless on their own. And they need God's healing power. They need an extraordinary work of God to enter his presence. And so the lepers Israel's laws about lepers. All of these were very vivid sermon illustrations Sermon illustrations to teach Israel about their sin and how sin has corrupted and destroyed every aspect of their lives. Morally, spiritually, physically, emotionally, psychologically, the effects of sin are drastic They're deep, they're pervasive. And it makes everyone unfit to enter into the presence of God. And now as I've thought about this reality, this practice, this posture towards leprosy I uh I've thought, well, okay, yes, I can see this, I get it, but does this not s put the lepers at a disadvantage A disadvantage having this psychological, emotional, social, spiritual isolation, this would certainly take its toll. on these individuals' ability to apprehend God's grace. They're not able to go to church, right? Would not their spiritual lives wither up and die? But then I've thought Well, maybe not Maybe not. Jesus time and again teaches us that it's often these people, these rejects, these outcasts, right? that these are the individuals who are most open to hear the gospel of salvation by grace alone. They are the most open to receive a gospel of free grace. Jesus tells the Pharisees in Mark chapter 2. Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I came not to call the righteous, but sinners. And what reading on through the Gospels, we know that Jesus often found a better hearing among the pimps and the prostitutes than he did the outwardly religious. Why? Does God love the pimps and the prostitutes more? Does God love it love those who sin sin the most? Does he love them more than those who try to do good? Is that is that what we're to take? No. The reason that Jesus was was often accepted by the outcasts and the rejects and the pariah of society is because these individuals knew their need. They understood their need. The lepers, the prostitutes, the tax collectors, they were confronted every day with their condition. They understood their sin because their communities preached it to them every day. You're a reject. You're not like us. You're not one of us. You're not fit. And so they knew that when Jesus came and he told them about a gospel of free grace, they jumped at it They heard it with eagerness. Why? Because they knew that if it wasn't free, they couldn't afford it. And so it's striking that even among the lepers, it's the Samaritan who responded to Jesus' miracle He responded with faith. He responded with worship. Samaritans were not Jewish. They were generally despised by the Jewish people. And I have little doubt that in this group of ten lepers This Samaritan was the outcast. He was the leper of the leper community. It's as low as it goes And yet it was the Samaritan to whom Jesus says in verse 19, Rise and go your way. Your faith has made you well. What does he mean by that? The other lepers were healed, weren't they? We were told as much. Why does Jesus tell the Samaritan, your faith has made you well? Because it was the Samaritan who understood that what Jesus is offering is not just physical healing. Not just the restoration to normal life and normal society. What Jesus is offering is true fellowship with the living God That fellowship which those other spheres spoke of, social, communal, religious, all of that healing that only spoke Of a relationship with God. And he knew, he experienced, he understood that his relationship with God himself was restored. And that this outward healing, this is just a sign of it. And he knew it was restored through this man, Jesus. He got it. What did this healing mean? It meant that he, even a Samaritan, the outcasts of the outcast, could now approach God. We see a leper who before had to call out to Jesus from a distance, didn't he? Couldn't approach. What is he doing at the end? He's falling at his feet He's now come close and he's worshiping. The Samaritan saw beyond the physical healing, he saw beyond the social healing, beyond the emotional healing. And what these things pointed to, and that is new life in Christ. He got it. And he worshiped. Who are the subjects of worship then? Who worships? Not the worthy, not the clean, not the moral, but the unworthy, the unclean, and the immoral, who have apprehended God's grace to them in Jesus Christ. And who have accepted it by faith and by faith alone. The second thing we learn from this account is the object of worship. Okay, who worships the sinful? Who is the object of worship? Then one of them, when he saw that he was healed. Turned back, praising God with a loud voice, and he fell on his face at Jesus' feet, giving him thanks. When Jesus told the lepers, go show yourselves to the priests, what he's telling them to do is go obey the law of Moses. The law says that a leper didn't need to just go from sick to well physically, but they needed to go from clean to unclean. This was a religious, a a uh uh uh uh spiritual uh category in a way. And this is why if you read the laws surrounding or about leprosy, it says that the priests are the ones that have to readmit the leper. back into the community. They had to inspect the leper. They had to know a a thing or two about skin and skin diseases, something I'm I'm glad I guess pastors today don't we're not testing on that at least anyway uh at Presbytery. So that we're grateful for that. But it was a priest's job uh to declare these individuals to be to be clean. And so this was a symbol, a symbol of uh a spiritual condition. But what you need to see is that the This instruction from Jesus put the Samaritan in a very awkward position. Because, as I'm sure many of you know, Samaritans had a different religion than the Jews. The Jews worshiped in the temple in Jerusalem. The Samaritans worshiped in the temple on Mount Gerizim. The Jews had their own Jewish priests, and the Samaritans had their own Samaritan priests. The Jews had their own Jewish Torah, the law, and the Samaritans had their own Samaritan Tintora And so when Jesus told the Samaritan to go to the temple, go to the priests, offer sacrifices, the Samaritan would have wondered, which one? Where do I go? Do I go with the these nine others to the temple in Jerusalem? Or do I go to the temple that I've known from my birth? It's the true temple in Mount Gerizim. So he would have thought. Where do I go? Which temple? Which priest? Which law? And where does he go? He goes to Jesus. He goes to Jesus. He realized that somehow, in some way, all of these things, the temple, the priesthood, the sacrifices, somehow they were all fulfilled in this man. He went back to Jesus to worship. The temple. What is the temple? But the place where God comes to dwell with his people. That place where God is with them, not just with them in terms of his omnipresence, as a God's everywhere, but with them as the God of grace. The God who you can to whom you can you can approach who you can approach, you can come near him. God dwelling with his people. In Jesus, God came, as the Apostle John tells us, and tabernacled among his people. The priests. Who were the priests? The priests were the ones who who confirmed a healing that took place. But who is Jesus? He was the priest who not only confirms the healing, but gives the healing, brings the healing, makes one whole and clean and restored. Jesus. Jesus is the sacrifice that actually makes atonement for sin. actually pays the penalty for our sin. All of the sacrifices, have you ever thought of that? All of those lives, all of those animals, all that blood that that was shed for hundreds of years, not one animal ever atoned for anyone's sin. Not one. Not one drop of blood of these animals ever atoned for Israel's sin. But all of them were reminders, all of them were promises. That God would not only accept a perfect sacrifice, but that God would provide that perfect sacrifice as well. The temple, the priests, the law, the sacrifices, all of it is fulfilled in Christ. And the Samaritan got it. You know, we're given just this brief notice in verse eleven. It's tempting to just Pass on by it. It says, on the way to Jerusalem, he was passing along between Samaria and Galilee. When you compare this note of Jesus' journey to Jerusalem with many other notices like this in Luke's gospel. It becomes clear that Jesus' journey for Luke was more of a theological reality than it was a geographical reality. And what I mean by that is that geographically you can't move along between Samaria and Galilee and be going toward Jerusalem. It's not speaking here so much of a direction as much as a purpose or goal of life Jerusalem was more of a theological than a chronological or geographical matter. It says that Jesus' mission Would ultimately culminate on a cross. This is what Jesus had come to do. He had come to set his face like a flint toward Jerusalem. And head in that direction to pay the penalty for sinners. Jesus' life, you see, brothers and sisters, was a steady movement, right? a journey, as it were, toward a certain climax. And the climax is when Jesus himself would become the unclean one Jesus himself will be would become the outcast one, the rejected one, not just by society in general, though, though he certainly was that, wasn't he? But he was the outcast and the reject and the unclean one before his father in heaven. He took on to himself that spiritual condition. So that people like that leper, the outcast, people like you and me, spiritual lepers, might never know that kind of curse. That's Jesus' journey to Jerusalem. I don't mean to suggest in this point that Jesus was somehow playing a trick. On the other nine lepers. When Jesus says, were not ten cleansed? Where are the nine? No one was found to return and give praise to God except this foreigner. He's not saying that this was like a mind-bender. This is a trick and you got it and the other ones didn't get it. But what he is saying is that it's because of his faith The Samaritan perceived that the priests, the temple, the sacrifice, these were all designed to ultimately bring people to God through Jesus Christ. Right? They were meant to ultimately bring Israel to become worshipers of the Messiah, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus, you see, brothers and sisters, is the object of Christian worship. We worship Jesus. Jesus is the one who died on a cross for our sins. You know, we r we talk about a lot of good things as reformed people, don't we? Grace. Salvation. Covenant. Right? Sovereignty. All of these are good things to know, and we should care about them. None of those actually died for you on a cross. Jesus died for you on a cross. And that's who we worship. Jesus of Nazareth. So worship, what is worship? It's not an experience we try to work up inside ourselves. What is worship? Worship is a focusing of our hearts, our minds, our affections, our loyalties. on the one who loved us so much, who loved us more than we could ever know, and who did for us the unimaginable. Right? Sent his son to die, be killed on our behalf Finally, this account tells us something about the nature of worship. Namely, that worship is, Christian worship at its heart is a response. Okay, it's a response. As long as we understand worship to be something primarily about us, something that we do, that we need to do, and something in which we are at the center. We will always worship wrongly. You know, so much of of worship in the the ancient world was designed to coerce the deities. To somehow little kids, you might know this, sometimes uh well hopefully none of your siblings, but sometimes they siblings can get you in a headlock Yeah? And it was where they get your head in their their arms and they they can move you any way they want. And because they have you in a headlock, you have to do what they say. Right? That was pagan worship. It was designed to get their gods in a headlock so they could say to God, you have to do this for me because I did this for you. I fed you for a month, now you have to get me a wife. I've offered incense at your altar, now you have to you know heal my disease. It was coercion. It was an attempt to manipulate, coerce. And barter with gods. That is not Christian worship. God is not indebted to us because we've come here this morning No, what is Christian worship? Worship is a response. It is a response to what God has done for you, completed for you, finished for you in Jesus Christ. Now a response, by definition, comes second. A response means someone else has to speak first, right? And we respond. And so when we hear the good news that God has done everything necessary for you and for me to know forgiveness and to know healing, that when Jesus said on the cross, it is finished, that he meant it. How do we respond to such news? How do we respond? Our worship, whether it's corporate worship. Like today on Sundays, or family worship during the weeks, or private worship. These are never things that earn us favor with God. God does not love you more because you've come to church this morning. God does not love you more if you read your Bible during the week. Do you know that? Especially you mothers of little kids. I know how hard it is. I feel so much guilt. I didn't read my Bible today. Maybe God won't love me as much Reading your Bible is a good thing to do. And it's likely that you'll love God more if you read your Bible, but God does not love you more. God cannot love you more anymore than he loves his own son, Jesus Christ. That's how much he loves you today. And he cannot love Jesus anymore. And so he cannot love us any more than he does. Because we are by faith. So united to Christ that all that He has is ours, all the riches of heaven, all the glories of resurrection life. and the affection of his father. It's ours. And so why do we worship? Why do we worship? We worship because it is the natural and appropriate response to the gift we've been given in Jesus Christ. Just like Jesus didn't have to tell the Samaritan to come back and worship. There was something very natural about this, something very appropriate about it. That when we apprehend just a portion, when we get just the slightest glimpse of God's free grace to sinners in Jesus Christ, When we get a glimpse of the sufficiency and perfection of Jesus' atonement, it's also natural for us To fall on our faces at Jesus' feet and to worship Him. And so if you have a difficult time worshiping It just doesn't do it for you. You don't get the feeling you'd like to get. You don't have the experience you'd like to experience during worship. Don't focus on yourselves. Don't pay it too much mind. Lift your eyes off your belly button and cast them on the cross. Look to Jesus. Remember what Jesus did for you. Worship will follow. Let Christ be at the center. And this is how we live as Christians, brothers and sisters, in an unbelieving world. We live as worshipers of Jesus. And this is also how we make worshipers. of Jesus. Not by focusing on ourselves, not by focusing on our worship services, but by focusing on Christ. If we tell people about the greatness of Christ and they come to believe in Him, then their worship will follow. You don't get the sense that the Samaritan went away from Jesus. And told all of his friends about what a great worship experience he had. Right? He didn't go and say, this man healed me and I thanked him so well. I gave him such great thanks. I really felt good about my thanks. It was more of a contemporary thanks, but a traditional thanks would have been okay. He didn't talk about his thanks. He talked about Christ. Right? Christ is what is important. And it's this response, by worshiping rightly and often, that we become reoriented to the nature of reality. Right? This is why we need to worship, to have our hearts and our minds reoriented to what this life is all about. Who we are, who God is, what He's done for us. We need to do this because we get confused. We get we get disoriented We get too confused into thinking, my sin is too bad for God to forgive. That's a lie. But we believe it often, don't we? We believe the lie that what this world has to offer me is better than the next. It's a lie. But we believe it. We need to be reoriented weekly on Sundays. Here. Daily in our homes with our families, we need to be reoriented to points one and two. Who is the subject of worship? Sinners. Who is the object of worship? A sufficient Savior, Jesus Christ. A God of love who did not spare his own son but gave him up for us all. We need to be reminded, brothers and sisters, what life is all about. It's about worshiping God and loving our neighbors. These realities that we uh these are realities that we are not aware of on our own. They need to come to us from the outside. They need to be preached to us from the outside, from God's Word We need a God to speak them to our hearts and what do we need to do? We need to respond. We need to listen. We need to believe. And it's only then that we're able to say thank you with our lives as well. Would you bow with me in prayer? Our Father, we thank you for the sufficiency of Jesus' atoning work. That He died not for For people who are well, not for people who are holy and moral, but for people who are sinners, people who hated him. He died for the likes of us. And uh Father, we ask your forgiveness for how we've uh held Christ's work in little regard in our lives. And we thank you that you continue to preach this same message of good news to those who are slow to hear, slow to believe, and slow to respond. We thank you that you promised to do a good work in our lives even today. That is stirring us up to faith once again, stirring us up to love and good works. And we ask that you would do that very thing. As we've heard your gospel and as we look forward to partaking of your holy sacrament, we ask that you grow us in grace. And impress upon our hearts the certainty of our salvation in Christ. Would you do this work for us in His name? Amen.