As Chris said, this is the last of the three weeks that I will be with you. Let me say before I begin that it has been, as it always is, a delight to be with you, to worship with you, and to serve you and to serve your pastor as well in his absence. These last couple weeks we've spent um In a study of Acts 10, we conclude our series this morning in the Old Testament. You can see our text is taken from the book of 2 Samuel. Chapter 23, verses one through seven, Second Samuel twenty-three, beginning at verse one, if you'll stand. Let me read for us the Word of God. Now these are the last words of David David, the son of Jesse, declares, and the man who was raised on high declares: the anointed of the God of Jacob and the sweet psalmist of Israel. The Spirit of the Lord spoke by me, and his word was on my tongue. The God of Israel said, The rock of Israel spoke to me He who rules over men righteously, who rules in the fear of God, is as the light of the morning when the sun rises. A morning without clouds, when the tender grass springs out of the earth through sunshine after rain. Truly is not my house so with God, for he has made an everlasting covenant with me, ordered in all things and secured. For all my salvation and all my desire, will he not indeed make it grow? But the worthless Every one of them will be thrust away like thorns, because they cannot be taken in hand. But the man who touches them must be armed with iron and the shaft of a spear And they will be completely burned with fire in their place. 2 Samuel 23, 1 through 7. May God add his blessing to the reading of his word. Let's pray together. Our Father, that is indeed our desire and our prayer that you would add your blessing to the reading and the expounding of your word. For apart from your blessing, these words fall on deaf ears and stony hearts. We pray that you'd grant us your spirit, that we might understand, that we might believe, that our lives might be shaped by these things. And we pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Well, quickly, by way of review, we have spent These past two weeks together here at Christ Reformed, learning about Jesus And learning about him, you recall, from a sermon that Peter preached about him in Acts chapter 10, two weeks ago, what we learned about Jesus Is that he is both the one in whom forgiveness of sins is to be found, and the one who will carry out divine judgment on the last day. Both judgments. and forgiveness in Christ and by Christ. That's what we studied together two weeks ago, last week what we learned is that God the Father has made abundant provision that all of that should be made known. God the Father has borne witness. To the person and work of his incarnate Son. In particular, he's done so by providing for us the Bible as we have it today, Old and New Testaments. Each of them in different ways, amounting to the Father, saying to the world, Behold my Son. See the wonder of who he is, see what he has done. For his people, for my people. And one of the things that we considered in the context of all of that last week is that the Old Testament is indeed part of the Father's witness To the Son, not just in the sense that you have certain passages here and there that clearly predict Jesus in the Old Testament, though of course that's true. But also in the sense that the whole thing, the whole Old Testament, sets the stage for Jesus, the whole of Israel's history. and her laws and her writings setting the stage for Christ, looking forward to his coming and his work. Well, think of our passage today as a case in point. The so-called last words of David in 2 Samuel 23. A passage that does set the stage. A passage that contributes to the Old Testament looking forward to a much greater king in the line of David who would come one day. The last words of David in Second Samuel twenty three. Now, um the fact that they're described that way doesn't mean that they were necessarily the absolutely last words. that David ever spoke on earth. These are the last words of David, in the sense that they represent his last enduring poetic legacy left to the people of God after him. And an important legacy it is. Here is King David, after all that he's been through. After all of his highs and lows, victories and defeats, hopes and promises, at the end of his life, after all of that. He leaves behind the legacy of these words. And what is the theme of these words? It is what true covenant kingship. is and ought to be and why. What true covenant kingship ought to be. The last words of David. Let's take a closer look at them now. They're further introduced For us here in verse 1, as the last words of David, and then the oracle of David, the son of Jesse, the oracle of the man who was raised on high. The anointed of the God of Jacob, the sweet psalmist of Israel. There's verse 1. So these words are, first of all, an oracle or an utterance. by David. In other words, they are an official and authoritative pronouncement on his part. We're told that much about his words. And then David himself is introduced. to us here in verse 1 and in a variety of ways. What do we learn about David here? Well, he's the son of Jesse and He is the man who was raised on high. Do you see the pattern there? It is the pattern or the trajectory from lowliness. to exaltation. Because that was indeed the course of David's life. Once upon a time he was little more than the son of Jesse. And what's more, the most unlikely son when it came to picking Israel's new king, David, a lowly shepherd boy, and yet it was David who was picked. Lowly David, who was chosen by God to rule his people, who was raised on high by God to a place of authority and blessedness, the like of which no man had ever known. Son of Jesse, now raised on high, from lowliness to exaltation. Here at the end of his life, in his last words, David has that sense about himself. Also, this, we're also told that he is the anointed of the God of Jacob. Anointing with oil, you know, was the customary ceremony by which prophets and priests and kings in ancient Israel were were set apart for their respective offices. Well, David himself had been anointed by Samuel. We read about that in 1 Samuel 16. And here at the end of his life, David hadn't forgotten that. That meant something to him. David remembers that God, through Samuel, had set him apart all those years ago. And not only that, but we're told here that it was the God of Jacob who had done so. The anointing of David all those years ago was in keeping with the promises. that had been made to those ancient patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And then finally in verse 1, we're also told this about David. He is the sweet Psalmist of Israel. And in fact, here in this very passage, David the Psalmist is leaving behind one last poem for the people of So there you have verse 1. David's oracle is introduced for us. David himself is introduced. And then verse 2, his poem begins: The Spirit of the Lord speaks by me. His word is on my tongue. The God of Israel has spoken, the Rock of Israel has said to me. Verses 2 and 3, there is an explicit claim by David to be speaking by divine inspiration. He makes it clear the words that follow will be God's words. as well as David's. And David describes God here as the rock of Israel, how David loved to acknowledge God in just that way regularly in the Psalms that he wrote. God is my rock. Now, what is it that the rock of Israel had said to him? Well, the end of verse 3, on into verse 4, when one rules justly over men. Ruling in the fear of God, He dawns on them like the morning light, like the sun shining forth on a cloudless morning. like rain that makes grass to sprout from the earth. Beautiful poetry, I think. Remember that this is And poetry in Hebrew, just as it is in English, isn't entirely straightforward. There are nuances, there are images, there are challenges. This poem is no exception. So one translator gives it to us this way. He translates the end of three in verse four like this. A ruler over humans, a righteous one, a ruler with the awe of God, is like the light of daybreak as the sun rises. A day break without clouds, by dint of brightness, by dint of rain, the herbage of earth So there are a variety of ways in which this language might be translated. You see, it has a kind of impressionistic feel to it. But the basic idea is clear enough. The idea is here is what covenant kingship can and ought to be. Here's what it ought to be. It ought to be marked by righteousness and by the fear of God. Ideal kingship in both its horizontal and its vertical dimensions. The king is to be just, he's to be righteous in his rule over men, over those who are his subjects. And he's to be reverent. He's to be humble in his place under God. That says David. is what covenant kingship ought to be. And you know the people of Israel were equipped to understand that and to practice that in a way that no other ancient Near Eastern people was. How common it was for the nations of that time and place to think of their kings as if their kings were gods themselves. Hardly fearing the true God. And so no wonder that the very institution of kingship among the nations at that time was liable to so much arrogance. And injustice. According to David, how different! How so very different should the King of Israel be from all of that, ruling justly. And ruling in the fear of God. And according to David here in this poem, when you've got a king like that, morning light Cloudless morning sky, sun shining, brightness with rain together, bringing growth and bringing life. In other words, when you've got a king like that Who rules faithfully like that? Well then all is as it should be. There's a kind of wholeness, a harmony to life that results. Life is sweet and it is warm and it is large. That is the force. of David's poetry, and then he marvels in verse five, for does not my house stand so with God? For does not my house Stand so with God. Here David has just painted this beautiful picture of what kinship ought to be. And then he says, that's my house. God has made my house, in other words, my lineage, me and my sons after me, to be a kingly line like that. He has a kind of marvel about it. That he, David and his sons after him, should stand out in the world as a kind of model Of ideal kingship. And what's more, he knows that his house is a kingly house like that, only because God has condescended to make it so. Because he says this, does not my house stand so with God? He has made with me an everlasting covenant ordered in all things. And secure. God has made with me, David says, an everlasting covenant ordered in all things and secure. There, in those words, is a reference to one of the most important moments in the whole of the Old Testament. It's a reference to what happens in 2 Samuel chapter 7. A moment that is, I think, one of the highest peaks. on the landscape of Old Testament Revelation, if not the highest peak altogether. 2 Samuel chapter 7. In that chapter. You have the record of God condescending through his prophet Nathan to establish a binding covenant with his king David, a covenant guaranteeing that David's house will indeed be a kingly house forever. Listen to a few verses from that chapter 7. Here's the promise that comes to David through Nathan. When your days are fulfilled. And you lie down with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you, who shall come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be to him a father and he shall be to me a son. When he commits iniquity, I will discipline him with the rod of men, with the stripes of the sons of men, but my steadfast love will not depart from him As I took it from Saul, whom I put away from before you, and your house and your kingdom Shall be made sure forever before me. Your throne shall be established forever. That's from 2 Samuel 7. That's the promise from God through Nathan to David. And at that point, David hearing those words, he's so overcome. That all it can do is to go before the presence of the Lord and say, Lord, who am I? Who am I? What is my house? That you should do such a thing as this for me. 2 Samuel chapter 7. Well, here we are in 2 Samuel 23. At the end of his life, David's last words, and he's still holding on to that covenant promise. He still remembers that moment. That moment recorded for us in chapter 7, and he is still moved and encouraged by it, and he still marvels at it, so that he says here, God has made with me. an everlasting covenant, ordered in all things and secure. And that, says David, that is why It's true of me and of my house after me, that we are kingship as it ought to be. You see, it's not just David's personal character that matters, though of course it does. It matters. that David should be a man of a kind of character, that he should be a man who rules justly and in the fear of God. But it's not just that. It's not just what's true of David as a man and as a king. It's true of the relationship that he bears to God as king. David is a godly ruler only because God, by covenant, has made him ruler. And so David can be confident in his God, and you see that he is. At the end of verse 5, he asks this rhetorical question: For will he not cause to prosper all my health? and my desire, literally, it reads, Will he not cause my health and my desire to sprout In other words, David keeps going here with this growth and fruitfulness imagery that he's been using. Will my covenant God, he says, ever fail to save me? Will he ever fail to satisfy me? No, he will not. He will cause, as it were, those very realities to sprout up from the ground. David is confident in his God. Verse 5. And then verses 6 and 7, David concludes he does so by using yet more growth and sprouting imagery, but now he uses it in a very different way. Verses 6 and 7. But worthless men are all like thorns that are thrown away, for they cannot be taken with the hand. But the man who touches them arms himself with iron and the shaft of a spear, and they are utterly consumed with fire. Here is a very different kind of growth. With a very different kind of outcome. Worthless men who are themselves like thorns to be cast away. Worthless men. Now we need to be clear here about what David does and does not mean when he refers to certain men as worthless, because of course it is true. The Bible teaches that every man and woman and child has worth, has value, has significance. as a creature made by God, especially as a creature made in the image of God. There is an intrinsic worth. to human life. So what does David mean when he refers to certain men as worthless? Well remember the context of the passage. What has David just been saying? He's been saying that his own house embodies ideal kingship, thanks to God's condescending covenant mercy, that his own house has been taken up into the purposes of God, to be used by God to bring glory to himself. In other words, the sharp contrast here has to do with the purposes of God. When he talks about certain men as worthless, he's got in mind those who have actually risen up in opposition to God's purposes. In contrast to David himself, who is a friend, a friend to the purposes of God, who has in fact been incorporated into the divine purposes. Thanks to covenant. The difference is between worth and worthlessness with respect to God's plan in terms of what God is doing. In the world and among his own people. And in that respect, David certainly speaks rightly about such men. Worthless like thorns that are thrown away. In contrast to David and his house A house that God tends as a gardener, tenderly, lovingly, carefully, causing growth and fruitfulness. Well, in contrast to that, these men are like thorns, says David, thorns that are good for nothing. And, he says, dangerous at that. The gardener doesn't handle thorns with his bare hands. He doesn't care for the thorns tenderly and lovingly. No, he doesn't even touch them. David says he waxed them with iron. And he burns them with fire. The gardener, sadly, must become the destroyer, because that's the only thing you can do with them. That's the only thing they're good for, to be destroyed. Verses 6 and 7, admittedly, a rather hard word to round out David's last words. But I say to you, don't let the hardness of this last note Cause you to forget what has gone before in verses one through five. And in fact, if anything, this very last word ought to make you appreciate all the more David's words that came before it in the midst of so much worthlessness. And vanity and frailty. Still, there is this one man whom God has raised up to be a man after his own heart, even to be a king over his own people, a king who rules justly. And who rules humbly, whose reign means light and rain falling and fruitful growth. These are the last words of David. Now these last words that we have looked at. Coming as they do, and appropriately so, near the end of the book. Of course, they've got to be read in the light of the rest of the book, that is to say, the book that is 1st and 2 Samuel together. We're reading here near the end. It's good for us to take a step back and to study them in the light of what has gone before. And when you do that, what do you find? When you go back and read the story of David, son of Jesse, from the beginning, and compare it with these last words. In chapter thir twenty-three, what do you find? Well, on the one hand, you do find that, in many ways, David was an ideal king. He was And he's described this way, a man after God's own heart. And he ruled that way. Justly. Fearing God. And not only that, but as we've already seen, it's also true that he was brought into a special covenant relationship. With God. Chapter 7. Remember, we looked at that before. His house was to be a kingly line forever. So it's true. There was a real glory about David's reign In terms of the kind of man that he was, in terms of the kind of favor that God showed to him, and uh what's more The glory of David's reign shines all the more brightly when you compare it with the reign of the man he followed, and that was Saul, in so many ways everything that David was not. Saul a man after his own heart, and he ruled that way. And therefore he was rejected as king. I think it's um Fair to describe the book of 1 and 2 Samuel as the tale of two kingships. And it really is that. There is a stark contrast. between Israel's first king and her second one. Think even about the imagery in our poem This Morning. David describes the ideal king as the dawning of morning light. Well compared to Saul he was just that. Under her first king, we might say Israel had known the darkness of night under Saul. But under her second king, under David, the morning light had dawned. So, glory, faithfulness, the fear of God under David, all of that is true. You do find that as you go back and read his story. But you also find other things. And we need to be honest about what we read when we go back and read 1 and 2 Samuel. It is a very realistic book When you read David's story, you get David, son of Jesse, warts and all. He wasn't impeccable. on his way to the throne, and he certainly wasn't impeccable when he finally got there, when he finally did become king over all the people. And in fact, after 2 Samuel chapter 7, after that great high point in which the covenant is established. Almost the entire second half of the book is this unrelenting chronicle of sin and misery. and chaos and death in David's house, in fact in David's own life, beginning with his sin with Beth Sheba and it all begins to spiral out of control from there, murder and rape and rebellion and destruction and all of that within his own household Let's be honest, you find those things too when you go back and read, so that when we come to chapter 23. And read the words that we are studying this morning, you can't help but feel some tension. And rightly so, it's a bit jarring. to read the kinds of things that we've read in 2 Samuel 23 in light of the story that has gone before. And not only that, but it keeps going. In fact, it gets worse after David. If there were small cracks in David's reign, the cracks gave way to wholesale crumbling in the reigns and the centuries after him. 400 years after David his kingly house is in his shambles. One rotten, faithless king after another, especially near the end. And by that point, God has had enough. And so the Babylonian armies come around 600 BC Judah is defeated. Jerusalem is destroyed. And the king of Judah, the descendant of David. Ruling on the throne is carried off into exile with the rest of them. What on earth has become of David's last words? At that point in the story, just and God-fearing kingship, an everlasting covenant Morning light and rain and life and harmony and wholeness by six hundred BC. That's not what it looks like. David's house has apparently become the thorns. Good for nothing but to be whacked. And burned with fire. What has become of David's last poetic legacy to the people of God? And we can imagine The people of God were probably asking the same sorts of questions at the time. Fortunately, for them and for us, there was an answer. To those questions, God's answer, the kingly house of David would rise again from the ashes of the exile, and in fact it would rise one day to heights that David himself had never known. That was God's answer, a hopeful answer. And he gave that hope to his people through his prophets looking forward. Setting the stage. Listen to the prophet Isaiah. Looking forward. This is from chapter 11 in Isaiah. Here's the promise. There shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse. And a branch from his roots shall bear fruit. And the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him. The spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord. And his delight shall be in the fear of the Lord. He shall not judge by what his eyes see, or decide disputes by what his ears hear, but with righteousness. With righteousness he shall judge the poor, and decide with equity for the meek of the earth, and he shall strike the earth with the rod of his mouth. And with the breath of his lips he shall kill the wicked. Righteousness shall be the belt of his waist, and faithfulness the belt of his loins. In that day. The root of Jesse, who shall stand as a signal for the peoples, of him shall the nations inquire, and his resting place. Shall be glorious. That's Isaiah chapter 11. You see the promise. The kingly house of David wasn't finished Grim as things were, by 600 B. C. , the kingly house wasn't finished. The last words of David would be vindicated after all. One day a king would rise. From that house, the likes of which Israel had never seen, and in the fullness of time his rising was announced in this way And the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David. And he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom. There will be no end. There you see the last words of David come true. Finally, fulfilled in Jesus of Nazareth, the one who was Raised on high from lowliness, in his case, the lowliness of his birth in Bethlehem. The one who is also the anointed of the God of Jacob In his case, anointed with the Holy Spirit at his baptism, the God man, who came to save his people and to rule over them as the true ideal king, and he did it. He accomplished that rule. He inaugurated it by means of his obedience and his death and his resurrection from death. And now he does reign on high as king. By his almighty grace, winning his subjects over to himself so that they bow before him and honor him as they ought to do. By his word and spirit ruling and defending his subjects, causing them to flourish as the subjects of his kingdom. And not only that, but one day to do away with all their enemies. That, you see, is the rain. of King Jesus reigning even now. And sure enough, do you see he rules just as David described Just as Isaiah described, he rules justly. His kingly ways, they are perfectly just and righteous and good. And by virtue of his true humanity, he rules in the fear of God David had referred to that. Isaiah had prophesied that, and it's true, his delight shall be in the fear of the Lord, and that is true. Of the Lord Jesus Christ by virtue of his humanity even now. So does Christ rule justly Fearing God, and so is his kingship, like morning light, and refreshing rain, and life, and fruitfulness. For all those upon whom he shines. That is our King Jesus Now let me conclude this morning with a few words of application for us. Let me say, first of all, if there are any with us today who do not bow in faith. Before this king who do not believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. Let me say this to you. You need to understand that he is a just and a righteous king. And that means not only tender, loving care for those who love his kingship. It also means just judgment against those who oppose it. He is a just and righteous king, and you need to understand that he is thoroughgoing in his righteousness. The same Jesus, who is like light and rain and life to his people, also wields the iron and the spear against the thorns. An unbeliever, you need to understand that in your unbelief today, sadly, that's where you fit into the passage. The thorny part at the end. And you need to understand the kind of king that Jesus is. He is a just King who not only blesses his faithful subjects. But he also puts down the rebels. And I call you today, I urge you, will you lay down your arms? Will you give up your rebellion and believe on him and be saved and bow in faith before the one who is the true King? So do I call you today in his name. To those of us who do, believe in him, those who are already counted among his faithful subjects. Let me say this to you, to us Read the last words of David and read there a description Of the kingship of Jesus, as you yourself ought to be experiencing it In other words, you don't uh want to read about Christ as a just and righteous king whose reign means life. and light for his people and then come away thinking, well, isn't that a nice idea in the abstract? But it sure doesn't have anything to do with me because I don't see it. I don't feel it myself in my own life. If that's the case Let me urge you to think again because Jesus is reigning now. And his reign is meant now to mean something to you. Not just some interesting idea that we trace out from 2 Samuel to the New Testament. It's a reality now. That ought to shape and inform, even change your life. The reign of your King Jesus is meant to mean in measure life. And wholeness and fruitfulness for you. It's meant to produce in you, for example, a delight to submit to his royal will. It's meant to cause you to grow in that delight, you yourself becoming more and more like him, more and more just and fearing God. It's meant to give you a sense of peace and joy to think that you do have a king like that. You see his reign. Is meant to have these kinds of fruits and effects in your life. And let me say to you, if you find that you have so little of them If you find instead that it seems to be day after day only spiritual barrenness and dryness And fruitlessness and famine, let me encourage you, don't settle for that. Don't put up with that. Because the reign of your king is meant to be something so very different from that. And you've got to seek him. Your King, your gracious King, who longs far more than you do that you experience his reign as you ought to do. Go to him, seek him. You will find him waiting. You will find him for you and not against you, and eager by his spirit to cause these fruits in you To the degree that you do find these things to be true, well then rejoice and give thanks. You need to understand You need to understand those fruits in the light of this truth. What are they? They are nothing less than the reign of your king being worked out in your life. Rejoice in him then. And then this final word. Even for those who are flourishing in this way Even at its best, the reality is that in this life we do not see the reign of our King Jesus in all of the glory. In which we will see it one day in the life to come, even at its best. In the world around us now, to be sure, even in the church, sadly, and even In measure in our own hearts and lives. In this life, instead of light and life and joy and holiness, there seems to be so much darkness And discouragement and sin. We need to be honest about that. There is a sense in which all is not as it should be, all is not as it will be, and so we might be tempted to think. That the reign of Christ is not now what it should be. As if there were some flaw in it now, as if he were falling asleep on his royal job. But then take a second look at your king. Think again about the nature of his reign. Because you see it turns out that there's nothing wrong with it, no flaw in it after all. Because you see our King Jesus. Is perfectly content to work out his reign until its final consummation patiently. That's his way. Patiently until the last day when he will return. And then, then he will make all things right, all things new. And in the meantime. Insofar as you do find clouds in the sky, spiritually speaking, drought and thorns around you and in you, even those things. Are meant by your king to draw you to him in such a way that you do cry out to him. To him who can turn clouds into sunshine after all. Do you see he is perfectly just and righteous in his rule? And that righteousness means that he will not fail you. David asked the rhetorical question, remember, you ask it too. Will he not cause to grow up? To sprout all your help and all your desire. That's the question. The answer is yes he will. In the end, he will have done just that, and he is doing that even now, until that day. Amen. Let's pray together. Our King Jesus, we do bow and rejoice in you this day. We worship you that you are God. We rejoice in you, that you are a king. Who rules justly and in the fear of God. A covenant king, in covenant with your Father who sent you and whose works you did. And in whose behalf you rule. We praise you that you are a king, unlike any other king, whose reign means eternal life. And wholeness and restoration and fruitfulness. And we do cry out to you today. To the degree that we lack these fruits, we seek you. By your Spirit, would you evermore work out your reign in us? And to the degree that we experience them, we give you all the thanks and praise. And we pray these things in your name. Amen.