Well, if you turn to Daniel chapter seven. Daniel chapter seven. And Let's see if we get connected here There we go. Well, this has been our topic: Living with Clarity, Grace, and Hope in a Polarized Hostile Culture. And tonight to this morning we're going to go back. to to hope. I don't know if how many of you know of Ron Dre, but uh he is a conservative journalist, um orthodox. Christian, author of the book The Benedict Option, the subtitle A Strategic A Strategy for Christians in a Post-Christian World. In a recent Interview he was asked, Why is your journalism so negative? And uh he responded, and and I love his response, he said, I am neither A pessimist or an optimist. But I am hopeful. I am neither a pessimist nor an optimist. But I am hopeful. I think what he was saying there is that Christian hope is is realistic. It understands that this world is not as it should be, as Psalm 84 calls it, it is a valley of tears. The world in which we live seems to be entering into a new chaotic, uncharted Strange, dark era, and uh recalled to a realistic hope that we are those Who are sojourners and exiles in this strange new world, which is not our home. And we're not just sojourners and exiles, but we are sent sojourners Sojourners and exiles, which is a key part of the message of Daniel. In Daniel, the book of Daniel was written to bring hope to exiles in sojourners. Who found themselves as strangers in a strange new world as we increasingly do so. Well, Daniel 7, the uh the The tone of Daniel changes at this point. So please follow as we read and hear God's Word. In the first year of Belshazzar, king of Babylon. Daniel saw a dream. Now, I want you to listen for the word saw and look. Daniel saw a dream and visions of his head as he lay in his bed. Then he wrote down the dream and told the sum of the matter. Daniel declared, I saw in my vision by night, and behold, the four winds of Heaven were stirring up the great sea, and four great beasts came up out of the sea, different from one another. The first was like a lion, and had eagles were Then, as I looked, its wings were plucked off. It was lifted from the ground and made to stand on two feet like a man. And the mind of a man was given to it. And behold, another beast, a second one like a bear. It was raised up on one side. It had three ribs in its mouth between its teeth. And it was told, Arise, devour much flesh. After this I looked, and behold, another like a leopard, with four wings of a bird on its back, and the beast had four Four heads, and dominion was given to it. And after this I saw in the night visions, and behold, a fourth beast, terrifying and dreadful. Exceedingly strong. It had great iron teeth. It devoured and broke in pieces and stomped what was left with its feet. It was different from all All the beasts that were before it, and it had ten horns. I considered the horns, and behold, there came upon up among them another horn, a little one. Before which three of the first horns were plucked up by the roots. And behold, in this horn were eyes like the eyes of a man, and a mouth speaking great things. And as I looked, thrones were placed, and the ancient of days took his seat. His collection His clothing was white as snow, the hair of his head like pure wool, his throne was fiery flames, its wheels were burning fire. A stream of fire issued. And came out from before him. A thousand thousand served him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him. The court Sat in judgment, and the books were opened. I looked, and then because of the sound of the great words that the horn was speaking. And as I looked, The beast was killed, its body destroyed, and giving over to be burned with fire. As for the rest of the beast, their dominion was taken away, but their lives were prolonged for a season and a time. I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven, there came one like a son of man, and he came to the The ancient of days, and was presented before him and to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom. That all peoples Nations and languages should serve him. And his dominion is an everlasting dominion that which shall not pass away. And his kingdom one That shall not be destroyed. This is the reading of God's word, and may He add His blessing to it. Lord God. We come into your presence this morning into a passage that is language that leads us often to confusion. And we pray that by your Spirit you would bring clarity and you would speak with clarity for your holy, exalted, and glorified Daniel, uh a book that is written for hope. And when we read Daniel 7, what does that sound like to you? What book of the Bible does that sound like to you? The book of Revelation. Yeah, it's a certain type of literature. Apocalyptic literature. And so let's just sort of get a big picture of Daniel. And part of that big picture that we're going to see is, remember I said because we've only got four gatherings, we're going to hit sort of themes in the book of Daniel. And those themes you can go back and read and study for yourself. But one of those overarching things is the kingdom of God. And that phrase, the kingdom of God, is repeated throughout the book of Daniel In all types of different settings and all types of different contexts. Now, here's the book of Daniel in a nutshell. The first six chapters of Daniel are narrative. It's storytelling. The rest of the book of Daniel, starting in Daniel 7 through 12, you might say is movie watching. If you listened carefully, you would have heard the words I saw, I looked, repeated again and again So in the first six chapters narrative, Daniel's relating his and and and his friend's interaction with the kings of Babylon. Babylon in a Persia, but in Daniel 7, Daniel is receiving dreams and visions. He's seeing. It's like movie watching. So um I as a as a young man I loved Tolkien's Lord of the Rings. Um but it wasn't until the movies came out that the evil Of the orcs and of the goblins and of Sauron became clear to me as it was visualized. And Daniel is now. Seeing, seeing dreams about the past, present, and future kingdoms of the world, and his people's relationship with those kingdoms. And the purpose of these visions, the purpose of this scene, the purpose of apocalyptic literature like this, whether in Daniel. or in Revelation is to bring a message of hope to the exiles. A message of hope that ultimately God Will restore his perfect kingdom in a world that is ruled by one evil kingdom after another evil kingdom. And so Daniel in his visions, in his dreams, is seeking to make a point to us, his people, that evil Is not ultimate. No matter how great the evil may seem, that evil is not ultimate. So this story begins with. You might say, scary music. Look at uh Daniel 7, verse 1. In the first year of Belshazzar, Daniel saw a dream. He wrote down the The dream. And he says, I saw a vision by night, and behold, the four winds of the heaven were stirring up the great sea. Now in ancient times, the The sea was a picture of evil. The sea was a picture of chaos. The sea was a picture of confusion. So as Daniel begins this, you're watching a movie. And and the theme seems very normal. And then suddenly eerie music starts playing in the background. What do you know? Sounds bad is getting ready to happen. And so you you're just watching the scene, enjoying the movie, that eerie music starts to play. Your body tenses up, there's this sense of foreboding and and danger and evil that you begin to experience. And that's exactly the setting. And Daniel's going, Oh my, oh my. And then four beasts appear. And uh First comes the the lion with its eagle wings and the eagle wings get plucked off and then it's raised up as a man and it's it's depicted it's depicted there and then. in that picture. Um and and most people think, well that's a picture of the Babylonian kingdom, six sixty BC and and uh and ultimately of King Nebuchadnezzar who's Wings were torn off. He was removed from his throne. He was animalized. But then he was but then he was raised up again. And and then the images after after the lion, the images start to get more and more violent. Uh there's the bear. It's raised up on his side. It's munching on three wheels ribs in its mouth and it's told to arise and devour flesh. And again, most people think that's probably Probably the Persian Empire, the largest empire at that known in the world, gnawing the bones of its prey, devouring, looking forward to devouring more. And then comes the third beast, the leopard with wings. Now, what is the fastest cat? It's the leopard. And the leopard With wings. Um, the cheetah. Yes. It's one of the fastest. Thank you. No, no, that's fine. So, but again, most people think, well, this is a picture of Alexander the Great Who's who conquered the Persian Empire in ten years. And then he would die as a young man in his new capital, Babylon, when he was 32 years old. But then comes the fourth beast. And what's interesting about the fourth beast is that there's no description of an animal. It's just this picture of this terrifying, dreadful, exceedingly strong beast with great iron teeth That devours and breaks and pieces and stamps what is left. People say, well, we've heard You know, we think we know what the first three were the fourth, that's gotta be Rome, you know, and but the only problem is that, you know, the the horns that takes us to the book of Rome. Revelation, the ten horns, the one horn, takes us back to the book of Revelation, the final great evil empire. The nature of apocalyptic literature, whether you know the empires or not, is that God says to his people, In this world, there will be one evil empire following another. And there will be ongoing violence. And there will be growing opposition to God's people in that world. And if you scroll down to verse 21, for example, you can see See the nature of that. This world will be one evil empire after another, which will involve the suffering of God's people. Verse 21. As I lucked this horn made war with the saints and prevailed over them. Verse 25. He shall speak words against the most holy, and shall wear out the saints of the most high. Apocalyptic literature, the point of it is, in this world, we'll have one evil empire after another. In God's exile sojourning, people will suffer. But This is the other point. Evil will not have the final say. And that's the point of apocalyptic literature. That's the point of These visions in Daniel, the visions in Revelation, that there's this big picture of history that gives gives God's people hope in the face of dis Great evil. That evil does not have the final say. That evil has an expiration day Now, when did that expiration date begin? My wife and I don't pay much attention to the attention to expiration dates in our refrigerator. But it's really interesting. I have some grandchildren that do. And we'll have grandchildren come to our house. And begin going through our refrigerator and saying, Mama and Granddad, why do you still have this? This expired in 1983. No, no. This expired in two thousand twenty-three. Well, we don't pay much extension much attention to Expiration dates, but God writes apocalyptic literature to say to his people, pay attention. There is an expiration date For all evil. And that your ultimate hope is God's kingdom. God's kingdom come. And in Daniel 7 The image, notice how the image shifts from the madness, the chaos of evil, to this calm of a throne room. As you look in verse nine, as I looked, thrones were placed. And the ancient of Days took his seat. Now do you think the Ancient of Days came rushing in all frustrated, concerned with this crazy mad world? What am I going to do? We think the Ancient of Days calmly walked in and sat upon his throne. His clothing was white as snow, the hair of his head like pure wool, his throne Was fiery flames. He was served by ten thousand upon ten thousands. The eternal, pure, sovereign. wise, holy King, who has set up his throne to judge the nations. And to bring All evil to its expiration date. But then there's a second throne. Notice it says two thrones were set up. And you see who occupies the second throne in verse 13. And I saw in the night vision, and behold, with the clouds of the Of heaven there came one like a son of man. And he came to the ancients of days and was presented before him. The Son of Man, one like a Son of Man. Jesus' self-identification in the Gospels. 180 different times. Every time Jesus is thinking back to Daniel 7. And what is he thinking about? Well we think well he's thinking about his incarnation. Well, I'm sure that's true. But I think more than that, he's thinking about his exaltation. Because it says, one like a son of man came to the ancient of days and was presented to him. His word He has on the cross defeated evil. He is now pres he is presented before the ancient of days. And to what is he given? And to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages Would serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be. Destroyed. Says, there is a kingdom that is coming. And Jesus comes and he announces What? The kingdom is at hand. Now, if you study the Gospels and you read the teaching of Christ You seldom hear him use the word gospel. As much as he uses the word Kingdom of God. I have come that the kingdom of God might be brought near. And the kingdom has come now. It's come through Jesus' life, death, and resurrection. It's a promise as old as Genesis chapter 3, that God would send a king who would break evil's power, who would reverse all of its effects. And make everything new. Make everything right. That is what Jesus came to teach. And somebody has said Said that the kingdom of God is God's future in our present. There's a purpose Perfect future coming. There's a final expiration date for evil, but that future is now in the present. How is it in the present? Present through the church, through the ministry Of the gospel, the very power of God to transform hearts and lives. It's present now It's already here. The kingdom of God, God's present in its future. Now it's it's it's growing. Remember Jesus' parable? of uh of the yeast as it continues to grow and grow in the bread. It's it's the picture of the kingdom. It's present. It's a kernel. It's it's still growing one day it's going to be final and fulfilled and consummated and it's come through the church of Christ. Servants of the King. Tim Keller says the says this, that the kingdom is at now work through God's people beginning to heal. The kingdom is at work through God's people beginning to heal all the effects of sin. And he he defines the effects of sin In this way. There's spiritual alienation. We are cut off from God. And in the gospel We offer that hope. That we need no longer be spiritually alienated. There is psychological alienation. We are cut off from ourselves There's guilt, there's shame, there's broken families, there's gender confusion, there's lack of meaning There's suicidal ideation. And there is social alienation. We are cut off from each other. There's racism and injustice and poverty and war and class struggle. And there's physical alienation. We are cut off from our nature with famine and disease and disaster. But God has sent the church As an agent, to bring God's future into the present on these effects World magazine has a thing called the Daniel of the Year. Anybody familiar with World Magazine? Every year they select a person, or sometimes it's a group, that they define as the Daniel of the year. Now, why would they choose? Daniel of the year. I mean time has the person of the year. Why would World magazine choose the title Daniel of the Year? Think of that. You see, these are all people who in some way They have ministered to the effects of sin in our broken world and brought Christ. healing and help and comfort and restoration and peace and hope into it Because they trusted Daniel's God. So there's the the already of the kingdom. And that is what we, the Church of God's people, are to engage in. We don't withdraw into our little And I hate to say it, insecure enclaves in this strange new world. This strange new world is full of opportunity to bring the kingdom to bear on lives that struggle with all kinds of alienation. So there's the already of the kingdom. Unfortunately, we sometimes look at that already and uh the church has sort of leaned towards This sort of culture war mentality. It already means that we're now engaged in a vital conflict with our culture. Do you understand that every war has casualties. Terrible casualties. I I I appreciate this quote by Dan White. He said, when you live in culture war mode, there's always a battle to fight, a side to take and people to fear. When you live in God's kingdom, there is always a stranger to welcome. The neighbor to be friend, and an enemy to love. I think that's the picture But the kingdom of God is also not yet Well I started with the Lord of the Rings. I'll end with the Lord of the Rings. How many of you read the book? Okay, some are the books. Some of you have. How many of you have seen the book? movies. More of you have seen the movies. Yeah, there's there's Aragon. Who is Aragon? Who is this man? You know, throughout the three books. Um and after the great battle of Pelinor with the powers of evil, the casualties are so great. And one of the nurses asked another nurse, how will you know who the rightful king is? And the nurse says in response, you will know, because there will be healing in his hands. And Aragorn is moving among the casualties, healing with his hands. Think about the miracles of Christ. You know, we think about the miracles of Christ, that somehow in his miracles Jesus was overturning natural order. Let me suggest Jesus in his miracles was not overturning natural order. He was restoring God's order. He was putting things the way God always intended them to be. He was making them right. And what One day there will be the ultimate healing of all creation and of all hearts who are in Christ Jesus. And all of Christ's miracles point to that day. Now some people warn and they'll say, Well Please don't be so heavenly minded that you're no earthly good. Hmm. I think most of us are so earthly minded That we don't offer the hope of the kingdom to the world. engage our society with fear and and anger and tribalism and cynicism when we should be engaged Engaging our world with the hope of the kingdom that has come. And see a world so strange, so deeply affected it with evil. is a world that is so full of opportunity for the king to reign and bring his power to bear upon lies I started with a quote from Ron Dreer. He said, I'm neither a pessimist nor an optimist. But I am hopeful. I'll end with a quote from Eugene Peterson. Eugene Peterson says this: the faith community knows more about what is wrong with this world. world and at the same time is less despairing and less cynical. Why? Because we see a big picture. And that's the point of apocalyptic literature for God's people. It says, please see the big picture. That's why in apocalyptic literature it always says, I I saw, see, look, see the big picture. That the rule of evil is not ultimate. It is not. Why Why do we make it so ultimate in our hearts? That we despair. Why? You see, God's rule Will have the final say. And his kingdom has come. And it is coming committed to addressing the issues of all the different alienations, of our culture, and of our war. May God grant us the grace to be his kingdom-minded, hope-filled, faith granted. Community, who display the glory and honor of Christ as we see a world full of gospel kingdom opportunity. Heavenly Father, hope is not this lip-biting, hard-pounding, heart-pounding, anxious gaze as we watch the penalty kick in the final seconds of our Our team's World Cup Soccer Game. The hope that you've given us in Christ. It's so encouraging, so strengthening, so renewing. May you renew us as you're People in this strange new world, as strangers, as sent exiles, to like Daniel, live with confidence In your ultimate kingdom. Your kingdom that is already. And how we look forward to the night. Not yet. In Jesus' name we pray.