Here Peter tells us in uh his uh second letter that we have received abundant promises from God that assure us that we in fact will share in the very likeness of God with which we were made. He writes this to us. His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence. by which He has granted to us His precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sin. Let's pray and then I'll have us stand for the reading of God's word. Oh gracious Father. We thank you that you have made so many promises that your very nature, as the unchangeable God who cannot lie, assure us that they will all be fulfilled. As we open together this text in Philippians and meet again some of its glorious promises, we ask that we might receive by faith what we hear that we might live it out and bring glory to Christ. It's in his name we pray. If you would, would you stand? Philippians chapter 2. We're looking at verses 12 to 18. Therefore, my beloved, as you've always obeyed, so now not only in my presence, but much more in my absence. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure. Do all things without grumbling or questioning, that you may be blameless and innocent, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation. among whom you shine as lights in the world, holding fast to the word of life, so that in the day of Christ I may be proud that I did not run in vain or labor in vain. Even if I am to be poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrificial offering of your faith, I am glad and rejoice with you all. Likewise you should be glad and rejoice with me. You may be seated. Mark Lamberton uh relates a personal story about a seemingly unsolvable problem that he had with the IRS. In his own words, he writes this. After several months of correspondence, and legal advice, it came time to have that personal uh meeting with an IRS uh agent. I had been told beforehand that I should expect this to take months and months, and maybe longer uh than uh that. When I arrived at the Oakland Office of the IRS, I was guided through a labyrinth of cubicles, finally, uh to the desk of a particular uh agent. And I had brought all that paperwork and she looked through it and then she excused herself to consult with another colleague. And I waited. And I waited 10, 15, 45 minutes. Seeming like she just uh disappeared. And then suddenly she was back. And she handed me a sheet of paper saying simply, well there it is. It's all done. It's settled. And I thought she meant, well, you know, the first step had been completed. But no, she turned the page over and showed me the nine signatures she had collected, moving up the IRS ladder. And she said, it's completely settled. And it was settled in my favor. I was a nobody, and I was powerless, and I knew that I was walking into a massive bureaucracy with my problem. And there I met a woman who was an advocate. She did for me what I could never have done for myself. Mark goes on to describe how this experience has become for him a parable of what the church can be in the world. We are to be those who move through a world that's broken, that's no longer ordered and works the way God intended where people are powerless and to represent and advocate as Christ's personal representative the message of the gospel that there is hope for them in our world. Now we can, of course, choose to be bureaucrats, shuffling paper all day, minding our own business, looking out for our own interests. But in that office, Mark encountered a woman who was his advocate. And it changed everything for him. And that's exactly the way every New Testament church should be, isn't it? Advocates for helpless, hopeless people. It was like that for me. I had a high school English teacher who shared the gospel and then invited me to her house church. one Friday night. And there in a room full of strangers, people gathered around and prayed for me. And I have never been the same since. Now, Paul is writing to the church in Philippi so that they might be the very presence and hope of God in a hopeless city. But discord in the church is undermining this. And so he continues with a series of exhortations. And they may seem kind of random to us, as if they come out of nowhere. But in fact. His concern is for unity. Unity is one of the principal themes and concerns in this letter. Now, it begins verse 12 with the word there for. And here it means for this reason. And it looks back to the paragraphs we've just examined. It goes back to chapter 1, verse 27. Let the manner of your life be worthy of the gospel of Christ. And then in that paragraph, the next paragraph, he he talks about our standing one in the Spirit, being of one mind, being of one accord. And then as we saw last week, he holds up Christ before us. how the Son of God took seven progressive steps in humbling himself, and how the attitude that Christ himself embraced. should be our attitude so that it results not only in a change of attitude in us, but in a lifestyle of humility that makes cooperative unity possible. Now Paul's concern for unity leads him to give practical guidelines for life in community. As you've always obeyed, so now continue to obey by, and here's what I want to show you, working out your salvation with confidence. Working out your salvation without grumbling or questioning, and working out your salvation in joyful sacrifice. Now It's so important to appreciate that this entire church had grown spiritually ill, and Paul is charging them to take whatever steps are necessary to restore itself to health. and integrity and wholeness. And the first step is this. Work out your salvation with confidence. Verse 12, work out your salvation with fear and trembling. Now Paul is using a comprehensive word here, salvation. It's not just simply the initial experience of grace where we might say you're saved. It's not simply conversion. No, it's God's redemptive activity in a whole, so that we are ultimately, individually, made to be Christ-like. And corporately, we represent a new humanity, the kind of community that God intended humans to share with one another. Work out here means to bring to completion. Now we don't work for our salvation. The word salvation means rescue. We don't rescue. ourselves, we simply can't do that. Paul develops this thought in Ephesians in the second chapter when he writes, even when we were dead in our trespasses. May He made us alive together with Christ. By grace you've been saved. We don't raise ourselves from the dead. That's not possible. And he adds, for by grace you've been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing. It's the gift of God. We don't shop for ourselves the gift of God's grace. We don't give it to ourselves. God bestows it. To work out our salvation is to be obedient over a lifetime. It's a long obedience in a single direction, as Eugene Peterson penned it And this means to finish life well. It's to overcome the tendency to drift spiritually, to resist complacency. to run the race set before us, overcoming every hindrance, every obstacle, every sin. And we're to do this with fear and trembling. This is a filial fear. It's the fear of a son not wanting to disappoint his father. It's not a fear of what God will do to us. It's rather a fear of what we might do to him. Verse 13 adds this. For it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure. One of my seminary professors, Moise Silva, who is a premier New Testament scholar, translates this this way. God himself is the one. Who makes it possible by producing in your lives both the will to work and the working itself and all for the sake of his gracious will. Now this verse parallels very closely the verse we encountered in the first chapter. Maybe one of your favorite verses in the Bible. I'm sure of this, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion on the day of Christ. Now, these two promises speak of the paradox of God's activity and our activity in the total work of salvation. And we often feel the tension of that, the tension that we want to resolve. None of us likes to be in a place of tension. And so we might resolve it in the f in favor of our working. And saying, you know, God doesn't force us to do what we don't want to do, and then grace becomes, we may not realize this, grace becomes, well, a little bit uh more, just not much more, than just spiritual aid. In other words, God will help us along, but it's really up to us Or we might stress God's part. And we might think, well, what Paul's driving at is we just need to let go and let God Just get out of God's way and that's pacifism. Neither of those has got it right. Both human and divine. Effort are stressed here. The word work means with great effort and great care. We must work out the results of our salvation, yet not by our own power, but rather by the power of God We don't do this in our human natural strength. It must be by the very power of God. Verse 13 begins with this word for. God's work is the cause of our working. Our activity is only possible because of divine grace. And Paul's grammar is emphatic. Paul says not merely God works, but listen closely, but the one who works, the working. is God. The one who works the working is God. God's influence extends not only to our activity, but to our very wills. He's insisting that the empowering presence of God is necessary for us to do any work, even having the desire to do that work. You can see this in Psalm 127 in the first verse or Psalm 90, the verse 17, where Moses says, establish the work of our hands, O Lord. We work out our salvation with confidence. We need to be very confident. For Paul adds, for his good pleasure. It tells us that God's work is effectual. That he can't be deflected from his purpose, from his course, nor fail to achieve what he intends. And given our daily failures, our infrequent despair over ourselves, what a wonderful comfort that is. That it ultimately it's up to God is at work here. He's going to get me over the finish line in life. And why does he do this? Well, he does it. He does it. Well, think of it this way. If he only works where he finds a promising response, where there's evidence of progress, when we really desire to do so, then none of us can really be hopeful of reaching this goal of Christian maturity. He does it because, well, he desires to do it. It's his free choice. It brings him pleasure. Just as he freely loves us, not because of what we can do for him, what he hopes to gain from us, but simply because it delights his heart. Pastor John Ortberg has an illustration that pulls all this together. He says, working in our salvation is a long-term endeavor. It's like crossing an ocean. Some people try day after day to be good, to become spiritually mature. It's like taking a rowboat to cross the ocean. It's exhausting, and it's usually unsuccessful. Others give up trying and throw themselves entirely on relying on God's grace. It's like drifting on a raft. They do nothing but hang on and hope that God will get them there. But neither trying nor drifting will actually bring about the spiritual maturity that God intends. It's much more like a sailboat. A sailboat is dependent on the wind, but a sailor, to move his sailboat, has to know how to turn up The wind has to read the wind to get his sails to pick it up. And so it is that we work with the Holy Spirit. It's the Holy Spirit's wind in our lives that produces the change that Paul's speaking of here, the completion of our salvation Now, one of the primary concerns that Paul has in writing this letter is unity. This uh concern uh bears uh connection with what I've just said because we're to pursue sanctification, growing in love and becoming Christ-like for the sake of others. This is hard for us because we live in a time and in a culture where we're very individualistic and we think mostly in terms of individual achievement In Jesus' day, the scribes and the Pharisees thought of themselves as the spiritually mature among the people of God. But they actually couldn't love other people. Jesus confronts them again and again for their lack of love. New Testament spirituality is fundamentally corporate. We grow as we live out our life together. Some of us, like me, my ministry is to be sandpaper in people's lives. I knock off the rough edges. Actually, there you have some people like that in your lives. Hopefully I'm not that much sandpaper for you. But it's in the relating to each other that we actually come to see if we're open to see it. How it is that we still need to grow in love, how it is that we need to grow in being forbearing, how it is we need to be compassionate and tender-hearted. Paul goes on to say, work out your salvation without grumbling or questioning. Verse 14, do all things without grumbling or questioning, says the ESV. Do everything in every dimension of your life. Work out your salvation. Without grumbling. What is that? Well, it's complaining under your breath. It's whispering complaints. And questioning means quarreling and debating in ways that raise doubts that can be divisive. This phrase, without grumbling and questioning, is an allusion to the Old Testament stories of Israel in the wilderness. As God brings them out of Egypt, they wander in the wilderness. And one of the reasons they wander so long is, well, because they put God to the test. Ten times in the book of Exodus and Numbers we read, they put God to the test. Exodus 17 is just a classic example. Israel is uh journing in the desert and they don't have water. And they grumble about it They grumble against Moses and they quarrel with God. They question his wisdom and his leading. They actually suggest God it'd have been better for us if he'd left us in Egypt. And of course God knew they needed water. He was trying to build something in them. But they couldn't see that. On another occasion, they complained about the menu. The menu wasn't to their liking. They wanted meat and vegetables and not manna. On another occasion, Miriam and Aaron complain about Moses. Korah leads a rebellion against Moses and Aaron. And to top all things off, when they reach the promised land and they send the spies in, the spies come back with a complaint. A people in the land are so big there's no way that we could take the land. God was not pleased. And the chief problem in the church in Philippi was a cord. Underneath it was complaining. Just what were they complaining about? Well, it's likely two things. One is their suffering. There are strong notes about suffering in this uh letter and as we kind of read it in reverse we realize that the topics Paul's addressing, he's addressing because that's what they need. But the other one, with a close reading, my name is Holmes, you know, as in Sherlock, so a little sleuthing here through this letter. And it suggests that Paul's call for unity, his denunciation of selfish ambition, which is repeated both in chapters 1 and chapters 2, his instruction to welcome and honor their leader, Epaphroditus, and people like him. That's 229. His appeal to Euodia and Sintica to be reconciled in chapter 4, his unusual mention of elders and deacons in the greeting, his instruction to follow those who live like Paul and his companions do. Strongly suggests that some of the complaints about their leaders, the leaders of their church in Philippi. Now we can't be certain about exactly the character of that complaint. We just simply uh don't know. But Paul views the complaining and the quarreling as threats to their unity. Now our hearts, well, I'll say my heart. I'll speak for myself and not for you. They drift toward complaining as if I'm being pulled by gravity. After all, complaining seems perfectly reasonable in the face of disappointment, whether it's events or expectations that other people don't meet. And I don't really have to extend an invitation for complaining to show up. It arrives as an uninvited guest. moves into the guest room, unpacks its bags, does a load of laundry, and starts to rummage through the refrigerator. That's what I see when I come home after a difficult day. And I can go in and pack up its bags and set them by the street and change the locks and the doors. But complaining comes right in through a bedroom window. It's not easy to evict. complaining. And part of the reason is that, well, complaining just feels right. It's familiar. And so it feels like, well, this is the appropriate response. And this is exactly what we see with Israel in the desert. And like them, I often miss the faith lessons God is seeking to develop in me. And I just hunker down in my response. I'm so slow. I have so far to go in being a Christian. So many of you are further along. uh than me in in your Christian uh living. And we just need to wake up. I need to wake up and uh notice what's happening. Well just how can we evict uh the spirit of complaint if you share this with me? Well, we can discourage complaints residency by inviting another guest to live in the house. And that guest is trust. When we choose to trust in the face of deep disappointment, complaint simply has less room to maneuver. If we trust that God is up to something, that God is at work even though Everything seems wrong to us. Well, then when complaining, grumbling seeks to unpack its bags, it finds that the guest room is already occupied by trust. Trust and complaint don't get along. They make very bad roommates. It's trust that evicts complaint. So we must examine ourselves. You know, we live in a time when complaining is just, it's accepted, it's expected, it's ordinary. Um and we joke, you know, I have nothing to complain about sometimes, and sometimes uh we mean it, but other times inwardly we think we do. We have to take ownership of this, of our grumbling, our questioning, and uh the divisiveness that flows uh from it and repent. And as for heart that trusts, that trusts God, and shows what love shows. Love hopes all things. It hopes. It believes. Now, if we root these out in our lives, then our lives will contrast to the people of our age. who Paul describes in his age, and it's true in every age, are morally crooked and twisted. Those who are without Christ This is the natural state. It was my natural state before Christ began to work in me. And when we do, when we root this out of our lives, we'll be blameless. That is above criticism. Pure, that is of wholesome character. Children of God, in other words, will bear the family resemblance of God our Father without blemish. And the result will be that we will be like stars. That shine even as Jesus, the light of the world, shines, will be little Christ. That's what Christian means after all. We'll shine like Jesus shines. Now we are to shine. That's what God wants of us, not just individually, but corporately. We're to be a testimony to the transforming power of the gospel. to the presence of God at work in a redemptive way in our world. And so Paul further adds, holding fast the word of life. Now the word of life In fact, almost all the time the this language word is used in the New Testament. It refers to the word of the gospel. And of course, all of the scriptures rightly understood actually announce the gospel one way or another. But it is the gospel that's transforming hope-giving power of God that we are to hold on to and as well to hold out. It runs in both these directions. We hold on to the gospel so that we are increasingly transcription. formed as people, morally and relationally, as well as in our minds. And the deepest parts of who we are are affections. And we're to hold out this word of life to a hopeless and perishing world. In effect, what Paul's saying here And it really, he says it in so many places, is be who you are in Christ. Let your life show That the gospel is transforming you, that's at work in you. This is what Jesus says in the Sermon on the Mount when he says, you are the light of the world. So let your light shine. Because you're the light of the world. Don't cover it up. Let that light shine. So instead of being occupied, With complaining, the church should be occupied with being distinctive in our lives. As well as Letting people know, being an advocate and an ambassador for people of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving them the hope of the gospel, even as my high school teacher uh did uh for me. It was utterly transforming in my life. And lastly, we're to work out our salvation in joyful sacrifice. Now Paul speaks of his own sacrifice when he continues, so that in the day of Christ I may be proud that I did not run in vain or labor in vain. Now Paul very often uses this language of running a race and of intense labor to describe his work as an apostle. And he's already spoken of the possibility of his death. His death would be an offering to the Lord, and he's borrowing here an image from Israel's sacrificial system. The main offering might be a bowl or a ram, but before the fire is lit, a cup of wine is poured out on middle libation. Let's add an aroma to the sacrifice. And Paul is saying this. He says, his sacrificial labor and even his his death, if it comes to that. are but the wine poured out on the substantial sacrifice of the Philippians faith. the quality of their life and service that's produced by faith. Paul's affirming them. He's saying, your faith is real. It's genuine. And he sees their sacrifices as a source of great and mutual joy. And they are to stand together. As a team of athletes advancing the gospel, their achievements and victories would be his, and his achievements and victories would be theirs. The Aditarod race is one of the most famous races in the world, where mushers take their sleds and dogs and traverse 1100 uh miles. It begins in Anchorage and it runs to Gnome It moves through treacherous uh passes over the frozen uh Yukon and along the windswept uh shores of the Bering Sea. And in any given year the first place winner takes between eight and 21 days to run the race. It's an extraordinary expression of endurance to run this race. In March 13th of 2003, Robert Sorley, a Norwegian fireman, was the first to pass under the branches on the main street, 1st Street in And even though it was two o'clock in the morning, it was uh below zero. Um, there were two thousand people on hand. to congratulate him for his victory. The mayor of Nome King as well as the governor of Alaska to celebrate Two hours later, an Alaskan musher, Ramey Brooks, crossed the line with his sled. And Robert Shirley was there to greet him and to celebrate. Hours later, Jeff King crossed, and Robert and Raimi danced in celebration for his amazing feat And then Martin Boozer crossed, and all three of them greeted him, and on and on and on. It wasn't required of them. It was simply that these athletes wanted to celebrate the remarkable physical achievements, the overcoming that had taken place to complete this race. That captures what Paul is saying here about shared joy, the joy of the Philippians that he has in them and their joy in him. Such joy is the byproduct, the end product of a unified church, when everyone takes personal responsibility for their spiritual lives. Not that we don't all help. But everyone has to take that responsibility. I can't do that for you. No one can do it for you. I can't do for you what only you can do for yourself. Where everyone is evicting grumbling and welcoming trusts and asking in the midst of disappointment and unmet expectations, what is God doing in my life? What is he seeking to teach me? And where joyful sacrifice feeds mutual respect and encouragement And accepting this wonderful promise that God is at work, that He is the one at work. He's putting the wind in our sails. Already in the short time we've been here, we've grown to love you. You're very dear to us. And so I want to say this out of a heart of love. God's agenda in a church is always unity. Always unity. Nothing displaces this agenda. Pursuing unity is how we redeem conflict. It's how we redeem it in our marriages. I can want to be right or I can want to have a wife. But often those are mutually exclusive choices. I have to respond in a different way. I have to pursue unity. It's true in our family. It's true in our friendships. And it is true in the church. It is pursuing unity is how we redeem conflict. Now we naturally want to be righteous. We want other people to say to us, of course you're right. And so we make our case. We argue our point. And what we end up doing is that we end up seeing how this desire rules our hearts. We want something so much. that we don't ask ourselves what would help to restore unity? What's necessary to protect unity Unity. And instead in our pursuit to be right, we fail to honor and respect the other person. We fail to value them. Let's pray. All gracious Father, which of us is not challenged? by what the apostle says to us here. Who can say that we have yet to reach maturity? Which of us is free from questioning and grumbling, even if we have such restraint that we don't express it out loud? O Father, which of us has reached the fullness of rejoicing in the achievements and advancements of others spiritually without concern for our own? Oh Father, be pleased to work. Redeem all that's happened here in our lives. Everything that's happened that's conflicted, whether it's a marriage this morning or uh a relationship between a parent and a child or in our extended families. Father, a friendship that's strained. or the life of the church. And we pray this not just for our church, Father, but all over, known to many of us, our churches that are likewise struggling. We pray that you would redeem all these things. The Christ may be honored