If you have a Bible, uh you are encouraged to turn uh to Mark chapter five. Let's pray once the once again before we read scripture. Lord God We thank you that you uh moved Mark to bear uh uh in his uh words not only the witness of Peter. to the acts of Jesus Christ, but also to receive the ministry of the Spirit so that with his personality and with the research he made, we have this gospel. Thank you that it is your word to us. And we ask that you might grant that our hearts would be receptive and able to receive the seed of this word. And it would bear fruit in our lives. For we pray in Christ's name. Amen. If you would, would you stand, please, for the reading of God's Word? Then they came to the other side of the sea to the country of the Garethens. And when Jesus had stepped out of the boat, immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit. He lived among the tombs, and no one could bind him any more, not even with a chain. For he had often been bound with shackles and chains, but he wrenched the chains apart, and he broke the shackles in pieces. No one had the strength to subdue him. Night and day among the tombs and on the mountains, he was always crying out and cutting himself with stones And when he saw Jesus from afar, he ran and fell down before him. And crying out with a loud voice, he said, What have you to do with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I adjure you by God, do not torment me. For he was saying to him, Come out of the man, you unclean spirit. And Jesus asked him, What is your name? And he replied, My name is Legion, for we are many. And he begged him earnestly not to send them out of the country. Now a great herd of pigs was feeding there on the hillside, and they begged him, saying, Send us to the pigs, let us enter them. So he gave them permission, and the unclean spirit came out and entered the pigs, and the herd numbering about 2,000 rushed down the steep bank into the sea and were drowned in the sea And the herdsmen fled and told it i in the city and in the country, and the people came to see uh what it was that had happened. And they came to Jesus and saw the demon-possessed man, the one who had the legion sitting there, clothed in his right mind, and they were afraid And those who had seen it described it to them what had happened to the demon-possessed man and to the pigs. And they began to beg Jesus to depart from their region. As he was getting into the boat, the man who had been possessed with the demons begged him that he might be with him. And he did not permit him, but said to him, Go home to your friends and tell them how much the Lord has done for you, and how he has had mercy on you. And he went away and began to proclaim in the decopolis how uh much Jesus had done for him and everyone marveled. That's the end of the reading of God's Word. Please take your seats Well, October is the month that each year where Grade B movies are featured. And these uh films, which often are called Halloween uh films, usually have very predictable plots uh shallow characters who uh make continuously terrible choices that lead uh to unsought encounters And some of these films are certainly tongue-in-cheek, and others are intended to erase fear, and maybe sometimes it's just a mixture of both. The text we've just read is the longest graphic story in Mark's gospel, apart from the crucifixion. And in it, there are a number of unsought encounters with Jesus. Now, the thing about grade B movies is that there may be in them kind of a grudging recognition of the existence of something that's hard to well describe. A kind of uh evil. And while it seems laughable to many that there exists a supernatural evil outside of people, maybe that's actually part of the attraction of these horror films, is that such evil actually exists And it's an evil that we cannot control and is bent on our destruction. The gospel assumes there is uh such supernatural evil. It doesn't explain it so much as it shows us Jesus confronting it. And why, what happens when Jesus does this leads Mark to confess. that Jesus is the God man. Let's enter the story. It's early morning. The sky is glowing when Jesus and his disciples land the boat on Now they've been through a terrifying night in a storm. They feared they would drown. They awoke Jesus and he calms the storm with a word. And instead of relief, they are actually more afraid. And they just simply don't have any categories to describe what they've just experienced. They had adrenaline course through them in the midst of the storm, and then they had a bigger rush when Jesus calmed the storm. And I mentioned this so you realize that these men, well, their nerves are shot. They are exhausted when they arrive on this shore. And Jesus doesn't help because he orders them to put in an unfamiliar place, a foreign place. a place as Jewish men they would have never visited. It's the region of the Garesthenes. It's on the outskirt of one of ten cities known as the Decapolis And they were cities that showcased pagan Hellenistic culture. And so they're almost exclusively populated by Gentiles. In other words, this is an unclean place. It's ritually impure, filled with impure people. They land near the tombs, which for a Jew is just utterly radioactive as far as uncleanness is concerned. And the man who runs toward them has unclean evil spirits living in him. And they're surrounded by people who are engaged in unclean occupation of raising pigs. And so the disciples are not only exhausted, but they actually have a visceral reaction. To where they are. And I just imagine that they had, well, a lot of reluctance about getting out of the boat and following Jesus. Running toward them is a man who was naked, his hair is matted, he smells the way people do who haven't had bass in years. His home was among the dead. He was strong, in fact too strong to be bound by change, though people had many times sought to restrain him. Perhaps some of the mantles were still on some of his limbs. Day and night the spirits tormented him. He is totally removed from his family and his friends. And he's self-destructive. He's cut himself many times with stones, and we can imagine that there's scars and scabs as well as fresh wounds on his body. We would say he's mad, but it's beyond that. He's lost his dignity, his sanity, and his humanity. He was a terror to himself and others because of his violence. And the man's description is actually more fitting of a ferocious beast than of a man of the word bind, actually. uh Mark uses here is used of binding animals. Now Jesus has come here seeking this man. Jesus is pursuing this man. He's undeterred by his uncleanness. Jesus isn't concerned that he's going to be contaminated, nor is he put off by the wildness of the man. Now, I can't help but wonder just how the disciples are taking all this in. Mark doesn't tell us. But, you know, maybe they felt the way I have around some broken people, like the kind of people I've met on the streets of Philadelphia or in Midtown Atlanta that I might have described as dangerous, they were too far gone uh to be helped. Uh so uh they were just so unlike me that I was so utterly uncomfortable in their presence. In fact Most of what I was thinking and feeling in that moment was is that I should find a way to leave as quickly as possible. And I don't want to think about the possibility that actually Jesus might be calling me to join him in pursuing them. That may be how they were feeling at that moment. Jesus not only pursues this man by intentionally coming to the side of the Sea of Galilee, but he delivers him. And the disciples watch the redemptive power of Christ come out and deliver this man from these evil spirits. Now the man comes running. He's coming to attack Jesus. And one uh one uh scholar comments We're supposed to see that the demonic powers are intent on keeping Jesus from entering this territory. and the demonic nature of the storm at sea that nearly uh capsizes the boat. And now a demon-possessed man who's strong enough to break irons hurls himself at Jesus. But contrary to all expectation, instead of falling on Jesus, he falls to his knees. Then there's a power struggle. It's one that's expressed in words. It's kind of like a mixed martial arts contest, but instead of roundhouse kicks, it's words. And the demons seek to gain mastery over Jesus by calling him the Son of the Most High God. And that name emphasizes the transcendent, exalted nature of Israel's God over pagan gods and goddesses. And what the demon is saying is this that you have a unique position to this God Jesus, to the Almighty, universal, enthroned God. And ironically, really, when you think about it, the demons are concerned about Jesus torturing them, they who have been torturing this man. And Jesus commands the evil spirit to reveal his name, and the name that's revealed is Legion. Now, many of you I know know a lot about uh Roman civilization and But those of you don't know, uh there were at a full strength the Legion had six thousand uh men. And so here what it means is there were many, many demons. in this man. And this really rounds out the picture. A man who is possessed by an army of demons has come to block Jesus' entrance into their territory. But of course it's no contest. Jesus expels these evil spirits and grants their request that they enter a large herd of pigs nearby. There's no elaborate ritual, no incantation, no magic formula. Jesus has it within himself to expel these demons. He has the power to prevail over them. His word alone is enough. The demons enter the pig. They rush down a steep bank and are drowned in the sea. And this anticipates what will happen ultimately to them because at the end of human history they will be cast into the lake of fire. Now we see in this encounter the intention of supernatural evil is to dehumanize us. The Bible insists not only in the existence of the supernatural evil, but also that there is an epic war against humanity. Think Lord of the Rings, or maybe The Matrix. It is a global, high-stakes, invisible war that's poorly understood But it can be seen in part by its effects. Now, if you're skeptical Then let me ask you to just explain the phenomena that we see around us. Suicide bombing, for instance. What grips young men and women to give up their lives for a mass casualty event? or the monthly, maybe even weekly, mass shootings that we hear about. Or the vast international sex trade, or the enslavement of millions of children. or the prolific spread of dehumanizing pornography, or global wars and genocides that are wars conducted against civilian populations. And just daily, there are things that are so awful that I cannot mention them here. Just hard to imagine cruelty that's carried out by individuals. Could it be that William Faulkner's phrase in his novel, Absalom, Absalom, the sickness at the heart of all things, is manifested? It's a manifestation of this invisible spiritual evil that's seeking to destroy the image of God in people. Well, those who know Jesus Christ and who take the Bible seriously and recognize there is supernatural evil don't need to live in fear. But still, we need to take up the weapons of this war. Most especially we need to put on The armor of God, which is a way of describing the gospel in all its many facets, and especially to engage in prayer. Now last week, if you were here and you looked at the insert, you saw that the insert made this comment about a church searching for a new pastor. The evil one hates churches, and he wants to derail the search for a new pastor. Why is that Well, a new uh pastor is an agent of the kingdom of God that's opposed to his kingdom, who's going to faithfully minister the word. And people will come to know Christ through that ministry, and he's going to lose influence. And so he's going to seek to undermine this process. And I'm so glad that Tom has taken the responsibility to call us and remind us of just how important prayer is for us as a church. And this is one of the most important ways right now that you participate in this work. And you may need to shift out of the mindset that prayer is just a waste of time. that you're doing nothing. No, you're wrestling with the principalities and powers as you pray. And that's essential for these men and women who are serving you on this committee. Mark continues the story, and this is for many, at least Western people, the most troubling thing, is what happens to the pigs. The herdsmen report widely what's taken place, and people come to see it for themselves And Mark writes, and they came to Jesus and saw the demon-possessed man, the one who had legion sitting there, clothed and in his right mind. Jesus has restored the man. Jesus has restored this man. He wants to be with Jesus. His isolation from people has ended. He's got his dignity. He's in his clothes once again instead of being naked. And he's regained his sanity. He's no longer being controlled by the demons. They're no longer speaking. uh through him. The violence and the self-destructive tendencies are over. And the townspeople are afraid. They're afraid of Jesus. They are more afraid of Jesus than this man. The same way the disciples were more afraid of the storm. than of Jesus calming the storm. They beg Jesus to leave. Jesus has calmed a second storm, the storm in the evil of evil in this man, and they beg him to leave. Well why? Well I think there's probably two things. Let me get at one of them with a story from the life of Sir Isaac Newton. Newton had uh worked for hours on his scientific inquiries to understand the very core of the physical universe. And exhausted there laboring by candlelight sat his dog at his side. And on one occasion when Newton uh got up in the evening and left his table, uh the dog got up quickly to follow him, and he he hit the leg of the table and the candle fell over. And these precious manuscripts that had these extraordinary thoughts about the world were destroyed When Newton came back, you know, he he looked at what was left, he tried to gain some things, and he just broke down uh and uh wept. And he put his hand on his dog and he said, You will never, never know what you've done. Now, perhaps the dog sensed of the distress of Newton, but he couldn't have understood really what kind of tragedy had taken place And I think this might be our problem as well. I know it's hard for us to see the tragedy of the loss of the image of God in us. In my own life, I know I didn't perceive this. I didn't even understand the harm uh I was uh doing I just didn't have the capacity to see what my choices were doing, not only to other people, but even to myself. And so God opened my eyes. Oh yes, I was aware of my misery, but I really didn't have the capacity to even appreciate the misery of others. Much less to discern that I needed the image of God restored in me. Have you seen your need for Jesus to restore your sanity? To bring you out of your isolation, to regain the dignity that belongs to you as someone made in his image. The other reason that they want Jesus to leave, well, it might be the economic loss they've just incurred. 2,000 pigs is a lot of pigs at that time. Um and uh uh they they simply value pigs more than this man's life. You see, they they probably really don't value this man. They had him kind of contained as far as they were uh concerned. And you know We might have this problem too. Our concern for what it might cost us might keep us from seeking the healing, showing compassion, sharing the gospel with other people. Calvin Stowe isn't nearly as well known as his internationally famous wife, Harriet Beecher Stowe. She was the author of the denu the very famous book that uh denounced slavery, Uncle Tom's Cabin. When she toured England, he came along. He was actually a professor of biblical studies. And he preached before a very large crowd gathered to observe Anti-Slavery Day. And he told the listeners, in no uncertain terms, they were hypocrites. He said, you know, you're very proud that England has ended slavery. But 80% of the cotton that's produced in America, you buy. And if you would just boycott that cotton, slavery would come to an end in the United States. And he said, this is a quote, are you willing to sacrifice one penny of your profits to do away with slavery? And they booed. You see, they didn't see the humanity of these uh people. They weren't willing. In Christian England, To pay a price, to end the suffering, and to do what they could to restore the humanity of these people. The narrative closes with the man begging that he might leave with Jesus and accompany him across the lake. And the phrase to be with him is the same phrase that Mark has told us that Jesus used to describe discipleship. That's when Jesus called the twelve, he called them to be with him. And that's what this man wants. He wants to join the twelve disciples. And Jesus says, no Instead, Jesus has something better for him in mind. He commissions him. He sends him back to his neighbors. It's with these words he commissions him. Go home to your friends and tell them how much the Lord has done for you and how He's had mercy on you. And He obeys. And he becomes the first missionary to the Gentiles. Army Corporal Jacob DeCheres had been raised in a Christian home, but he had never responded to the gospel. In April of 1942, he joined uh the Doolittle Raid aboard one of the B-25 bombers. Now, it was five months after the attack by the Japanese in Pearl Harbor, and uh much of the American Navy had been destroyed And the country was eager in the midst of the really terrible news at that time. There was almost nothing positive to hear either about Europe or in the Pacific theater. And so the military leadership of the country envisioned a raid that involved launching these bombers off of an aircraft carrier. We didn't have an airfield nearby that we could use. And these bombers didn't have the capacity to return to the carrier. And so this was a one-way mission. And when they uh completed the the bombing run They were to continue across the ocean to Japanese-held China. As they did this, it was night. And uh Jacob looked out into the inky darkness as all these airmen did and wondered whether they were jumping uh to their death. If they weren't, they knew they were jumping to captivity. Um and uh they did land, he landed in a Chinese graveyard. Uh he broke several of his ribs and within just a few hours uh the Japanese had captured him and they brought him to prison to interrogate him. Uh the official in charge told him at sunrise that uh he would be executed. Um it would be a horrific uh form of execution and he spent the entire night sleepless uh imagining what his execution would be like. But the official had lied. Uh when they took the blindfold off of him, uh there was a flash of a camera, and then he and the other prisoners were sent uh to To Japan for uh several months uh for uh interrogation by torture. And then they were returned once again to the mainland of China. The conditions were awful. The cell was incredibly cold in the winter and unbearably hot in the summer. Disease ran rampant through the prison. And the guards were cruel. Um it came about in the year nineteen forty-four that a Bible uh was given to the prison, maybe more than one, I don't know, but one was circulated and Jacob was given three weeks to read it Now he had never been interested in the Bible before, but he read it from Genesis to Revelation in those three weeks. And it all began to make sense to him. The message of the gospel never meant anything to him before, but now it was the only thing that made sense in his world. Um it wasn't uh long after that that um uh a sadistic guard slammed uh one of the the door to his cell on his foot and then stomped on it. And and and uh Jacob uh could only think about his throbbing uh foot, which he cradled for some time, but then he remembered the words of Jesus, that he was to love his enemies and pray for those who persecuted him. And the next day Jacob greeted the guard warmly in Japanese and asked about his family. Day after day, like that, Jacob showed kindness, and eventually the guard's heart softened toward him, bringing him some extra food. On August 6, 1945, Jacob woke at 7 a. m. sensing from the Lord that he should pray for the end of the war. And then about two that afternoon he had a profound sense of peace that the matter was settled. A few days uh later he'd learned about the dropping of the atomic uh bomb. In the course of his imprisonment, Jacob developed a compassion, a deep compassion and concern for the Japanese people. And uh After he was released and he returned home, he felt a call to go to Japan. And he and his wife did. uh for thirty years from nineteen forty eight. They ministered there. They planted churches and uh they saw many people come to Christ. In fact, one of the people that came to Christ their ministry was famous. He uh was the flight commander who had led the attack on Pearl Harbor. And this man uh had uh became later an evangelist in Japan. You see, Jacob Had seen what the Lord had done for him and the mercy that God had shown him. And everyone who receives the greatness of the gift of salvation from Christ and receives his mercy, they too, all of us, are summoned, we're commissioned by Christ to go and tell our friends, tell those that God has placed in our lives sovereignly about what He has done for us. Let's pray. Gracious Lord, we thank you for the uh amazing uh story that we read here. It's it's beyond our experience at one level. We've never encountered a man like this. And like the disciples, we uh often probably are uh uh afraid of people who are so different than us. who are so unlike us, who we might perceive as hopeless, perhaps even dangerous. We ask, Lord, that you might grant that we'd be willing to follow you with compassion and love toward those people you've placed in our lives. even those that we might not think of. For we pray this in Christ's name. Amen.