God bless you as well. Thank you. Thank you, brother. Indeed, it is time for us to go before the Lord as the people of God praying. We have many things to pray about. And we have many things to give thanks for. Um, as was uh previously mentioned earlier that um our sister Linda and and her brother Jamie and her husband, our brother Jamie, uh, i are here to worship with us. This has been a source of uh a prayer for quite some time for the congregation. As I know Linda's heart has been for quite some time to come and to worship our great God with the fellowship of the saints. And so let us now turn our attention to our great God, of whom we will place these petitions before Him. Please join me in prayer. Our gracious Heavenly Father, as we gather this morning to offer you worship, we are ever thankful that without your grace we would never have been able to enter into your presence. We acknowledge, Father, that you are holy, and we acknowledge that you have called us to be holy as you are holy. But we do confess. that without your presence and the working of your Holy Spirit within us, we are unable to please you and live up to your presence and your expectations. Grant us your grace, Heavenly Father, as when you did to call us out of death and unto life, so that we may live in obedience to your call. Upon us to live in a manner that brings glory to you. Heavenly Father, we pray for our church family. We pray for our covenant children. We pray that you would keep them in grace, that you would grow them. And Father, we pray for those who have uh seemingly walked away from the faith that your Holy Spirit would draw them back unto you. That you may extend your grace to them and that they may proclaim Christ as their Savior and that you would be their Father Father, we pray that you would be with those families who have lost loved ones with that mid-air crash that occurred earlier on. We pray, Father, that you would comfort them in their time of pain. Pray, Father, that you would bring good out of this situation as only you can from this tragedy. I pray, Father, that we bear with those that would be experiencing pain within our congregation, whether recently experienced or have been dealing with it for quite a long period of time. Be with them, bring healing to their bodies, bring comfort to them. Father, we do uh lift up Mark Apica's father. Uh we pray, Father, that uh you would be with him, that you would comfort him, and that uh that those that would provide care for him in whatever facility he would be. That it would be a compassionate care. Pray that you would mercy would be upon him, and I pray that you would be with his family as they minister to him That you would give them strength and encouragement in the midst of their concern for their father. Father, we give you praise. We give you praise for many things, but uh Father, we thank you for answering even now what we're doing, answering our prayers. We thank you, Father, that you have brought um our sister and your daughter and her husband to be with us this day. We pray, Father, that you would continue to work healing and strength in Linda's body. And of course her soul. And we pray, Father, that uh you would do this is that you would continue to bring greater and greater glory unto yourself. Well Father, we we lift up our missionary this morning, uh, which would be um Brother Wes Baker and the Peru Missions. We pray, Father, that you would be with him and the Presbytery. that was created uh out of uh the gospel work there. We pray, Father, for the uh medical uh missions trips and the facilities that have been built over the years. uh and for all the building projects that uh continue to go on as you uh continue to to to bless them with so many uh things. We pray, Father, that you would continue to bless them with ministers so that the gospel may be proclaimed and that your sheep, those whom you bring in to the church, would have someone that would minister to their souls. And so we pray, Father, that you would raise up men from uh within the church there to minister to the body of Christ. We pray, Father, that you would prosper the gospel in that uh part of the world. I pray that uh as you grow your people, as you uh continue to bring in those that are unsaved, uh, that you would be glorified and that uh They would give great thanks and that the praises of your name would be proclaimed very loudly to those, especially in perhaps even other countries nearby. Father, we do pray for our government, we pray for our president, we pray for our legislators and our judicial system. We continue to pray, Father, that you would surround our leaders. uh with wise uh men and women who would give them godly counsel. And we also pray, Father, that uh those that are the decision makers that they would take this godly counsel. We pray, Father, that you would cause them to see truth and your truth, and that they would guide us by righteousness. And we pray, Father, that you would be glorified in that as well. And Father, we we close off our prayer this morning by the prayer that your Son, our Master, the Lord Jesus, has taught us to pray. Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debt as we forgive our debtors, and lead us not into temptation. But deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Praise be to God If you haven't uh open up your Bibles, if you have them with you, uh would you do so now as uh we will now Um continue our worship by the preaching of the word. It is from the book of 1 Peter as we're continuing to study through it. And we are in chapter 1, and today we will be covering verses 13 through 25. So Peter has spoken to us about the blessings of our salvation and that our inheritance is safe and secure. We should look at the blessings of our salvation as I think anyone would their prized possessions. They would be looking to safeguard and protect their valuables. Prized possessions, however, sadly, are always susceptible to someone stealing. Decay or rust, but it is good to know that our blessings and inheritance are being kept. They are being guarded By none other than God Himself. And it is in a place that is not subject to the demise of time and corrosion nor theft. When you stop for a moment and consider uh the various um theological perspectives that are out there these these days. For example, the word of faith movement, uh the name it and claim it, and um um the we the health and wealth gospel. Uh i it seems to me you know as we go through the the gospel of Peter to me at least That it seems contrary to what Peter has been and will continue to point to. He's pointing our minds not to things of this world. Not to pursue what the pagans pursue, not to anchor ourselves to the things of this world. Certainly we can enjoy God's creation and the good things He has given to us. But we are not to preoccupy ourselves with them, put our hopes in them, to trust in them. Instead, we're to look to a future inheritance And a future blessing that will last for an eternity. When we begin our study Peter gave us a preview of this great salvation and a trajectory for those who have been saved. Obedience to the King, the Lord Jesus. So the last verse of this passage speaks of the gospel, and the gospel is really an expression of God's love for those whom he saves. I think that without really saying it, Peter is describing the outworking and expectations that God has for the love that he instills within us. Would you please rise now for the reading and hearing of God's holy word, which is from 1 Peter 1, verses 13 to 25. Hear now the word of God. Therefore, preparing your minds for action and being sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. But as he who called you is holy, You also be holy in all your conduct. Since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. And if you call on him as Father, who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver and gold, but with the precious blood of Christ. like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. He was foreknown before the foundation of the world, but was made manifest in the last times. for the sake of you, who through him are believers in God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope are in God. Having purified souls by your obedience to the truth for a sincere, brotherly love. Love one another earnestly from a pure heart. Since you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable through the living and abiding word of God. For all flesh is like grass, and all its glory like the flower of grass. The grass lithers, and the flower falls, but the word of the Lord remains forever And this word is the good news that was preached to you. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated. And join me in prayer as we look to the Holy Spirit to illumine our minds. Holy Spirit, be with us now as we turn our attention and worship of our great Savior to the Word of God. Enable us to hear and understand what the word proclaims and teaches. Help us to delight in the great salvation planned, executed, and delivered Help us not only about the great love of God poured into us, but also to extend this love to one another and our neighbor. We ask this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. Verse thirteen begins with the word therefore Having just spoken about our great salvation, Peter is now getting into the result or outcome of being chosen by God unto salvation. I think it's only natural for any person who has been saved to ask, what now? What am I supposed to do? What is the purpose of my salvation? Now that I have a new life, what do I need to know? What do I need to look forward to? How does the love of God affect my life? Peter addresses these very important questions in the very broad categories in verses 13 to 25, of which we'll be going through today. Later on in the book, you'll get a bit more granular in what that looks like in the life of a believer. So then let us look at the first thing that Peter has in mind about this great love of God. and how it should affect us. The first thing he says is that we need to, well he says literally, gird up the loins of your mind. That's sort of like a play on words that was used in the past. The actual phrase was gird up your loins, period. And the term came from people gathering up their long robes. and pulling them between their legs, then wrapping around their waist so that um a person can do some fast walking, perhaps some running, or some strenuous type of work. Or sometimes, you know, if they were going into some sort of a battle. The phrase has roots and can be found in the Old Testament times. And what is basically meant is that the people of God were to prepare themselves to see God work and for them to respond to God with Instant obedience. So examples of this can be seen in, and we'll look at two places. The first one is in Exodus, chapter 12, and verse 11. Now you shall eat it in this way with your, and here it is, with your garment belted around your waist your sandals on your feet, and your staff in your hand, and you shall eat it in a hurry. It is the Lord's Passover. It's sort of like this statement that Peter is making here, that it's belted around your stomach. And this way you are to now be obedient to what God is going to tell you to do next. Jeremiah 1. 17 also refers to this too. It says, now Belt your garment around your waist and arise and speak to them all that I command you Similarly, then, Peter is saying as a consequence of the work that God has done our salvation, we are now called to prepare for action. But the play on words is that we are to prepare our minds, along with preparing our outward physical action as well. We are to do this, meanwhile, we are fully placing our minds on the hope of what will occur when Christ is revealed, when he returns. He says something that's really helpful here. He says fully. The truth is that when our minds are not focused, We can stand the chance of being led away or misdirected from the living hope we have in God and his promises. Can you look back on your life and see if you've fallen prey to this? You started something, you went in a particular direction with great energy. and wonderful intentions, only to find yourself ending up in an entirely different place. You know, it it doesn't really have to be, you know, things about serving God. It can be really about anything, isn't it? It's so easy to lose focus on what you're doing throughout the day and be distracted by other things. And before you know it, the day is gone and you didn't accomplish the things that you set out to do in the morning. Peter tells us to gird our minds for action. This is to say that he wants our minds to be ready and alert as if we are going to work In the process, he wants us to be sober-minded. Peter recognizes that the cares of the world, as well as the enticements, can misdirect us. Therefore, be clear-minded and be fully focused upon God's grace. But Peter has something specific in mind here. He wants us to bear in mind Christ's second advent. When Peter refers to the future, he's not offering it up as some sort of like spiritual novicane to numb the pain of, let's say, persecution. But instead, for us to consider our response in the light of future unveiling of Christ. There are times when we will be called a fool for following Jesus, perhaps even stupid for enduring physical pain for believing in Jesus. Perhaps even for denying ourselves things that the rest of the world enjoys and sees nothing wrong with. But when we consider Christ's return in the midst of the trial, the persecution, or the temptation, how do you think that that will affect your response? Would you give in? Would you indulge? Would you renounce Christ? Shrink back from standing your ground Or would you wait to be vindicated by God and endure? Peter is telling us that as a result of our great salvation, we should place our hopes on the return of Christ and what that ushers in for us. We're to look forward to God's reward, to our great inheritance and blessings that God has already prepared for us. Now, he continues. He says, as obedient children, do not be conform to the former lusts which you were in your ignorance. Now that our loins are girded around our minds, and we're focused upon the return of Christ, we are to As obedient children of God, we are to no longer live after the pattern of our former lives, our former desires. If there's any sure evidence of faith, excuse me, if there's any sure evidence of faith, I think it's consistent obedience that is motivated by love. You see, God's love is transformative. God's love is transformative. If this is the case, then the terms used here, obedient children, can be another name for genuine believers. Romans 1. 5, we see this language that's used. I'll read that for us. Romans 1. 5. Through whom we have received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith. for the sake of his name among all the nations. Romans 16, 26 later states, but has now been disclosed and through the prophetic writings, the gospel that is, has been made known to all nations according to the command of the eternal God to bring about the obedience of faith. And how are they supposed to bring this about? Well, it's the gospel. The gospel brings about a transformation in the life of the believer. As children who obey their heavenly Father, Christians do not continue to live the same pattern of life they used to. Things change. People are changed. Believers are constrained by God's love for them. You are constrained by God's love for you. Peter points out that prior to their salvation, the pagan believers to whom he is writing did not have the truth of Scripture. They lived in ignorance. However, they are now to live in the light of the knowledge of revealed truth. Well, if Peter is saying this, He must have had some knowledge that the people to whom he is writing are struggling with the ways of their lives before they were saved. They and we are called to no longer live in sin. As a consequence of God's love, Peter exhorts them to discontinue living the way that they used to. Now, as you, Christian, as you look at your life. Do you find yourself thinking in and living in ways that non-believing people do? Obviously, I'm talking about sinful ways. Are these areas of your life That you've, or are there areas in your life that you have already identified, but haven't really chosen to address? Peter tells us that we should look to the future. Look to your inheritance. Look to your inheritance that is waiting for you. Look forward to the return of Christ. Having cautioned us to desist in the pattern of behavior in which we lived, he now provides another reason to abstain from sin. In verse 15, which begins with a contrast, but, or instead of the pattern of life that you used to live, now that you have been called by God to be his obedient child, The new way or the new pattern of living is to be like that of our new parentage. We're called to be like our Heavenly Father We are called to be holy. This means that we're to imitate, strive to live out our lives in a manner that reflects our God's character. Peter exhorts us to lead a life that is conforming to the standards that God has set. He grounds his exhortation in Scripture. He quotes Leviticus chapter 19 and verse 2. Which reads, Speak to all the congregation, he's talking to Moses, speak to all the congregation of the people of Israel, and say to them, You shall be holy. For the Lord your God am holy. Being holy means you recognize that you have been set aside from the world You no longer belong to the world. Pursuing holiness means that your goal in life is to please God and obey his word. Be like him. It is not wanting to please man Now, as Peter is developing his argument, he wants us to gain a healthy balance between his desire for us to be holy and God's holiness. Verse seventeen and and I'm using the NASB now. And if You address as Father, the one who impartially judges according to each man's work, conduct yourselves in fear during your sojourning. upon earth. Because God is impartial, he should be looked upon in fear This means that he is equally unhappy about sin. Whoever it is that is committing sin. God is not more happy when an unbeliever commits sin. God is not less unhappy when you and I commit sin. We know that He will punish sin in His own timing and in His own way. But as Christians who have been redeemed, we should not think that God will, you know, look the other way for our sins. Yes, we will never lose our salvation. But God may choose to discipline us because he wants his children to reflect his character And not the character of the world. This means that we should have a healthy fear of God, who is our Heavenly Father. And this means that we are not to presume upon God's grace. Peter states that If we are truly God's children, anyone who proclaims that God is their father, then we are to be holy. And by the way, the word for call has associated with it a continual call. So if you call upon the name of God as your father continually, not some association that is that is barren of any true and constant meaning, you should be living out your life that reflects a healthy fear of God. Not presuming on his grace means that we shouldn't allow familiarity to be an excuse for disobedience. We shouldn't commit sin because we think that God will forgive us or look the other way. I should not allow myself to think that I will get away with sin. Or God will bail me out just because I'm His. He is holy, and that means He is impartial to anyone who commits sin. Now, Peter places this within the context of our status of being sojourners. Peter is reminding us that our time here in this land is only temporary. This means that we should make ethical choices that reflect our true home. Our true land, our true king, and our true father. You see, the ethical choices that we make should be different from the way those that believe that this is all that there is. Do you live your life? Like there is nothing else that this is all there is There's a lot of unhappiness that arises from believing that what we see is all that there is. It's just a matter of time. There is no hope for an eternal future. And when there is no living hope, this can only bring about sadness. But we should not live with melancholy. Let us do as Peter says, gird up our minds. And remind ourselves of a future that is filled with great hope and blessings beyond our imagination. And speaking of this living hope, the reverential awe and obedience we should give to God is not simply based upon the fear of his temporal judgment. But we should remember the grace that He has lavished upon us. He gave His very Son as a sacrifice to take the place of our eternal punishment. Being holy as God is holy certainly includes training in and practice of a life that reflects God's character. But you know, God the Father enjoys being in the presence of God the Son. God the Son enjoys being in the presence of God the Father. And you know, the Holy Spirit shouldn't be left out of all the permutations that we can come up with. What this means for us is that we are to be holy just like God is holy, we we should delight. In being in the presence of God. Tells us that for he was chosen before the foundation of the world, but has appeared to us in these last days for our sake. Even though God delights in being in the presence of the persons of the Trinity, he also has a plan that was motivated by his love and mercy. And Peter shares that plan with us. The price that God paid for his elect was not unplanned. For it was God's plan to give Christ as payment for the redemption of, as Peter puts it, his chosen. If the Father planned this before the beginning of the world, then the Son, who is also eternal, agreed to the plan of redemption before it was ever put into place. It was decided that in the Godhead that the Christ would be the one that would be sacrificed in the last times. Last times indicates that the final era of redemption has begun. We are in the end times. It began with the complex of events from the cross and the resurrection and Pentecost. The last times began. As believers who are in the end times, we have the revelation of Jesus in his fullness. Therefore, we have a benefit that generations prior to the cross did not, and this should build up our faith, and as a consequence be moved to a greater motivation for and towards holiness. This point is that the greater the evidence for something is presented to you, the more proof that is presented to you. the more you are motivated to follow and conform your life to that truth. It is through Christ that we are believers. The Father raised Christ from the dead and put him in a position of power. This is a living hope. We don't live with a wish. We have great confidence that God will do this for us as well. Having established the basis for holy living and the character of God, holiness and justice, and the precious cost of salvation, God's grace, He now turns to another of its consequences. Purification is an Old Testament rite where by washing one becomes ceremonially pure. In the New Testament era, purification came to be understood as a commitment to Jesus, repentance, and baptism. This purification is something that has already begun in the believer's life. Since the Christian has obeyed the truth, the gospel call. This purification has a purpose. Its purpose is for genuine love for other believers. Peter expects us, as he says in the word, to earnestly love one another, to genuinely love one another. One of the results of conversion is a sincere love for the brethren. This is genuine love. One that has arms and feet. We should see the impact of the gospel upon the life of every community of genuine believers by the love that is demonstrated within each of those churches. The fact that we have been born again has already been mentioned in verse 1. 3. Peter informs us That the seed that has given life to you is not from a corruptible life form that only leads to more corruption, but rather from an incorruptible, that is, divine seed. Throughout Scripture, God generates life by His Word. We see it immediately. Creation and life came into being right from Genesis chapter 1. We also, when we heard the Word of God, well, it generated life within us. It is not the Word of God alone that regenerates. A person, it is the Holy Spirit that uses the word of God to convince the person of the truthfulness of his word. Now in verse 24 and 25, Peter paraphrases Isaiah chapter 40 and verse 6. He wants us to place our trust in what will last forever. The Word of God. And not place our trust in things that are temporary, perishable, like grass and flowers. As beautiful as they can be, they are temporary. Now there's a myriad of things that we can list that are things that we can place our trust in, right? Other than God. But what I think Peter is doing is he is reminding us that the seed of life that was given to us When we were born again, was and is an imperishable seed that leads us unto the love and presence of God Himself. Who is the source of satisfaction for our souls? He is the rest that all humans look for. And just in case there was any doubt lingering in the minds of his readers, that very seed that brings about satisfaction and rest for the soul Is that same word that they received? That word was the good news of Jesus the Christ. Christ, the great Savior and Messiah of our souls. Rest assured, brothers and sisters, that our hope isn't an eternal hope that cannot be corrupted. Please join me in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this seed, your seed, that you have placed. Upon our lives and upon our souls, that you have given us life. We have been birthed again from death and have been resurrected already by your miraculous power and your word. We pray, Heavenly Father, that as we learn more about you and learn more about what it is that this love that you have implanted within our hearts is supposed to do. That you would move us to that end. Your word teaches us this day to be holy as you are holy. Grant us the grace. to turn away from the patterns and the ways of life that we used to live. And towards how you have called us, your people, to live Help us, Lord Jesus, to recognize that this world is not our inheritance, but there is an inheritance that is yet to come. Help us, Lord Jesus. Grant us the wisdom to see our triune God in the things of this world and to give you glory. But help us also, Lord Jesus, not to love them so much that they become our new idols in which we want to anchor our hopes in. Remind us that we are indeed sojourners, living here for a period of time for your glory. And as we continue to live here, That you have called us to reflect the character of your Heavenly Father, of which whom you so perfectly and beautifully displayed when you were on the earth So we pray that by the power of the Holy Spirit, that you would help us to be focused upon that desire to reflect our Father. So that we may bring him glory. And we ask this in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Amen. I'd like to ask the elders to please come forward who will be assisting in the distribution of the elements.