Let's read from John 17, 1 to 5. The title's a bit cryptic, so I'll get into an explanation of why that. That Jesus speaks before he's arrested. Jesus spoke these words, lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your son, that your son also may glorify you. As you have given him authority over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as you have given him, and this is eternal life that they may know you. You, the only true God and Jesus Christ, who you have sent. I have glorified you on earth. I have finished the work which you have given me to do And now, Father, glorify me together with yourself, with the glory which I had with you before the world was. This is the word of God. Let's pray. Father above, we we come before you humbly before this word of God, for we know it is your word. We are to treat it with respect, and yet, Lord, we are grateful. That you have chosen to reveal yourself in it. And now we pray, Lord, that you would open it to us, that you would grant us minds to receive it, that we would love it, and we pray that you would Grant, Lord, a great working of your spirit now, for we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated As you know, our theme this evening from the text, at least, the text is uh seventeen John seventeen three and the basic theme is knowing God. Um if If you're like me, well, maybe you're not like me, I'll take that back. Early in my Christian life, this was highly recommended to me. And it is a very powerful and meaty book. I hardly recommend it to everyone. This is Written by Professor James I. Packer. I don't know how much longer he has to live on this world, but he's up in age greatly. But Knowing God, I think, is a classic, one of few recently written classics. I commend it to you for your reading. I'm drawing from it shamelessly. So, what does the title of my exhortation refer to? I'm sure you all are aware of the road to Emmaus. The two disciples are walking from Jerusalem. They are very depressed, they're discouraged. It's the third day. I presume it's perhaps the morning of the third day they're walking out of Jerusalem towards Emmaus, which is six miles away or so. And they're speaking among each other and they even comment that, you know, one of the women went to the tomb and she found it empty this morning. But they go on and on there kind of discouraged and Jesus catches up And said, you know, something basically the effect, what things are going on? And they said, You? You don't know what's been going on? And then he says, Oh you of little faith, how slow you are to understand. Or something to that effect. And then he goes on to give an exposition from the Old Testament as to why the Christ had to come and suffer all these things. Can you imagine the Old Testament sermon he must suffer? have given them. Wouldn't that have been great to have walked alongside. So it's it's in reference to that that we that I've entitled this today. I will make one last point, though, in that as he was expounding that, he wanted them to know the Christ. Right? Obviously he's expounding who he is from the Old Testament from beginning to the end of their scriptures. He wants them to know the Christ. And you know what happens, the rest of the story. They get to the place where they stop, perhaps For the evening. They bring out some food. Jesus breaks the bread, and all of a sudden they know who he is. And at that point He leaves he leaves them. So now they understand what's been going on. understand what's happened but in this time God has revealed who Jesus Christ is from the Old Testament they get the greatest sermon perhaps So I'm going to revisit that. So in the very end, we're going to come full circle back to Emmaus. But let's look at, I'm going to make three points. I think it's three. Let me see here. Let's check. Number one, that um God can be known, and then number two, what this doesn't mean, and then three what it does mean. Now I'm going to speak to that in a cryptic, not a cryptic, but an indirect sort of a way, and I plan to do increasing to go further with it next Sunday. So you'll have part two next Sunday. But right now we're on part one. And let this is the point that he can be known. And I think this is rather obvious. Let's read again verse 3. And this is eternal life that they may know you. So what is Jesus doing? Here is the first five verses of his high priestly prayer. He hasn't even gotten into talking to praying for the disciples or the people in general, but rather he comes up with a prayer here for everyone that they may know. God, that they may know Jesus. So we find in this basically almost an exalted introduction of the glories that are now being given to one another among the Godhead. Of the people now given to Christ from the Father, selected from the dawn of the world, and it says in the middle of that, and this is eternal life, that they may know you. So Jesus is praying for his own, and we have to ask the question, you know, can God be known? I think some might say the answer to that is no, but given this prayer here. What can we conclude? Is it conceivable that God doesn't want to be known? I would suggest to you the answer is no. We can't conclude that from this. Is he stingy with those that he befriends? Is God stingy such that he's only going to reveal himself to a few get away from me? I don't want you to know me. Is he going to be stingy? No, we don't get that impression at all, do we? Does Jesus pray to struggle to persuade the Father here to reveal himself? Well, there's nothing of that indication either. Is it conceivable then that we can't know God? I think it's very reasonable that we can know God based on the explicit prayer that Jesus just gave. Is it possible that Jesus' prayer can be thwarted? Will Satan come along and basically prevent God's people from knowing him? Again, the answer is no. And then finally, is it reasonable that just Perhaps he's praying that prayer now. That somehow in his intercessions for his people, that's part of his intercessions. Just a suggestion. I don't know that I have scriptural evidence for that, but I think it's very reasonable. Now, what does it not mean that we may know God or that or that we are to know God or that we Um enter into this eternal life knowing God, what does that not mean? What does knowing God not mean? Number one, it doesn't mean knowledge only or theology only. Now, this is something that as probably you know, we can get into this trap of believing that because we know much about God. We have much knowledge of him. We know how to cite the theological principles from the Scripture, the Ordo Salutis, and that sort of thing, that somehow we can think that we know God when in fact we just have lots of knowledge about God. It's a great temptation then to think that we know God. Um skipped spo preached this morning though on grasping God's character. And by the by the way It's so spooky. How often when you preach, it seems like mine is almost a s uh yours is a segue to mine. So children, I don't know if spooky's in the Bible. Why don't you go look that up for me and see if it appears anywhere? I don't know that it is, but Um But we are to grasp God's character, right? But can we grasp God's character without really knowing him? And I think we have to say the answer is yes. And that's something John 14, 21 is a nav TMS verse. Who has memorized that other than Skip? Bonnie. Other than Bonnie. I had it memorized, but I wrote it down from the Bible here, and it's a little different from the one I memorized. I figured I would write it down rather than make it a fool myself in the uh heat of being up here in front of you all. But John 1421 reads, He who has my commandments and keeps them, it is he who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him. So we see that um Obedience and knowing God go hand in hand, but knowing his character go hand in hand, and yet just knowing about him isn't enough. So next, what do we say here? What else is not enough? It's not enough that we also know godliness. Can we not only know who God is, but also know godliness and not know God Can we behave in such a way as that we appear to be good people? Appear to be godly people? Can we do the right things? Can we say the right things? Can we appear godly and not be? Can we and again I would say this is a big temptation for folks like us. It's very easy to do through the right things to go through the right things. beginning of Philippians, Paul knows that others are preaching Christ to his detriment So what does Paul say? Well you go tell those people to be quiet and tell the folks around them to ignore them. Well no Paul doesn't say that, does he? He says, uh in every way I rejoice that Christ is preached. Now we don't know necessarily that those that are preaching Christ that are trying to put Paul further and deeper in prison, deeper into trouble, we don't know that they're believers or not. But it could well be that they're not. And God chooses to bless that preaching of Christ anyway. The point here is that we can go through the motions of service and of godliness and still not know God. And I would suggest the third category of people who may not know God. If we can know things, we can claim to have secret inside knowledge, can't we? We are a certain of a certain mystical character. And we know God from the inside in a way that other people really don't. I think there were heresies in the New Testament time that that ran around in that sort of a way. So that's not knowing God either. It hasn't had anything to do with secret knowledge. So that's what it doesn't mean. Three items. So then what does it mean to know God? I'm going to speak to this This indirectly. And by indirectly means we can go in a number of different directions here, and rather than speaking in a didactic sort of a way of what I'm gonna sit I'm gonna in instead I'm gonna look in the scriptures of who perhaps has shown themselves to be Such people who know God. So let's look first at Exodus chapter 33. Or let's just say, people who wanted deeply to know their God. And so one there are a number of come to mind. I'm just picking a few of them out of the selections here that we have to work with. Moses. In Moses chapter 33, what's happened? He's up on Sinai. The people get tired of waiting for him to come back down. They make a mess of themselves. Moses comes down. God says, these people have They have beh betrayed me, they volunteered me, go down. Uh uh they're gonna go forward, but I'm not going with them. So then at that point, Moses says, No, Lord, you have to go with us. You have to, you can't not go with us. Now you were the one who brought us out. What would the other nations think? So then it says, in verse 12 of chapter 33, then Moses said to the Lord, See you Now therefore I pray, if I have found grace in your sight, show me now your way, that I may know you, and that I may find grace in your sight, and consider that this nation is you. Your people. But notice what we find here. Show me now your way that I may know you. He wanted to know God. And we know shortly thereafter in this very section. What happens? He says, Show me your glory. He wants to know God. And God says, Well, I can't show you my face. I will go by you and you can see my back. But what do we have here? We have Moses, who has a hunger to know God. He hungers to know God. And we find that throughout the scriptures. Let's look at the psalmist in uh in Psalm 119. And I'm going to ask the young ones: who wrote Psalm 119? And it's a trick question because we don't know. So, but Psalm 119, someone obviously did write it, a very godly man. And what does he say? Let's look at the very first verses. Blessed are the undefiled in the way who walk in the law of the Lord. So blessed are the undefiled in the way. And then it says, let's see, where am I? We turn over and it says verse 6, then I would not be ashamed. Oh, do not forsake me utterly. So we can go back to verse 1 and it says Okay, blessed are the undefiled in the way. And we can say, okay, from verse 6, he doesn't want to be ashamed. So Lord, help me to be help me to walk in an undefiled way because I don't really want to be ashamed. And then number two, because I don't want to be forsaken. Is this what the psalmist is asking for? That I would be undefiled in the way that I work, just so I won't be ashamed, just so I won't be forsaken? Is he just sort of asking the Lord to get him out of problems? And the answer is no. I mean you already know the answer to that. I'm sure I asked a rhetorical question here, but what do we find about the psalmist here? He says, Blessed are the undefiled in the way who walk in the law of the Lord. And then what do we read? There's a greater end in view to his prayer. What does verse 2 say? Blessed are those who keep his testimonies, who seek him. with the whole heart. You seek him with the whole heart. So again we've attached then the doing of these commandments, which can be again just an external, but what what accompanies That for the psalmist who seek him with the whole heart. And then we find in verse 10, what do we see there? With my whole heart I have sought you. Obviously, not a man who simply wants to To look good, right? With my whole heart I have sought you. Verse fourteen to sixteen. I have rejoiced in the way of your testimonies as much as in all riches. I will meditate on your precepts, contemplate your ways, I will delight. Myself and your statutes. Why? Because he sees God in them. He sees God in the very words. He delights in these things. He is one who seeks to know God, drawing from every word that has been spoken to him. that he is aware of. So he seeks God himself. Now let's turn to Paul. Chapter 3 of Philippians verse 7 or verse 10. Verse 7 to 10, actually. And he says, But what things were gained to me, these I've counted loss for Christ. Yet indeed I also count all things lost, for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord. All things lost. For whom I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish. By the way, that's a pretty ugly word. We're not going to get graphic here, but that's what's on the on the floor of stables. And count them as rubbish that I may gain Christ. And if you don't know what I mean by that, I Ask your parents. That I may gain Christ and be found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is from God by faith, that I may. know him. Are we seeing a pattern here? The men of God written in the in the and presumably the women that are written in the scriptures desire and hunger to know him, to know God. And so let's let's go back to chapter 17 verse 1 of John, or 17, verse 3. And he says, and this is eternal life that they may know you. Now, I'm not competent to say that this was perhaps his ultimate request for us, but boy, sure, it has to rank up there. I mean, in terms of the grandiose, majestic, intergalactic, whatever term we want to use, requests that could be made, can they be much bigger than this? That we would know God. Lord, this is eternal life, that they may know you. They don't get any bigger than that. He wants his children to know him. Now we can say, well, we have shorter catechism question number one. What is the chief end of man? To glorify God and enjoy him together. I'm not going to sort out all the how all these things are interconnected. Connected, but I guarantee they are. So in a very small-minded way, we can say, how can I glorify God if I don't know Him? How can I love and enjoy God if I don't know Him? So obviously knowing Him is a precursor. And I'm sure that the Westminster Divines folded all these things together and condensed the words to question and answer number one. But certainly knowing God plays a critical key role there, and Jesus is just a little bit more than a little bit. What does Packer or Professor Packer have to say? He's he quotes Jeremiah 9 23, he says, Well might God say through Jeremiah. Let him that gloryeth glory in this, that he understandeth and knoweth, knoweth me, for knowing God is a relationship calculated to thrill a man's heart That's a sentence that has stuck in my mind since I read that book. Now, don't you have sentences that just stick in your mind? That is one that is stuck in my mind. For knowing God is a relationship calculated to throw us. man's heart. Can it be otherwise? If Jesus loves his people and prays that they would that we would know him, that we would know the Father, that we would know Christ, could it be even, could it ever be less? Among other things, to know God is the affectionate pursuit of a deeper fellowship with Him, a deeper passion to love Him, to follow Him, to please Him, all based upon knowing Him. More to come. So I mentioned to Joan, sort of in uh I guess a little bit flippantly, that I I thought of an enormous number of applications to this and so that Then I wanted to construct a sermon then around all these applications. That's probably not a wise thing to do, and my pastor will probably scold me critics severely for it. But I thought there is many, there's enormous power in all these things. And what I'm wanting to do is to convey a whole list of things for you to think about. And again, my desire is not to snow you. Pick one thing to work on. Just one. But let me rattle through this list of the implications. of this passage. What is your deepest desire? What is my deepest desire? Is it to know God? That's a question worth asking. What is your deepest desire? What are my thoughts as I enter the day and go through the day and close the day? What am I thinking about? Am I wanting to know God better? Do I meditate upon Him throughout the day? Do I even want to? Do I have any desire to do so? Do I desire to know about know more about God and turn that into a personalized understanding of him. Do I read the scriptures, not that I might accumulate more knowledge, but rather that I might know him. Do I ask when I read, what does this tell me about? When I read, do I simply ask, what am I supposed to, what should I do with this? What's the application? And I would suggest the very first application is what does this tell me about who he is. Then the applications to godliness will follow. And if you're just interested in being godly, you've missed the point, haven't you? How deeply do we grieve over our sins? How quickly do we ask Him for forgiveness when we recognize we've sinned? How much do I want to know Him? How much do I want to walk with Him? How much do I recognize that he knows me and he's not surprised by my sin? Is God ever surprised? I don't think so. So he wants us to come to him. He wants us to gain that forgiveness that once again my quest might be to know him and not that that be interrupted. Am I eager to hear the preached word? Do I come here wanting to hear it preached? Because I know that God wants to reveal Himself, and even as we sit in that seat listening to our Our pastor, we know that God wishes to bring that word to us that we might know him for the enjoyment and the blessing that it is. Do we come anticipating that eagerly? Or do we just come and sit? Do we believe that he desires me to know him as that sweetest perspective we could ever have? Do we not only seek him in his word, but in the world? God made the hummingbird, right? You're all familiar with the hummingbird Well yesterday I was out standing on a front sidewalk, and there I see this little tiny thing that's doing the same thing, you know, bobbing around like a hummingbird, going from flower to flower, and I've seen them once before. or so, and it's a hummingbird moth. And it dawned on me what the the question got raised, you know, God made a hummingbird. Why did he make a hummingbird moth? Why do we need a little matchbox version? version of the real thing. Now maybe he's just maybe just likes doing that. I presume that he does, but I didn't have a real good answer, but why did God make a hummingbird moth? I don't know the answer. But What does it tell me about God? Well I'm not sure, but it says something. I mean certainly the diversity of his creation, certainly the uh the details that he put into the creation, but you could go on and on and on that understanding who God is. from what he is revealed in the world, as well as the word. How about the lunomoth? Does anybody know about the life cycle of the lunomoth? The lunar moth is about this big. It's a light green color, much like this leaf right here. It only flies at night, you rarely see it. Sometimes you'll find it landing near and staying the day under your light outside your doors. But do you know the life cycle? It late it comes out of its egg in late spring. It chews on its leaves through the spring. summer, it then weaves a cocoon made out of dead leaves and goes somewhere hidden and then in the spring it awakens out of its cocoon and at least lives for three days. Three whopping days, long enough to mate and to lay eggs and die. Now what did God have in mind? To have this entire life cycle for a year and only live for three days. I don't know. But that's saying something about God, his extravagance in some ways. Now we all, perhaps it's a lesson for each of us. We like the grass. Grow up, we wither, we die. Perhaps there's a life lesson there. Count every day. For they pass Quickly. Many lessons from the world. Many lessons about God. Many more from the Word. Now, let's really get to the applications. Do I seek to know him in every activity of my day? Clearly, if that's tied, get this. If God so desires me to know him And I think we can conclude, can we not, that every single activity I enter into, everything, is somehow tied to that end of knowing Him. We get up in the morning. What's God telling me with that first thought? What is he revealing about myself as I awaken? I go into the shower. What is going into the shower reveal something about him? Or is it somehow. A disconnected part of reality, completely separate from knowing him. God says, Well no, I don't have anything to do with showers, you just go your stuff. And you know, we'll talk later on today. That's not the way it works. Somehow God is revealing Himself in the shower. We have breakfast. We make our coffee, right? At least our adults. I'm not sure you young ones. What is God telling you having your milk and cereal? What is God revealing about Himself? We go to work, you go to school. What is God revealing to you about those activities? You take a break. What is God revealing about Himself in those activities? Again, are these things just extraneous to life? Well, I don't intend you to learn anything. That's all right. Don't bother about those sorts of trivial things. I would say, you know, if God if God really desires us to know him, then there's something there in everything. I think of my dear pastor's sermons on all the genealogies. And once I mentioned to him something about the effect. And then somehow the conversation went forward and he said, Not only does he desire to preach on all the genealogies, but to find a separate message from all the genealogies. I'm thinking, whoa, okay. I'm glad I don't have that assignment. That'd be a pretty rough one. But what's the point here? Are there's extravagant words in the scriptures? They're just extraneous words. God says, well, don't pay any attention to that. Don't worry about that. No. It's inconceivable that God would say that, even about those sections of Scripture. And I would suggest to you that in every facet of your life, God doesn't say anything to these effective. No, no, no, no. Don't worry about that part. It's not really involved with your main purpose in life. So you do your school. You have your lunch, right? Your afternoons. Young ones have their naps. Young ones, you hear me, are you hearing me? Just kidding. I'm sure they're not listening well yet. We enter into dinner time. Right? We have a glorious dinner, perhaps. We enter into the evening. And I don't know how you spend your evenings. Perhaps they're restful. Perhaps they're hard, like I know the Dews and Berries have been. They can be easy, they can be difficult, but what? What is God teaching us about himself? Himself. We go to bed, we get ready for bed, we brush our teeth. What does God tell us about himself? How about as we put on our pajamas? How about when we get into bed? How about as we think about what we Do as we drift off to sleep. How about as we dream? Might there to be something to know about God from our dreams? Maybe I should pray that God reveal Himself through my dream. That he would sanctify it in some way to bless me in my own growth and knowledge of him. Do you see where we're going here? If Jesus Christ Christ is praying to the Father that we might know him, and this is really as grandiose and big as it seems, and I don't know how you could take it any less. Then how do we see every facet of life as not fitting under that category? How can we possibly see it as not fitting in that category? So again, let me quote Packer. What were we made for? To know God? What aim should we set ourselves in life? To know God? What is the eternal life that Jesus gives? Knowledge of God. What is the best thing in life bringing more joy, delight, and contentment than anything else? Knowledge of God. What of all the states God sees man in? He sees us. What state does he see us in that gives him the most pleasure? And that is knowledge of himself. So again, we are greatly indebted to our uh dear Professor Packer for for his insight into these things. But let me come just another minute full circle. What does this all have to do with the Mayus? We can walk on the road to Emmaus now, and we have vastly more resources to draw from and knowing him than those two disciples had. Vastly more. We have the scriptures, which reviv reveals to us in enormous detail what God desires us to know of Him now. We have the world, which reveals a vast amount So as we walk on our roads, we're going to be walking on our roads to Mayus. We don't need Jesus coming up to us and giving us a personal sermon. He I'm pretty sure he won't do that anyway. But he has to be able to do that. Now maybe in paradise, in that new day and age to come, there will be an road to Emmaus, and we will be able to walk alongside, and we will hear him speak, and perhaps then we can ask him that one question. Or whatever, you know. The one question, the twenty questions. But now we have the Word of God and we have His world. Let's use those as we do our own sort of walk. To a mass, shall we pray? Father above, you make something so clear in the scriptures, and we thank you, Father, for the clarity that you desire us to know you We thank you, O Lord, that it's a goal we can latch on to and cling to you every moment. We ask your forgiveness, Lord, that we spend so little effort Doing this, so we ponder these things so little. And we ask, Lord, that you would give us grace, that that would be corrected. We ask for your Spirit, that He would prompt us, O Lord. Lord, to look, to see how might we know you through this occasion, through that, through this scripture and through that. Grant us, O Lord, to be a hungry people. Grant us, O Lord, to desire to know you that most The blessed thing of all that we can know, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. The