Japan is uh such a very difficult part of the world. It has been uh for Christianity. variety of different reasons. And they the Colburns really do need prayer as well as those other missionaries that are there at this time. Maybe if they're in this area, we'd love to have them come and share with us some of their experiences with what's going on there to this day. So every so often I come across stories on the on the nightly news, as I'm sure you do. Or sometimes if you read the newspaper, now I know that most people don't read the newspaper anymore It's really what you get off your newsfeed, right? On your on your cell phones and I guess on your laptops or wherever it is that and however it is that you get news. Uh sometimes I come across these um these uh stories that seem to stay in my mind and and um there are a couple of incidents uh that um I did uh keep in the back of my mind. It's about about robbers, about thieves, um that are caught on tape or just did something absolutely there's no other way of saying it, did something absolutely stupid That caused them to get caught. Let me share with you a couple of stories over the years. One was an incident when a young man robbed a convenience store. he you know, like a circle K or sev uh seven eleven. And um he decided to flirt With the cashier while he was there. And as he left, he gave her his name and his number, asking her to call him. Well, you know, when you know it, he did get a call. But it wasn't her. On one occasion, there was a story about a uh this was in North Carolina Uh uh a a burglar broke into a restaurant and and triggered the alarm when the um the security company, uh ADT called to get the password and to to identify himself, wouldn't you know it? He answered with his real full name and spelled it out just so that they would get it correct. Finally, there was a story about a man who broke into his neighbor's garage to steal anything valuable. And I guess at that point he was thirsty, and so he helped himself to a couple of beers and some popsicles from his refrigerator. But he took off his dentures. After he had his fill, I guess, he left, but he he forgot his dentures When the owner discovered the break-in, the thieves' team were traced back to the rest of the body. Now in all of these cases you wonder to yourself, what is it these people thinking? Right Well, I think one of the things that they they they may have in common is uh that they're thinking, I would think, that I'm not gonna get caught. I mean if they were convinced that they were going to get caught, they you would think they wouldn't do it, right? I'm not gonna pay the price for my theft, right? Now, this line of thinking, I think, has relevance to our passage this week, and not only this week, but also next week. It's about being caught. It's about justice. It's about what we believe in God that impacts the lives that we lead. But before we dig into this third and final chapter in 2 Peter, I'd like to remind us of the broader themes within this book. The first is that he wanted to exhort, Peter did, the faithful, to grow spiritually. He wants us to continue to grow in Christ more and more, to be holier, and to pursue holiness more and more to be like our Heavenly Father. The second, which we saw predominantly in the second chapter, was to give us warnings against false teachers, for which we've spent some time on. And then finally, in this third chapter, he returns to Christ and the ethics that knowledge should engender within the believer. How and what we believe in God affects how we lead our lives. But this is happening within the context of what is called eschatology, which is the study of last things. Now, having already gone over the first two sections, we now arrive at this transition point regarding the false teachers and end times. And one thing that we need to see is Peter's pastoral concern for the sheep of Christ. Having said that, would you please rise for the reading and hearing of God's holy word, which comes to us from 2 Peter 3. I will be covering, however, verses 1 through 9. Hear now the word of God. This is now the second letter that I'm writing to you, beloved. In both of them, I am stirring up your sincere mind by way of reminder that you should remember the predictions of the holy prophets. And the commandment of the Lord and Savior through your apostles, knowing this first of all, that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing. Following their own sinful desires, they will say, Where is the promise of his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all things are continuing as they were from the beginning of creation. For they deliberately overlook this fact that the heavens existed long ago, and the earth was formed out of water, and through water by the word of God, and that by means of these the world that then existed was deluged with water and perished. But by the same word, the heavens and the earth that now exist are stored up for fire, being kept until the day of judgment and destruction of the ungodly. But do not overlook this one fact, beloved, that with the Lord one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise, as some count slowness, but is patient towards you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. This is the Word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, we come before you now as we continue in our worship of our great God with the Word of God. And we pray that you would help us to have help us to see things that perhaps we may have not seen before, to understand. And most importantly, to apply to our lives the truth of God's Word. We pray, Holy Spirit, that you would convict our hearts where conviction is necessary And help us to rejoice and to take great comfort and to be refreshed by it, by your power and by your grace. And we ask these things in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. In verses 1 and 2, Peter wants to orient our thoughts upon the scriptures, the prophets, the apostles. And of course, the teaching of the Lord, whom the apostles delivered to the church. Our author, of course, Peter, is also included That is the source they and we should be turning to. If you want us the biblically oriented He wants to biblically orient our thinking because as we shall see and hopefully discover in just a moment, his opponents Are sort of doing that themselves, but there's a flaw in their scheme. But in order for it to be effective, they require ignorance On behalf of those whom they are misleading. In some of your translations, those whom he is addressing from verse 3 and on are, and is the word used scoffer. I think that's a fine translation, but I think a better and more modern translation is that of mockers. Peter means to identify the false teachers he's been talking about. I put note this time, as well as what follows, these mockers will be using a particular tactic. And we are to understand that this tactic is something that shall be used until the Lord returns. What exactly is their mockery assertion? Who Peter states that in the last days mockers will be plentiful. Now, a quick note about Last days before we move forward. Oftentimes in evangelical America, last days is described to be a period of time directly before the return of Christ. However, that's not biblically accurate. Last days were inaugurated and began with the whole complex of events, with the death. the resurrection and ascension of Christ along with Pentecost. It's commonly known as the last epic time period in the history of redemption Now we know that this is true because in other places the scripture speaks to us about it already being in the last days. We see this in Hebrews chapter 1 and 1 and 2, which I'll read for us. It says, God, after he spoke long ago to the fathers and to the prophets in many portions and many ways. In these last days, he has spoken to us in his son So we're identified and he has identified the writer of Hebrews that we are already in the last days. So the point is that we've been in the last days, the last era ever since redemption was accomplished upon the cross. These mockers have come into the community and are mocking the Word of God and ultimately God Himself, as you really cannot separate God from His Word. Their assertion in their mockery is that everything is as it's always been since creation. No, since creation, not the cross. They would say something to the effect, look, Jesus said that there would be a day of judgment, and nothing like that has happened. Obviously, it's not true. Peter's response has something to the effect of, look, what you seem to conveniently be escaping your notice is that promises of judgment were made by the very same God, and in fact he did judge the world with the flood. Obviously, Peter's making reference to the Noaic flood. So Peter is pointing out that their argument Sorry. Doesn't hold any water. Their attack is a direct assault of God's faithfulness. Now, why is that? Because as Peter has pointed out, that the prophecies from the prophets to Jesus and to the apostles Has been that a judgment day will come and God will expose all things. Now, if you recall, this is one of those things that the false teachers had been refuting will ever take place. Obviously the flood is mentioned here. But in other places, God promised to judge his Old Testament bride, and in the fullness of time he did. By destroying Jerusalem and sending her off into captivity into Babylon. Now look These mockers wouldn't have gotten any attention if it weren't for the fact that they were getting some traction in the community Peter is writing to. But the reality is that if Christians in the community were educating themselves, immersing themselves in biblical history, they wouldn't have found themselves in such biblical history. But that is the common attack of the enemy, is it not? Preying on ignorance What this means for you and I is that we need to take time, we need to take the time to read through the scriptures regularly and sometimes systematically. Perhaps an annual chronological reading of the scriptures would be very helpful for us to understand how things have worked out through the history of redemption. The reality, though, is that there's an element of truth. Yes, the Lord said that a day of judgment would come, but the fact that God had already made good on a previous judgment was probably and conveniently left out. So these mockers, today's mockers, you know, they they don't have to be ministers. They don't have to be teachers within the church. Although they are, sadly, we can find them in other types of cathedrals within society. I'm speaking of cathedrals in our nation's universities, professors, teachers who mock Christianity. There's where you find those who mock Christianity who would use the very same argument and that I have heard. It's been over 2,000 years. Jesus isn't coming back. He would have been back by now. But a more subtle level of mockery is found within the church Teachers that similarly as as we have here in this text, who give a piece of the truth, but don't give a balanced And full biblical exposition of their teachings. What I have in mind is, as I've mentioned before, is the health and wealth gospel Those teachers spend all of their time on how God wants you to be healthy and how God wants you to be wealthy. And let's face it, all that is quite appealing, isn't it? But what they don't speak of or teach are of the passages speak about the suffering that we will have and how the world who treated the Lord so horribly will treat us Scripture does not teach that when people find out that we are Christians, they are going to shower us with kindness. And empty their pockets to us and ask how they can serve us. No. Jesus taught that we would be treated like him, if not worse. So the tactic is incomplete information. The protection against that is education. Biblical education. You must invest in your biblical knowledge so you can spot the real from the fake. Now, in the context of the mockers that Peter is dealing with, he tells us something of their goal. You see, if we can't trust in God's promises, then that can result in us wondering. Why trust in him at all? Now, the end goal of all this is that you can pursue your own lusts. That is what Peter is telling us. You see, if they are responsible morally, responsible to God, every human is Then you have to give an account of your sins and ultimately be punished for them, do you not? But if there is no judgment day, Then you don't have to answer to God. Then you can do whatever you want Are you perhaps in that camp? Have you not placed yourself under the loving lordship of Christ because you wish to pursue your own lusts? Whatever you've told yourself, you will at some point, as the scripture teaches us, have to answer for all of your actions. Peter ends this section by telling us that the old world was destroyed by water, but this world, the one in which we are living in, will be destroyed by fire. Now, in both of these instances where God meets out judgment, they are literal. They are both literal instances, and yet they also have a figurative meaning as well. God used water the first time. Water represents cleansing from sin. And fire is depicted as separating unwanted dross. From holy things. So we are to see that in both cases, God is separating what is holy to him from what is ungodly. Now, as we move on to verse 8, Peter addresses a facet of their argument, the time factor. Jesus didn't say when he would come back. He didn't give us a time or a date. And that he also told us that we should shy away from people who actually do that. How many times can you go back in the history of the church and see how personalities, charismatic personalities, Have actually affixed a date to when Jesus is coming. And that date, I guarantee you all, has come and has gone and has done such Toxic damage to the faith of those people who followed them. Not just financial damage, but more importantly, spiritual damage to their faith. Peter wants his readers to think broadly about the notion of time as it relates to man and God. What we first encounter in Psalm 90 and verse 4 is referenced here by Peter. It reads the following. For a thousand years in your sight are like yesterday when it passes by, or as a watch in the night. Neither Peter nor the psalmist is making a statement that there is a direct one-to-one correlation between a 24-hour period that we experience and that of being the equivalent of a thousand years. But the point is being made about the eternality of God, and in comparison to him, our lifespans are like nothing. For the ancients, 1,000 years was like an eternity. I suppose if if we wanted to make the same point today, we would say something like, you know, millions of years to make the point. So, this being the case, we should not interpret this passage of time as Peter is pointing out, being slowness of God, or God changing his mind on. Or God keeping his promise that he will return. But instead, I think what we need to see is the heart of God, because he does not wish For people to perish, but instead to repent. Now, I need to spend a little time on this as I'm speaking about verse 8 and 9. It's a common verse that is used as a proof text for non-reformed Christians regarding salvation What I have in mind is Armenian theology that would refute the doctrine of election as we understand it. So I'm going to take a little time here to help us understand what this means So the first thing that we notice here is that the subject of the passage is not salvation specifically, but it is about the coming of Christ. Peter is explaining the reason for the supposed delay in Christ's second coming. He is still coming and will come unexpectedly like a thief in the night. The second thing to notice is that in this verse, in question, that is verse 9, it speaks of the will of God. God is not willing for something to happen. Y'all see that there in this verse, right? Theologians have long recognized that there are three ways in which the will of God is spoken of in Scripture Now, I've experienced this, you know, day-to-day ministry where people come to me and and they'll say, you know, I'm I'm experiencing whatever it is they're experiencing, and they say, I want to know the will of God. Well the the answer to that question or is really a question that I have for them. Which will of God are you talking about? And so this is what theologians have addressed is three different ways for us to understand the will of God. So let's get it right into it. There is what is called the sovereign decretive will of God. Now this is the first one, the decretive will of God This refers to the will of God by which God brings to pass whatsoever He decrees, and what He has already decreed in eternity past. This is something that Always happens. It is guaranteed that it will happen because he has decreed it. Nothing can thwart God's decretive will. This will is also known as the secret will of God, because it's hidden from us until it comes to pass in the course of time. Now, one thing I do have to say about this decree of will of God is that you need to be careful with saying, okay, so I I know what God's will was. But you have to be careful about why that event occurred and assign to it a particular meaning. just because something happened doesn't tell you why and what the intention was that God wanted. We fall into this trap all the time. We understand the secret will of God, the decreed of will of God, and say, well, I know that's what God wanted because it happened. Well, yes, this is true. True, but you have to be careful to say, and because this happened, and last month that happened, and the week before that happened, I can see that this is where God wants me to go. Well, you know It doesn't always work out that way. We don't have the secret decoder ring that tells us what the future decreed will of God is. So do be careful in how you interpret the decreed will of God that shows itself in the past as in providence occurring. Now, that's the decreed of will. Now the second is the preceptive will of God. This is God's will revealed in his law. Commandments or precepts As the course of human history reveals, people have the power to break these commandments and do so every day It is important to state, though, that although men have the power to break these precepts, what are examples of these precepts? Thou shalt not lie. Thou shalt not murder. Right? These are all precepts. These are commandments. Although men have the power to break these commandments or these precepts, they do not have the right to do so. His creatures are under obligation, you and I, to obey all his commandments, and we'll face his judgments for not doing so. Now thirdly, we have God's will of disposition. We have the decretive will Which we talked about. We have his preceptive will, and now this is the third one, God's will of disposition Dr. R. C. Spro states about this that this will describes God's attitude. It defines what is pleasing to him. I'm sure we we we say that ourselves, right? You know, uh I'm predisposed to a coke over a Pepsi. Or something of that nature. We're predisposed. This is our predisposition, if you will. For example, God takes no delight in the death of the wicked. Yet he most surely wills or decrees the death of the wicked. God's ultimate delight is in his own holiness and righteousness. When he judges the world, he delights in the vindication of his own righteousness and justice. Yet he is not gleeful in a vindictive, malicious sense. Towards those who receive his judgment. God is pleased when we find our pleasure in obedience, for example. He is sorely displeased when we are disobedient. There are many in the Reformed community that look to 2 Peter 3. 9 and believe that what we have here is God expressing his will of Disposition. The third one, to help explain this passage. They believe the text to be saying that God is not wishing or desiring to see any human being perish. Even though that's exactly what will happen. Person does not come to repentance. The fact that people perish is not something that makes God happy. He would rather it never happened, but to uphold his holiness and justice, he must punish rebellious sinners by giving them what they have properly earned. However, I tend to take a different view because of the pronouns of this passage. First, we need to ask ourselves. Who are the all? Who are the all? The people Peter is addressing are clearly identified He speaks of the mockers as they, but everywhere else he speaks to his audience as you, the beloved, the believers. This is very important to keep track here. But surely all here means all, doesn't it? Well, sometimes all means all, but not always. The context determines much of this. I recall as a young man, uh, he was a teenager still. This was back in 1986. I was, well, I went to front my bedroom, to our living room, and I went over to the TV and I turned it on. You know, I we had one of those TVs where you you unplug it, well not unplug it, pull, and now the power comes on. As you we didn't have a remote control. I had to walk over to the TV. And I knew exactly what channel I needed to go to. So I the dialer. Well, you guys must be thinking I'm really old. I clicked the dialer until I got to the channel I wanted to get to. I was watching on my TV and then turned on to, well, yes, none other than, for those of you who know me, and 1986. My triumphant New York Mets, having won the World Series, being given a ticker-tape parade going down the major thoroughfares of New York City. And the broadcaster said, I remember very distinctly, all of New York has come out to celebrate the Mets' victory. The all, frankly, was not everyone. I certainly wasn't there. I was in my living room. And frankly, no self-respecting Yankee fan would have showed up for that dicker tape parade as well. So you see, all does not always mean all. But it can mean all within a subset. So the question in 2 Peter 3. 9 is whether all refers to all human beings without exception, or whether it refers to everyone within a certain group Now, we have to understand that if all means everyone, without exception, we've gone into universalism. Right? You all see that. So the context of 2 Peter 3. 9 indicates that Peter is writing to a specific group, and not to all of mankind. The audience is confirmed when Peter writes, This is now the second letter that I am writing to you, beloved. 2 Peter 3. 1. Can we be even a little bit more specific here? Well, I think we can, because if this is the second letter addressed to them, the first makes it clear whom he is writing to. 1 Peter 1-1, the first letter, states Peter, an apostle to Jesus Christ, writing to whom? To those who are elect. So Peter is writing to the elect in 2 Peter 3, 8 and 9, saying But do not overlook this one fact, beloved, that with the Lord one day is as a thousand years and a thousand years as one day. The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise. As some, making reference to the false teachers, as some count slowness, but his patience towards you, not wishing that any of you should perish, but that all there's the subset. of the beloved should reach repentance. Interestingly enough, Dr. Sprohl, who believes that the will of God spoken of here is not the will of disposition, But it is his sovereign decretive will that is being made reference to God is not willing that any should perish. He will not allow it to happen. If God is not willing in his secret in his uh decreed of sovereign will that any person should perish, then what? Well then obviously no one ever will perish. But yet in this context, the any that God will not perish is limited to that very same group that he is writing to, the elect. And the all that are to come to repentance is in the very same group. This interpretation, I think, makes the most sense in this passage Jesus assured us of the following. He assured you of the following. He said, All that the Father gives me will come to me. John six thirty-seven. believed. So an implication of uh from the teaching of 2 Peter 3 is that the reason, a reason that Christ has not yet returned is because there are more of his elect to come into the fold. That is why He did not return 2,000 years ago. He did not return yesterday. And he has not returned today. Because there are the elect. that God has promised him that have not come to him as of yet. This uh this event reminds me of a a story when um I was a seminarian, and the first time I attended a VBS, Vacation Bible School, served in a VBS. I volunteered to be a teacher at our local church. I should have figured out that I was going to be in for it when I said, uh just I'll teach wherever you want me to teach. And the the director, whom I knew for quite some time, had this like naughty gleam on her face. I was given the graduating sixth grade class. Basically, they're all middle schoolers. I had 16 students Of which only four were girls, and that left twelve boys. If anyone who has worked with this group, you will know that it was quite an experience. During that week I I gave my testimony and several of the boys seemed to be disinterested, but there was one particular boy I just couldn't engage. So when I gave my testimony at the end of the week, I I brought out the fact that before I was saved I thought I would go to heaven because I was basically a good guy. It was all, you know, self righteousness. right, on my part. And suddenly this boy who I I couldn't seem to get his attention, he chimed in and said, you know, pointing his finger at me, saying, It's a good thing that you didn't die then before you got saved. Or before Jesus came back. Well, you know, I thought to myself, you know, on the surface, yeah, that kind of makes sense, but the reality is that our passage reminds us. That that wouldn't have happened. Because God is patient. He's long-suffering. He suffered. Yes, he suffers. His suffering is that he doesn't get justice For the sins that we commit and the world commits. He's waiting. He's long-suffering. Now, he sent his son So that for those whom he died, he's received justice for them. God, the Son, died on the cross, received punishment For the sins of everyone who would believe in him and God's long suffering. came to an end for those for whom Jesus died for He no longer is angry at you, for those of you who are saved, for your sins. His anger has been, there's that word that was used recently, propitiated. His anger has been turned away from you. He no longer looks at you. And he is angry. His long suffering has ended. However, his long suffering still continues for every sin that has not been paid for. But one day that long suffering for God will end. And that is on Judgment Day. Now, I don't have spiritual glasses that I can put on and say, ooh Elect, elect, elect, not elect, not elect, elect, but not saved yet. So I can say to you, you know, you need to put your faith in Christ. I don't have those glasses. So I would have to say, where are you? Where are you in your faith? Have you come to that place where you see yourself as someone who's violated God's laws and really don't have an answer? And you can't wipe them away on your own. It's very important to see that. There's hope for you. There's hope for everyone. Who places their faith in Christ. So I would urge you to do so if you haven't, even now where you're sitting And put your faith in Christ and trust Him and Him alone for your salvation. And as God promises, you will be forgiven. And God's long suffering will end on behalf of your sins. Not because there's anything nice about you or great about you. But it's because of what his son has done for you. And it's because God is merciful. God is loving that he extended it to you. So I would encourage you to do so now. Shall we pray? Heavenly Father, we thank you for your great love. We thank you for your mercy. We thank you for your word. For your word protects us Move us, we pray, Holy Spirit, to learn more about you. By indeed reading the word Systematically, regularly, so that we will know even biblical history, so we are able to tell the false teachers from those who are not. So we would not be led away astray. So Heavenly Father, we we pray that you would do that work in us. Move us, we pray. And we ask all these things in the name of Christ. Amen. I'd like to ask the elders who will be assisting with the Lord's table to please come forward right now.