I have enjoyed uh very much being with you, not least of which is singing with you. It's uh it's been a joy to sing with you and to share with you and in these uh Lord's days. Uh just a couple of words uh of personal privilege if I might, and you might be looking up Revelation 21. In the meantime, first of all, I'm here alone all these Sundays, and the reason for that is my wife Linda is a paid organist And uh so she is uh taking care of her organist duties at Reformed Presbyterian Church in Manassas. And uh that's why I'm alone here on these Sundays Secondly, did you notice the second verse of this hymn we just sang? Crown him ye martyrs of your God who from his altar called. Remember Revelation 6? That's the reference. And uh when we studied it in Revelation chapter six, remember the altar, the martyrs under the altar crying out for vindication. Uh it's in the hymn. And good hymns always pick up biblical themes. And references and tie them together. Revelation chapter 21 Would you follow along as we read together first 14 verses of Revelation chapter 21? Good. Stand with me. It's my last Sunday here and I still haven't got it right. But with your help, we're getting there. Hear the word of God as we Hear it through the Apostle John, under the inspiration of God's Spirit, actually from the Lord Jesus Christ, as the Lord Jesus opens this door. vision to the apostle. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more. Neither shall there be mourning nor crying nor pain any more, for the former things have passed away. And he who was seated on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new. Also he said, Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true. And he said to me, It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the thirsty I will give from the spring of the water of life without payment The one who conquers will have this heritage, and I will be his God, and he will be my son. But as for the cowardly, the faithless, the detestable, as for murderers, the sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars, their portion will be in the lake that burns with fire and sulphur. which is the second death. Then came one of the seven angels, who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues, and spoke to me, saying, Come, I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb. And he carried me away in the spirit to a great high mountain, and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God having the glory of God, its radiance like a most rare jewel, like a jasper clear as crystal. It had a great high wall with twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels. And on the gates the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel were inscribed on the east east three gates, on the three north three gates, on the south three gates, and on the west three gates. And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them were the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. Would you bow with me as we come to God's word this morning? Father, thank you once again for your word. Thank you for these visions given as the risen Lord revealed himself to John the Apostle. And told us of things to come, and told us of a perspective upon this life Which reflects a heavenly goal and purpose, which Jesus Himself articulated in his earthly ministry, saying that he would go to prepare a place for us. That where he is, there we may be also. But in this life we continue as faithful witnesses of Jesus Christ. And so we pray that you would enable us to Clarify that perspective. Understand ourselves as you understand us in the scriptures. that we may take upon ourselves that yoke which is ours in this time for your glory in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. As I reflect upon my title this morning, I I realize I have some risks. You're all probably expecting me to expound so fully on heaven that you will have no questions left. I will leave you disappointed. Uh a couple of reasons that I will do that. Number one, I'm not going to address doggy heaven, which I know is a concern for some of you. Secondly, I'm not going to uh deal with whether or not there are golf courses in heaven. Uh I I don't see that in the book of Revelation and and really what that brings me to, you see, is I'm somewhat bound this morning by Revelation chapter twenty one. And that's as it should be. Uh and so let's dig in and find out what we learn. The Bible teaches a perspective on life which goes like this We are pilgrims. This is not home. We are traveling along this road toward, as John Bunyan put it in his great uh uh allegory, uh a he a celestial city. Uh we are now here undergoing all of these trials and so forth. But the perspective with which we view all those trials and struggles is a perspective that we have an eternal home, a house not made with hands eternal in the heavens. Just a brief sampling of Bible passages amply illustrates Scripture's teaching of a blessed life beyond this world for the believer The promise of Jesus. Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God. Believe also in me. In my father's house are many rooms, if it were not so. Would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also. John CHAPTER fourteen, first three verses. 2 Corinthians 5, verse 1, for we know that if the tent that is our earthly home is destroyed, We have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. First Corinthians 15, that great exposition of the resurrection. and its meaning for believers. If in Christ we have hope in this life only, we are of all people most to be pitied. Titus II, waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. Now, if you look at the context of many of these passages, you will also discover that Bible writers intend that this hope of the future Will decisively shape how you live in the present world and how you address the issues of life daily in this material world. And so it is not simply a pie in the sky kind of thing, but it is a perspective which shapes all of our lives and responses as we understand that biblical. perspective and as God works in us, that perspective and that sense of His glory and His call to service in this present life. This perspective, then, is what frees us to serve God and to not be manipulated by the world's siren calls, whatever shape and form those calls might take. Titus 2 again, for the grace of God has appeared. Bringing salvation for all people, training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions, and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age. waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. We live here and now in a material world, in this uh world not only material but in many ways a sinful world, but we live with a perspective that we are not here to be sucked up in that We live here as those who bear witness of Jesus Christ that we have an eternal home, that we are going someplace. Uh I once heard a great description of the distinction between uh tourists and pilgrims. A tourist, you know, and I'm I'm kind of planning it when Skip gets back, I think I've told you this when Skip gets back I'm gonna sit him down and uh we're gonna have a talk about uh uh preaching in Scotland and getting use of mance and so forth 'cause I'm planning a trip to Scotland. I have a British car, I need to go to England. I told you my uh uh uh name, Spurgeon, uh the great uh Baptist preacher Charles Haddon Spurgeon, the Metropolitan Tabernacle is still a very active, vibrant ministry in London. And I need to go there. And not only is it a vibrant ministry, but it is a reformed ministry that on its Masthead of its website uh trumpets its reformed credentials. Uh so I gotta go there. Uh if I go as a tourist And I'm not, if you you know, if you're a tourist, don't be offended, but tourists, what do tourists do? They kind of walk around and gawk at stuff. Oh, look at that! This big band, look. A pilgrim has a purpose. A pilgrim has a purpose. They're there for a purpose. And you, brothers and sisters, in Jesus Christ are pilgrims. You are traveling with a purpose in this life, and that purpose is shaped by the life that is to come in Jesus Christ. Our focus this morning, then, is on the future, particularly, which God has prepared for you who have come to know Jesus Christ and rest upon him as Savior and Lord. First of all, in the first two verses, the newness of heaven. Then I saw a new heaven, and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. The Old Testament background here is in Isaiah 65 and 66. Here's the 17th and 18th verses of Isaiah 66. For behold, I create new heavens and a new earth, and the former things shall not be remembered or come into mind But be glad and rejoice forever in that which I create. For behold, I create Jerusalem to be a joy and her people To be a gladness. That's the future perspective upon the city of God and the people of God. Now, you understand that much of the history of Israel in Jerusalem had been the story of Israel's failure, of Israel's sin, of Israel's apostasy, of Israel's whorring after the gods of the nations round about them. But now the prophet has given God's promise that it will not end that way. It will not always be so. There will be a time when all that old disobedience will be done. And everything will be created new in righteousness through the work of Jesus Christ. But here the prophet is granted to see through the cross to the beauty of a new creation. Which that cross, the work of that cross, the accomplishment of that cross will secure for all believers. It is that newness which is now seen as fulfilled in Revelation 21. What is new? What is radically different, we notice first of all, is that this new heavens and new earth are full of God's perfection and beauty and glory The battles pictured in the previous chapters of Revelation are ended. The Lamb has conquered his enemies, and now his perfect reign with his people commences. This eternal honeymoon of God and his people is now pursued with whole joy in that heavenly setting. In chapter 20, there is a judgment which separates the righteous and the unrighteous, and the unrighteous are no longer able to molest God's loved ones You will be totally out of the reach of evil in this new creation. And if you are serious at all today about the living of the Christian life, You have some longing, don't you, to be free of that molestation? To be free of the garbage that you have to deal with in a fallen world. Your heavenly destiny is free of all of that. Through the power and the love of Jesus Christ, all that's done away. And you are his people. And you live only for his glory, and your heart's desire is only to lift him up and to glorify him. In this world, Jesus said, You shall have tribulation, John 16, 33. But be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. It is difficult to speculate about how that new creation will be experienced. And those are some more of those questions that I'm probably not going to answer in any full way. Paul, you know, talks about somebody that was caught up into the seventh heaven and all this, and I haven't been there. I haven't been there, but I see in the scriptures the promises of God, and God by His Spirit has sealed those things to my heart, and I declare them to you from the Scriptures. That God has this purpose. We will have a new resurrection body. And as Jesus tells us in Matthew 19. There will be no marriage. We are all bride and Jesus is the one bridegroom. And there's a there's a difference, you see. That's something that's new. Here in this world, those realities are before us. In the world to come, it is different. The joy of our salvation, which we experience now in bits and pieces here and there becomes the whole of it. Uh the seeing through a glass darkly is it's put one place in Scripture Is done away, and we see now, we know, even as we are known, we shall see him as he is. And his glory will come home to us. The sure evidence that all things are new and that evil has been totally banished from the new heavens and the new earth is put in revelation in terms of the sea. There's no more sea. And in the book of Revelation, it's not a total thing, but in the book of Revelation, the sea is a place of the rest, the restlessness of sin in the world. The traitors of the great prostitute who ply the seas do so in the service of Satan's ministry of deception. And in the pursuit of the things of this world and the absolutizing of those things, as though you have to have these things, and you can never be happy if you don't have all these things. And that's one of Satan's siren calls. And we're called to say, No. We will serve him first. And we will depend upon him for these things. We will serve him. And trust Him to give us what we need, just as we pray in the Lord's Prayer. In chapter 13, the first beast rises from the sea. There's no more sea. No more of that danger. In a previous sermon I referenced to Jesus on the Sea of Galilee. Remember, he was asleep in the boat and the storm came up. And the people, the disciples who were with him, they're all frantic. Eh, what are we going to do? He's asleep. Get up. Come on. Don't you care that we perish? Who is this? As Jesus gets up and exercises his authority over the winds and the waves. Who is this who exercises such authority over the winds and the waves? Oh Christian, do you see that someday you will be removed completely from this world full of temptations? And tribulations. And you look forward to that, you long for that, you await it. But in the meantime, understand too. that this new life has already been begun in you by the work of God's Holy Spirit by bringing you into a relationship with Jesus Christ, assuring you that your sins have been taken care of. and atoned on the cross of Calvary, and that there is no one in all this world able to bring any charge against you who are in Jesus Christ. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, Paul says, 2 Corinthians 5, he is a new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come. This new life is begun in you. And this is part of your perspective. You see, you are no longer what you were. You no longer belong to those you used to belong to. You belong to him. And it is your business to serve him and to give yourself to his purposes. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. God has a purpose. Jesus has a purpose in the world in which we live still, and that purpose is worth Working through us as his people, called to be servants of Jesus Christ, called to bear witness of him in the world in which we live. So your relationship, you see, to this world has already been radically transformed by the presence of Christ in your life. The more you die unto sin and live unto righteousness, the more decisive will be the break between you and the sin. this sinful world, the clearer will be your apprehension of the place you truly occupy in this world as a servant of Jesus Christ, a pilgrim Traveling toward the celestial city, being faithful to the one who has called you and has given you gracious promises of that place to come. The central attraction in this new heaven and earth is pictured as a city which is prepared as a bride. It's a wonderful mixing of metaphors, which eloquently expresses several things. First of all, what do you think about cities? When you think of cities, what do you think of them? I I enjoy traveling, and I'm looking forward to going to London. I've never been to England, never been to Scotland, and I need to go. And uh I'll go to England. I mentioned Big Ben. I'll get I want to see Big Ben. But I want to see the Metropolitan Tabernacle too. And I'd like to see Westminster Chapel, where Martin Lloyd Jones preached, and before him G. Campbell Morgan, and some of those great fathers of the faith, if you will. uh in that place. Westminster Abbey, who could miss that? And the place where the Westminster Confession of Faith, Jerusalem Chamber, where the Westminster Confession of Faith was thrashed out in the seventeen or sixteen forties Got to see those places. If I mention St. Louis, most of you immediately have this big arch in your mind. Right? If I mention San Francisco, there's a big bridge, or maybe the Trans America Tower Washington, D. C. , Washington Monument. Just saw as I watched the news this morning in the weather report, they had a picture of the monument. The scaffolding is all but about the fourth dawn now And getting ready to reopen, I guess, this spring. When we think of the monuments, is that what God has in mind when he's thinking about Jerusalem? What's the attraction? It's not the stuff that you gawk at. It's the people. And that's something that continually, I have to continually remind myself of sometimes. What did God, what did Jesus come to redeem? People to seek and to save that which is lost. It's the people of the city which God has chosen, and in that heavenly place you see where the material somehow falls away. There's no need for those kinds of things. It's all holy, it's all temple And the picture here is of the bride in all her beauty, desirable above all others. She is prepared for her wedding, pure and altogether lovely. I always enjoy reading Ephesians 5, and Paul in this wonderful passage is talking to husbands and wives, and we use this passage a lot in counseling and things like that, helping uh husbands and wives learn how to live together in uh in peace and harmony and purpose together, uh which doesn't come naturally and easily as a pastor I can tell you to all of us. Some of us struggle with that a bit. And Paul, in this wonderful picture, he's got a very practical purpose, husbands and wives But he gets caught away because when he can't think of husband and wife without thinking of Christ and the church, the bride and the bridegroom Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word. so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. And what I do in counseling, and I'm sure Skip probably does too, is remind you that here is Christ. giving himself with a whole goal to make the wife beautiful and pure and holy. Husbands, if you do that, I got a hunch it'll change what submission means on the other side. It'll transform itself somewhat and make it a little less irksome task because the wife will know of the husband's surpassing love and knowing that the Will change everything. As the love of Jesus Christ for his church changes everything. Here's a picture of the church, all believers in all ages and places, now ready for the eternal honeymoon. In the full presence of the bridegroom, the Lord Jesus Christ. Dennis Johnson has a very interesting comment on this in his book, The Triumph of the Lamb. The whole conflict you see that's been going on in Revelation. And now he brings it to this. He says, the whole terrifying conflict has been about the divine husband's judgment. Jealous love for the bride. We live in a world which sees all jealousy as wrong and evil. A husband's love of a wife is a holy and good thing. Christ's love of the church is jealous concerned for her response and for her return of love. Is important to God. The husband's jealous love for his bride And it is because of that husband's jealous love for the bride, brothers and sisters, that the Apostle Paul was thrown down on a road on the way to Damascus. And called to serve and to be the apostle to the Gentiles. It is that jealous love of the bridegroom for his bride that has led to us being called into his service. That led the Lord Jesus Christ to the cross of Calvary to make payment for your sins and for mine, and thus qualify us to come holy into the Well, secondly, the essence of heaven. I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. The great desire of God throughout Scripture is to love his people. To have a relationship of love and joy with his human creatures. He walked in the garden with Adam and Eve in the cool of the day. In the Exodus experience, Leviticus 26, 12, and I will walk among you and will be your God, and you shall be my people. The point of the city of Jerusalem is a place for God to gather his people for the worship which he has prescribed. And God set a place. Why? Because we are human beings. We need places. And God appointed a place and commanded his people and commanded these pilgrim feasts which yearly gathered the people again to that central place that he had ordained. That his name should dwell. We go down to verse 22 and we learn that there is no more temple. For the very presence of God is the temple. And that's one of the wonderful things that happens here, you see. No longer is it a fortress. In the midst of a chaotic world, but it's all temple. It's all worship. It's all given to the glory of God. It's all turned to his praise. The essence of heaven, then, is surely this enjoyment of the presence of God. My parents had the great Blessing in their lives of a couple somewhat younger than themselves, Bob and Twyla. Lifelong friends, I can remember even before they were married. My sister served as the flower girl in their wedding. And we have pictures. We had lived on a farm in those days and we had sometimes rented that out to uh bulb growers, tulips. And we've got a picture of my sister in this yellow dress in a field of yellow tulips. It's quite a quite an amazing picture. Bob and Twila, Bob went to be with the Lord now just this past year. Their pastor out in California or out in Oregon is Randy Alcorn. You may have come across him in some of the uh pro-life things he's been involved in written along with Those lines, but he's also written a book on heaven. And I quote: God, one chapter at least in that book is entitled God, Our Primary Pleasure. God, our primary pleasure. At the front of the chapter, not surprisingly to me, he quotes none other than Jonathan Edwards, from whom he got some of this stuff Who opened the scriptures to him in those ways? Here's a quote from Edwards: The redeemed will indeed enjoy other things. But that which they shall enjoy in the angels, or in each other, or in anything else whatsoever, that will yield them delight and happiness, will be that, will be what? Will be seen of God in them. You see how God fills everything. If you find something beautiful and joyful in my life as a Christian, it's there because God has worked it there. Because Jim Spurgeon is such a good guy. He's a nasty critter deep down. It is the beauty of God. And you see, heaven, we're all beautified. We're all these sanctified brides. And we all see the beauty of God in each other. And the love that we have for one another reflects the working of God among us and in us. And we see the handiwork of God in the lives and hearts of others. And that's as a pastor retired now. There is no greater joy. than to see the handiwork of God in another life. And I've been involved uh just a little Quick story. Out in West Virginia, I served in 1970 with a guy named Bob Schuf, who was a member of our presbyter. Some of you may know Bob, uh have known him. He's with the Lord now. And uh Bob sent me out to this guy who was going to Vietnam. This is 1970. He was being shipped out to Vietnam. Son of a family in the church. Hadn't been around much. He'd been in the army. And sent me out to talk to Jesse. Share the gospel with him. Which I did. Farm country and around Martinsburg, West Virginia. Shared the gospel and he made some sort of commitment. But I've wondered all the years, and there were times even in that summer when we wondered what was happening to Jesse, what was going on. Did he really did God really get a hold of them or what? And I was out for Bob's funeral in Martinsburg, memorial service. And one of the elders with whom I had prayed for Jesse in that summer came up behind me and grabbed Cal Calvin Grove. He's a big guy and one of those robust guys that Picks you up and grabs you and hugs the life out of you and throws you down. Just a a rambunctious kind of guy. Great guy. And said, Jim, do you know what happened to Jesse? Jesse's walking with the Lord today. Jesse's got a family, and they're in church, and they're Learning of Jesus Christ and their growing in him. Good, good! Those are times of great joy for believers. God's work being done. in his people. Learning to delight in the things of God. You see, the work that's going on in his life is not something that's his work. It's the work of God through Jesus Christ by his Spirit. The illustration and revelation certain things are missing, we find. There is no temple, which I've already mentioned, the temple of the Old Testament. was a place where God would meet with his people, but it was also a place that guarded the holiness of God. The presence of God was in danger as well as a blessing. There was a wall around the city. No more walls. It's all holy. It's all the place of God's blessing. In verse 23, we learn that there is no sun or moon, for God Himself is the light of the city. The word which runs through that section is glory. The glory of God is described as light, no darkness at all. The shining light of God's presence fills the light. Of God's people. Those moments that we have now of knowing His blessing are now the whole. We are all filled up with Him. But, Christian, even now, you have planted in your heart, as I've said, a mind which desires God. Another Baptist, perhaps better known to you, John Piper, has written of that, Desiring God, the first uh major book that he published, and has followed that with the numbers. My favorite, I think, is The Pleasures of God. uh that God takes pleasure in his people. God takes God surpassing pleasure in his son. The joy of God in the work of his son and the obedience which his son renders to him, which brings us forgiven and loved, into his arms forever. Piper, you ought to know, has also studied Jonathan Edwards. I'll leave you to make of that what you will. The Holy Spirit has shown you the truth of God, implanted in your heart a desire to know God and to serve Him through Jesus Christ. But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which He loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace and kindness toward us in Christ. Jesus. Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer. with him in order that we may also be glorified with him. In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, we're sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it to the praise of his glory. I don't have time for an exposition of the Holy Spirit and the doctrine of the Spirit, but the Spirit is crucial in this in between time when we do not fully realize it as in heaven. And when we've been in the world, and now by the Spirit, we are transformed. Great doctrine of the Holy Spirit The desire to be with God then finds expression in our desire for true worship. The corporate worship of God is to be a meeting of God with His people. Where God's presence is recognized. And in God's presence we take up those means of grace which He has appointed for His own glory. The Psalms as a heart pants, Psalm 63, isn't it? As a dear heart pants for the water streams, so my heart pants. For God to know Him. I desire Him and to know Him before all else. It is the purpose of the devotional life, and I commend the devotional life to you. To God, of learning of Him, seeking His face, expressing your desire to know Him better, submitting yourself to the Word of God that you may receive His blessing. It's before us in the Lord's table, isn't it? Where God condescends to us, sharing by the sacrament tokens of his own dying love for us. And drawing us into an intimate fellowship with himself. Thirdly, the blessings of heaven. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning nor crying nor pain any more, for the former things have passed away. In verse 4. All the results of sin are no longer effective. These things have all passed away in the new heavens and the new earth What we see in the following verses is that the presence of God and the work of Christ in gaining victory over sin and death have secured this blessing. In the verses which follow, there are other descriptions of heaven which reveal further blessings of God. In verses 9 through 11, Expanded in verses 18 through 21, the precious stones seem to be a way of visually conveying the beauty of heaven There is nothing ugly or unsightly in heaven. It is all the joyful enjoyment of beauty, the beauty of God, and the beauty of holiness. The gospel of Jesus Christ and the victory of the Lamb makes possible this joyful unity. That's an important theme too in Revelation, and something that I need to point out here: the oneness of God's redeemed people. I love these expressions. There's always when the Old Testament, when twelve tribes are mentioned, always then there are twelve apostles. It's the Old Testament and the New Testament. It's the one people of God and God's promises of the Old Testament, take Isaiah 19, many other places in the Old Testament, which look forward to the nigh time when all the nations will be gathered. As God's redeemed people, that is, some from every tribe and nation will be gathered. I often say that the denominations and ethnic groups and so forth line up like this, and God takes his people out like this. I I think that's a good way to look at it. Uh that some from every tribe and this universality of the gospel of Jesus Christ The unity of God's people, the oneness of the bride. The measurements of the city are not meant so much that we get out the uh tape measure like I did in measuring the bags for the airlines I mentioned last week. and go around measuring people's bags to figure out who's naughty and nice uh when they check their when they throw their overhead bags on. Not so much that, but it's simply a way of expressing the greatness. of the city of God. It's big enough for you all. Rolls-Royce's, being a car guy, Rolls-Royces do not advertise the horsepower of their cars. Did you know that? And one guy, being a little upset by this and a little impressed with the fact that he'd just purchased a Rolls, wrote to the factory and asked them: What's the horsepower of my Rolls-Royce? Silver spur, let's say, I don't know. There's a whole lot of them, a lot of silver ones. Don't know why gold not there, but Rolls Royce Factory rolled back and said adequate. Adequate. Heaven is adequate. It's not so much that we get out the tape measure and glory in the measurements. It's that there's a place for every one of God's redeemed people to be there in the joy and love of their Savior. That desire to be with God then finds all these expressions. In verses twelve through fourteen, the unity, the measurements of the city, and finally in verse eight, the exclusions of heaven and earth. very briefly. But as for the cowardly, the faithless, the detestable, as for murderers, the sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars, their portion will be in the lake that burns with fire and sulphur. which is the second death. One of the basic principles of the Christian life, in my understanding of it at least, is that God makes distinctions. And there are some distinctions that God says are very important, and there are other distinctions that we as human beings make that are meaningless. And part of our business in sorting out this Christian life is to get a hold of the ones that God declares important and hold on to those. And the other ones let them joyfully go. There is righteousness and there is sin. And God makes a distinction God makes a distinction, and the way that distinction is expressed is there is a separation of the sheep from the goats. God's people are separated from those who are not his From those who have rejected him and scorned his offer of salvation through Jesus Christ and declared it all nonsense, they will be held accountable. In that great judgment, God makes a separation. Again, this is affirmed in this chapter in verse 27, where the point is that this is for the protection. And security of the lamb's own bride. So as this separation is made, now God's people are no longer, as I put it, molested by this sinful fallen world, but we belong wholly to Him. The blessedness of the Lamb's redeemed people has its counterpart, and this is a part of this distinction, has its counterpart. In a lake that burns with fire. There is punishment for those who reject Jesus Christ, for those who turn from Christ. And seek salvation or reject the salvation that He offers. That rejection is fatal, spiritually and otherwise. So how do we put all this together so that it makes sense in my life this week? Just a couple of clues, maybe. For to me to live is Christ, to die is gain. If I am to live in the flesh, that means fruitful labor for me. There's a task. Yet which I shall choose I cannot tell. I am hard pressed between the two. My desire is to depart and be with Christ, for that is far better, but to remain in the flesh is more necessary on your account. You see, that only makes sense if there is a real blessedness which awaits. There's that perspective again, you see. I live now from the perspective of a heavenly calling I have some foretaste now by the work of God's Holy Spirit, by the assurances of Scripture sealed to my heart by the Spirit's work. But it's still, to some degree, through a glass darkly. We live in a world in which the heavenly perspective is often criticized. You've perhaps heard the epithet, he's so heavenly-minded he's no earthly good. Heard that, haven't you? How many people do you know like that? I don't know very many. Most of the people I know are very worldly minded. There are a few. And those in whom you see God working in that way are. To be given thanks for and sought out. I like what was said of the great Samuel Rutherford. Rutherford was one of the Scottish commissioners, you may remember, to the Westminster Minister Assembly, wrote a book, best known for a book, Rex Lex, Law as King. It was said of Rutherford that he had his heart in heaven His hand to the plow, and both feet planted firmly on the ground. Now there's a perspective. Life. There is a heavenly home, you're a pilgrim, but you've got work to do here, and you're still in this world, to do it for his glory, until he calls you one by one home. At death, or until the Lord Jesus comes again and transforms it all. Would you bow with me Father, I thank you for these weeks we have our opportunity to unfold this book of Revelation and to to dig into it a little bit and for the perspective that you've opened to us. Oh Father, the world and its trappings hang a lot from us, but we are not entrapped by them. We are not controlled by them. We are controlled by your Spirit for your purposes. And we have a heavenly home. And we're traveling there as pilgrims with a purpose to serve and to glorify Jesus Christ. Father, we thank you for these glimpses, seal them to our hearts, encourage us. We ask it for your glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.