Good morning everyone. So I um in case anybody's wondering um why it doesn't say first Corinthians I had announced that I was going to be going through our next book since we finished Ruth last Sunday into First Corinthians. But I've decided instead to have a couple of sermons that are thematic to and uh and leading up to Resurrection Sunday. which is only a couple of weeks away. Instead, so we will begin First Corinthians, the study of the book of First Corinthians, after Easter Sunday. So for today we will be having uh going through Philippians. So if you would turn your Bibles uh to Philippians, uh greatly appreciate it. Um in just a moment uh I'll let you know what the passages are. You know, several years ago Actually, very close to two decades ago, I was doing research on reasons why churches experience splits. And in the process of reading through articles, I came across a news article that was posted on someone's website who had been also doing research on this, and reported that back in February of 2007. A congregation, and I don't think I'm pronouncing the city's name properly, in Beaucier, Louisiana, experienced a split. I don't think it's important to point out their denominational or even non-denominational background, as there is no church on this planet that is immune from conflict. That can end up in a split or even perhaps implosion. Church splits unfortunately happen, some for legitimate biblical reasons and some sadly for improper or sinful grounds. But this particular article intrigued me, sadly, for improper or sinful grounds. What had happened was that at one time where in which this congregation had been birthed and enjoyed many years of peace, many years of harmony, and many years of love. and consistent proclamation of the gospel. But something happened about 18 years ago that set things into motion that caused the congregational split. Whatever happened to that humble love that they had for one another? Whatever happened to that unity and the oneness in spirit that they had. Well, the reason for their split was because of a pronunciation of the letter in the Hebrew alphabet The letter VAV, or as some would want to pronounce it, huh. This was what they uh broke over The congregation broke into two camps, and they both dug in and spent four years developing animosity and strife towards one another. Along the way, what do you think happened to their gospel proclamation? Well, you can imagine what probably happened to them, happened to most churches who go through that kind of a mess. Visitors don't stay or come back. Some congregants get turned off by the strife and go to other churches. Or even worse, just they just go into the black hole of religious obscurity. Why is it that each side insisted not only on the correctness of their view as well as their insistence that the others adopt it as well? When it didn't have any impact on the gospel mission, why wouldn't they set aside their lofty and perceived correct position? and exercise a biblical type of tolerance, even if they were right. They lacked something. Or should I say that at one time they had something and they let it go? Let us turn our attention now to our passage this morning. I'm going to start a couple of verses earlier and end a couple of verses after what I originally intended. So our passage today will be from Philippians chapter 1, verse 27, all the way through chapter 2 and verse 11. Would you please rise for the reading and the hearing of God's holy and inerrant word? Hear now the word of God. Only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear of you that you are standing firm in one spirit. With one mind, striving side by side for the faith of the gospel, and not frightened in anything by your opponents. This is a clear sign to them of their destruction, but of your salvation and that from God. For it has been granted to you that for the sake of Christ you should not only believe in him, but also suffer for his sake. Engaged in the same conflict that you saw I had, and now here that I still have. So if there is any encouragement in Christ Any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection and sympathy. Complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind. Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility. Count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped. but emptied himself by taking on the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death. Even death on a cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed to him the name that is above every name So that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated. And join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, be with us now as we continue to worship our great God. We pray that you would open our spiritual eyes and ears so that we may be able to see and hear what your word would share with us And we pray, Holy Spirit, that you would refresh us with the truth of the Word. Refresh us with the gospel. And we also ask, Holy Spirit, that you would convict our hearts where conviction is necessary and grant us the grace to be able to overcome. And we pray these things in the name of the Father and of the Son and the Holy Spirit. Amen. The Apostle Paul's experience with the church at Philippi was different than other churches, in that they really were a more stable community of believers. The church in Philippi was united in its proclaiming Christ and their love for one another. But at the same time, as a result, they were facing some sort of persecution. Although not really detailed, we are told in verses 127 through 30 that he instructs them to conduct themselves worthily in the face of presumably outside opposition. Paul knows that if they stand firm in the gospel together, they will survive. But he is concerned that There is some strife, and that the word is about to teach us is at the core of his concern. To not compromise, slow down. Or destroy their efforts as a gospel ministry, as well as to provide the medicine or immunization for preventing this poison from impacting the church. A moment ago, I spoke of a sad and I don't know if you thought to yourself absurd occasion of how a church split over the pronunciation of a Hebrew letter. But I want you to think about what would have caused people to experience this strife, the grumbling, the animosity, and insistence for their way. What do you think was beneath this? Well, if you're saying something like pride Arrogance and a sense of superiority. I think you're right. But if a cure was ever needed, what do you think it would be? This is what Paul is addressing here. Before we go deep into this, let us not become so prideful that we think that we're immune to this type of stuff The sin of pride is very surreptitious. It's very sneaky. It blinds you to itself. Is there a cure or healing from this crippling sin? Well, I would like to ask you is now, well To think about this for a moment. See, Paul makes a personal appeal in verse 2 of chapter 2 This is a church that received him with open arms and provided for his needs. In fact, they sent one of their own to provide service for him, to help him out, Epaphroditus. So one would wonder if Paul is being selfish in his desire, self-seeking, when he asks at the beginning of this verse, make my joy complete. Now, you have to understand that in the original language, we can tell that this is not a humble request, but rather an imperative. It's in the form of a demand or a command. It's like make me more happy. Is this some self-seeking privilege demand Paul is making due to his office as an apostle? To find the answer to this question, we have to remember that in the previous paragraph Paul mentioned the opposition the church received for proclaiming the good news of Jesus Christ. Paul, then, is picking up from where he left off. That is, their suffering. But this struggle is something that they are experiencing along with Paul, not against Paul. The opposition that one experiences when proclaiming the gospel, the good news of Jesus Christ. Paul in this verse, in verse 1, makes reference to the comfort that is found in Christ, especially in suffering. The love of God, the Father they have in common, and the unity and fellowship they share in the Holy Spirit Now in the fourth phrase of that verse, the basis of the appeal is changing. Paul is appealing to the compassion and mercy. He is saying, in effect, if God's compassion and mercy have produced the same qualities in you towards me, as you know I have towards you, then complete my joy by having a single mindset among yourselves. At first, his demand may seem self-serving, but in reality, when taken in context, it reflects the apostle's concern for his converts' well-being as well as their perseverance. Here it is. Their unity and purpose of mind will advance the cause of the gospel. And there is nothing that would complete Paul's joy more. Paul is not ordering or expecting them to have the same opinions and the same desires on everything. Every community of believers, including ourselves, can have the same unity in mind set for the mission of the gospel and at the same time are to extend love to one another. And it is this extension of love for your brothers who will allow the community to have different opinions. on non-essential matters and continue to work together for the cause of Christ. It seems that in Philippi, love is present. But so is the danger of it eroding. This is why he says in chapter 1 and verse 9, Love might abound still more and more. When this love arose, it will act as a rust in their mission to proclaim Christ. But as we consider love, it should be noted that it was well said that Love begins when someone else's needs are considered more important than my own. There it is. That's the problem. In a nutshell, and there is the solution. We are called to be like-minded Expressing love for one another, and singularly focused on our mission to promote the gospel. Churches all over the place get into trouble when they take their eye off of this. And put it on things the church is not really called to do. How are we doing? Are we single-minded? Are we united? Are we loving one another? I think that this is a question that every church should ask itself. You see, Paul doesn't stop here. He continues because he has been informed by Ephroditus about some problems that have popped up. Although they may be minor, they exist. This problem, when left unchecked, becomes a poison that seeps into the local church and causes it to lose its effectiveness for the gospel ministry. And instead of being salt and light in the world, it becomes an eyesore, perhaps even a black eye, for her bridegroom, the Lord Jesus. What is this poison, you may ask? Well, Paul tells us in verses 3 and 4. Selfish ambition The twentieth century seemed to legitimize selfish ambition or selfishness. It is not fashionable today to believe that you it is it I'm asking, is it not fashionable today to believe that you must take care of number one first? before I can possibly help anyone else. And and and examples of this are offered to legitimize this uh this philosophy. Uh for example, are we not taught that you have to put the oxygen mask on first before you put it on a child? Obviously making reference to a plane ride, right? The reality is that this is what a legitimate time to do so, but but to extend it to uh all all of life, I think, is truly wrong. In this case, we're talking about saving a life. Other cases typically are selfish in nature. Spaul continues by exhorting the community to regard one another as more important than themselves. Regard or consider does not necessarily mean that the other person literally or objectively has a higher status But you should count them, treat them to be worthy of your service and self-sacrifice. That is to say, each person is to consider the other's needs, opinions, and thoughts as of higher priority than their own. But what do you think must happen before you can even approach this attitude or perhaps altitude of graciousness? But he tells us humility. The virtue of humility is really a Christian one. In the Greco-Roman world, humility was not considered a virtue at all, but instead it was considered a shortcoming. Before we define humility biblically, let us first be cautious to not confuse humility with false modesty. And one should not consider others as inherently better than yourself. This is not really the point. Nor should it be the type of service one offers in order to gain attention and glory for oneself. Humility begins, however, with a proper evaluation of oneself. That is to say, who you are as a creature and who God is as the Creator In the grand scheme of things, we have to be honest, we don't compare. But at the same time, knowing that we are made in his image should also remind us that we have value. So the idea is that you should have a proper view of yourself. Not making too much of yourself, to think you're yourself deserving or better or lowering yourself to being below the level of human Let us also note the balance. Paul is not saying that you should sell everything and live in your car for the care of others. He says, also. God has called us to care for our families and to provide for our basic necessities. To forgo those responsibilities is to not tend to God's calling upon our lives. However, those that suffer from the lack of humility may suffer from the belief that they have a sense of entitlement. This reflects a you owe me attitude. And this type of person would get mad when they don't get what they're supposed to get. Don't you dare cut me off. Who do you think you are? Don't you recognize me? I am, after all, the king of the road. Anybody ever have that royalty bestowed upon them? Therefore, true humility is not self-focused. It's outward-focused. It looks towards others' concerns. When you take this frame of mind, this is surely a cure, an antidote for selfish ambition and vain conceit. Paul's appeal is incredibly powerful against pride. You see, when we take the time to consider How our triune God has extended love and grace, and when properly applied to our lives, and then reoriented towards our brothers and sisters. Consider what a powerful witness that is to a self-centered world. See in Paul's In Paul's desire to head off the poison of pride and selfishness, and the destructive effects that it has on the church, he provides the antidote. What then, if you are selfish or display selfish tendencies, are you to do to overcome it? Well the answer is be selfless. Now maybe some of you are thinking Well, easier said than done, Pastor. You got a little more there for me? Well, I don't. But Paul now elaborates by giving an example of what the mindset or the attitude looks like. He's about to put some, if you will, meat on them bones, as they say. Simply put, in verse 5, he is calling the Philippians to have the mindset of Christ. To think like Christ. Now, I want you to know that before we go into this passage, there is an enormous amount of scholarship and speculation regarding this passage here. uh of which one of them is its form. Some would say, is this a hymn? Is this a poem? Is this a creed of the church? For example, if some of you have the NIV, for example, as the versions, you'll see that it's provided for you there as a poem or a song or even a creed. It just depends upon what the translators saw in the passage. Secondly, its importance on the divinity of Christ His humiliation and even eschatology. It is important, however, that we not lose sight of the reason why Paul brought this up in the first place. Jesus is the one you and I should be imitating. He is the highest example of what our conduct and behavior should be. What we are to discover should be a motivating reason for you to be humble. As well as to consider your brother's needs in higher esteem than your own. Having said that, let's just go ahead and rather dive into this very sublime passage. Verse 6 refers back to Christ, who we are to see is, was God. And we are to see that Christ, being God, was not concerned with or stricken by selfish ambition, or grasping, or seizing. Rather, it was just the opposite. Although the Son was fully God and equal with the Father and the Holy Spirit, he did not see his exaltedness as something to hold on to tightly. No. Christ did not consider being equal with the Father to comprise of being selfish or grasping onto power or taking advantage of it. Instead, he rejected the popular view of kingly power by pouring himself out, here it is, for the sake of others. Paul is setting up the starkest possible contrast. You see, Christ's response was quite contrary to what was modeled for the Philippians by their gods, small g, rulers and authorities. For them, it was not something kings and rulers would normally do. People with authority seize more power and hold on to it with their dear lives. This, however, was the height of selfishness and a reflection of insecurity. What we are about to discover in verse 7 is in total contrast to what the world would do then and frankly does now. Instead of holding on to his status, the being that he that he that he had it all did what? He emptied himself. The next clause tells us what he emptied himself into, taking on the form of a bond servant. Paul consistently uses this thought of a bondservant. It means to become powerless. To be emptied of significance. It's important to not miss this To be emptied of significance. Remember who we're talking about? The King James translates this as: he made himself of no reputation. The NIV. He made himself nothing. Now imagine that. The creator of the universe, the possessor of all power, having all creatures at his feet, myriads of angels serving him, worshiping him Every moment singing praises of his greatness empties himself into a servant, one who has no prestige, power, and status. The Son of God takes upon Himself, clothes himself with humanity. He retains his divinity in full, but takes on the body and nature of man. God became like one of us. This could preach at Christmas too, can't it? Now, this last verse in verse 7 brings out a very profound reality. Paul, also as a human, has come to understand how grand God is. How beautiful, how magnificent, holy, and entirely other God is Paul's recognition of God for what and who he is has caused him to reassess his view on what he is as a human being. Now this should cause you and I to pause for a moment and think. Paul recognizes that he was a sinner. Who only deserved God's justice, which would have been an eternity in hell. You see, he realized that he was totally unfit to be in the presence of God. As a preacher, he realized that an immense gulf existed between God and man. Let's face it, God is God, and man is man. No matter how great we think our achievements are, let us put it into the context of God being the one who waved his hand. anthropomorphically speaking, and what we see with the aid of the Hubble telescope came to be We haven't even given names to all the planets that exist, nor do we know all of them. This is who God is. And we must realize that we frankly are nothing in status when compared to him. The Son of God made himself of no reputation by taking on the form of man. But even amongst men, he chose to be a no-status servant. See, Jesus took on the role of a servant. The lowest servant in a household had the responsibility of doing the most detestable tasks. Washing the feet of those coming into the house. Jesus washed the feet of his students, his followers. This is what it means to have status and consider yourself lower than others. Jesus emptied himself. How do you use your status in the various areas and arenas of your life Do you use it to serve yourself? Or do you use it to serve others? Or do you Hold on to it, not doing something that would place you in a situation to have others think low of you. Do you grasp on to it Or do you use it to show Christ to others? We know from Scripture That it was the Father's will for his son to die on the cross so that we may have life. So we are to see here that this obedience was for our benefit. But it was not a simple and dignified death, even to one who held such a low status in society. What Jesus experienced was a shameful, cursed, painful, and cruel death on the cross that each and every one of us deserves. Cicero writes regarding crucifixions. To bind a Roman citizen is a crime. To flog him is an abomination. To slay him is almost an act of murder. To crucify him is what? What? There is no fitting word that can possibly describe so horrible a deed. That is what the Lord Jesus subjected himself to for us. If we stop here and didn't read any further, without any more information, I suspect it's possible for one to may say, so what? That was foolish of Jesus. He died. He gave himself up. He poured himself out. But really, for what? Why would anyone ever want to do such a thing? Beginning in verse 9, Paul affirms the appropriateness For the Philippians to imitate and keep before their eyes the eschatological vindication that awaits who are in Christ. God the Father exalts Christ for his obedience, even unto the cross. This exaltation is to the highest possible degree. God the Father bestows upon him the definite article, the name that is above every name. What name? Lord. This title was the equivalent of Yahweh, God. Paul is making a bold statement. He is saying that this Jesus who is exalted is given the appellation, the title, as Lord. And this Lord is going to be higher than the Lord of Rome, even Caesar. This exaltation is no less than a complete reversal of his humiliation. The result of God's exaltation of his son is that one day. At his return, the second and last Advent. The entirety of creation will give homage. At that time, all of creation shall bow to him. Now we must recognize that there is no single hint that bending of the knee is representative of salvation. All that it states is that all creation will bow the knee. The day will come when all those who don't acknowledge Jesus as the Lord now will one day bow the knee to his sovereignty and acknowledge him as the Lord. On that day, everyone in this room, and those that are watching by live stream Will bow to the Lord's exalted status. We will see him for what he truly is. Not only will every knee bow, but every tongue will confess that Jesus is the Lord. What a great day that will be for those who trusted and followed Jesus in their life. Those that confess Him truly to be the Lord in their lives, not just by words. But by the genuineness of that confession that is by faith and faith alone. And the consequent works that follow as evidence of that saving and justifying faith. However, on that day, I am afraid will not be a day to turn to him for salvation. For then it will be too late. Let me ask you, if that day were today What would be found in your heart? Would it be relief and joy? Or would it be dread? You must wrestle with this reality. The king will come back one day. And all will bow the knee to him, although many reluctantly. But directly after, judgment will be pronounced upon humanity. Will he send you to an eternal torment and hell? Or will he direct you to enter into his eternal kingdom to experience peace and joy? Have you given your life to Jesus? Have you trusted Him to be your Savior? Does his excruciating pain on the cross, his death, mean anything to you? Have you transferred your trust from what you can do to get into heaven to what Jesus has already done on the cross? If you haven't, do so. Even now. Trust in Christ. See, by faith you can receive the benefits of the cross. See, it's not by works that you are justified. That is to mean declared innocent in God's court. It is by faith and faith alone. The Son of God who humbled himself will be vindicated on that last day. And not only will he be vindicated, but also all of you. Who call on his name as the Lord of your life. All the ridicule that you get for following Christ. All the persecution the church has received at the hands of a fallen world. For what? For sharing some wonderful news. That you don't have to go to hell. Just believe upon Jesus. So we're to see here that in pouring himself out. And humbling himself to the death on the cross, Christ Jesus has revealed the character of God. Here is the embodiment of what God is like. The pre-existing Christ was not a grasping Selfish, tight-fisted, insecure, self-loving being. But one Whose love for others found its greatest expression in pouring himself out and taking on the role of a servant Humbling himself even to the point of death, and that on a shameful, painful, and accursed cross for you and me. And if you ever needed motivation to be selfless and think of the other's needs before yours. The very mindset the apostle calls us to. When you're faced with pride or recognize that you are suffering from pride, why don't you do the following? One think of Jesus. Two think like Jesus. And three, act like Jesus. Shall we pray? Heavenly Father, we ask you for these very simple things for us to be reminded to think of your son, to think like him, and to act like him. But we confess, Father, that we know that because of the remnants of the old man, we struggle with pride and selfishness. And so we ask you that in those times that you would grant us the grace that we need to recognize, to understand. And to be changed, so that we can reflect our blessed Savior and our great God. And we ask this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen.