Back in 1978, there was a movie that had a well-known actor by the name of Bert Reynolds. I'm curious to finding out how many people here know who Burt Reynolds is. If you just raise, oh, quite a few here. Okay. And he uh he started a in a dark comedy called The End. That was a story wherein which the main character played by Burt Reynolds uh had discovered that he had a terminal illness. And so he decided that he was not going to stick around, that he was going to take his life And hence starts the slapstick comedy, if you will, of him making attempts to take his life, but him failing at being able to do so. Of course this movie has a another well-known actor by the name of Dum Deluise, uh who started a variety of different things who um who promises to help uh the actor uh Bert Reynolds to to take his life. At the very end of the movie, or very close to the end of the movie, we see that he finally decides that The way he's going to do it is by just going out in the ocean and just swimming as far out as he possibly can. And then at the point when he just has no more strength to swim, Just to let go. And so he goes, he swims, and he goes far out. And then he gets to the place where he get wants to, and he realizes he just doesn't have the strength to swim anymore. And then he says, that's it. And then he starts to just go down. Well, as this happens, he has a change of heart along the way. And in a couple of seconds, you see him. coming out for air out of the water and then and then he says, no, I want to live. And then he turns to God. And then he says, God, please save me. Give me the strength that I need in order to swim back to the shore. And you could see it was quite a long distance and he'd he'd actually swam that distance to get out there in the first place. And he says, Lord, I will start coming to church faithfully, and I'll give a great portion of my income. Just please save me. And then he starts this long epic swim to start getting back there. And as he gets closer and closer, he continues to pray out to God, Lord, please save me. I'll be more than happy to give you half of what I make. To your church and your work. And as it gets closer and closer, the the number seems to go down and down and down. And then he finally makes it to the beach, and he's lying on his back, giving thanks to God, and saying to him, Lord, I will look forward to seeing you perhaps on Easter. Well, it seems to me that uh he has demonstrated a belief in God, perhaps a faith in God. But you kind of wonder uh how genuine this uh this faith is in God. I mean it seems like he was in a point of desperation, wasn't he? And so he decided he wanted to make a deal. You kind of wonder, you know, is this really faith or is there something else going on here? Something very similar is happening in our passage this morning. I'd like to turn our attention to um where we see something uh where in which someone is experiencing a uh very desperate situation And uh he comes and reaches out to God, the Lord Jesus, to help him in his very desperate times. And that's really what I'd like to be focused on this morning, uh, is that is the notion of faith and believing. And um and seeing on what basis uh in which um uh we turn to God. On which basis uh are we on shaky ground or are we on firm ground in our belief? excuse me, of God. The word faith and belief in God can have different meanings. and more importantly, the implications of those meaning. The Apostle John uses these words of faith and belief several times, especially in the Gospel of John And we have an example of that in our text this morning. How are we to understand it? And we should ask ourselves things like Exactly what kind of faith do I have in Jesus? What have been the results of that in my life? Is it a simple cognitive faith in who he is? Just a simple understanding of who he is? Or do I have a saving faith? Or do I have a deal making faith? Only to call upon God when I have need of Him. Let's dive into our text this morning by opening our Bibles to the Gospel of John, chapter 4, verses 46 to 54. However, just for context purposes, I'll begin reading in verse 43. Would you please rise for the reading and hearing of God's holy and errant word? This is the word of God. Hear now the word. After the two days he departed for Galilee. For Jesus himself had testified that a prophet has no honor in his own hometown. So when he came to Galilee, the Galileans welcomed him, having seen all that he had done in Jerusalem at the feast, for they too had gone to the feast. So he came again to Cana in Galilee, where he had made the water wine. And at Capernaum there was an official whose son was ill. When this man heard that Jesus had come from Judea to Galilee, he went to him and asked him to come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death. So Jesus said to him, Unless you see signs and wonders, you will not believe. The official said to him, Sir, come down before my child dies. Jesus said to him, Go, your son will live. The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him and went on his way. As he was going down, his servants met him and told him that his son was recovering. So he asked them the hour when he began to get better, and they said to him, Yesterday, at the seventh hour, the fever left him. The father knew that was the hour when Jesus had said to him, Your Son will live. And he himself believed, and all his household. This was now the second sign that Jesus did when he had come from Judea to Galilee. This is the Word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer as we turn to the Holy Spirit for illumination. Holy Spirit, we ask that you be with us now as we continue in our worship, in the worship of our Lord and our God through the Word, the Word that you have prepared for us. And so we ask you. To open our spiritual eyes and ears to understand and and to also be conformed to it. Help us to take stock and to ask ourselves important questions regarding this text. And we pray that you would convict us of sin where sin is resident, and that you would also grant us the grace we need in order to overcome and to conform to the will of God. to be transformed, to reflect the Lord Jesus more and more in our lives. And it is in his name that we ask even Jesus. Amen. So, to get a better understanding of this passage, the first thing I want to do this morning is to take a brief survey of John's usage of the word faith as it is used here in this gospel. Earlier in this very same chapter, we had Jesus' encounter with the Samaritan woman at the well. When she went to her town afterwards, we had an example of faith borne out in another's testimony. The Samaritan woman scurried to her town to tell others that she had run into a man that may be the Christ. Verse 29 in chapter 4. And in verse 39, we see that they listened to her testimony and believed. But what kind of belief was this? You see, in 439 it reads, Many Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the woman's testimony. He told me all that I ever did. So we have to ask ourselves, what kind of faith was this? The reason why I bring this up at all is because in verse 42 of the same chapter, we read, They said to the woman, after Jesus had arrived, It is no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves, and we know that this is indeed the Savior of the world. The Samaritans, it seems, were willing to accept something about her testimony, but what they needed was a divine encounter with the living word So, saving faith is not based upon a person's testimony. Testimony itself is evidence, but that evidence only can point a person to faith. When it comes to salvation, we need a divine encounter. It is when we come into an encounter with the divine, word that we can experience genuine conversion or salvation. It is Christ who must call us. It is the Holy Spirit who gives us a divine invitation to enter into the kingdom of God. So let me ask you. Do you believe because somebody else believes? Or because you had a direct encounter with the words of Christ as found in Scripture? You see, if you believe because someone else believes, well then what could happen when that person no longer believes? Are you going to continue to believe? Scripture is telling us that the solid saving faith comes directly from believing the words of Christ. For Christ is the solid foundation by which we have any saving faith. But is it enough just to believe the words of Christ? In order to answer that question, we have to ask, in what way do you believe in Christ? And this brings us to faith in miracles. In the Gospel of John, we see that when Jesus performed miracles, he had people who believed in him and followed him. Let's look at the disciples themselves and see if they believed based upon the miracles that Jesus performed. If you have your Bibles open to the Gospel of John, we can turn to chapter 2 and verse 11. Jesus performed his first miracle in Cana as was just referenced. This is where John ties this passage to. He wants us to connect to this incident. It was the water that was turned into wine. Based upon that miracle, the disciples believed that is those who were following him, not just those who would later be identified as apostles. They believed him in what way? Would some of these disciples later abandon him when Jesus no longer fit their image of him? Let's see if indeed this did happen. John 2. 11, we read this, the first of his signs, Jesus did at Cana in Galilee. and manifested his glory. And then he says, and his disciples believed in him. There's that language there. Now, after the miracles of uh feeding of the 5,000. We we read in chapter 6 again of the Gospel of John verses 59 and 60 the following. Jesus said these things in the synagogue as he taught at Capernaum. He was talking about drinking his blood and eating his body and so forth. Their reaction in verse 40 was. When many of his disciples heard it, they said, This is a hard saying. Who can listen to it? Verse 63 It is the spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. And then he says, But there are some of you who do not believe. These are his followers, right? And what did these disciples who followed Jesus because of his miracles do? Verse 66. After this, many of his disciples turned back and no longer walked with him. We have to then ask ourselves, will I turn away from Jesus when I come across something Jesus teaches? And it doesn't fit neatly with everything I hold as true or prefer to be true Now, if this is you, I have to ask, do you really trust Jesus as your Savior and God? For if you do, then you would believe, and just as importantly, conform to his teachings. Now I'm not saying that as a Christian you won't have doubts. that you won't have questions and at times you will need to grapple with the world's ways and God's ways. That's a battle that every Christian does face. But in the end, if you have a saving faith, you will believe what Jesus says. You will trust his words, and you will do them. In short, you will be changed to conform to the image of God and not the other way around. Now we've looked at his disciples. Now let's look at the crowds that saw his signs, the miracles, those things that caused wonderment to them and wanted to follow Jesus. In John chapter 7, 31, we read, Yet many of the people believed in him. They said, When the Christ appears, will he do more signs than this man has done? But what kind of faith or belief did they have in him? John 8. 31. So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples. He tells them and us that those who truly believe, those that abide in him, This is evidenced by their obedience to his word. However, when we drop down to verse 43, we see here that the very same people who believed in him, quote unquote, are none other than the children of the devil, those who do not believe. 843, Jesus says Why do you not understand what I say? It is because you cannot hear the word. You cannot hear my word. You are of your father, the devil. And your will is to do your father's desires. So far we have seen that it is neither belief in a personal testimony that saves, nor belief in miracles that necessarily saves. But what type of faith must it be in order for us to save that we have Saving faith. Jesus states in verse 44 that a prophet is not honored in his own hometown. Then he proceeds to go to his hometown. And they welcome and receive him. Now this seems to be a bit awkward and at first glance almost contradictory, right? However, when we consider that the people of his hometown had seen him perform miracles in Jerusalem, it helps understand why they didn't dishonor him at first. So as we go forward, we must ask ourselves, in what way did they receive him and for what purpose? What was their motivation? And as we do, we shall have to ask ourselves the very same question. In what way have I believed in Jesus? And for what purpose have I believed in Jesus? Was it perhaps to help me swim back to the shore? John wants us to think back to the first time Jesus was in Cana, you know, when he turned water to wine. It is the very same Galileans that had been at the festival also, that had been over at the Passover feast, which is what he's referencing to. Now we gain sight or insight into their faith from chapter 2 and verse 24. That he, Jesus, we are told, did not trust himself. Or accept that kind of belief because it was not the kind of belief that saved. There is faith, and there is saving faith. These people had a faith, but it was not a saving faith. Their faith was one in one who would perform great miracles and wondrous feats, and for some it was a hope in the Messiah. That would perhaps free them from the shackles of Rome. At long last, what they really wanted was political freedom and not necessarily a savior for their sins. Enter the royal official. This royal official was someone who was in service to the king. Doubtless, he was in service to Herod Antipos, who was the regional king at the time. Also, he was the grandson to Herod the Great. You remember Herod the Great? The one that ordered male infants to be killed because he was afraid of any rivals. Being a royal official, he had access to power and possessed some wealth, no doubt. How much it is uncertain to determine, but certainly enough to have physicians come and tend to his son. Certainly he must have gone that route at first. Physicians having failed, he turns to someone he would have heard of from the countryside who had been performing miracles, including healing the sick. The Greek word that's used here for point, that is in the point of death, means an impending destiny. Without delay. It is a grim situation. In fact, there appears to be no hope. In desperation, he turns to this miracle worker, this guy Jesus. The official heard that Jesus had come out of Judea and was now in the Galilean countryside He wanted Jesus to come in order for him to heal his son before it was too late. The word that is used for request is in the active and it is in the continuous voice. When he arrived, he was urgently requesting help. That is the Lord Jesus. He was constantly beseeching the Lord to heal his son. Now the NIV, I think, has translated that better. It's actually begging. He was begging to have an audience with the Lord. He was begging when he did have an audience with the Lord to come to his home so that he can heal his son. Jesus spoke to him. But as we see Jesus' response to him, we see that it was in the plural. It's you people, or from where I've more recently come from, y'all. Jesus was referencing the people who received or welcomed Jesus to Galilee. They are the same people that won't accept Jesus on his terms, but only would do so on their terms. Remember, he's responding to that request. He says, you people. What or who do you believe Jesus is? A miracle worker? A savior for people? Or your personal savior? And Jesus said to them, unless you see signs and wonders, you will not believe. But he really is saying something that is much more than that. He's not saying you will only believe if you see miracles. He has been performing miracles all along, and they still don't believe. Are you looking for some proof to trust in Jesus? Man asks God for proof in order to have a relationship. But God demands abiding faith in his son to have a relationship with him. Can man dictate the terms of his relationship to God? Or does God dictate the terms of the relationship with man? So are you dictating the terms of your relationship with God? God, I'd be happy to obey you if only you did this for me. Or I might come out to worship you every so often if you perhaps help me in this manner. That's not saving faith. You see, the Galileans welcomed Jesus just as long as he was going to be a miracle worker. Once they realized who he was and the cost associated with following him, Well, they went their separate ways. And indeed, as we have already seen, he as a prophet was now not welcome in his own town. Jesus tells this man to go. That is, return back. Return back the way you came, for your son lives. Now, if you were this man, what would be going on in your mind at that very moment? Go back. Your son lives. We're told from the text that the man, this royal official, believed Jesus' words and obeyed. No doubt, if he didn't, he would have stayed and tried to, perhaps, bribe convince or even coerce Jesus to come to his house to have him heal his son But Jesus tells him to return, for his child is healed. The man believed Here the royal official believes, that is, he trusts Jesus. He trusted his word. He entrusted himself to Jesus by faith. Do you trust Jesus' words? Do you believe him when he says that if you trust in him and him alone, by faith alone? That you will be saved. Please note, the royal official receives no sign from Jesus. The very same thing that those Galileans had just been rebuked for by Jesus. All he has to go by is Jesus' words. He could have gone back on horseback and been home in a couple of hours. It's estimated that it would have been four hours of straight horseback riding in order to get back home. But he ended up getting back to his home the next day As moderns, we we may not have caught that piece of information in from the text. Those that lived in in the in in this generation and and many generations until the invention of what we call the automobile. Would have discerned that this man believed Jesus' words. This man trusted the Lord's words so much that he didn't rush back. but arrived the next day when he could have rushed back. This is remarkable. I think I I I hope you see this true. It is such a trust in Jesus' word that this man is calm. He is calm in his soul. He feels no urgency to immediately verify the Lord's promises. I think this is the kind of faith that we should all aspire to. Christian How different would your life be if you lived this type of faith in God's Word? I think that just for starters There would be less stress. There would be less anxiety, less time worrying, and more time enjoying life. Just to trust Jesus' words, to trust in his promises to us. In verse 51, we see that he was indeed a man of means. For the he had servants, he had slaves. On his way back, they they met him on the road. They must have been excited to bring the news to their master that his son was healed. When he found out, he asked them exactly when his son was healed They told him that it was the seventh hour of the day. By a standard measurement of their time 6 a. m. was the first hour of the day, therefore the seventh hour was approximately 1 p. m. It occurred the previous day, we're told in this text, yesterday. He absolutely could have been home before, you know, sundown, but he didn't. I think this guy's a sharp guy, right? He remembered that the seventh hour was exactly the same time that Jesus told him, your son lives. He immediately knew that his son's recovery was due directly to Jesus. The chance that the fever broke on its own, or the efforts of the physician, uh, could not really be the solution. It was none other than Jesus. This immediately prompted him to convey his faith in Jesus to his family, to his household who John tells us believed in its entirety. In this verse, we are told the royal official believed in Jesus You see, the sign pointed to the work of God in Jesus. Verse 50, he believed in Jesus' words. And we see how that translated to belief in Jesus. It is the same with us. We first hear of Jesus, then we believe his words, then we believe in him. Finally, we know our belief is genuine When we naturally desire to do his will. It is not out of a sense of guilt, but out of joy for what he has done for us. So let's put this all together. We have to ask, what function does this story have in the broad narrative of John's gospel? The people, after seeing signs and miracles by Jesus, would not believe Jesus' words. But yet wanted to see even more. It seems that they were more interested in the miracles and not the miracle worker. But here comes a man who, and this is in the middle of our narrative, a man who believed in Jesus' word. A man who trusted in Jesus. Mind you, he entrusted himself to Jesus without asking for a sign. He didn't say. Dear Rabbi, I I'll go back. Only if you show me a sign that what you're saying is true. He didn't pick up his cell phone, did he, and call the house and call his wife? Say, is he all right? Is our boy okay? Or text the servant to say, tell me what's going on with our child. He simply believed Jesus' word. And did not get on his horse and ride all the way back home. He got there the next day And so we see that although miracles play an important role in Christ's ministry, they themselves don't save anyone. What they do is point. They authenticate the one performing the miracle. so that we may listen to his words as that of coming from God. And so we must ask ourselves, Do I believe in Christ's words? If I do, have I entrusted myself to his promise? His promise that if I believe in him, that I will be saved. And if I've already done that Am I living a life that is constantly being transformed to be obedient to his word? as is found in the scripture and the scripture alone. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your grace. And we thank you that you have called us to be your children. We thank you for that divine encounter, wherein which you sent your Holy Spirit It's not only have us the hear of the gospel of Jesus but also to regenerate us so that we can not only hear, but also believe, to entrust ourselves by faith. To your son, for what he has already done for us upon the cross, and that there is nothing that we can add, so that we may be declared innocent in your court. We thank you, Father, for your love. We thank you, Father, for your mercy. And we pray, Father, that you would continue to grant us more of your grace so that we may reflect Jesus in our lives. And it is in his name that we prayed. Amen.