To introduction, um the Lord laid upon my heart to actually um give you my testimony Now every one of us is uh fellow servants of the Lord are are to be able to be able to give our testimony and and At any moment, sometimes it's somebody just asks us about our faith. And sometimes we have the opportunity to to uh to go in great in depth. Um I'll give you kind of something in between those two moments right now. Uh I was raised uh in a family that that weren't particularly churchgoers. I I would not say that uh my family for forsook the Lord, but uh early on in my life, at the age Uh right before I turned seven, a month before I turned seven, my father died. Um and this was uh uh I lived in Virginia In the seventies, my mom had uh three sons and my younger daughter, I my my my younger sister, her daughter, not my daughter, hers. Um And and many years later, after the Lord actually came to my life, I actually challenged my mom about why we didn't go to church. She said, you know, Thomas, uh No, I was a single mother in the early 70s. It was very hard to make things work economically. Sunday was my only day to get everything else done. Um, I I basically gave up. And so I I was not raised with with instruction in the Lord in any regards. And through the great public education that I received, I came up to some uh great conclusions in my in the right old age of about fourteen. Uh there was no God. I came up with that conclusion that religion was simply man's desire to explain the things that he could not explain in life. So why was this big hot thing in the sky that they called the sun? Well obviously it's a god that rises up in the morning and sets in the evening and it watches over us at night. What are th all those pinpoints of light? Well those were maybe some other heavenly beings of some sort. Um And and such were the questions that man had over uh eons and and the answers that they came up with was creating stories about beings that watched over them. And now that we have come to answer what most of those things were, there were no need for gods. And yes, even at fourteen I understood that That there weren't all the questions answered. But I was confident in man's ability to answer those questions that we hadn't come up with yet. In 1978, my family moved from Virginia, from Fairfax, Virginia to Florida. My mother got some better employment there Uh and as was our habit, because my mom, I discovered later on, truly was a Christian. She just uh had not been devout in going to church uh uh on a regular basis, nor sharing the gospel with us her children. It was our habit though to at least go to church a few times a year, and uh uh uh Christmas Eve was one of those times for the Christmas Eve service. And so we we went to um Grace Presbyterian Church, uh the only Presbyterian church in the town that we uh went to. My mom was a regular Presbyterian goer when we did go to church. And um the pastor there, Dr. Paul Clemens, um uh probably preached a very wonderful sermon. Don't remember it at all. Didn't have any impact on me. So, you know, maybe what I preach today doesn't have any impact on some of you here. I I understand that as a minister, that does happen sometimes. But it had no impact on me at all. New Year's Day, 1979, Dr. Clemens came to my house. Now, as a minister now, I understand what he was doing, but at the time it was remarkable to me. Here is this man. coming visiting, knocking on our door. And for some reason, well I understand it now, but at the time I didn't because it seemed like you know, uh incredible thing that after he said hi to my mom, my sister and uh and my my other brother who had moved down to Florida with us, uh the Holy Spirit led him to sit down with me. For more than an hour in my living room, sharing the gospel. And the way he shared it was he challenged everything that I had already preconceived, come up with the answers to. Very simply. Well Thomas, if if uh if there is no God And and the universe was created through the Big Bang. Where did all the stuff come from? Yeah, that's a pretty good question if you think about it. Where'd all the stuff come from? Where'd the universe come from? And likewise he challenged he challenged me And in that moment, during that visit, I came to the conclusion that there might be a God. And if there might be a God, I might need to figure out what God he is or she is and what religion is true, which ones are not, and explore this a little bit more. And so I'm fifteen years old at this moment. Um my my birthday's in December. And um and so I started attending his church. And he had a y uh youth minister, uh assistant minister by the name of Charlie Stone. And Charlie took me under his wing. And unlike many Christians who have their testimonies, I cannot tell you the day I was saved. It was sometime between when when uh Paul Clemens came to my church and my house, and sometime that year the Holy Spirit rebirthed me. And I can't tell you what day that was. I I'm sure it wasn't the moment that Doc Clemens challenged me because I hadn't given my heart to Jesus then. But sometime during that you know a six month period of time, the Holy Spirit came within me. I was rebirthed. I just changed And the Lord brought to me a young couple by the name of Ted and Judy Simmons. And that young couple lived up the street from me, and they went to this church. And Ted and Judy invited me over their house, and they started teaching me the ways of the Lord There were some palms within the church, and after about a year, uh Ten and Judy uh decided to leave. And being a very young disciple, I left with them Now, I can go into some some church politics and explain what was going on, but that's not the point of what I want to share with you this morning. And so I left with them and settled in a little Pentecostal church. called the church at Spring Hill. Now the town I lived in was called Spring Hill. So they named the church just like the churches in the Bible. You know the church at Corinth, the church at uh Glacia, they were the church at Spring Hill. At that point I met my wife. She was not a believer, and and uh the Holy Spirit uh led me to share what I had known with her. And she spent started attending this little Pentecost church. I grew. I got called to be a minister during this period of time. So as a young teenager, I knew that I was going to be a preacher of the gospel. We went to college, got involved in uh in ROTC, got involved in the military. The Lord made it very clear that my calling was to be as a military minister. Uh uh Left for a while, and then I met a man by the name of Keith Travis. He was a Southern Baptist minister, a chaplain. And he also taught me a great deal. And through his efforts he asked me to start teaching at a little um chapel in the army called Barn Chapel. And I started Learning that the Lord had given me the gift of teaching. And I love to study and share what I knew in the scriptures. And so Keith Travis was important not only to help me learn to be a Christian leader, but also he helped shape me how to become a chaplain. And how to go into the military ministry that the Lord called me to. Well, after after tour and act duty, I left. I went to seminary. And And while I was on active duty, before Lorelai and I left at college, we were members of Assembly God Church. And the whole time we were involved in the Pentecostal movement, there were a couple things about their theology that I just really had a big problem with. One of those is speaking in tongues. Because the theology that they had was that if you're baptized by the Holy Spirit, you will speak in tongues. I didn't find that in the scriptures anywhere. It's just not there. And so uh talking to an assembly god um um chaplain, I had asked the question, could I get ordained if I absolutely rejected this this um this doctrine? And he said, Oh, there's not Assembly of God church in the world that ordain you. Not one. So I left active duty, knowing that God had called me to be a minister, knowing that uh in order to be a chaplain, you have to be part of some denomination somewhere. And uh and I had grown enough to understand that the theology of the Presbyterian Church USA that I had left before I became uh won the Pentecost movement did not line up with me at all. Um so so where where where I where I was originally brought from as a Christian, that's not a church to go to. The the church I belong to as a member, that's not a denomination to belong to. So I was kind of stuck. And when Loreline and I left uh with uh with four children, she was pregnant with our fifth no, fourth. You're pregnant with our fifth time, yeah. Uh with three little children pregnant with with our fourth Um without any knowledge of where we're going to go, what we're going to do, what seminary I was going to go to, uh one uh as we were traveling back to Florida, some friends of ours had shared with us to look for a PCA or OPC church. Okay? So we go back down to Florida knowing that going back to the town that I was saved in, that there was only one Presbyterian church, Grace Presbyterian Church. which is now part of the PC USA. Uh Doctor Clement is still uh the uh pastor of that church. Uh he's probably the most conservative minister in his presbytery. Matter of fact he told shared with me later after I started going through my ornation uh uh process that uh that he had become completely shunned by his presbytery. Um he he was the eldest member of the Presbytery um and he was completely ignored as the eldest elder in the Presbytery. It was kind of sad how how things ended with them. But as we went back to Spring Hill, Florida, uh the the church at Spring Hill was still there by the way. They're still still worshiping, but uh that's not where the Lord led me. Uh he had established a PCA church, mission church, just a few m about six or seven months before we came back The name of the pastor was Phil Stogner. And Phil took Lorelei and I under his swing and he started teaching us reform theology. Now at this point I was completely uh I I had no knowledge of any any any of our theological truths at all. Uh basically if you follow my story at this point, I basically grow up in the Pentecostal movement. Uh there's some theological differences I had with them, but that's all the theology I knew. Um and so learning the rich traditions that uh has been handed down to us by our spiritual forefathers was wonderful. Also at the same time, God established now, uh I I had already d n n I already knew when I went to s uh college that I was gonna go to seminary Going on active duty was kind of necessary because I got a scholarship. So I had to give them active duty for f uh three years, four years, and go back to start seminary. Well when I was in school I knew That the only the closest accredited seminary was up in Georgia, Emory University. That was the closest school. Florida had no accredited seminaries, not one But while I was gone for those four years and came back, God decided to establish the very first accredited seminary in Florida, in Orlando, called Reformed Theological Seminary And that that happened a year before I left. You you see how God's putting things together here? So um so I I put an application in. Um and um uh started um my studies at Reformed Theological Seminary. Phil Stogner continues teaching me and mentoring me, brings me on staff as as um an intern in the church. And that's where I spent my internship. Helped him grow that mission church to uh uh a particular church. And um we had two more babies while we're in seminary. Within seminary, probably the one minister that affected me m the most by a man named Steve Brown. Now, some of you may know him. He's a radio uh pastor. He used to be um uh the pastor of uh now I'm gonna forget it. Um a large uh PCA church down in Florida. Um Um and uh he came up on staff to be the preacher of homiletics. Taught me basically how to stand before people and not get too nervous. And he he took me under his wing as well. Taught me a lot about what it is to be a pastor of a church. Now, I share all that with you because that's gonna be the focus of what we're gonna be looking at this morning. I I'd asked Skip uh the emails we w uh went back and forth. I said uh uh you know, w what's the church What would be good for me to speak about to this your congregation? And he said, Oh Thomas, you know, w when I have a guest speaker, I don't expect you to write a new sermon. And I wrote him back and said, Th this is the only t opportunity I have to work on new sermons. You know uh the the The job I have now as a as a chap in the army is all administrative. I I I have no opportunity to preach very often. Hit Teach Sunday School at uh Harvester at BCA where we uh where we visit. Every once in a while they've asked me to preach, but there are f three other chaplains in that congregation, I think one or two other uh teaching elders. So I mean there's a whole lot of they they've got a rich pool that if if they're uh senior pastor uh is um is not preaching. They've got a lot of people to ask for or w right in the congregation. So I don't get this opportunity very often. So I I I told Skip I appreciate it. And what would what would be good? He said, would you speak on discipleship. How how discipleship works. I said I love to. And and I oh I have been the Lord's placed that on my heart this last year or or so and when I have been preaching, that's been the topic I've been preaching on. And so, you know, the two converge very well. So if you have your scriptures with you, open up with me to 2 Timothy chapter 2. And we're just going to look at the very beginning here. Here's Paul writing from prison to his faithful co-pastor. And co evangelist, um, and if if you don't mind me using co apostle, but apostle with a little a, not the big, you know, not not the big uh twelve. Um He's writing to Timothy while he's in prison, and it's likely that uh though we don't know for sure if if this is the end of his life, most scholars believe that that as he writes Timothy, they never see each other again. Uh that this is the pri the the imprisonment that leads to Paul's execution. Um, but with all of Paul's prison letters you don't know for sure because it it seems like he's got imprisoned a couple of times. So so we we we have to make some guesses as we go along with his uh with his letters, which one was his very last imprisonment. But here Paul instructs Timothy. Now Timothy is the is the uh uh pastor of the church of Ephesus at this time. Uh and he he's uh he's given Timothy these instructions about uh being uh the pastor of a church You then, my child, be strengthened by the grace that is in Jesus Christ. And what you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses, entrust to faithful men who you who are able to teach also. Share in the suffering as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No soldier entangles gets entangled in civil pursuits since his aim is to please the one who enlisted him. An athlete uh an athlete is not crowded uh excuse me, is not crowned unless he completes uh he competes according to the rules. It is the hardworking farmer who ought to have the first share of crops. Think over what I have said, for the Lord will give you understanding in everything. And we're going to stop right there. And I want to talk a little bit this morning about what it is to be a disciple and what it is to be disciplining. That truly is the work that the Lord Jesus Christ has called us to. I'm quite sure that everybody here who follows Jesus Christ knows of the Great Commission. Do you not? Okay? Go therefore and make what? Disciples. Now that's that's our that's our calling. It's not just the calling of myself as an elder of the church or your elders here or skip your pastor. It's a calling of all of us. We're all called to make disciples. But the big question is, well, what does that look like, Jesus? And what do you mean by go make disciples? What examples have you given us? So the very first one I want to look at in making disciples. is the probably the most common one that Christ calls us to do throughout all of Scriptures The very disciples that we should be focused on that sadly wasn't my experience as I was growing up. And that is disciple making at home. Disciple making at home. God calls us to share what He has taught you. Huh, there's a cliff right there. He has taught he has asked us to share what he's taught you to your children. So if you're a child Your mom and dad should be discipling you. And if you're a parent, you should be encouraging and teaching your children in the ways of the Lord. That is the first and fundamental calling that we have as disciplers and being disciples is within the own home, within our own home. And let me give you an example from scriptures. You may or may not be familiar with the story of Ruth. It's a very short book in the Bible. It's a very easy to read and a wonderful story. The story is about Somebody who is not part of God's called people. Ruth is a woman who was born in a country outside of Israel, in a country called Moab. And the story is about a Israeli family who, because of economic difficulties, is basically forced to move out of Israel into Moab in order to make things work. Um her sons get married to local women And then uh when uh her sons die, her two daughter in laws have a choice to make. Go back to their families Or go back with me back to Israel because I've got nothing else to do. I've got nowhere else to live. I've got to go back to my family. And one of her daughter-in-law's Bruce says, I will follow you. Your God will be my God. Your people will be my people. And so she follows back And these two widowers or widows, poor, with nothing at all to take care of themselves, goes back and basically begs from their families. And the story goes that uh one of uh her mother-in-law's and her mu uh and the and the woman's name is Naomi, one of Bruce's mother-in-laws Kinsman is attracted to Ruth. But he's not first in line to ask to take care of the family. So he sets up conditions in such a way That the very first person according to the law of Moses who would redeem this family and take care of them is challenged to make that decision. And this person says, nope, I don't want to do that. And so Ruth is taken into his family and become h becomes his wife. And at the very very end of the book of Ruth, it says, and the women of the neighborhood gave him a name, saying, A son has been born to Naomi. In other words, Naomi's family now has a son again to carry on the family name. And they name him Obed. Now That could be the end of the story right there. But the very last sentence in the book of Ruth that I want to focus on is Obed's father is named Jesse. And Jesse's son is David, who becomes King of Israel. Now for the purpose of what I'm trying to share with you is, though the scriptures don't teach us specifically what Uh Obed told Jesse and when Jesse taught David, we do know this. David God uses to inspire a a large portion. of our Old Testament. All the Psalms. Well most of the Psalms. Not all of them, but most of the Psalms. And a a good portion of the time that God spends on teaching us about this part of history is focused on David. And what does God say about David? That David was what? A man after his own heart. How did David become a man seeking God's heart? Whom did he learn that from? I think the obvious conclusion is from Jesse. And who did Jesse learn that from? From of course his father Obed, who learned it from his father, who redeemed truth from the land of Moab. You see how God uses family to bring down the gospel and teach his ways from father to son, from mother to daughter. And and if you look at in the scriptures, that is truly the primary way in which the gospel is sent and brought. It's within families. So God expects us As uh fathers and mothers to teach our sons and daughters the way of the Lord. As a matter of fact, he expects it so much that he put it within the law itself. In Deuteronomy, there's two places that I would share with you. The first is where God says, Hear, O Israel. The Lord your God. The Lord is one. Now, uh that's a very special place uh uh in the scripture for for those of the Jewish faith. Because this is where God declares who He is. He is one. He is one God. The one and only God, maker of heaven and earth. And here God says the very first commandment that Jesus says is the most important of the commandments. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your mind, and all your soul. You shall teach diligently to your children. You shall talk with them when you sit in your house, when you walk in your way, when you lie down, and when you rise. You shall bind them as a sign your hand. And you shall b they shall be a f as frontless in front of your eyes. You shall write them on the door post of your house and your gates. So here God is so adamant about what we are to do as parents at passing the gospel down. He commands it right here when he tells us that the greatest commandment, according to Jesus, is to love the Lord our God with all our hearts and all our minds and all our our souls. How do we do that primarily? We show God that we love Him by teaching the next generation to follow the Lord. He repeats this again in Deuteronomy eight eleven eighteen, where he says, You shall therefore lay up these words of mine in your heart and in your soul, and you shall bind them. as a sign on your hand. And they shall be as fr frontlets be between your eyes. You shall teach them to your children, talk talking of them when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, and when you raise. What God's commanding through Moses here is that through everyday life we should be communicating to our children. And our children should be listening and hearing from us that God is involved in everything. When you wake up in the morning and turn on the lights, that is something that we give God thanks for. God provided the earth and electricity and and the even the the imagination of the people to create the infrastructure that we have, to have what we have, we give God thanks. As we prepare our meals and we go to school and we go to work, all those things are things that not only involve our daily life, but involve God in our daily lives. We should be communicating with one another and teaching one another how God is involved in everything. It's not just what God does here on a Sunday morning As he gathers his church for worship. It's what God does with you in every moment and every day. And we are to pass that down to the next generation. So one of the primary means of discipleship is between father and son, father and daughter, mother and son, mother and daughter. The next example that the scriptures gives us is what goes on between us as followers of Jesus. When I first became a Christian as I shared. Not only did some of the leadership of the church start teaching me in the ways of the Lord, but a young couple within the church. invited me over their house and started discipling me. Ted and Judy Simmons. Ted and Judy God used as the my foundation teachers They taught me about being a Christian, what the scriptures meant by the things that I was reading and studying We we have examples like that throughout scriptures as well. I just wanted to share one with you uh out of um The book of Acts, Acts 18. And now there was a Jew named Apollos, a native of Alexandria, came to Ephesus. He was an eloquent man, competent in the scriptures. Now, by the eloquent, what was meant in the scriptures is that he spoke well. He was a good orator. Uh he didn't stutter, he didn't stammer, he was Charismatic as he spoke. When he spoke, people wanted to come and listen to him just because of the way he was speaking. Not necessarily what he said, but he was a good speaker. You probably have met people like that before. Maybe your pastor's that way. But uh um you know he was he he draw people to himself because of his eloquence. Now If you know anything about some of the differences about some of the personalities in the scriptures, one of the things that Paul says about himself is that he's not eloquent. He's not a great speaker. Um and and so God calls people from from both camps. Uh if no you know, Moses had that very complaint when he got called. Uh God I'm a stutterer. I I I can't speak in front of people. You know, and and he he pressed that so much God finally says, Okay, Moses, I won't make you speak in front of the congregation. I'm bringing your brother, you speak to him, and he'll speak in front of the congregation. So, you know, imagine having another person up here where your pastor would s whisper into his ears and hear preach for you. That that was Moses' brother Aaron. uh provided. But Moses was the leader. Well so so here the scripture speaks about Apollo. Apollos uh being eloquent and confident in the scriptures He had been instructed in the ways of the Lord, and being uh fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught it taught it uh accurately in the things concerning Jesus, but he only knew the baptism of John. He didn't know about being baptized in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit, our baptism. He didn't know about communion. There's lots of things he didn't know about the uh about the church. He began to speak boldly in the synagogue, but Priscilla and Aquila heard him, and they took him aside and explained to him the way of the Lord more accurately. So here is somebody that God has gifted to speak, who has been taught the scriptures well, but he didn't fully comprehend all the gospel. And so God introduces him to two members of a congregation, to more uh accurately teach him the ways of the Lord. So that as he was teaching and proclaiming and sharing the gospel with others in the community, that he would have a stronger foundation to build upon that. And as members of a congregation, God calls each and every one of you to work with one another and to teach one another what the Lord has taught you. That's a calling upon every one of us to be sharing what the Lord has taught you specifically with one another, to sharpen each other's skills in the gospel. So that when you share outside of this congregation, you'll be sharing with more accuracy and with a deeper knowledge of the gospel. Later on, Paul in the Book of Corinthians, his very first letter, there is some controversy about him and Apollos. And the controversy is centered a little bit around the fact that Paul wasn't a very great public speaker while Apollos was. And some of the congregation was saying, Well, I got taught by Apollos. I'm of Apollos. And others were saying, No, but I'm of the Apostle Paul. I got instructed by him. And so there was this kind of rivalry going on in the church, you know, depending on which of these two men and others as well, uh, they got their gospel from, their instruction from. And so Paul settling this Controversy says this to them. What then is Apollos? What is Paul? Servants whom you believe as the Lord has instructed each. I planted, Paul's watered, but God gave growth. So neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything but God who gives growth. He who plants and he who waters are one, and each will receive his wages according to his labor. For we are fellow workers, you are God's field, you are God's building And so what Paul is speaking about here is as we do disciple on disciple learning and growing, that that is part of God's plan. But it's God who has the plan. We give God glory for it. We don't look at the individuals uh as bringing them up in glory and and saying, Well, well, you know, I'm I'm a Phil Stogner. He's the one who taught me. No, it's Jesus who used Phil Stogner to teach me. Jesus who used Ted and Judy to teach me. Jesus has used others in your lives to teach you. And part of what I'm sharing with you is Jesus wants you to share with others what Jesus has taught you. Does that make sense? So that that that is the the art of discipleship. Teaching what Jesus has taught you to others. Another category that's in the scriptures is one that is shown often, but I had a little difficult finding an actual scriptural verse to pin this on. I I knew the one that I'm going to share. I tried to find another. I didn't really find exactly what I was looking for. I found some examples, but not exactly what I was looking for. But this is the concept or the idea of the elder in the faith teaching the younger in the faith. This is what Ted and Judy did for me when I first became a Christian. This is what Phil Stogner, uh an elder in the church, did for me. This is what Paul Clemens, uh, my very first pastor who shared gospel with me, did with me. This is taking a young person. Somebody who's older than them. And the elder taking responsibility teaching the younger. Now the the scripture verse I want to share is out of uh Titus, where Timothy, I mean where Paul says this, uh uh uh Older women likewise are to be reverent in behavior, not slanderous nor slaves to much wine. They are to teach what is good, so train the young women. Now this is a direct commandment for for the uh older women in the congregation to teach the younger women in the congregation. However, with this I say it is definitely a principle in scriptures. Not not necessarily for just older women to teach younger women, but I'd say definitely the older men in the congregation should be teaching the younger men as well. It's just that that particular wording and script, that's what I was looking for. I was looking for you know older men teach You know, likewise, you know, Paul doesn't say likewise, older men should teach. But I think the principle's there, and actually you know, the whole reason why we have the word elder. As a leader in the church, it's because of this very principle. The elders, those who have been called because of their seasoned walk with the Lord, because uh their their consistent walk and because of their family life demonstrates that the Lord has called them to be leaders in the church Those older ones or older ones in the faith are to be sharing the gospel with those who are younger. And likewise here, Paul specified that the elder women, those who have walked in the Lord for a long time, should be instructing the younger women in the ways of the Lord. And so in this example, those of you who have been with Jesus for a long time, and I'm not talking about necessarily chronological age. I'm talking about spiritual age. Because if if you're eighty years old and you you hear the gospel and accept the gospel for the first time, somebody who's in their twenties And have been raised in the church from the moment that they could speak and been instructed by their parents and been instructed by uh they're pastors and they're elders of the church and have grown up and they understand the ways of the Lord, that that twenty-year-old would be a spiritual elder of that eighty-year-old. Does that make sense? Okay? And so this is what Paul is speaking about to instruct in the ways of the Lord and the ways of life. For those who've walked with the Lord for a long time. I think in this church, among yourselves, you you know who you are, how long you've walked with Jesus. And Paul's giving up an example here. Those who've walked with Jesus a long time, you have the responsibility of taking ownership, of teaching those Who are have not walked with the Lord as long as you have. And share with them the things that Jesus has taught you. And so this example of the elder instructing the younger. The next example that scripture shows as the pattern of the church is those who are ordained, who've had their hands laid upon them, and who have been separated out of the congregation for the very purpose of teaching and instructing. Now you notice that I've I haven't talked about pastors yet at all, or elders of the church, except a little bit my last point. Most of what the scripture gives to us is not a professional clergy that the congregation or you rely upon for your instructions. And you're learning in the ways of the Lord. That that is not the biblical model. But it however it has become the American model Now most are probably if I came to you individually and asked, you know, where have you learned most of what you've learned about God and about theology, about the scriptures? Most American Christians ask that question, well well in church of course. Well who's taught you? Well my pastor. And and how much time do we we do this? Well, I mean to be honest, you know, most Germans are between about you know half an hour, forty minutes, and m most American Christians don't go to Sunday school. So So there the most instruction that you end up with is about, you know, a half an hour, 45 minutes, an hour, once a week And and and Jesus is to use that to grow you and mature you in the ways of the Lord And so it's it's it's it's call you know the the calling upon each one of us as members of a congregation is to be teaching, instructing, learning from one another. But Jesus does call leaders. He does call leaders. And here in the scriptures that we uh read this morning out of 2 Timothy is where Paul is instructing the leaders of the church. the elders of the church. And he says to Timothy By the grace that is in Jesus Christ, and what you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses, and trust a faithful men who are able to teach others also. So Paul's saying, what I have taught you, Timothy, an elder of the church, what I taught you, you teach to others who you can trust my teaching to you in. That's the focus of this passage. Matter of fact, the rest of this second chapter, Paul goes through and he systematically goes through teaching Timothy reminding Timothy of some of the things that he has taught Timothy that he wants passed on to future leaders of the church. If we have a little bit of time uh towards the end, we'll go through some of that. But uh To give an example of what Paul is thinking of when he's saying, pass these things on So for those of you who are elders in the church, one of your primary responsibilities is to do exactly what Paul's saying here. You're responsible to take the things that Jesus has taught you and ensure that this group of Christians that gather here on a Sunday morning are being taught what Jesus is taught to do. Elders are called to teach So I contemplated this and I thought, you know, being a chaplain Um I I get to I get to think about how how things could be. And when I get invited to a church like this, um Not being your teaching elder, not being hired by you as a congregation, I can challenge you to things that maybe your pastor couldn't. Or maybe he's thinking about but knows that it's going to take a while to get there. So I have often thought about what would be a great model That reflects what's in scriptures as far as discipleship is going is concerned. So as your pastor challenged me to come up with something along these lines I thought I'd share with you what I thought would be a good model. Would you be interested in that? Okay. So here's my thinking what what a good model would be. Of course you you hire a teaching elder, somebody who has spent years going and getting instructed from learned men. To learn Greek and Hebrew and get in depth in the scriptures, you bring somebody so that that person could be the senior teacher, the senior leader. So that uh we all would learn from that person and grow with them, right? You you charge him with diligently sharing the word of God with you every single Sunday. In my thought, whom should the pastor be focusing his discipleship with? You know, this isn't a large congregation, but it's not a small one either Could your pastor diligently and with great uh honesty teach every one of you individually? Pouring hours of his life into you. I think I think you all would probably say, no, that's probably impractical. So who should he be spending his time with? Instructing the things that Jesus taught them. Well, my thinking that probably should be the elders of the church. That your pastor's primary disciple group The ones that he is spending time instructing and teaching and growing should be those others who have la hands laid on them called out of the congregation to be elders of the church. Well, who should the elders then be discipling and growing and teaching the things that the pastor's teaching now? Well, there's a whole nother group of men who are also ordained out of the church, who have hands laid on them. They're they're called to a different ministry. They're not necessarily called to teach, uh, they're called to serve. And those are the deacons of a church. And in my thought, every elder should have at least one deacon in which they are primarily teaching and instructing and and and encouraging and sharing the gospel with. But uh you know, the elders, you know, their primary job is teaching. And so uh they should have At least one or two, or maybe three families. And uh I would think that's probably max. Maybe we can go greater than that, but there should be some specific families that that each elder has a responsibility to teach and instruct and grow and be their primary elder to And then within that group, hopefully there's somebody that Jesus is raising up to be maybe a future elder or a future deacon in the church. And in those instructions, uh the one of those future leaders takes another group in the church and has two or three families that they're instructing. Does this does this make sense? You know, where where a church would systematically, intentionally designed itself in such a way that there are family groups that the senior elder is teaching through the elders into the congregation and everybody understands What relationships they have in this discipleship making role that Jesus calls us to I don't know if the Lord will ever give me the opportunity to be a senior pastor of church. I don't know if I'll ever have the opportunity, because I am a senior pastor of church, to actually structure church that way. But I'm struck as I looked at these scriptures that this is the model of discipleship that Jesus expects. When Jesus walked upon the earth, he had lots of people following him. But how many people did he individually instruct? Twelve. That was it. And one of them, Jesus knew, was going to betray him. So he's building his life into somebody who he knew from the very beginning. Was not going to be a follower of his. But he still poured his life into him. Those twelve after the resurrection of Jesus went and they took what Jesus taught them and taught them to others. Now if you think about this, and this is the most wonderful thing about your salvation, who taught you about Jesus? I've already given you the name of the very first person who taught me, but I give you the name of a number of people who taught and discipled and instructed me. Dr. Paul Clemens, Charlie Stone, Ten Judy Simmons, Steve Brown Phil Stockner. Just names. Now, you don't know who they are. And I don't I would never expect you to remember any of those names if you came and saw me again. Matter of fact, you may not even remember my name next time we meet one one another. But those names are important to me because those are the ones who have shared the gospel to me and instructed and discipled me. And I can share with you names of those who Jesus brought into my life that I have been the primary person who has who has helped this person in their way of the Lord. But from the twelve apostles Plus Paul, to this day, the teaching of the apostles was shared by mouth To mouth from generation to generation. And the person who shared the gospel with you And it has been a disciple of you, heard it from somebody before them. And that word can be traced all the way back to the twelve and all the way back to Jesus. This is how Jesus designed the church. And if we are not involved with sharing the gospel, with teaching what Jesus has taught us, That we are not involved in the Great Commission. Jesus' words through his disciples as he departed. Go therefore make disciples, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Ghost. There's another piece of that that very few Christians can actually quote. I'm pausing for a second. I'm I'm I I I'm I'm actually wanting you to think, well what piece is missing? What else did Jesus say when he said those words? He tells The twelve, not only to make disciples, not only to baptize, not only to do it in the triune name of our triune God, but he says Teaching them to obey all that I've commanded you. See, that's the key. To discipleship making. That's what Jesus means by sharing the gospel, making disciples, telling the good news. When the disciples made, whether the disciples born into your family or as a new member of the congregation, It's the expectation of our Lord and Savior that we are diligently teaching those disciples to obey Jesus in the way that He's taught you to obey. I do have a little bit more time left, right? Let's let's look at um let's look a little bit of how Paul teaches Timothy. Just really quickly go over this because I uh it is very, very instructive to go through 2 Timothy and see how Paul does it in writing. Okay? So if you have Bibles with you, look at the I'm going to go through this really quickly. 2 Timothy chapter 2 is a really great chapter of the scriptures to read about discipleship. So Paul says to Timothy. Remember the gospel I gave to you. And be focused on it like an athlete. Or be focused on it like a soldier. Now we we wrote read those words here. What Paul's saying there is that Jesus has enlisted you in his army. Don't get distracted. Jesus has brought you on to be a runner of the race. Like a good runner, there are rules to follow a contest. Don't break the rules. Jesus has called you to be those things. Like a farmer Raising a crop. You should get a crop if you put it in the ground. And when you do, you should reap. And you should enjoy the harvest thereof. That's what discipleship is all about. Being focused like a soldier, an athlete, or a farmer, Paul says, think over what I've said to you. For the Lord will give you understanding in everything. Remember, Jesus Christ rose from the dead, offspring of David. As preached in my gospel gospel, for which I suffered. But the word the word of the Lord is not bound, therefore I endure everything. Here Paul very quickly in this little piece of scripture reminds Timothy of the basic gospel. And what is it that we believe? We believe a man came to earth, walked, and taught us he was crucified on a cross. And if that was the end of the story, that would have been the end of the story. But that man was risen from the dead. Signifying that everything that God said through that man was absolutely true. And what he taught to his disciples was absolutely true. And the remarkable thing that Jesus taught his disciples was that not only was he man, but he was God. God in flesh to take upon his human body our sins. That is the good news. And Paul reminds Timothy of that. A couple times in this letter to Timothy, actually three times. We won't go through it uh in this chapter, but three times he challenges Timothy not to get caught up in what Paul says theological arguments. Now I I uh I summarize Paul's words are a little stronger than that actually. Um but but Paul challenges Timothy not to let theological arguments crop up in his church. Three different times he challenges Timothy to ensure that as the elder of the church, the pastor of the church, that he challenges and ensures that the theological arguments don't occur. And Paul calls them foolish, etc. I I'll read one one sentence here from him. But avoid irreverent babble, for it will lead the people to more and more ungodliness, and their talk will spread like gangrene. So that's that's Paul's warning about getting into things that that are irrelev relevant to the gospel of Jesus And then Paul uh speaks about two people in this church, and Timothy's church That has caused problems in Timothy's church. So Paul talks about church discipline, how very important it is when we have problems in the church, that the leadership of the church takes care of that. And lastly, Paul challenges Timothy to flee from, as Paul says, youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith, love, peace. So Paul's focus to Timothy is to keep the gospel, focus on the love, the peace, the purity. That Jesus taught to him, that he taught to Timothy, that he expects Timothy to teach to the elders, that expects the elders of church to teach to the congregation And thus that's why we have this inspired scripture in our w in our Bibles. This very principle of An elder teaching elder, teaching other elders, teaching congregations is the principle of discipleship. So my wife, my children actually heard me proclaim this challenge before in a different sermon on the same topic. But here's my challenge to you as a congregation of individuals I don't know at all. Okay? So I get to hear I get to speak, share the gospel with you, and leave, um, whether or not you're inviting me back or not. But here's my challenge to you. Paul is an elder of the church teaching Timothy. Do you have somebody like Paul in your life? Somebody who you've relied upon, who you have that type of relationship with, who's challenging you to grow in the ways of the Lord. Who've walked with Jesus a little bit longer than you, who Jesus helped conquer some of the things that you're struggling with. Do you have a Timothy, I mean a Paul in your life? Who's your Paul? Who do you have that relationship with here in this church? My second challenge to you is this. Do you have somebody who's a Timothy in your life? Is there somebody in this congregation, somebody in your life whom you are instructing and sharing what Jesus has taught you? You're a little bit further along. than they are. You know the gospel a l a little bit better. Jesus has helped you conquer some of the things in your life, some of the sins that you have uh had, that they're struggling with. Is there somebody in your life who's like a Timothy to you? And that's the challenge. That's a challenge to discipleship. To be involved in those type of relationships. And the answer to that question is no. To either one of those two questions, I would ask you to consider Whom here could you trust to ask to be in that type of relationship with? And whom here could you volunteer To help along the road of the gospel that Jesus has called us to. There's a really big fancy church word that we theologians use to describe this whole process. It's called sanctification. But all sanctification really is, is one sinner teaching another sinner how Jesus is taught them how to walk upon the road of life. Where are you on that road? Is there somebody following you? Are you leading somebody else? Let us pray. Heavenly Father, Holy Spirit, our Lord Jesus, you have called us to share with others And it is my diligent and fervent prayer that you would raise up in this congregation those who like the Apostle Paul. Will instruct and teach others in the way that you have taught them And Father, there are probably many who are longing as Timothy Wanting to grow in the ways that you have instructed us. And I pray, dear Lord, that You would bring those leaders into those lives. And lastly, dear Lord, I pray that As you share the gospel from mother to son, father to daughter Parents to children, members of congregation to other members of congregation, pastor to elders, elders to congregation. That you would grow this, your church, who gather here in your name. Grow them, dear Lord. May them deeply and devoutly follow after your ways. As Phil Stogner taught me, I'm just a beggar, teaching another beggar where to find bread. Thank you, dear Lord, for the bread of the gospel of Jesus. Thank you that you have taught me where to find it. And I pray that each and every one of us will teach others to follow along with us. In your precious name we pray. Amen.