I don't know about y'all, but have you ever like gone? Gotten up from where you were, perhaps, and gone into another room. And once you get to that other room to do whatever it was that you were going to do, and you suddenly realize that you have no clue why you that up in the first place because you don't remember. I experienced that quite a bit. Yeah, actually. Um and that caught me the Start looking into uh what are things that typically Americans um forget the most? And so Living in the age that we live in, it's pretty easy to find lists. So I've got here a list of ten things that Americans the most common things that we tend to forget Maybe you've experienced one of these things here along the way. Number, well, number 10 is misplacing your phone. You forget where you left your phone. Forgetting to take something out of the freezer to defrost. Of course, you'll remember that when dinner is to be served, right? Forgetting what day it is. Forgetting where you put a pen or a pencil. Having a word on the tip of your tongue and not remembering it. People's names right after you met them. Walking into a room and forgetting why you walked inside in the first place. Where our keys are. What we need at the grocery store when we get there. And then number one was passwords. You forget your password. I guess nowadays with the technology being what it is, that becomes like the number one thing if people fear forgetting. Now, according to this particular poll, the most embarrassing things to forget would be someone's name. if you're married, their birthday and their anniversary. Wow. So they say that setting up reminders, writing them down are important things that can definitely help. you pretty common things right well uh today is the third Sunday of Advent Joy. Rejoicing. That's the virtue that we are to point our attention to this Sunday. As a result, I have chosen for this morning's passage Philippians chapter 4, verses 4 through 7. Now, if you haven't already done so, please would you open your Bibles to Philippians chapter 4? Would you please rise for the hearing of God's holy and inerrant word? Following us from Philippians chapter 4, verses 4 through 7. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again, I will say, rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything. But in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Amen Amen. This is the word of God. Please be seated. And join me in prayer. Let your gospel, O Lord, come unto us, not only in word, but in power, and in much assurance, and in the Holy Spirit That we may be guided into all truth, and strengthened unto the obedience of your will with joyfulness, that abounding in the work of faith and the labor of love and the patience of hope. We may produce the sweet fragrance of Christ in our lives, glorifying you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. When commentators take a look at this passage, they tend to highlight Paul's efforts to encourage the church in Philippi. Who are experiencing all sorts of worries and anxieties. This morning, we shall look at this passage, but not focus as to why and how he's encouraging the readers at Philippi. Since this is the third, as we said, Sunday of the Advent season, we shall instead focus on him or on his main theme. To one, rejoice in the Lord. Two, to make distinctions between the world's way of happiness, and three, the joy of the Lord and what it means to have this peace that surpasses understanding. The first two Sundays look forward to the Lord's coming, obviously, of Advent. And the second two Sundays, which begins today, becomes a transition to actually Him having arrived. Hope and peace can be forward-looking, but joy or rejoicing occurs when we've already experienced something, and indeed we have, as all Christians are, in the joy of the Lord. So, question. Are you joyous today? Some of you may say Oh, Pastor, it's too early to answer that question. Ask me in a couple of hours. When I hear things like that, it makes me want to ask What is joy? What is happiness? Is there a difference between the two? Is it just an emotion? Is it a state of being? I think all those are worthwhile questions to explore. The scripture tells us that it is joy, is a Christian virtue. It is by the supernatural presence of the Holy Spirit within the Christian That naturally emanates itself. Now, I'm speaking specifically of joy because of the reality that God is not just with us, but God is in us. We call it one of the fruits of the Spirit, as is found in Galatians chapter 5, verses 22 to 23. You may recall. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, and the second one is joy. Peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such things, the passage ends. There is no law. Now, for our purposes today, I would like for us to make a distinction between biblical joy and the happiness understood and experienced by fallen men. The world has an equivalent word for joy, and it is happiness. Although there are some similarities, there is also a stark contrast as well. Happiness is something that all human beings experience, whether you are a child of God or not. Therefore, we as Christians are susceptible to experiencing happiness. But the truth of the matter is that happiness is experienced by circumstances in life, which includes things experienced by our senses. So we may experience happiness when we enjoy a good meal. Humans experience happiness when things go their way. When they are loved, when they achieve desired goals. Happiness is affected Not only by success, but by failure as well. We can become unhappy. The lack of happiness. Happiness is impacted by things that are both within and without our control. Joy, on the other hand, is rooted in our relationship to God. The joy we have and experience as we walk in the Lord is impacted by our status and relationship to God. Now let me read for you a quote from Dr. James Boyce regarding this distinction between joy and happiness. The word rejoice is interesting, for it is only a variant from the word joy, which is one of the great Christian virtues and fruit of the Spirit Consequently, rejoicing, like joy, is supernatural. Joy is the Christian virtue. Happiness is the virtue of the world. There is all the difference in the world between them. Happiness is entirely external. It is circumstantial. Happiness depends on the things that we have or can acquire. When those things go away, so does the happiness. This type of happiness is dependent upon or is conditioned by external factors. Joy for the Christian is the opposite. It is not external. It is internal. It is supernatural and grows out from within based upon the relationship that we have with God. What I mean by status is the fact that we are in a relationship with God, specifically as father and child. The estate that we have as adopted children of God through the crosswork of Christ, having peace with God, knowing that nothing or no one can take it away. In itself, just knowing that in itself should naturally bring about a supernatural joy from within. Now, our joy, which has its roots in the affiliation we have with God, can on some level be impacted. A wall of separation, relationally, can arise when we sin, thus robbing us of our joy. That is why we are continually called upon to repent and confess so that our great God, who is always prepared to forgive, Forgive us and re-engage in a loving relationship can restore us to that fullness of our joy in the Lord. So let's look at one of those sins that really deprives us of relishing the joy of the Lord. The thing that most blocks, the thing that's most poisonous to our joy is anxiety. How are we to understand anxiety? It's a huge motif in this passage, is it not? It is, in my estimation, at its core, a level of disbelief. Disbelief in what? What God says. Now, this sentiment roots stretch back All the way back to the garden when it was asked, has God said, It is about who God is. Is he holding something back? Is he holding back something that he only wants to enjoy and not share with us? It's about believing if he is trustable Anxiety, then, is the counteracting agent that deprives or dissolves our ability to be in the joy of the Lord Paul addresses that in verse six. He says, Be anxious for nothing. Be anxious for nothing. Paul recognizes the one thing that most profoundly erects a wall, preventing our joy of the Lord, is anxiety. So he says it in the imperative. Be anxious for nothing. This is coming straight out of the Lord's teaching. It goes right back into the Sermon on the Mount, if you recall. He says, starting in Matthew chapter 6 and verse 25, For this reason I say to you, do not be worried about your life. As to what you will eat or what you will drink, nor for your body as to what you will put on. Is life not more than food and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the sky, and they do not sow, nor reap, nor gather crops into barns, and yet your heavenly father feeds them And here it is, the reason why we shouldn't have anxiety. Are you not much more important than they? And which of you, by worrying, can add a single day to his lifespan? Now a dictionary definition is A feeling of worry, nervousness, or unease, typically about an imminent event or something with an uncertain outcome. So the fruit of anxiety is worry, nervousness, unease. But the reason for it is that we don't know how things will turn out. We live in a world where we want to be in control of what is going on around us and affect the outcome of the future. That makes us feel comfortable and at ease, does it not, when we can affect the future. This is very common to human nature. Why is this? Because at the heart of it, if we are in control, We know what we would do, would we not? We know how things should turn out. So at the heart is that we believe in In our wisdom. We believe in our wisdom. We don't go around telling people the net effect of this is something like the following. I'm smarter than God. I know God means well, but I think I need to step in on this one. Or I'm the safety net. God's been doing this for a long time. I'm here to serve God, and I think we need to go this way to get things done quickly. We don't verbally communicate this to others, and frankly, sometimes we just don't verb uh communicate it to ourselves. The less we can affect the outcome, the more we feel out of control. And consequently feel worried, anxious, and uneasy. When worry sets in, it robs us of our joy. When worry takes center stage, it dominates our thought life, doesn't it? Let me ask you, when you are anxious, is that not the time when you make the most clearest choices in life? Probably not. Christian, I want you to recall the times in your life when you've been the closest and enjoyed the Lord. Has it been because you've been worried the most? Of course not. When you worry, you're not experiencing the joy of God. We worry and experience anxiety because we are not in control. So, what does control have to do with all of this? Our lack of control causes us To forget certain things about God and ourselves. Let's take a look at some of these things that we have a tendency to forget. The first thing I have in mind is that as Christians, we know that God is sovereign in all things. All that comes to pass, that's part of the definition of providence, right? All that comes to pass does so because it is the will of God. We forget that things are going to go according to his will. And part of how God makes things come about is by using your prayers and your supplications. To achieve his good pleasure. So when we consider for a moment, when we are anxious or worrisome, it is reflective of our lack of trust. In God's plans. We would do it differently. We know better. We are wiser We forget that God is sovereign and that he indeed is wiser than us. Secondly, being out of control is something, or sometimes an unwelcome reminder of our humanness. It is a reminder that we are the creature and not the omnipotent creator. Instead of recognizing the distinction And taking comfort in the true and living God, we search for ways to control situations and people. We manipulate situations and people We try to prevent our loved ones from pain and suffering. We try as hard as we can to not be blindsided. We try to prevent personal pain or embarrassment, don't we? Anybody here a Star Wars fan? Well, if you're not, it's really hard not to have heard of it and even know the storyline. One of the main characters is Darth Vader. Growing up, Anakin, which is his birth name, wanted to protect all those whom he loved. When he realized that he couldn't do so Especially after his mother died in his arms, instead of accepting his situation, or in our case, turning to the true God, he took on the role of God. And he became a murderous, self-vindicating vigilante, which caused him to go over to the dark side Seeking Godlike powers to control people in situations, even to bring his loved ones back from the dead. Christian, do you have a little Darth Vader in you? Are you struggling with that today? Have you gone over to the dark side? Have you ever noticed that Darth Vader was never joyous? You can't be joyous until you rest in God and remember who He is. As the sovereign, omnipotent lord of all that is. Thirdly, sometimes we experience things that cause us pain, physical pain, relationship pain. We lose things or people. We love. And when we are reminded that it was part of God's plan, we are fearful. That we may experience it again. And in the midst of the pain, sometimes we forget that God's promises for us. Is not happiness. We forget that God's promises is not about happiness What he wants from us is holiness. But related to this, fourthly, we forget about the character of God. God is a good God who is merciful and loving and cares about you so you can trust his plans for you and those whom you love. We don't have his perspective. He knows what is the best possible outcome. Why? Because he is all wise. And lastly, in those times, especially in those times of anxiety. We demand an answer. It's that why question, right? Do y'all remember Job? We're all over the place today. After he experienced all the devastation in his life, he stood before God demanding an answer as to why he experienced all that he did. Do you remember God's answer? It started with, have you considered? Have you considered? God never answers Job's question. Did he? He reminded Job through his power, wisdom, and goodness, found in creation alone, that he is the sovereign. And does not owe an answer to anyone. We forget that he is the sovereign Now we know that Job got it. Do you remember his response? I think I'll put my hands before my mouth now. No more questions, Lord. Sovereign God. Where are you with joy today? Have you forgotten some of these things? Look, sometimes not having a proper understanding of God or His sovereignty will impact our joy. If you don't believe that he is a wise God, knowing that what's best, given whatever situation it is, can cause anxiety. In you. Not believing that he's omnipotent, all powerful, but instead believing he has limited power can cause. Anxiety in us. Are you worried or anxious? Why What is it that you're forgetting today? The truth is that there's a variety of things that can cause anxiety in our souls. And they have different levels as well. And the most, and sorry, and the more that we ruminate On them, the more center stage that it takes in our lives. Whatever it is that you're anxious about today, won't you take the time to remember who and what? What God is. Let's be clear about this. By being reminded, by reminding ourselves who God is, and that He is addressing our concerns in accordance with His good pleasure Does not, hear me now, does not take away the concern. The problems don't magically disappear. The pain doesn't disappear. What changes is the way that we look at them. And maybe how you deal with them. It helps us to see them in their proper place and in their proper perspective. Beloved, one more reminder. God hasn't promised that we wouldn't experience pain and want in this life. But God is working good in the lives of those who love Him. So, how did we get there? What's an antidote? What can we do to be in a joyous state? Dr. Gordon Fee states in his commentary on Philippians the following: Lack of gratitude is the first step towards idolatry. Lack of gratitude is the first step towards idolatry. I think that's a profound thought. The gratitude that I have in mind is the type that comes from having a drink from the well of reality. We forget the fact that we are the creature and God is the creator. We tend to lose sight at times of what we are and who we are in the presence of God. That can cause the blinding effects of pride to set in. When we forget how far apart we are from him as human beings, that's when we have a tendency. To raise or elevate our status in comparison to God, we tend to forget how fragile we are as human beings. We tend to think highly of ourselves and forget how sinful and utterly unable we were to have a proper relationship with God in the first place. We don't think of it this way, but when when we forget these things, we marginalize the great sacrifice of Christ on our behalf. And when this happens, we live less and less a life of thanksgiving. Thanksgiving to God. And when we get to this stage, we are now ripe for idolatry. We look at other people and we look at other things instead of God to solve our problems, for which we now have anxiety over. Oh, if we had a better job. Oh, if we had more money If I were prettier. If only I were taller. If I were not so tall. If I had more hair. If, if, if, right? When we are this way and our ethics reflect it, we are committing full-blown idea. Idolatry. When we place our trust in anything less than our great God, you have entered into the idolatry zone. This would have been a good time to have one of those musical pieces. Yes, Sandy's nodding, he knows what I'm talking about. So it is with no surprise that Paul states in verse 6 to place all of our petitions in In prayer and supplication, redirecting us to the source of all hope for the Christian with what? With thanksgiving. A heart of gratitude for who he is and what he has done for you Finally, let's assess the benefits associated with godly joy. Godly joy can create confidence. A confidence that approaches life, rooted in a faith which possesses a keen awareness of and trust in the living Lord. Jesus the Messiah. This confidence can give us a stability in life, can it not? No matter the pain, the difficulty, or even elation, we respond to each situation with a stable and measured. Response. Confidence, stability. Jesus said, Blessed are those who mourn We can and will experience sorrow, grief, pain in this life. And it's not sinful for us to feel those things. But we still can have joy in our souls. Meanwhile, we are mourning Finally, we can, as Paul rounds out his thoughts, have peace. Peace Joy in the Lord that is buttressed by a thankful heart results what? In peace. A peace that the world cannot offer. A peace that goes beyond understanding or explanation, unless, of course, you experience the joy of the Lord And this brings us to that all important question What do I look to? To remind me that God is all those things? What is the evidence? I'm talking about goodness. I'm talking about wisdom. I'm talking about omnipotence. What has he done that proves his unending love for me? His complete and total commitment to me. How do I know that he's not holding anything back? That he didn't hold anything back. It's very simple. It's because he gave up the treasure of heaven for us. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you. We thank you that indeed you have given up the treasure of heaven. Your own. Blessed, loved son, the Lord Jesus, you did not hold back anything Help us, Father, to not think evil, thoughtful, thoughtless things. That makes us wonder why it is that we don't receive what we want. Because indeed you are all powerful. Help us instead to live lives of joy, being fully satisfied with your love. Help us to not turn our necks to the right or to the left and to look at the world and want what it has. Help us to remember that those things are just momentary. Help us instead, Father. Remind us of who you are, that you are our all-powerful, wise, and good God. Who has a reason for all things? And remind us that you are our sovereign God, that you don't owe us an answer. But instead, help us to remember time and time again to go back to the foot of the cross. And remember again of your great love and the cost to you as well as to your son. And it is