This morning, uh, we are going to be doing a passage out of the book of 1 John, and it is from chapter 2, verses 15 to 17. This does not and should not signal that we are going to be doing a study through the book of 1 John. Actually, we have something that's going to be coming up at the beginning of the new year. And um looking forward to uh for our next uh expositional book of uh the Bible, it'll be the book of Ruth. Uh so that'll be starting at the beginning of the new year. But we have the Advent season coming forward, so we look forward to um specific passages that help us to remember and to celebrate the first advent as we look forward to the second advent. Uh before we get into the passage this morning, the the specific passage for this morning, uh I think it's uh helpful for us to know that uh when the apostle John wrote this book, the book of 1 John as we have it, really was designed for us to have more of an assurance of our salvation. See he himself says, I I write these things so that you may know that you have eternal life. And so up until this point in the book of 1 John, he has been uh helping us to understand how we may know. we have eternal life. And he he discusses the issue of faith and he speaks about the substance of our faith and to whom our faith is placed upon. And now he moves on to the next couple of verses that which we will be taking a look at right now. And uh it's really another marker, perhaps. of way in which that we can identify salvation, faith working in the life of a person who proclaims that they're a believer. And at the same time, for us to assess for ourselves what this passage is teaching us in our own personal lives. Now he's going to be using a uh a term, uh a word, uh the world, or perhaps uh being worldly. These are terms that we hear as Christians and sometimes in Christian parlance. You know, we say the person is worldly or he's fleshly or or something of that nature. There are times in which, uh, at least in my life, I've heard the word uh uh th this gentleman is he's worldly uh to mean in the sense that uh he's got um uh he he's elegant, he he knows how to behave in whatever set of circumstances he might find himself in. That's not really what worldly and worldliness is going to be understood at, especially within the scripture. And so as we get into it, I want to make these distinctions for us and also for us to assess within ourselves, do I fall into this category? If I don't fall into this category, what is it that I I must consider in my life? So I hope the that gives us a little bit of an introduction to the passage that we have before us. And speaking of that very passage, let us turn our attention to it right now. If you haven't opened up your Bibles, if you'd be so kind to turn to our passage this morning, which is from 1 John 2, verses 15 to 17. Would you please be so kind to rise for the reading and hearing of God's holy and errant word? Hear now the word of God. Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the desires of the flesh, and the desires of the eyes, and pride in possessions, is not from the Father, but is from the world. And the world is passing away, along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever. This is the word of God. Amen. Praise be to God. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, be with us now, we pray. Help us to see the Word of God with spiritual eyes. Help us to hear the Word of God with spiritual ears. so that we may see and understand and ultimately taste the delicacies of the truth of God. Holy Spirit, help us not only to see and to understand, but also help us to see and convict us where we fall short. But we pray, Holy Spirit, that you would grant us the grace to repent from it and help us to lead lives of righteousness and holiness, glorifying our great Savior and God our Father. And we ask this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. Verse 15 begins with a prohibition. Did you notice that? Says, do not love the world. Now the word world is cosmos in the Greek. It actually occurs 185 times in the New Testament And would you know it that the Apostle John uses it 78 times alone? So he uses this word quite often. The word has various meanings. Depending upon the context, at times it it literally means the planet Earth And at times it means not only the Jews, but also the Gentiles, as we see in John 3. 16. What John has in mind here is that the world broadly represents the evil system that is under the grip of Satan As chapter 5 in the same book in verse 19 tells us, we know that we are from God, and the whole world lies in the power of the evil one. Now this is referring to the lifestyles, the philosophies, the desires, the lusts, the cravings, and thought patterns of a non-biblically minded worldview. Big picture here is that John is drawing attention to contrasting two objects of love. The first is the world, and the second object is God. And that they are, as we shall see, in the end They are not compatible. Those that are of the world are slaves to that frame of life. frame of living, its philosophies, dedicated to achieving its goals and its values. Mankind's socioeconomic and political systems are nothing other than fallen man's attempt at creating his city in his own image In contrast to the city of God. As for me and for all of you who have been made Christians by the Holy Spirit, we are no longer under the authority. The influence or power of that system of thinking. By the salvific work of the Holy Spirit, He has freed us from all of that. Now, if you're wondering what worldliness is today, I would like you to imagine with me for a moment Being on an archaeological dig about 1,000 years from now, looking back at any major American city today, It could be Chicago, could be New York, could be Baltimore, any one of these cities. What would be the things you would think that they would find? Well, what they would find would be what? A window to the things that our generation values. It would be a reflection of the worldliness of our generation. And what are some of those things that may be found? And let me warn you, some of the things they find may not be good things. Well let me start with maybe they'll find McDonald's rappers. Drugs of all sorts, legal and illegal, pornography. Religious artifacts from Hinduism, Islam, and various other religions an idolatrous preoccupation with celebrities from the arts, the movies, music, politics, and athletics, sports. They might find video game platforms, gambling platforms, perhaps an infinite supply of storefront signs Labeled psychics, palm readings, yoga, and so forth they would find an endless array of books and manuals on how to get rich quick, whether it's from real estate or perhaps the stock market. And so forth. The things that the world values are the bedrock of its system. Being sold out to these values is of prime concern to the Apostle John. There is no room, as we shall discover, for pornography and God. Drugs And God. Psychics and God. Trusting in the riches for security. And God. Worldliness is not just materialism. It is the guiding philosophy. If God did not have an influence in the world, hypothetically, where do you think the world would stand regarding couples living together to see if they are compatible before they get married? Abortion, same-sex marriage. Well, I think you get the idea of a variety of different things that that the scripture and God impact. When we became Christians, we became sojourners. in whatever land we find ourselves in. We have been given a new passport, which has upon its cover the sign of the cross. We are looking forward to a day when we will get to our home. Although we are no longer under the system and the control of the city of man. There are attractions that call out to us day and night. And truth be told, we have fallen prey to them in the past, and we fall prey to them even today. We have a tendency to give in to them. John is giving us instruction, warning. Well, really, a a command to stop flirting with the world's values. If we continue to love some of those worldly things which we loved in the past, This passage is telling us that it is as if we love the entire system all together. There is only room in the heart, the mind, or the desires of man, where either only God or the world can exist. The possibility of a love for God and the world coexisting in man is simply not feasible. The Lord Jesus explained this concept to us during his Sermon on the Mount. If you recall, he used the example of God and money. The pursuit of money, or really love for money, represents the world here. Man cannot serve both, he said. It is either God or the world The Lord said specifically, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. And no one can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money. When Jesus said that you can't serve two masters, he meant that one cannot have two ultimate authorities in his life. You must choose between serving God and serving something else. You must choose between serving God and serving man. This is because serving these two masters are mutually exclusive. If you are loyal to one, you are necessarily disloyal to the other. Requiring a decisive choice to fully commit to one is before you. Serving God involves prioritizing spiritual matters Righteousness, generosity, while serving wealth focuses on accumulating of material possessions and can lead one to greed. And this leads to what? Conflicting loyalties. This will lead you to having to make a choice about what ultimately, and here it is, motivates and directs your life. It is not a condemnation of working for money, but a warning against making money your primary focus or a master that controls you. The Lord Jesus' teaching emphasizes that this is an either or choice. There is no middle ground. where you can be equally devoted to both. To think otherwise is self-delusion. Do you think that you can serve two masters? Well, you'll have to deal with Jesus on that one. Your master will be the one you ultimately place your faith in. And your heart will follow where your treasure is. The word that John uses for love Here in this passage speaks of one attachment, two, intimate friendship, and three loyal devotion. This love is the world's ability to seduce the believer. That is, to draw him or her away from the love of the Father. John's warning is to not love or be devoted to the world and its ways. But note that he does not instruct Christians to isolate themselves from it either. Oftentimes, the Christian takes this command to not love worldliness as a mandate to create communities, Christian communities that have no contact with the outside world, oftentimes we hear this, right? It's called the Christian bubble, if you will. Scripture tells us that we're not to flee from the unbelieving world and run into caves and await the Lord's return. But rather we are to engage the culture and boldly proclaim the good news of Jesus Christ. The last phrase in this verse, the love of the Father is not in him. He's open to a variety of different interpretations, but I think that in this context It is clear that it is in opposition to the love for the world. That is to say, if one has a love for the world, as we have thus defined it, Then that person does not have a love for the Father. It is clear that from this passage that to love the world and the Father are simply mutually exclusive. Now the proper and normal response, I think, to God's gift of life and love must be to love Him in return. Where once We rejected God and loved the world. We now love God and reject worldliness. So Christian, do you reject worldliness or do you still embrace it and seek it out? In verse sixteen, John gives us some categorical examples. He says Because all that is in the world, and he says, the desire of the flesh, and the desire of the eyes, and the arrogance produced by material possessions, is not from the Father, but it's from the world. God is the creator. He has made all things. However, the issue is not whether what he has made is good or evil, for whatever God made, it is good. But rather it is what we have done with his creation. Have we now with our cravings, our lusts? a covetousness created God's small g that we pursue and idolize. Have we exchanged the truth for a lie? Have we bowed down to the creation and rejected the creator? This is part of what worldliness is. Let's take a look a moment here. Take a look at these three categories that he's named. If we can make an initial observation here, that in these categories, the first two are about internal sin. And the third item is about outward behavior. So first cravings. Dr. Gary Burgess is in his NIV commentary on 1 John states of this. Any desire, any sinful interest that draws us away from God, or at least makes continuing fellowship with Him impossible. The second item is lust of the eyes. These are the cravings that are activated by what people see and leads ultimately to covetousness. Examples of this are when Eve looked at the forbidden fruit in the garden as it was pleasing to the eye. Or when David looked at Bathsheba when she bathed. And in Psalm 73, the psalmist says, I was envious. When my eyes saw the prosperity of the wicked. Now the third item about the boasting, about possessions and accomplishments. They are all an unholy pride in what one has, what one has accomplished. The boasting described here is of a pretentious hypocrite who glorifies in himself or in his possessions. Look how great I am. Look what I have accomplished in life. This is a person of grandiose pride. in his own imagined vaulted self-importance. Pride of life is reflected in whatever one holds as a symbol of importance. It can become an idol or even self-worship. Just look at some of these challenges that they pose. What about the opinions of the world? Have you learned to be free from men pleasing? How you must look, how the world defines beauty and success. Can you live without the world's approval and withstand its frowning disapproval against you? These are all challenges. Do you find yourself fearful of saying or doing something that might go against worldly values that are opposed to God's values? Are you afraid of being asked where you stand on LGBTQ issues? How do you respond to proponents of same-sex marriage? Abortion. How do you respond to those that claim Christians are intolerant haters? Because they believe Jesus is the only way to God. These are only a few of the hot topic issues that Christians in our generation face. Whom do you fear more? Or I should really ask the question: whom do you love more? Do you see now that you cannot love God and the world at the same time, as they are in the end opposed to one another? Do you love the world or do you love the Father? In verse 17 he says, And the world is passing away with all its desires, but the person who does the will of God remains forever. John gives us a reason here not to love the things of the world. Ungodly things, worldliness. The reason is that the pleasures that man seeks is really only momentary. You know, that is something that we need to remind ourselves over and over and over again, don't we? Man pursues, man receives, man uses, and finally moves on to something else. That is an endless cycle of pursuits to find some sort of satisfaction and joy in life. John uses the present tense of the verb here, to pass away, in order to depict that it is an ongoing process. John wants us to remember that we are living in an era that awaits the return of Christ. Once Christ returns, the world and its ways will pass away, never to return. All the vain love pursuits of the unbeliever and believers will have no lasting value. And no lasting satisfaction. There will come a time when this world and its ways will indeed pass away. Those that do the will of God will not pass away with it, but will remain forever. So you see, to devote your heart to worldliness and its ways is so incredibly short-sighted But after all, isn't that one of the features and definitions of sin? It is so short-sighted. Now, when Jesus prayed in the garden, you may say, known as the high priestly prayer, Jesus prayed to the Father that he not take believers out of this world, but to protect them from it. Is John contradicting Jesus? Certainly not. Although we live alongside unbelievers in this world, we are not to be influenced by them. Jesus, however, prayed what? He prayed that we remain beside them, so that we may influence them for the advancement of the kingdom of God and to glorify our Heavenly Father. Question Are you, Christian, influencing the world around you, or are you being influenced by it? The one who loves God is essentially the obedient Christian. One who pursues God's values, the one who does God's will. Earlier I asked you two questions, right? Do you love the world or do you love God? Well, Christmas is rapidly, boy, it is very rapidly coming upon us. Only about last week, it felt like only last week, I heard that we have a hundred days before Christmas, but uh Not anymore. But I think that is this time of the year that can help answer these questions that I've presented before us. What is the desire of your heart? You see, I looked up what it is that Americans want most for Christmas. And here are some of the, we'll just call it top categories. Cash and right behind it, gift cards. An all expense paid trip. I'm seeing way too many smiles Electronics. I understand that the iPhone 17 is now out. Toys I think electronics and toys kind of go together, don't they? Now look, there's nothing wrong with a phone or any electronic device. The question really is the test. Why do you want it? What does that say about your heart? Why do you want those things How then we as Christians, how are we to protect ourselves against such adversity and temptation? We must be like our Heavenly Father. The Bible tells us that God so loved the world. Not that he loved its system, its ways of thought. Indeed, he despises godlessness and wickedness. But he looked upon the sinner with mercy, that he sent his only son to die for all those who would believe in him. Let me encourage all of you who don't have a relationship with this wonderful, holy, loving God. To turn to him. And with all of the guilt of the sins upon your soul. And ask him to take it away and accept his offer for salvation and forgiveness by his son's finished work upon the cross. And if you are asking yourself, how do I do that? This is all done simply by faith. By faith in Jesus as your Lord and your Savior. If you do this, you too will be saved. And you too shall not pass away. The world is passing away Look, an appointed day is coming when there won't even be a world. That can dig up McDonald's wrappers or needles in some archaeological dig Let us then look at worldliness with distaste, because of its love for wickedness. But at the same time, have a love for those who are in harm's way. And like our Savior, Look to God to pluck them out of the fire as He did us. Join me in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you that indeed you plucked us out of the fire by your grace and the work of your Son, the Lord Jesus, on the cross. We thank you. Help us, Heavenly Father, to search within our souls, within our lives, and discover where worldliness exists. Help us to be singularly focused upon what you value and not what the world values. Let us find comfort. Let us find satisfaction. Let us find water for our souls more and more in your Son, and not look to things, and be short-sighted. And we ask that you would do this for our good, but more importantly, for your glory. And we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. I'd like to ask the elders who will be assisting with the communion this morning to come down.