I uh I particularly find words and phrases very interesting. Understanding what they mean and where they came from can be very revealing and frankly a very good way to remember some phrases as well. As you know, sometimes context affects meaning and sometimes it uh affects it very profoundly. a person saying it and the way that they say it can affect meaning as well. For instance, well once a a little five-year-old girl took a sheet of brown construction paper and cut out the letter E. uh with her safety scissors. She wrapped it and gave it to her dad for Christmas. When Dad opened up the present, he he looked at it with a smile on his face and a little bit of confusion as well, and he said, What is this? And his daughter replied, What you said you like for Christmas, Daddy, a brown E Similarly, the gospel can have a variety of meanings depending upon who you ask or in what context you use it in. Perhaps you have heard the use of the term the gospel truth. Or perhaps you've heard it in the world of the entertainment industry, you know, the gospel music. But what does the gospel in its most basic form mean? Well, the word gospel has some roots from the Greek language. The word itself may sound very familiar to the one that we use in the English language. It is Ewangelion. Uh that's where we get the word evangel or evangelist, and it's for different cognates. A person who proclaims the proclaims the gospel is called an evangelist. I bet most of you know who the most famous evangelist was in the 20th century. If you guessed Billy Graham, that would be absolutely correct. He is the most well known. In its most simplest terms, the word gospel means good news. That's basically what it means. Therefore, when you hear the gospel, you are hearing good news. If you share the gospel with someone, you are sharing good news. The first thing we want to do today is ask if in the Old Testament the word for gospel had any specific meaning. then look at its application in the New Testament era and see finally how it applies to our lives. Would you please rise now for the reading and hearing of The Holy Scripture, which is from the Book of Galatians this morning, chapter 1, verses 6 through 10. From the book of Galatians, chapter one, verses six through ten. Hear now the word of God I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel. Not that there is another gospel. But there are some who trouble you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one we preach to you, let him be a As we have said before, so now I say again: if anyone is preaching to you a gospel contrary to the one you received, let him be anathema. For am I now seeking the approval of man or of God? Or am I trying to please man? If I were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated as we Pray to the Holy Spirit for his illumination. Join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, we ask that you would be with us now as we continue in our worship of our great trying God. Be with us now as I proclaim the word. We pray that you would help us to see the word, help us to hear the word. Uh not with just mere human ears, but rather with the spiritual ears and eyes that you have given to your people. We pray that we would be strengthened and that we would Repent from our sins and want to be like Christ. Know that we can't do that without your power. And we ask this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. So the first thing we want to ask is if the word Evangelion has a specific biblical meaning, or is it a catch-all word? that was used to convey just news of joyful events. Things like you know inheriting a plot of land that you didn't know about, or receiving wedding invitations. These are all sources of good news. Well, when we look at the Bible's use of the word, we discover that it does have some associations with the type of news that it is delivered. So let's take a look at three examples from the Old Testament to get a better understanding of what it means, this thing called the gospel. The first is from the book of Nahum, the prophet Nahum, chapter one, and verse fifteen, which I will read for us. It reads, Behold, on the mountains the feet of him who brings Good news, who announces peace? So from this passage we can discern that peace is associated with the use of this word. Now the second passage is from Psalm 96 and verse 2, which states, Sing to the Lord, bless his name, proclaim good tidings. That's another way of saying good news. Proclaim good tidings. of what? His salvation from day to day. Now the second example refers to God's salvation. What's implied here is a deliverance from Peril or salvation from certain destruction. The type of destruction or peril is somewhat similar. It's like when a fireman comes to your house when it's on fire and pulls you out of certain peril and destruction. Now in our third passage, I'd like to take a look at Isaiah chapter 52 and verse 7. Now, this passage brings together the concepts of peace and salvation together with an additional third element. It reads, How lovely on the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news, who announces peace. who announces salvation and bringing good news of happiness and says to Zion, Your God reigns. So then, we are to understand that from the Old Testament, the word for good news has the meanings of peace, salvation, and happiness, a joy that we have in God. Now as we move across the sweep of history, from the Old Testament times to the time of Jesus' birth, let's ask exactly how this word gospel was used amongst the Gentiles. Those are the people that were not Jews. So when we look at the pagan Greco-Roman literature of the first century, gospel was actually a technical term used within the context of the Caesar cult. It meant, one, the announcement of a birth or ascension of an emperor, as in the Roman Emperor. Number two, bringing the report of a military victory. And the use of the word alluded to the coming of peace. In a New World Order. An inscription found by archaeologists dated at the year. 9 BC, not in the 9th century B. C. , but in the year 9 B. C. , in Prien on the coast of Asia Minor, conveys this notion quite clearly. It refers to the joyous news of the birth of Augustus Caesar, of whom it states is filled with virtue. would be the world's savior and make wars to cease and bring in universal peace. Now, it should then not be of any surprise when we think about this that the writers of the New Testament use this word Yuan Yelian. It resonated well with both Jew and Gentile to describe not only the message, but the dignity of who Jesus was. In fact, The readers of Mark's account of the Messiah would have understood right away that he was about to read a message that conveyed peace, salvation, and happiness that was delivered by a divine being that would one day bring about a new world order For example, we see that in the Gospel of Mark, chapter 1, and in verse 1, immediately he says, the beginning of the Gospel, Ewangelion, of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. Now that we've had a good working definition, let's have a look at what is the biblical gospel, and what our Apostle Paul says about its exclusivity and its implications. As Paul and his missionaries set sail to the region of Galatia, they visited several cities, and by God's grace, many heard and received the good news of Jesus Christ. However, shortly after he returned to his home, he received news either in person or in writing, certainly not by email. That some disturbing things were going on in the churches in Galatia. He addressed those concerns in this letter. Which, by the way, is believed by many theologians as being the first of the letters of the New Testament. After giving his greetings in verses 1 through 5, Paul wastes no time in expressing his amazement at how quickly some in the Galatian churches were abandoning Christ. The word used for abandon has the connotation of deserting, as in deserting from a military battle. His amazement is not only that they've turned so quickly, but that they've accepted another gospel. Immediately he adds, this other gospel is really not the gospel at all. Now let's take a look at a closer look at this one true gospel that brings peace, salvation, and happiness. Whenever you think of peace, what comes to mind Most often people think of peace as experiencing tranquility, as in relaxing on a hammock. on a perfect day. Perhaps not not having conflict or tension with family members, right? That's when you think about that sometimes. And what that's what comes to mind. But when the Bible talks about peace, it it generally means that that of God reconciling us to himself. Through the death of his son, the Lord Jesus. This peace is very much like a peace between two combatants in warfare, if you will. The peace that bring that God brings about is legally declared peace. It's a pact or an agreement to end hostilities between those Who have been at war because justice has been satisfied. because justice has been satisfied. Paul explains this in Romans chapter 5 and verse 10 when he says While we were God's enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his son. From the beginning, mankind has been dissatisfied with his position. Despite at creation he was given the role of a ruler. He was to exercise dominion over all creatures, but that was not enough. He wanted to be like God. Our first father, Adam's disobedience, plunged mankind into sin and animosity with God. From then on, we've been trying to be like God. Man has been in rebellion against God ever since. The Tower of Babel is a perfect example of how man rejected the name of Yahweh as his God. But wanted instead to build a name for himself. Are you rejecting God today? And instead want to do things your own way. Well, what I mean is, every time you choose to sin Do things the way you want. In essence, you are rejecting God. Because you think you know better And every time you sin, this reflects the hostility that exists that Paul spoke about. The gospel, the good news, is that God has made a way for you to have peace through his son, the Lord Jesus. It's good to know that we have peace. But how does that relate to the second element of salvation? Being delivered from you know, peril, certain peril and certain judgment. Well, having established that mankind is rebellious against God, We have to recognize that God is a God of great holiness and justice. We often think that He is only a God of love, but he is also a holy God, and he is a just God. Modern man's notion of God doesn't normally focus on his being a just God. When you stop and think about it just for a moment, that should bring some great comfort to all mankind because of all the injustices that have been experienced and perhaps you yourself have experienced an injustice. Everyone who has sinned against God's moral laws will have to be punished and pay an eternal price. filled with torment, and frankly no hope of relief. Isn't it good to know that God sees all things and will judge all things in his own time frame? The murderer, the pedophile, the adulterer, the thief will all stand trial before an infinitely angry God Especially all those that didn't get caught in this life. Don't you find that comforting? I find that comforting. At first it does bring a little bit of comfort, but when you really dig deeper into this Uh if we are being honest about this, every one of us falls into the same category of sinner, don't we? The Bible tells us that we all have sinned. So it's not a matter of how bad of a sinner you are. It's that we are all sinners and are deserving of God's wrath. See, the punishment for sin is the same for every human being. It is an eternity in hell. The Bible is clear. God knows your sin. God sees your sin. And God is not happy. And you and I will be punished for our sins for an eternity. The fact of the matter is that you and I, as a finite man, or woman can never pay off the debt that we have to an infinite God You see, you can never satisfy his righteous anger. An infinite being has to take your place. An infinite being has to take upon himself the punishment that you and I deserve. One who can satisfy, propitiate the anger of God. And Jesus did that on the cross. He was the substitute who said, I Will stand in his place. I will stand in her place. And that's the good news of being saved from peril and disaster. In eternity in hell. I don't know about you, but it's getting to be more and more good news as I go along here. Jesus Christ, the perfect God man, received upon himself. at the cross the punishment that you deserve. He has made a way for people to be delivered from peril and judgment of their sins. Paul tells us that we've been delivered from the wrath of God in Romans chapter 5, verses 8 and 9. I'll read that for us. But God demonstrates his own love. Towards us, in that while yet we were sinners, Christ died for us, having now been justified By his blood. We shall be saved from, here it is, the wrath of God through him being Jesus. That's wonderful news. The good news of salvation is that the penalty of our sins has been paid by Christ on the cross. He has saved us from the wrath of God. We now have peace through salvation in Christ. Now the third aspect, happiness, flows through this, living with the knowledge that God loves us and has made peace with us through the sacrifice of Christ on the cross. This should only lead us to a life of gratitude and happiness, knowing that Jesus loved us so much that he stood in our place. You know, one of the motivating reasons for being here every Sunday to worship God is happiness. The joy that comes from what God has done for me, what God has done for you, what Jesus has done for us. And what the Holy Spirit reminds us is this great joy whenever He brings the gospel to our minds. We're here because we're happy to be here. Do you lead a life that is filled with peace? Do you lead a life that is filled with salvation? Do you lead a life that is filled with joy and happiness? Have you accepted the free offer of God's salvation and forgiving you of your sins through Christ? Now, if you're wondering how much this costs, or what you must do to receive it, Have I got some gospel for you? You don't have to do listen up, you don't have to do anything In fact, you can't do anything. All you have to do is trust Jesus by faith as your Savior. Jesus will accept you just as you are. You don't have to clean yourself up. Nor do you have to do good works to be saved. Accept Jesus as your Lord and your Savior and enter into the peace and salvation and the joy. And you could live in the happiness knowing that you don't have to spend an eternity in hell, but instead with Jesus. Now that is good news. Anything less than knowing and believing that Jesus did it all for us on the cross, frankly, is not good news. That would not be good news because it would be distorting the truth. And that is what Paul has to deal with. People were distorting the truth of the gospel. You'll see in verse 7 Paul has to deal with those that are offering some counterfeit, counterfeit gospel, a fake gospel. He calls these people disturbers. The word disturber here has the association of someone who stirs any body of water that is still and at peace. These people are coming and stirring up dissent and trouble. They're disturbing the peace within the church with false doctrines of salvation. Throughout its history, the church has had to deal with false gospels. Some are created from within the church and some are created from outside the church. These false gospels are always wrapped up in fancy packaging. These false gospels will always appeal to that fancy packaging called pride. And sometimes these false gospels are smuggled into the church in very unseen ways. Phil Riken, who is the president of Wheaton College and former senior pastor of 10th Presbyterian Church nearby in Philadelphia. List some of the false gospels in the modern church when he writes the following. There is the gospel of material prosperity. Which teaches that Jesus is the way to financial gain. There's the gospel of family values, which teaches that Jesus is the way to a happy home. There is the gospel of the self, which teaches that Jesus is the way to personal fulfillment. There is the gospel of religious tradition, which teaches that Jesus is the way to respectability. There is the gospel of morality, which teaches that Jesus is the way to be a good person. All these other gospels have appeal in themselves because they offer things that, frankly, are beneficial. Yes, it's good to be prosperous. Have a happy home and have a good reputation in the community. But none of these things is the good news. It's all about doing the right things. When these things become for us or replace the gospel, Then we're in danger of turning away from the true gospel. In Galatia, the distorters, we're bringing in a false gospel that burdened the members with works. You see, they were saying that you have to believe in Jesus and at the same time maintain mosaic rituals that are no longer applied. What were some of these? Feast days, like Passover, circumcision, and certain dietary restrictions. These disturbers advocated faith in Jesus and some sort of works to obtain, to achieve. or maintain salvation. It's no different today. The gospel of man, as opposed to the gospel of God, always relies upon man's own abilities. Perhaps mixed up with Jesus to get into heaven. Are there any other gospels that are acceptable to God? What does our authority, the Apostle Paul, say about this? Paul really does not does make it clear that there simply is no other gospel. In fact, Paul proclaims that anyone who delivers any gospel that is not the true gospel is anathemized. That's not a word, that's another word. We got a lot of words today that's not used every day. That word means cursed. To proclaim a curse, as in this context, has Hebraic Old Testament origins. To be placed under a curse in the Old Testament was to be excommunicated from the covenant community. As long as a person was in the covenant community, He would be exposed to the grace of God. But to be anatomized was to be the equivalent of saying you're under the curse or the wrath of God. Which means you're not part of the community, the visible community of God. Paul teaches us. There's only one gospel. There is only one true gospel that offers peace, salvation, and happiness. Anything else is anathema. It's cursed. It's to be cursed. What is your gospel? So let me ask you that question. Now that we've understood what gospel means, and specifically the Christian context, let us now examine, self-examine, what is the nature of your gospel. It is said that much of what you believe is revealed in the way that you carry your life. In other words, actions speak louder than words. What would you say your actions and words reveal about what's in your heart as it relates to the gospel itself? Now there's three things that Paul brings out here. See, these men who had come into the midst of the Galatian churches evidently held some sway with the people. In order for them to offer another or modified gospel from the one true gospel that Paul gave them, they no doubt had to attack Paul's authority as an apostle as well as his character. From the book of Galatians itself, we can pretty much surmise that these disturbers were introducing, or shall I say, reintroducing the requirements of the Mosaic Law as part of what was needed in order to be saved. These men were in their zeal to defend the traditions of Judaism compromising God's plan of salvation. They were God compromisers These God compromisers must have been going from one city to another in the Galatian region, telling the new converts, both Jew and Gentile, that Paul himself was a They would have said something like this. In his deal to get converts, Paul did not give you the gospel of Jesus Christ in its entirety. He was more interested in building new churches, increasing the membership roles in order to look good. He wanted, he watered down the gospel in order to elevate his reputation. We, they would have continued, on the other hand, are not men pleasers. So then, if you truly want to be saved, you need to believe in Jesus, the Messiah, and in addition, submit yourselves to the following. And then they would have given a list of things that would have just stolen the gospel right from you. These disturbers who really compromise the gospel would have gained much popularity, respect. and authority, meanwhile calling calling Paul a man pleaser. The reason for the popularity of their message Then, as it is today, was because it introduced an element of that fancy packaging, pride. Man wants to earn his way. He wants to achieve his salvation, but he never can. For if that was so, the cross would have never been necessary. God pouring out his wrath upon Jesus at the cross would have never needed to occur. But is this true? Was Paul a man pleaser? Did he in fact hold back from telling the entire truth, quote unquote? Was he fearful of being rejected by the people of Galatia? Was he concerned that his friends back at his home church were going to think less of him because his missionary efforts bore no fruit? Did he not give them the full gospel because he was afraid? The culture would think him offensive? That he didn't teach popular ideas of the time, or he opposed those popular ideas? Did he hold back because he felt that if he did speak of hell, people would be turned off. Was he fearful of man and wanted to please them? If Paul were alive today, bodily, and he was asked To talk about his latest book on the talk shows, Nud the Circuit. And if he was asked the following question Paul, do you believe that if a person doesn't believe in Jesus Christ, he will go to hell when he dies? Do you think he would have answered something like, oh, I don't know? Was Paul a man pleaser? I don't think so. Why Because he just did what? He anathemized, that is, cursed those popular disturbers who were preaching a false gospel. After he pronounces a curse, he asks in our last verse today, and there's a little bit of sarcasm here, for am I now seeking the favor of men or God? After he cursed them. The point is, if I'm still supposedly seeking to please men, why didn't I just capitulate? Why didn't I just surrender and agree with them to change my gospel? So whose favor is Paul seeking? He's asking the very same question. We Christians are more and more in our society placed in situations that demand that we compromise our beliefs. The religious environment today demands that we not claim exclusivity for salvation. Despite what Jesus personally said about Him being the only way. This society does not like to use the word sin. They prefer terms like character flaw. The notion of hell is an archaic place for punishment that would in their minds be unfathomable thing for their conception of God That's the problem, isn't it? It's their conception of God, not God revealing himself in the Bible. You, Christian, are faced with many opportunities to compromise or be a man pleaser. Christian, to deny the exclusivity of Christ is to give false hope that is not kind Compassionate, loving, nor safe Christian. To ignore the proclamation of hell as an eternal place for the punishment of sin is to emasculate the cross. Think about it. No sin, no hell, no need for Jesus. Are you a man pleaser? Oswald Chambers, who was a Scottish evangelist in the early part of the 20th century, said the following. The remarkable thing about fearing God is that when you fear God, you fear nothing else. Whereas, if you do not fear God, you fear everything else. For Paul, there is a presupposition for being a man-fearer. You see, if if you're a man-fearer, you will ultimately compromise your faith in God in order to be accepted by man. However, the presupposition for being a man fearer is that you will not be a God fearer. Many a person does not proclaim the gospel because they are afraid of offending someone, being ridiculed. or ostracized. They're man-fearers. They prefer to fear man more than God. Paul makes it clear if he was a man-pleaser and went along with what the disturbers taught, it would come at the cost of not being a servant of Christ. The one whom he came to reveal. Whom you fear will reveal in whom you have hope. Whom you fear will have an impact on whom you proclaim. You see, to be a God pleaser, by necessity, makes you A Jesus revealer. It makes you a Jesus revealer. Are you a gospel or God compromiser? A man pleaser Or a Jesus revealer. May we always be a Jesus revealer. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, indeed we ask that you would make that sure. Grant us grace, grant us strength to trust you and you alone, in what your son did upon the cross. so that we may have salvation, so that we may have the joy and the privilege Of being in your bosom, your arms around us, caring for us, protecting us, loving us The way that only you can. Grant us grace to trust you and your ways. We know we can't do that. without your power. So we pray that you would help us to see the gospel as it truly is. And if there are any here today that have not given themselves unto you, that they would do that even now by faith and faith alone. that they may have this peace and salvation and joy of knowing you through your son's work on the cross. That you are no longer angry with them, that their sins are forgiven, that they have of hope for a wonderful future, an eternal future. Of joy and bliss of being in your very presence. And we pray this