2 Thessalonians 2. 15, before we word the read the word of God, says this. So then, brothers, stand firm and hold to the traditions that you were taught by us. either by our spoken word or by our letter. As we come to God's word tonight, I uh was first just wanted to tell you a story of I was watching television one day and saw a weatherman and he quoted this. He said, red sky at night. Sailors delight. Red sky in morning. Sailors take warning. In doing so, the meteorologists demonstrated how God has made this world in such a way that you're able to observe patterns around you and make some conclusions about what is happening and what is going to happen. That's not new. Jesus said the same thing 2,000 years ago in Matthew 16, verses 2 and 3. When it's evening, you say, it will be fair weather, for the sky is red. And in the morning it will be stormy today, for the sky is red and threatening, and you know how to interpret the appearance of the sky. That's true of things that God has created in this world, patterns of how this world works, but it's not true. As you and I look at the circumstances that you and I face in life, we can't read them in the same way. And we tend to read the circumstances around us not by facts. but by our feelings. Interpreting the situations you face in life through the lens of your feelings, instead of interpreting them by faith in the truth of God's word you can lee can leave you overwhelmed and without hope. Recently, in our morning worship services, our pastor has been regularly reminding us of the great truths from God's Word. that the apostle Paul wrote to the church in Corinth. 2 Corinthians 4. It says, for this light, momentary affliction is preparing us for an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison, as we look not at the things that are seen, but to things that are unseen For things that are unseen are transient, but things that are unseen are eternal. And in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, we walk by faith and not by sight. But for you as a Christian, a believer, hearing and even knowing these precious promises is one thing. But to live by them is another, especially when you and I face hard and even heartbreaking circumstances. Especially when they're piled one upon another. And you feel yourself being crushed under the heavy weight of their load. Thankfully, you and I can rejoice that God has recorded how many of our brothers and sisters in the faith from previous ages have dealt with similar struggles. During the times when they believed there was no hope in the future. It had all been squeezed out of them. My prayer for tonight has been for you not only to consider the depths of your particular trials and temptations you might have today or might even face in the future. but also be encouraged to see and believe God is at work in them for his glory and your good. I'm going to attempt tonight to do just that by taking a specific look at Jacob, one of the patriarchs of our faith, right? Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. They must have been great. They must have had a faith that never wavered. Well, that's not true They are made of the same stuff that you and I are. And tonight we're going to look how God brought Jacob a sinner like you to such an important place of prominence. Before we look at the specific circumstance of tonight, I just need to remind you a little bit about Jacob's faith And the life of Jacob. He was born, you might remember, to Rebekah and Isaac, when Isaac was sixty years old. And there were two children within her, Jacob and Esau. And as Esau is being born first, Jacob is grabbing his heel. He's called the surplanter. Now most of us don't use that word surplanter, do we? Any of you use it this week? I've heard of planter fasciitis with your feet. I've had planter's peanuts, but Sirplanter, I don't know what that is. And literally, you can say he was a heel grabber. one who trips up and takes that which belongs to another. Now do you understand it? The Bible says that you and I are all little Jacobs. James, the brother of Jesus, wrote and says, What causes problems among you Do you remember what he says? It's because you want it and can't have it. You're grabbing the other person's stuff. You're grabbing their heel. You want their blessing. And so we're not just looking at Jacob tonight. When we look at Jacob this evening, we're looking at sinners like ourselves who need the same help. The same redemption, the same salvation that Jacob needed. Jacob proved that his name fit him like a glove. When Jacob, his brother was out, Esau was out hunting. Jacob knew that his brother was a man of passions. He wanted his birthright, and he said, he's going to come home hungry, and if I make some lentil stew. He's gonna want it and I can bargain or steal his birthright. And that's what exactly what he did. He came in and took all of his birthright, the blessing from him from a little pot of stew. He knew the way of his brother. And he didn't get it in any godly way, but he manipulated his brother for what he wanted. Now, none of us know about manipulation, do we? With a husband or a wife or children or do with our parents? No, it's part of us. We understand what Jacob was going through here. And then Jacob connives with his mother of all people to be a hill grabber and get the blessing that Esau deserved. And he f dressed himself like with sheep skins that were hairy so he could feel like his brother. He rubbed himself with dirt so he could smell like his brother. And he came in and talked to his father. And he s and his father said, That doesn't sound like Esau, are you sure? And Jacob says, oh yes, I'm Esau. And he stole the blessing from his brother. He was a heel grabber. He wanted what he wanted, and he was going to get it Conniving even with his own mother to get it. Jacob proves that indeed he was a heel grabber, one who trips up and takes that Which belongs to another. But thankfully, God didn't weave him in that state. God takes sinners, heel grabbers, like you and me who love ourselves. We want what we want, and we want it now. And he changes us. So God grabbed a hold of Jacob and he wrestled with him all night. And after that wrestling, as Jacob held on to God and saw him face to face, God showed Jacob who he was and left him weak with a limp. From being in touch with God. God chose him and wrestles with him. You know that story. James Montgomery Boyce says of what happens there, he says this, at the beginning it's not Jacob who seeks God to wrestle with him Rather, it's God who comes to wrestle with Jacob to bring him to a point of both physical and spiritual submission. A. W. Pink says it this way. Jacob was not wrestling with this man to obtain a blessing. Instead, the man We believe Theophany, Jesus Christ, the angel of the Lord, was wrestling with Jacob to gain some object from him. As to what this object is, the best of commentators agreed. It was to reduce Jacob to a sense of nothingness, to cause him to see what a poor, helpless, and worthless creature it was. It was to teach us through him the all-important lesson that is recognize weakness lies, in our weakness lies our strength. And that's where we are as heel grabbers. The only thing that changes us, and he gave him a new name of Israel, a Prince of God. The only thing that changes us as a prince of God is when God wounds us. And shows us our sin and gives us a limp. He shows us our own weakness and frailty and gives us new names in Christ. We're now Christian, sons and daughters of Christ Jesus, the Father, Heavenly Father, and dwelt by His Spirit. And so we, like him, had to be subdued. We didn't come wanting to be with God. God came to us and grabbed a hold of us God, as it says in Revelation 3. 20, you've heard that voice used as I knock on the door. If you look at that, he's talking to the church. God speaks to the church in that way, but to unchristians, he doesn't knock on our doors. He breaks them down. Because before we're dead in Christ, we don't want God in our lives. There's no gentle knocking. Please, may I come in? No, he breaks the door down so that he would have a relationship with us. Now tonight we're going to find Jacob the hill grabber with a new name, Israel, Prince of Egypt. I mean excuse me, Prince of God. Now as a man with a new name, Israel, and with a new heart, a man of faith. Like you, at times in his life, Jacob finds himself facing overwhelming circumstances that leave him without any observable hope. Let me read that again because God has placed the story in here when we don't have any hope that we could look back to Jacob and see what God does with his people when they don't have hope and what's going on. God has recorded that here, not just as a story long ago far away, but for you and me when we're overwhelmed. Now, as a man with a new name, Israel, and with a new heart, a man of faith, like you at times in your life, Jacob finds himself facing overwhelming circumstances that leave him without any observable hope. Now I'm going to be looking tonight at one verse in chapter 42 of Genesis. Where we find Jacob in this situation. I'm going to read the whole chapter. I'm not going to make you stand for the whole chapter. When it comes to the last few verses, I'll have you stand so you don't have to stand the whole time We will still respect the Word of God, but I don't want any of you falling over. I get to hold on to a pulpit. You don't. So let me pray and I'll read from Genesis 42. Our Father and God, we rejoice in your precious word to us. How you didn't just give us theology, though we need it to know who you are and what you've done. But you've given us real lives of real people, sinners whom you redeemed, and yet this side of heaven still struggle to live by faith instead of sight. Lord, we can touch and feel and see these things going on around us, and they affect us so greatly. Would you encourage all of your saints for those times? when we fail to read the signs and understand them because we're looking at them from the ways of the world, earthly ways. rather than from heaven and your ways. Give us grace to see these things and open your word. Tonight we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Chapter 42 of Genesis. When Jacob learned that there was grain for sale in Egypt because of the famine. He said to his sons, Why do you look at one another? And he said, Behold, I've heard that there's grain for sale in Egypt. Go down and buy for us there that we may live and not die. So ten of Joseph's brothers went down to buy grain in Egypt. But Jacob did not send Benjamin, Joseph's brothers, with his brothers, for he feared that harm might happen to him. Thus the sons of Israel came to buy and among the others who came for the famine that was in the land of Canaan. Now Joseph was the governor over the land, he was the one who sold to all the people the land. And Joseph's brothers came and bowed down themselves before him, with their faces to the ground. And Joseph saw his brothers and recognized them, but he treated them like they were strangers, and spoke roughly to them. Where do you come from? He said. They said, from the land of Canaan to buy food. And Joseph recognized his brothers, but they did not recognize him. And Joseph remembered the dreams that he dreamed of them, and he said to them, You are spies and have come to see the nakedness of the land. And they said to him, No, my lord, your servants have come to buy food. We're all sons of one man. We're honest men. Your servants have never been spies. He said to them, No, it's the nakedness of the land that you've come to see. And they said, We, your servants, are twelve brothers, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan, and behold, the youngest to this day with our father. and no and one is no more. But Joseph said to them, It is as I said to you, you are spies. By this ye shall be tested by the life of Pharaoh. You shall not go from this place unless your youngest brother comes here. Send one of you, and let him bring your brother while you remain confined, that your words may be tested whether there's truth in you, or else by the life of Pharaoh, surely you are spies. And he put all of them together in custody for three days. On the third day Joseph said to them, Do this and you will live, for I fear God. If you are honest men, let one of your brothers remain confined where you are in custody, and go and let the rest go and carry the grain for the famine of your households, and bring your youngest brother to me. So your words will be verified, and you shall not die. And they did so. Then they said to one another, In truth, we are guilty concerning our brother, and that we saw the distress of his soul when he begged us, and did we did not listen. That is why this distress has come upon us. And Reuben answered them, Did I not tell you not to sin against this boy? But you did not listen. So now there comes a reckoning for his blood. They did not know that Joseph understood them, for there was an interpreter between them. Then he turned away from them and wept. And he returned to them and he spoke to them, and he took Simeon from them and bound him before their eyes. And Joseph gave orders to fill their bags with grain, and to replace every man's money in his sack, and to give them provisions For the journey this was done for them. Then they loaded their donkeys with their grain and departed, and as one of them opened his sack to give his donkey fodder at the lodging place, he saw his money in the mouth of the sack. He said to his brothers, My money has been put back. Here it is in the mouth of the sack. As their hearts failed them, and they turned trembling to one another, saying, What is this that God has done to us? When they came to Jacob, their father, in the land of Canaan, they told him all that had happened to them, saying, That man, the Lord of the land, spoke roughly to us. and took us as spies in the land. But we said to him, We are honest men. We have never been spies. We are twelve brothers, sons of one f one fa our father. One is no more, and the youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan. Then the man, the Lord of the land, said unto us, By this you shall know your honest men. Leave one of your brothers with me and take grain for the famine of your households. and go your way. Bring your youngest brother to me. Then I shall know that you're not surprised, but honest men, and I will deliver your brother to you, and you shall trade in the land. And now let us stand. As I read verses thirty-five to the end. As they emptied their sacks, behold, every man's bundle of money was in his sack. And when they and their fathers saw their bundles of money, they were afraid. And Jacob, their father, said to them, You've bereaved me of my children. Joseph is no more, and Simeon is no more. And now you would take Benjamin. All this has come against me. Then Reuben said to his father, Kill my two sons if I do not bring him back to you. Put him in my hands, and I will bring him back to you. But he said, My son shall not go down with you, for his brother is dead, and he's the only one left If harm should come to him on the journey that you were to make, you would bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to Sheol. Thus the word of the Lord. Please be seated. Did you see The words of Jacob, one who is born again, one who's been given a new name, been made new, as he wrestled with God and was made his son now a prince of Israel. He saw and what he heard, the only thing he could say is everything is against me. All this is against me. Have you ever been that way in your life? The circumstances and the difficulties mount up and you find it hard to walk by faith But instead you look with your own sight at these things and they say there's no way out. Oh, this is against me. It may happen once, and for some it may happen many times. But what we're going to see tonight, even through Jacob, is this is something that happens to the people of God. Our temptation is to look at the circumstances around us. We don't understand exactly how we have gotten there or how we get up. And we can't believe God that he could work through it. And so our only thing is to say, all this is against me. Everything is against me. There is no hope and no way out. All this has come against me. Brothers and sisters, I don't know if you have ever been there, but I have. At difficult times in my life. I don't think God is big enough to handle the situation. The situation has become so big it's like a giant and I'm like Israel with Goliath. And all I can see is his taunting and hear the words of the world that says, where is your God now? Matthew Henry helps us here. He says this, it proved otherwise that all these were for him. We're working together for his good and the good of his family. Yet here he thinks they're all against him. Through our ignorance and mistake and our weakness of our faith, we often apprehend that to be against us, which is really for us. We are afflicted in body, estate, maybe our name or family relationships, and we think all of these things are against us. Whereas these are really working for us the weight of glory. Because what do we know if we continue in the story? We find out that the one who is the prime minister of Egypt is their brother. And he is waiting to have his brother come back because he wants to give him a double portion. He wants to bless the family and give them all that they need. But the only thing they could see, not looking to God, but by living by their feelings, walking by sight, and not by faith, is that everything is against me. Charles Spurgeon helps us when he says this. In Jacob's case, it's a very plausible verdict that all has come against me. Yet plausible as the old man's mournful conclusion was, it was he saw around him and it made sense. We're in a famine. The guy we went to ask for food is not nice. He's held my sons, and now he wants my youngest, the one I love the most. This is gonna kill me. There's no way through this. It was plausible. But it was not correct. And hence, let us learn to avoid rash judgment, and never in any case conclude against the faithfulness of the Lord. Indeed, sitting alone, silent in your sorrow, crushed out of all hope, you claim the unhappy right to declare, all these things are against me. Have you said that? Have you thought it? As a devil whispered in your ear, Where is your God? Have you heard from the world, if you belong to Jesus, you must be blessed, or maybe from some false happiness preacher that says, come to Jesus and everything will be okay? That's not true. And yet, beloved, remember that it is not so, that there's never a time if you're in Christ that everything is against you Our notation of our trials is very apt to present them in exaggerated number, but when we come to count our mercies, as a usual rule, our tendency is to diminish them. You get what he says? We take our problems and we multiply them out like there was only three problems, but he multiplied it and said everything. Instead of looking back to the blessing of God taking the heel grabber and making him a prince of Egypt. Yet in reality nothing could be farther from the truth. Joseph was not only not dead, but he'd become the Prime Minister of Egypt, appointed by God for the salvation of their lives in this famine. Simeon was well cared for and protected by Joseph, and Joseph was seeking Benjamin to give him a double portion. And to bring Jacob and his family to safety in Egypt. The exact opposite was true God working all things together for good for those whom he called unto himself and he loves through Jesus Christ. When Jacob and you interpret your difficult circumstances by sight and not by faith, you're not alone. Because God has also recorded for you many other saints who did the same in the midst of their trials. Well take a minute just to look to two and two who are listed in the roll call of faith in Hebrews 11. Who found themselves practically saying the same thing. Everything is against me. And it happens every time that we look at the circumstances and live by our feelings. rather than the promises of God. Moses, who by faith chose to live with the persecuted Israelites rather than to be a prince of Egypt. But we find Moses living by sight and not by faith when he was leading the rebellious Israelites in the wilderness. In Numbers 11, 15, Moses says, I cannot carry all these people by myself. The burden is too heavy for me. If this is how you intend to treat me, just go ahead and kill me. Do me a favor and spare me this misery. One of the roll call of faith. Made of the same stuff that you and I are made of. And when he walks by sight and not by faith, he wants to die. Elijah the prophet. And it lists the prophets in Hebrew 11 who by faith stand stood against the world. And we remember that Elijah the prophet stood against the 400 prophets of Baal and Mount Carmel and defeated them all. And yet the very next day when he finds that Queen Jezebel is after his life He lives by sight instead of faith. And in 1 Kings 19, 14 says, I've had enough, Lord, he said. Take my life. I'm no better than my ancestors. Two. Listed in the roll call of faith Finding themselves under the pressures and difficulties of life when they live by sight and not by faith, overwhelmed and crushed and ready to give up. You might even be saying tonight, I feel like that because my trial has gone on And on and on. You know the promises, but you feel different. May I encourage you, if that's you, or if you have been there, and we could be there easily again. To remember to walk by faith instead of sight. One of the wondrous things we get to see in this scripture in Genesis chapter 48 Let's go there. We'll look at two verses. Genesis forty eight, verses fifteen and sixteen. And at the end of his life As Jacob has been reunited to Joseph, he will bless him and his children. It says this. And he, Jacob, blessed Joseph and said, The God before whom my fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Isaac walked, the God who has What did he learn, who has been my shepherd all my lifelong to this day? You see, he believed that God was leaving him through the green pastures and the quiet waters, but also through the valley of the shadow of death. And he could begin to trust his God and now walk with him and say that he is the one who has shepherd me all the days of my life, and the angel who has redeemed me from all evil. Bless the boys, and in them let my name be carried on in the name of my fathers, Abraham and Isaac, and let them grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth. Guess what? This very one, this heel grabber, whose name was changed, he became a prince of God. but who found himself living by sight and not by faith, overwhelmed with no hope, saying, everything is against me. is listed in Hebrews 11. In the roll call of faith. Because he went back and understood that God is his shepherd and leading him through all those circumstances. So in his Hebrews 11, 21 it says this, by faith Jacob, when dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph. Bowing in worship over the head of his staff. He worshiped the one who brought all of those crushing circumstances. where he had no hope on his own unless he looked to his God During World War II, Corey Tenboom and most of her family were sent to the Ravensbrook concentration camp of the Nazis where Most of her family were killed for hiding the Jews. She's the only one from her immediate family who survived the death camp. Which was enough to crush the faith of many. And to explain the truth of God's good work in our lives when everything seems to be against you, she would take out a tapestry out of the bag she carried with her. That she had worked on after her release. She would show you the back of the tapestry. It was a mess of knots. You could get some picture of what might be there, but there were loose strings and knots, and you looked at it and you couldn't make it out, and actually it was kind of ugly And she was saying that's how we see life at times, looking up to heaven. We see the knots and the trials and the difficulties of life, and we can't make out what God is doing, and we think that everything is against Us. And then she would recite this poem to those who would listen. My life is but a weaving between my God and me. I cannot choose the colors. He weaveth steadily. Oft times he weaveth sorrow, and I in foolish pride forget he sees the upper. And I, the underside, not till the loom is silent and the shuttle cease to fly, will God unroll the canvas and reveal the reason why? The dark threads are as needful in the weaver's skillful hand as the thread of gold and silver in his pattern he has planned. He knows, he loves, he cares. Nothing this truth condemn. He gives the very best to those who leave the choice to him. And then she would turn over the tapestry, and you would see in black and blue velvet a beautiful golden crown of life that is given to the believers. And a promise of heaven. And she says, God, who is working his plan, is working that he would conform us to Christ. But as we look at, we see the knots and the strings and we wonder, can he really do it? And yet he always does. Even as he took Jacob the heel grabber who would steal what he wanted to get it and make him a prince of Egypt, one who learned not to live by sight, but by faith. And know that he had a shepherd who was bringing him not only to the green grass and the still waters, but also even through the valley of the shadow of death. That he need not fear evil, because the shepherd had died for him. Beloved, may you be encouraged. May you keep this spot marked in your Bible when you would say, All these things are against me. And know that in Christ they are for you. As God confirms and conforms you even to his beloved son Jesus. Amen. Father, I confess how much I am like Jacob still. And how quickly I can forget or turn from your precious and true promises and live by my feelings and be overwhelmed by the circumstances around us. We thank you so much that you don't just say, buck up, kids. But you've given us example of example after the word of God of our brothers and sisters who are even listed in the roll call of faith. Because you understand that we're but made of dust and you love us. Would you encourage each and every one of your saints tonight that we might be ones who believe and trust you, looking to Christ. That you indeed work all things together for good, and when it even seems that everything is against us, to know and believe that they're for us in Christ Jesus, our Lord and Savior. Amen.