I think most of you know about my upbringing, uh uh where I was born and and And uh where I grew up and my nationality. But for the benefit of those who don't know, I think uh uh maybe you've heard in the past, or maybe not, uh, that I was born in Egypt. And I uh my nationality is Armenian. Uh my grandparents were born um all in Turkey and um and of course I grew up here in America. And I remember when I was uh uh little boy and I was going to school. I had friends who um at some point, I don't remember what age it was, but I was relatively young. They asked me, What are you? And uh I thought that was an odd question at first and I had to really think about it because I'd never thought about it. Was I uh was in a was I an Egyptian American? Uh was a was I an American Egyptian? Was I an A Armenian American? Or was I an Armenian Egyptian that lived in America? And um so I was kinda a little bit confused about, you know, exactly how to answer that question at first. You know, sometimes I I think to myself too, like uh after m uh my wife and had or all our kids, if we had ended up moving to Armenia uh of which I've never been to um or lived or anything of that nature. If if what would my kids an how would my kids answer that question I'm Armenian American, am I American Armenian? As well as their mother's nationality as too. Sometimes it can be very, very confusing. But really the question that was asked was, what do you identify? yourself as? How do you identify yourself? And um today as we uh enter into a new study, I think one of the uh important questions that we as Christians always have uh are struggling with and we really do need to answer um is how do we identify ourselves? uh exactly what do you call where do you call home And I think Peter really wants us to grapple with this reality, grapple with this question. You know, where is your citizenship? What is your citizenship? And exactly, if you understand biblically where your citizenship is, well then how does that impact your day-to-day uh behaviors? How does this impact the way that you lead your life? How does this impact the decisions that you make? Because it's very important uh where we anchor our identity. And so I think that as we um look at the first verse of the first chapter of the first epistle, of Peter, we we see that immediately uh he identifies uh for the reader who the author is, right? He says that he is Peter, the apostle of of Jesus, the the uh also known as Simon Peter, if some of you recall. And as is typical in the age and style, he begins his correspondence by identifying himself to whom it is that he's writing, and finally a greeting that he gives. Now we're not going to be doing a deep dive In all of these elements this morning. But we will be focused upon in a very general way to whom it is that he is writing What is their status and how that ultimately relates to each of us? Would you please rise now for the reading of God's Word as we'll be going through 1 Peter chapter 1 and verse 1? Hear now the Word of God. Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who are elect exiles of the dispersion. In Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia. This is the Word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer as we ask God to illumine our minds to his word. Holy Spirit, be with us now as we consider your word. Open our minds and our understanding to the spiritual truths of the word so that we may see Jesus. So that we may be better able to understand the gospel in our lives this day. We ask this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. Peter addresses his readers as God's elect. This term had always been associated with those whom God had chosen unto salvation. But in the past, it had been connected with an ethnic association of the Jewish people. However, he now addresses the elect of God, which now encompasses not only ethnic Jews, but also the Gentiles. In the new covenant era, the new Israel, the elect of God, is made up of both Jews and Gentiles, as Galatians 6, 15 and 16 makes that very clear It really is a term to be used for those who are or will be, by faith, have fellowship and communion with God. He calls the church the elect. Aliens in this world. Now you'll notice that the word that the ESV has chosen is exile. However, many scholars and translation committees have chosen a more literal word. Alien, stranger, or as Jung's literal translation, the YLT, has it, sojourner for which I believe is the most accurate translation. The Greek word for aliens is parapedamos Lewinida's Greek lexicon defines it as a stranger or a foreigner. This foreigner is a person who for a period of time lives in a place which is not his normal residence. Exile, I think, has associated with its meaning, but a person is banish from the presence of or from their homeland. This would be an appropriate word to use for the remnant of Israel that went into captivity being banished from Jerusalem. Due to the cross and reconciliation we have with God, we are no longer an exile to God. We are citizens in the kingdom of God embraced by God. To give a little more color to what I mean by being exiled by God, let's take a big picture view and also discuss sojourning. So what is sojourning? In the creation account in Genesis, we are furnished with the history of man in his residence in the Garden of Eden Having fellowship and residing in peace with his Creator God. With the fall, man is exiled from God's presence and his residence Man is sent out into a foreign land. The balance of scripture depicts God acting in history to redeem a people from Himself and provide them a land in which they can call their permanent eternal home. A place wherein which they will not consider themselves strangers, foreigners, aliens. and sojourners. As God begins in the book of Genesis to work out and reveal his plan to redeem man and give him a home, he calls out Abraham. and makes a pledge to him and his seed to be his God and provide him a land which he can call his own, a place where he can rest and have fellowship and worship God. The patriarchs of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and Joseph and his brothers were typical of what it meant to be a sojourner living in another land. It seems that this alien status was Israel's lot. But at this point in history, it was evident that there were indeed two families, two peoples in the world. The first was that of God's people, Israel. And the second was that of sinful, unredeemed men. The children of evil, as Jesus calls them in John chapter 8, the children of Satan. At the cross, man's estrangement from God was reversed. The cross work of Christ made it possible for man to have relationship with God again. This resolved his estrangement from God. But what about the first problem of not having a permanent land or a place to have fellowship with God? How are we to understand this? Well, by use of the Noaic flood, God foreshadowed his plans by revealing to us That he will ultimately judge this world and create a new heavens and a new earth that would be the lasting and permanent land or home for his chosen redeemed people. Well, we know that it didn't happen since Noah's generation because Christ hadn't come yet to do the work of redemption. But now that Christ has come, it's only a matter of time when God will do away with this planet and the heavens and create or recreate a new one Wherein which we, his redeemed people, will finally return to paradise, to a place where we will no longer be sojourners. As we study through the corpus of Peter's writings, he will return to these themes over and over again. The question that is asked repeatedly by Christians over the generations is: Are we home yet? Is this our home? Well, in some sense, we can say that we are home, in that we've been redeemed by Christ But not yet, in the sense that the new heavens and the new earth have not been created yet. So there is an already and not yet aspect to this question. As it relates to the not yet part, then the next question is: how are we to treat the countries or the lands that we as Christians live in? How are we to live in them? Are we to anchor our hopes and our futures in this world? Are we to live our lives and decorate our homes and communities as if there is if this is where we shall reside for the rest of eternity? More importantly, the real question is: should we buy into the world's way of thinking and living? Well, this is a nuanced question, and the answer needs to be nuanced as well. But I think given the broad teaching of Scripture, and especially when we consider eschatology, the study of the end time, We have to answer that with a no. Why? And the shortest way I can answer this is because we are awaiting for Jesus to return. and create our new physical and final home when our sojourning will end. Then we must conclude that, like our father Abraham, we are still sojourners on this planet. And we have to see ourselves that way. I know that this is a difficult thing to consider, to wrap your heads around, if you haven't moved or have been uprooted in your life. Yes, we as modern-day Israel, the people of God, all those who are both Jew and Gentile together, bound by faith in Christ. As brothers and sisters, we are still sojourning, awaiting the second advent of the Anointed One, the Lord Jesus What then, as sojourners, should we expect to experience as we live in this world? What then should we as sojourners expect to experience as we live in this world? Well, as children of God and members of the church, we live in a way that reflects our Heavenly Father. To be sure, the world possesses moral behavior that overlaps with our ethics. Sometimes more, sometimes less. Depending upon where you live, sometimes more, sometimes less. Just like we reflect our Heavenly Father, they also have ethics that reflect their Heavenly Father And as a consequence, there will always be friction that exists between both peoples. As Christians, what should we expect from the world? There are really Three things I want to focus upon today. The first is an invitation to compromise our faith and to be like them. An invitation to compromise our faith and to be like them. If God's law does not suit the world, or they cannot live up to it, the first tactic or strategy is to invite the Christian. into its camp or come to the Christian camp. The desired end result of all of this is for us to make compromises to our faith. Scripture gives us many examples throughout history, where the world invites God's children to join them, and the result is that when that happens we sully ourselves by partaking of its rituals and its lifestyle. After all, that's where you think is where all the fun is. It has been an effective strategy, especially for a new believer. When a person becomes a Christian and leaves behind his former life, it will call to him, asking him to return. Let's face it, for those of us who were not blessed by being raised within the church or our covenant community, We can look back at our Egypts individually and reminisce about how tasty those cucumbers were. Oh, how we enjoyed the leeks. Oh, the onions and the fish. Can't we? We never had to worry about our next meal. Pharaoh provided for us. Yes, yes, we were under bondage of sin, but it was safe and sometimes fun. The world consistently calls out the bride and asks either to meld its philosophies and beliefs with Christianity, or for us to come and simply just join them outright. How many times did God tell his people not to intermarry with unbelievers? To do so was to compromise the purity of the faith of God's people as well as to jeopardize the faith of the future generations. Syncretism was and remains the calling card of the world today. When the exiles returned from Babylon, the locals Whose religion had become an admixture of Yahwehism, Yahweh worship, and the pagan gods called Zerobo, wanting to worship right alongside with them. If you recall, Ezra chapter 4 and verse 2. It reads: They approached Zerubbabel and the heads of the father's households, and said to them the following: Let us build with you. For we, like you, seek your God. And we have been sacrificing to him since the days of Ezar Hadan, king of Assyria, who brought us up here. We worship the same God as you do. How often do Christians hear that? Oh, there are many ways to God. It's the same God. Let us make peace with one another and sacrifice together. There's nothing wrong with peace But there is something wrong when it comes at the price of disobeying God. But if after they realize that we won't compromise What can the Christian expect next? An invitation to reject our citizenship An invitation to reject our citizenship. See, if after they conclude that the price for becoming a citizen in the kingdom of God is a price that they don't wish to pay, They invite us to reject our faith. They invite us to apostatize. The demands by the world can be so strong that they sometimes demand us to give up our faith in order to maintain friendships and relationships with them. Some converts to Christianity who come for example from Orthodox uh Jews or from even Muslim families, they are rejected. And they are ostracized by their families. Their demand by their families is to tell them that they need to reject their faith in order to come back and be accepted by them. Now a milder form of attack upon weak believers is to give a cold shoulder or leave the new believer out of their plans to have fun, reminding him or her That he or she has to change his ways to be accepted by them. The cost indeed is very high, and social pressure is all too real. Each of us knows the power of social pressure, don't we? How do you respond to social pressure How do you think you would respond to a pressure that demands you to give up your faith So if we don't compromise nor reject God and His ways, what may a Christian expect next from the world? So, as we look back at the experience of the church, the world has treated the children of God by anything from ridicule to punishment or persecution. And this brings us to our third subpoint. Persecution can range from physical to spiritual. An example of both is when as we've been studying through Sunday school is what happened in Acts chapter 5, verses 28 and 40. John and Peter were ordered not to preach the gospel by the Jewish council. And they were flogged before they were released. Standing up for the truth brings on persecution John the Baptist spoke up against Herod, against his adultery, and he was killed for it. Should this response to godliness be a surprise to us? Jesus told us in John chapter 15 and verse 20. Remember the word that I said to you. A slave is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will persecute you. But why? Well, the previous two verses answers that question. If the world hates you, you know that it has hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love its own. But because you are not of the world, But I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. And furthermore, in Romans chapter 8, verses 6-8 reminds us of the following. For the mindset on flesh is death, but the mindset on the spirit is life and peace. Because the mindset on flesh is hostile towards God, for it does not subject itself to the law of God, for it is not even able to do so. And those who are in the flesh cannot please God. Very simply, the Christian will face a variety of responses from ridicule to persecution because the sinner's mind is set on doing things of the world Its priority is to please itself. It enjoys its sin and it doesn't want to give it up. When a child of God attempts to lead a life that is holy, this can lead to convicting the unbeliever of his or her sin. Not willing to live in sin with someone before marriage. Not willing to take home a bottle of whiteout from work. Refusing to make up some stolen items for your home insurance adjuster all begins to weigh upon the conscience of the sinner. Because the heart of the sinner is hostile towards the ethics of God, it finds no joy in obeying the law of God. Now that's the key. There is no joy for the unbeliever in obeying God There is no joy in never being able to live up to God's standards of perfection. There is no joy in consistent failure. There is no joy in never being accepted. The bar is too high. Their pride cannot be stroked. There is no No joy. The sinner who knows the difference between right and wrong and can't satisfy God, well, over a period of time doesn't want to either repent andor obey God and his standards. So his response turns to hatred and vindication. After all, when Cain saw that he didn't satisfy God's law the way he wanted to satisfy God's law. For a sacrifice. What was his response? Do y'all remember? Persecution. In the form of a murder Indeed, the Apostle Paul reminds us in 2 Timothy 3. 12, all who desire to live godly in Christ will be persecuted Now the level of persecution may vary, but it will come. The more godly a life the Christian leads, the more he may be persecuted. Now that we've taken a look at sojourning as a lifestyle or spiritual mindset that a Christian must maintain in this life And what a believer can expect from this world, it's time now for us to consider how is it that a Christian sojourner should live out his life within this reality? And this brings us to our third and final point today. How is it that a Christian should live? A Christian sojourner should live in this life. And for this, I have four things to say. The first is: reject the hopes offered by the world that compromises our faith in God. Reject the hopes offered by the world. Let's look at two examples in scripture that illustrates this point well. First, let's return to the exiles in Zerobo's era What was their response to those that wanted to worship other gods alongside Yahweh? Well, Ezra chapter 4 and verse 3 continues by saying. But Zerubabel and Yeshua and the rest of the heads of the fathers of Israel said to them, You have nothing in common with us in building the house of God. The notion of syncretism, God's people said, You have nothing in common with us. We should remember and respond similarly when our Christian ethics Or worship of our triune God are being compromised or threatened. The second instance is that of Jesus on the mountain when he was being tempted. Satan offered Jesus a quick way out. He didn't have to go to the cross to be the king of the world. He offered Jesus the whole thing, without pain, and immediate acceptance. In effect, Satan was saying, let's work together. Let's have peace. Why go to war? But there was a price to pay, bending the knee to him. He knew he couldn't be sly with Jesus. He had to get to the point. It was not going to work to say, worship me alongside your heavenly Father. You see, to serve any other God alongside the one true God is not to worship him at all. What was Jesus' response? Matthew chapter 4 and verse 10. Jesus said to him, Be gone, Satan, for it is written, you shall worship the Lord your God and serve him only. Jesus rejected and resisted. Scripture tells us that if we resist the devil, he will flee, and indeed he did. Reject the hopes and the temptations of the world. Alongside of rejecting the hopes of the world, we must, number two, Accept the hopes of God's reward in heaven and the world to come. We must accept the hopes of God's reward in heaven and the world to come. We must remember that we are all still sojourning on this world and have a reward that is yet to come. First, our reward, which is in heaven, But it doesn't end there. When Jesus returns, he will create a new world, as we have talked about earlier, and that it will be our final, eternal home. It will be a paradise that is beyond our imagination. One in which where there shall never be a tear shed due to physical or emotional pain. But if we do shed a tear, it will be only because of joy. Christian When you count the cost of being a child of God, do you spend any time pondering upon the joy and the promises that is to come? Do you ever consider that God will one day judge all those that have persecuted you and a loved one for your faith? Have you considered that one day you will be able to speak face to face with our Savior? That you will be able to shake and hold his nail-scarred hands, which is an emblem of his undying love for you. Those who hope and trust in God and in His promised future reward will have strength to endure whatever comes their way in the present. You should hope and remind yourself of God's promises today And every day. Having this firmly in our hearts, how else can we possibly respond to the world's temptations? If we are to be sustained by the attacks launched by the world, what must we do? And this brings us to our third point. Both Peter and Paul use the analogy of a Christian as an infant who must grow. Indeed, first need milk, and then later meat. Peter states this later on in the very same epistle in chapter 2 and 2. He says, like newborn babes, long for the pure milk of the Word. That by it you may grow in respect to your salvation. Christian, what are you doing to grow in Christ? Are you still consuming milk? Or have you grown to the point of consuming spiritual meat? To be able to withstand the allurements of the world, to have spiritual earplugs for the sirens of the world, calling you back to their island of death. You must grow in Christ. You must grow in Christ. I urge you that if you're not currently involved in things like Sunday school or Wednesday night classes, which of course we'll be starting this week, small groups, men's studies, women's studies, get plugged in. It's the beginning of a new year. It's a perfect time to commit to something new to help you to grow in Christ. So as Peter states You may grow in respect to your salvation. Finally, you should respond by Giving God the glory when you are being persecuted, when you are being ridiculed, and when you are being punished. Let us look at the two passages for this final song. point. The night of his arrest, Jesus prayed to his father and said in John 17, 1, The hour has come, Father. Jesus' torture and crucifixion was about to begin. He continued, glorify your son, so that the son may glorify you. Jesus' glorification in this context was being defined by crucifixion. But as Jesus was about to be persecuted, What was his concern? It was for the glory of his Father. We must follow in the steps of our Savior. Peter reminds us, his readers, in chapter 2 and verses 20 and 24. For what credit is there if when you sin and are harshly treated, you endure it with patience? But if when you do what is right and suffer for it, you patiently endure it, this finds favor with God. And so we must trust ourselves and our eternity to the one that judges rightly our Let me finally emphasize why Jesus did not, as the passage would tell us, revile in return when he was being reviled. Why he uttered no threats when he was being threatened. Oh, just you wait. But Jesus didn't say that Because he himself bore our sins on the cross, so that his wounds would take the place of ours. Of which we so richly deserve. Believer, one day You and I will be standing on the grounds of the new heavens and the new earth. Maybe we'll be standing on some grass. As I look out the windows here, I don't really see too much grass here. But I'm hoping, I'm thinking there'll be no weeds in the new heavens and the new earth. As of yet, you and I are sojourning on this planet. But on that day when we stand on that new heavens and the new earth. We will take one look at God's marvelous creation and his handiwork. And see him face to face and think, not even all of the cucumbers ever grown in Egypt. And all of the leeks and the fish and the onions set side to side, side by side, could possibly ever compare to what we will have. Then. Believer, whatever it is that you are struggling with, whatever cucumber it is, whatever leek it is, whatever fish it is, or whatever onion it is. Whatever it is, whatever, whomever it is, none of these compare to Jesus and never could Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for that very same Jesus. We thank you that you have chosen this out of darkness and placed us into your marvelous light and into the kingdom of God. We pray, Heavenly Father. That you would help us to understand that we are indeed sojourners and citizens of the kingdom of God. Let us remind us Of our identity, of who we are, where we are, and where we are headed to our final place We thank you, Father, that you have indeed made peace with us through your Son, the Lord Jesus, and that we no longer live outside of you. And our relationship with you. But Father, we look forward to that day when you will complete what you planned from the beginning And that is to bring us back to paradise, to be with you, to be with your son, to be with your spirit, enjoying you throughout all of eternity without sin. And we pray, Father, that. That you would do this as we pray along with those in Scripture, come, Lord Jesus