2 Corinthians 5 2. 17, excuse me, says, as we come to God's word, for we are not like so many peddlers of God's word. But as men of sincerity, as commissioned by God in the sight of God, we speak in Christ. We speak of Christ. What a joy to be able to speak of Christ and have this opportunity with you this evening. I trust that many of you are familiar. With the series of books written by C. S. Lewis, The Chronicles of Narnia Um I have found that profitable my own life. I think especially when I've been especially busy and overwhelmed, it was something I could read very quickly. And just be encouraged by the metaphors in it. But my daughter and I especially have spent probably two seasons on her bed together when she was small reading through it And uh those are times we remember together. But you may, if you've read the Chronicles of Narnia, remember from the lion and the witch and the wardrobe this one conversation. With Mr. Beaver and Lucy, when they find out about Aslan. Excuse me, it's Susan. Mr. Beaver said, Aslan is a lion. The lion, the great lion. Oh, said Susan, I thought he was a man. Is he quite safe? I shall feel rather nervous about meeting a lion. Safe, said Mr. Beaver. Who said anything about being safe? Of course he isn't safe. But he's good. He's the king, I tell you. Last Sunday, if you were with us, you might remember that we found the Philistines who had taken the Ark of the Covenant from the Israelites after winning a victory, they took that ark thinking that the God of Israel was safe. And they found out that he was anything but safe. And tonight, as the ark of God is returned to Israel, They treat God as he is safe, but are forced to ask the question, who is able to stand before the Lord, this holy God? Now you can hear that question and think long ago and far away. But you must answer that question every time you come to worship. Who is able to stand before the Lord, this holy God? Pastor Rick Phillips, when he was speaking to his congregation to prepare them said this, and so I say it to you this evening. Who is able to stand before this holy God? Is there a more important question than that? I want to know if there is, because it seems to me that this is the most important question that you and I can ever face. Not just in this life, but in the world to come. As we face God before the judgment seat of Christ, who can stand before his holiness? It's a gospel question. It's a question every man, every woman, every boy, and every girl must ask And even ask yourself tonight, how can I, a sinner, come before a holy and just and righteous God and not be literally consumed? Well, we'll pray. Let's stand together and pray, and then we'll see the answer to that question that God gives us in His Word. So let us stand together. Our Father, it's easy for us, having been in the church for a long time, to ask that question, who can stand before the Lord, a holy God? Raise our finger, point it in the air, and say, Jesus, give the Sunday school answer and go to sleep. But I pray that as you show us the hearts of the Philistines and the hearts of the Israelites and the hearts of the Gibeonites tonight, that you would expose our own hearts. And our own standing before you, that we would ask that question ourselves tonight. Can am I able? How can I stand before you, O God, and not be consumed because of my sin? Would you be gracious to not just answer that question theoretically or theologically, but bring it home to us? That instead of being afraid, we might find real comfort before you, even through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. Well, turn with me to 1 Samuel chapter 6. We'll read, Lord willing, through the whole chapter and go into verses 1 and 2 of chapter 7. First Samuel chapter six and then verses one and two of chapter seven. The ark of the Lord was in the country of the Philistines seven months. And the Philistines called for the priest, and the diviner said, What shall we do with the ark of the Lord? Tell us what we shall send it to its place. And they send, if you send the ark of God of Israel, do not send it empty, but by all means return him a guilt offering. Then you will be healed, and it will be known to you why his hand does not turn away from you. And they said, What is this guilt offering that we shall return to him? And they answered five golden tumors and five golden mice, according to the number of the lords of the Philistines. For the same plague was on all of you and on your lords. So you must make images of your tumors and an image of your mice that ravage the land and give glory to the God of Israel. Perhaps he will lighten his hand from off you and your gods and your land. Why should you harden your hearts as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? And after he had dealt severely with them, they did not send the people away, and they departed. Now then, take and prepare a new cart, and two milk cows, on which there has never come a yoke And yoke the cows to the cart, but take their calves home away from them, and take the ark of the Lord and place it on the cart, and put it in a box at its side. The figures of gold which you are returning to him as a guild offering. Then send it off and let it go its way and watch. If it goes up on the way to its own land, to Beth Shemesh, then it is he who has done us this great harm. But if not, then we shall know that his hand has not struck us and it happened to us by coincidence. The men did so. Did so. They took two milk cows and yoked them to the cart and shut up their calves at home, and they put the ark of the Lord on the cart and the box with the golden mice. and the images of their tumors. And the cows went straight in the direction of Beth Shemesh along one high highway, lowing as they went They turned neither to the right nor to the left. And the lords of the Philistines went after them as far as the border of Beth Shemesh. Now the people of Beth Shemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in the valley, and when they lifted up their eyes and saw the ark, they rejoiced to see it. The cart came into the field of Joshua of Bethshemesh and stopped there. A great stone was there. And they split up the wood of the cart and offered the cows as a burnt offering to the Lord. And the Levites took down the ark of the Lord and the box that was beside it, in which were the golden figures, and set them upon a great stone. And the men of Beth-shemeth offered burnt offerings and sacrificed sacrifices on that day to the Lord. And when the five lords of the Philistines saw it, They returned that day to Ekron. These are the golden tumors that the Philistines returned as a guild offering to the Lord, one for Ashdod, one for Gazo, one for Ashkaron, one for Gath, and one for Ekron. and the golden mice according to the number of all the cities of the Philistine belonging to the five lords. Both fortified cities and unwalled villages, the great stone beside which they sat down the ark of the Lord is a witness to this day in the field of Joshua of Bethshemesh. And he, God, struck some of the men of Beth Shemesh, because they looked upon the ark of the Lord. He struck seventy men of them, and the people mourned, because the Lord had struck the people with a great blow. Then of Beth Shemesh said, Who is able to stand before the Lord, this holy God? And whom shall he go up away from us? And so they sent messengers to the inhabitant of Kirith Jerim, saying, The Philistines have returned the ark of the Lord. Come down and take it up to you. And the men of Kiraath Jerim came and took up the ark of the Lord and brought it to the house of Abinadab on the hill. And they consecrated his son Eliezer to have charge of the ark of that lord of the Lord. From the day that the ark of the Lord lodged at Kiriath Girium, a long time past, some twenty years. And all the house of Israel lamented after the Lord. Church, this is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated. Well the Philistines were not able to stand before this holy God. You remember just last week the destruction of a mice that uh ate up their corn and their crops and brought, as we think, bubonic plague, uh not just through the three cities, where the f three of the uh Philistine lords with all of their cities, their whole land, and tumors. They were hurting because of it. They were struggling because of it. Sinclair Ferguson colorfully describes their problem of the tumorids when he said they were hemorrhoids. And then he quotes the Vulgate translation, not the vulgar transl translation, but the Vulgate translation that read, God struck them in the secret parts of their posteriors. So they were having trouble. Not only were they dying because of the plague, but they were hurting. And they wanted to get rid of this ark that they thought they can control. And so they didn't just talk to the five lords of the Philistines as they had before, but this time they bring their priests togethers and their diviners, and they say, you're guilty. And their answer for their guilt was to have a guilt offering, not a guilt offering of a ram that Israel would have. But he says, make. Because you have five lords, make five tumors, uh, five golden tumors, hemorrhoids, I guess, five golden hemorrhoids. And five mice, and put them uh there together as a guild offering. And if they would have known anything, uh rats and mice were a detestable animal to God, never to be eaten or used as a sacrifice. And uh any omission of blood other than sacrifice made you uh uh made you for the time uh ceremoniously unclean And so both of the things that they were offering as a guilt offering were an abomination to God. And so their priests weren't very wise, and they said, you want to relieve God's hand? Let's make a test. Let's make a fleece. You remember Gideon and his fleece? You might think, oh, they're getting spiritual here. They're making a fleece, this test. But if you know anything about Scripture and Gideon, his test and fleece was a sinful thing it did. Gideon's fleece and test didn't show his faith. It showed his lack of faith But God condescended to answer because God is merciful to sinners. And so here they are, they make a test. And they see, is is God in this? Is the reason that we have all these mice eating our food and giving us play? Is the problem of our ha of our tumors? Is it God who's doing it or is it just coincidence? So let's make a test. And so they made a cart for the ark to send it away. And they took two cows, and they call them milk cows. They had calves. And these mother cows would every day want to feed their calves because they God puts in even animals this maternal instinct to care for them that they would live. but also they get full every day of milk and they need to get rid of it or they hurt. And so they didn't want to leave their cows, these little calves that were with them, and they wouldn't want to leave. And they'd never been hooked up to a cart before. And so how were they going to pull with a yoke and never had work together before? So even though they did make this ark How could these cows ever take it and where would it go? Would it go in circles? No one's there to drive it. But they said if it goes back to Israel, it's a God thing. And even though these cows, yoked together, never having been pulling a cart before, they go not turning to the right or the left. but go straight to Beth Shemesh in Israel, even though they're lowing the whole time. They're going, you know, you've heard cows, right? My first church was in western Pennsylvania. I'm pretty good at it because I used to go out and help milk Well you see, even though those cows didn't want to go, they're crying out for their children. They're crying out to go back. God Took them straight to Israel. It was not by chance. The Philistines didn't know God's word. They were acting out of thinking they could control God. Thinking they knew better until he humbled them. And God will humble us to get us to the place where we understand that He is God and He is holy. Beloved, I ask you, who should know God, not to act that way But I confess that I do at times. I act as an unbeliever. As Gideon, who was a believer, did when he asked, Oh God, show me the way. I've got to have a sign. Because I won't trust his word or I don't know his word. And the Philistines couldn't stand before God, a holy God, because they were unbelievers. And because of having the story of Gideon, we know that we act that way ourselves, don't we? So I'm going to ask you tonight, where is it tonight that you're acting like an unbeliever, a Philistine, a pagan, where you're not trusting God for an area of your life? Is it a relationship you have? Is it your health? Is it being fearful of some decision that's made? Something in a job, something with your children? Something for the future, a concern about the past. We all have those, don't we? And we can all start playing little games in our heart. Oh God, if I only do this and I can manipulate you somehow. Then you'll do what I want rather than trusting him. And we see in the Philistines people who didn't trust the living God. They thought they could manipulate him And so I would encourage you, as we've looked at the Philippians, excuse me, the Philippians, the Philistines, this evening. To remember the proverb that calls us to trust in the Lord with all your heart. Don't lean on your own understanding in all your ways. Acknowledge him, and he will make your path straight. Beloved those areas that you're struggling tonight, would you acknowledge him and say, Lord, would you make my path straight? I want the direction you want more than my own desire. Is there an area that you need to do that this very evening? Don't act like a Philistine. May God give us grace to trust him. Well. If you remember, they treated that arc in Philist Philistia like a hot potato. It went from city to city and finally they got rid of it with a milk cows. And it comes to Israel, it comes to Beth Shemesh, it comes to this city, a Levite city. A city of priests who should know how to handle the ark. And they see the ark coming back, brought by these two cows, and they're excited. They say, wow! This is great! The ark is back! And so they've got a big rock that God had providentially put there, and so they break up the cart for firewood. And they offer the two cows as the first thing as a sacrifice to God. But what's the first thing they do in doing that? Does anybody know? They disobey God because God says you will only offer a male bull as a sacrifice. So this is a city. Made of priests, Levites, and the first thing they do is disobey God. You know, think they know better. In all their excitement, they want to worship God, right? I don't I don't put anything. mean or nasty in their thought, right? But they just think they know better. We feel like doing this. This is great. Look, a cart, a cow, a sacrifice. Woohoo! Let's worship God. And they get all excited about it. But they don't treat him as holy. In fact, they treat him worse than the pagans did. because they then opened the ark of the covenant that they were commanded that no one would look in lest they die. And when the 70 men opened the ark, they died. You see, even in all of our excitement wanting to worship God, if we don't worship God the way He commands, we don't treat Him as holy and we can't stand before Him. The Israelites treated the holy God worse than the pagans did. And they suffered for it. And beloved, we have to be concerned about how we come and worship God. Now I know that we do not worship God perfectly, but we seek to worship God correctly. That is why when you come here we have something called that we fall in our worship services called. the regulative principle of worship. You see so many notes, especially in the morning bulletin, about we do this because of that, and we do this because of that. And every week when we we have wine with communion, we say, we believe, the Bible says, that you should use wine, right? We do it because we're commanded to do it, because we don't want to treat God as the pagans do or as uh uh uh uh those who aren't obeying him do, we desire to follow him in our worship and do it correctly. We are regulated by his word And I know that sometimes our service seems formal and stayed and not just fun like the other churches. We can break up the ark and burn the cows. It's cool. But you don't treat God as holy when you go to seek to worship as you want. There's a difference in worship. We call what we're doing, we seek to believe, we know we can't do it perfectly because we don't know everything, but we're seeking by God's help to regulate our worship by his commands. That's called the regulative principle. Other churches that are seekling to be biblical, I mean there are some churches that anything goes, right? And I often don't even call those churches. But other churches that use the principle called adiafra, which means our princip the regulative principle is We will do what God commands. That's how you treat God as holy. The other churches with Audi Offery say you can do anything as long as God doesn't forbid it. Right? But the question then comes, well, how do I know? But God is very specific in the way that we should treat him, and we should treat him as holy. And so you should be thankful. For a worship service that sometimes he'd stayed and sometimes like, oh, couldn't he just be a little more free? Couldn't he just let go and let down your hair and And uh and I'm not saying that we all have to sit here like this. You know, sometimes our parents want us to do that. You can always sit like this, right? But no one's gonna do that. But we don't do what we desire to treat God as holy. We do what He has commanded us to do. So even the pagans didn't treat God as holy, but even his own people didn't treat God as holy. And so the the the Philistines treated God in the ark, his presence like a hot potato. And now the Israelites can't get ready ready to pawn it off on this other city. And you notice that in the end they give it to the city. It's called the Hill Country. uh which belong uh Kiraf Jerry and which actually belong to the Gibeonites. The Gibeonites were not Israelites It's interesting because the pagans didn't treat God as holy, and God's children, the Israelites, didn't treat Him as holy, but now they send the ark Up to Kiraf Jeriam, which is a Gibeonite city. You might remember the Gibeonites were non-Israelites who when the Israelites came into the promised land, they tricked Joshua into permitting them to live in the promised land. So therefore they were made the water-bearers and the woodcutters for the tabernacle. But there is a man who has chosen Abinadab and his son to take care of the ark. And now it will stay there in this hill country for 20 years until finally Israel will lament and say, oh, that we had the ark, and David comes and gets it. A whole generation it stays there. And Abinadab and his son keep it, and they kept the ark from being seized again by the Philistines and also being touched or looked in by king. Curious Israelites. Here's one of the places in the Old Testament where God's plan to receive Gentiles who respond to Him in faith is clearly seen. Can you see it? Philistines didn't treat God as holy and were destroyed. The Israelites, God's children, didn't treat God as holy and destroyed And he uses these Gentile Gibeonites to care for his ark, the symbol of his presence for 20 years. Because they, these Gentiles by faith, treated God and his presence in the ark as holy. What a wondrous thing. Well, let me just ask you, how do you treat the living God? Now, the joy of what we heard this morning in the psalm was that in all of his creation and his making and through our Redeemer Jesus Christ, he draws us near to him. We're near to his heart. But we can make the mistake of being near to God's heart and say, what's up, man? All right, God, I've got a need. Why don't you take care of it? We can treat God as not God but our buddy or or or the magic genie. If I give the right prayer, God's going to answer it. He has to bless me and make me healthy, wealthy, and wise. And we would say, come on, Pastor, we would never do that. We do, don't we? We forget, and we should treat God as our heavenly Father. We're loved by Him. We're brought near to Him. His Son Jesus has died for us. But in our prayers and our lives before Him, we live as little rebels, little disobedient children who who don't pay attention to his word. We think our idea is better than his. Our way is better. Let's turn to Romans chapter 9. And in Romans chapter nine, you see the sweetness of this. And Romans chapter 9, verses 23 to 25. And it's where you and I are called. I don't know of anybody here. We have in our congregation, some people that have a Jewish heritage, but we are, as far as I know, most of us are just plain old Gentiles, right? But when we've been adopted in To the church of Christ. We have become spiritual Israelites. And so therefore, like the Gibeonites, we can know Him and worship and love and serve Him. And so in Romans 9, verses 23 to 25, here's this wondrous story from the Apostle Paul of God's gracious call to Jew and Gentile. Romans 9, 23 to 25. In order and and this also um Answers the question of how and who can stand before a holy God, a God who destroyed all those Philistines. Thousands and thousands of those pagans. He destroyed without even a hesitation those 70 Israelites who treated him as unholy. How can we stand before him? And here it is. It says that God, in order to make known the riches of his glory for vessels of mercy which he prepared beforehand for glory, Even us whom he's called, not from the Jews only, but also from the Gentiles. Indeed, as he says in Hosea, those who are not my people, I will call my people. And her who is not beloved, I will call beloved. And how does that happen? He takes the Holy One, the only Holy One, Jesus, his perfect son and gives him as a sacrifice for us. For as the scripture says, he made Jesus who knew no sin, who always treated God as holy, he made him sin that we might become righteous and able to worship him. Who can stand before God? It's the one who understands his sin. It's the one who treats God as holy. In our type of churches, Reform churches, because we love the Bible And we love theology and we love the things of God. It's easy for us to be like the Pharisee and say, I've got my stuff together. I've got down the Westminster Confession of Faith, and I know the rules, and I've got it down. And I can tell you the Apostles' Creed and the Confession. And so we look at the world and we could say, oh, I'm thankful that I'm not like other men. I'm thankful I'm not like those people over there because I only came to church Sunday morning. I'm here Sunday evening. Baby, we've got it made But what God calls all of us to do is to treat him as holy and understand our sin and our own predilection, our own predisposition to rule over God, to treat him like the ark in a box that we can manipulate. And instead, we need to be like the tax collector who understood his own sin and his rebellion. And when he came to God He said, God be merciful to me, thus sinner. It's interesting if you go back and look at that in the scripture. He doesn't say, God be merciful to me, a sinner. He treated himself like the Apostle Paul said, I am the worst of sinners. How is it that this amazing holy God would love me and respond to my prayers? And it's because he crushed his holy, perfect Son That he would see us in that way. Remember the question that we started with? The question that caused the Israelites to call out that we started with this evening. Who is able to stand before the Lord, this holy God? It's those that understand the call of the tax collector in his prayer. Lord. Be merciful to me, the sinner. Let us pray God and Father, I thank you for the regulative principle. I thank you for our heritage in being Reformed Christians. I thank you for the Reformation, the coming back to the Scriptures, the knowing the Word, the to know the catechisms, to have this rich theology. But I pray, oh God, that it would not be for naught. But that you would do the heart work that we need. Would we see your amazing mercy? That we can only stand before you because of our older brother, Jesus Christ. That he died in our place, that you crushed him so that we might live. May we give you praise tonight and come to you as the one who is thrice holy. confessing our need for our Savior and rejoicing in your perfect provision in Jesus Christ. For it is his name we pray. Amen.