Amen. Thank you, brother. When you consider all the different concerns that we have and the things that we pray for, it sometimes can feel so overwhelming. But praise the Lord that we serve a God who is not overwhelmed at the least fit by all the concerns that we place before him. He hears us, he listens to us, and he answers us in his own way. Praise be to our great God. If you haven't turned your Bibles to the passage of this morning, would you be so kind to do that now as we continue our study of Malachi? Today we will be studying chapter 3, verses 13 to chapter 4, and verse 3. Would you please rise for the reading and hearing of God's holy and inerrant word? Hear now the word of God from the book of Malachi. Your words have been hard against me, says the Lord. But you say, How have we spoken against you? You have said, It is vain to serve God. What is the profit of our keeping his charge or of walking as in mourning before the Lord of hosts? And now we call the arrogant blessed. Evildoers not only prosper, but they put God to the test and they escape. Then those who feared the Lord spoke with one another. The Lord paid attention and heard them, and a book of remembrance was written before him of those who feared the Lord and esteemed his name. They shall be mine, says the Lord of hosts, in the day when I make up my treasured possession, and I will spare them as a man spares his son who serves him. Then once more you shall see the distinction between the righteous and the wicked, between one who serves God and one who does not serve him. For behold, the day is coming, burning like an oven, when all the arrogant and all the evildoers will be stubble. The day that is coming shall set them ablaze, says the Lord of hosts, so that it will leave them neither root nor branch But for you who fear my name, the Son of Righteousness shall rise with healing in its wings. You shall go out leaping like calves from the stall. And you shall tread down the wicked, for they will be ashes under the soles of your feet on the day when I act, says the Lord of hosts. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated, and as you do, please join me in prayer for the illumination of the Holy Spirit upon our time today. God, our helper, by your Holy Spirit, open our minds that as the scriptures are read and your word is proclaimed, you We may be led into your truth and taught your will through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. The last oracle in the book of Malachi begins by God accusing the people with being arrogant against him. And the people respond by asking, how is it that we have spoken arrogantly against God? The implication of their response is that it is unfolded or that they they are unaware of offending their God, unfounded, I should say. Now, to be arrogant is to have an exaggerated or overblown sense of importance or abilities of oneself So the Lord is saying that in some manner not as yet defined, the people of God are living in a manner that communicates that they know better, and as a consequence. Given the same set of circumstances, they would have made other choices based upon their wisdom that they are smarter than God. Now, I don't know about you, but whenever I think something like, if I were God, I wouldn't have done it that way I would have done it this way. I'm being arrogant. I would have at that point had an inflated view of myself and my capabilities and my wisdom. Have you ever done that? Well, if you have ever thought that, even privately, then this passage touches upon that behavior. And just as importantly, how it affects us in the way that we live out our lives. The Lord responds by revealing to them that what they were harboring in their minds were thoughts that it was useless to obey God. But it was useless to obey God. Useless meaning there was no value or no advantage. They had begun to speak to one another of their dissatisfaction, and it was eroding the overall morale of the covenant community. What did this lead them to think? Well, there was no benefit. Or shall we say, it was Futile to follow God. That it was futile to follow God. They saw no reason to live lives of holiness No reason to be repentant for their sins. And of course, another way of saying this is walking in mourning. Mourning, of course, over their sins. The basic charge in their minds was the following Why bother? Why bother following God? As we've learned from previous oracles in Malachi This is yet another symptom of a greater problem or a deeper problem. The real problem here is what? Their lack of trust In God. It is their lack of faith in God. Verse 15 elaborates or gives us a little bit more detail Regarding the people's arrogance against God, they look around and see that sinners are blessed. They see that the wicked around them are prospering. If you recall, this is similar to the previous oracle that we had, isn't it? A difference here, though, is that the voices that are complaining are not the voices of the entire nation. It is the voice of those that are committed to God and want to live in righteousness. They wish to obey the law of God and maintain the covenant. They're looking around and seeing that their fellow countrymen are practicing unrighteousness, whether it's in business, politics, religion. And they were becoming visibly visibly affluent. The passage says built up In essence, they were breaking God's laws openly, brazenly, testing him. And in their view In their view, God was doing nothing about it. You know, between this and the previous oracle It seems that the major focus of the complaint is that people are sinning and prospering financially. Let's just call it a standard of living was being increased by cutting corners. But the reality is that these complaints go beyond just a better life. They include sins that bring about personal pleasure, the pursuit of idols. Sensual pleasures. Disobeying rules in a very general way. I mean, you know, disobeying parents. Disobeying by copying someone's homework. Disobeying by not following the rules at work. These are all different ways in which people were sinning, and that we can see around us too today. When we see this, it bothers us, doesn't it? It should bother us when we see other people are doing this. Frankly, when people who don't follow rules see this in others, oddly enough, it bothers them also. For them, it's okay for me, but it's not okay for you. They don't, we don't think that way, do we? But that's what it really boils down to in our hearts. We experience this in our lives, don't we? And when we see this, what is the first thing that comes out of our mouths? This is not fair exactly. I follow the rules, and they don't. They benefit from it, and I find myself struggling otherwise Or they are not being punished or corrected for their sinful behavior while I obey. This is not fair. Then we go to the place where we are asking ourselves By the way, this is the title of the sermon. We ask ourselves, why should I obey? Have you ever said that? I'm not asking about the first thing. That's not fair. I mean, why should I obey? Why should I keep the rules when everybody else isn't? You think God's supposed to be watching, isn't he? And he's supposed to be the ultimate keeper of justice. Why isn't he doing something about this? I know I would. Hmm. Hey, if he's not going to do something about this, why bother? Why bother? Now, I find it interesting that the remnant in Jerusalem would actually think these thoughts. I know that they're not any different than the other human beings, but them being two or three generations removed from one of the greater demonstrations. Of God pouring out his anger injustice upon an arrogant nation. You would think that they'd slightly they'd have like a slightly less critical view of God, wouldn't you? They're only two or three generations away. They're asking, where is God? This is not fair. You remember Great Grandpa and the stories that he used to the stuff that his eyes saw? And how God was watching and he had enough? It it it's it's interesting. It's mind-boggling, isn't it? That here we are so close. They're asking that question Do you do you have, well, let's call it a critical view of God sometimes? I mean, specifically, as it relates to what is before us today, how come others who disobey get away with it? Do you sometimes find yourself being that way? Don't you ever think How come unbelievers get away from not worshiping God on the Lord's day? Hey, forget them What about Uncle So-and-so, who says he's a Christian and hasn't been in church in months? How come he doesn't have to go and I come and he doesn't suffer? Haven't you ever thought of maybe even something like how come? God doesn't pour down hellfire upon my sibling for eating a cookie in the middle of the night after my parents said not to and they went to sleep And not only that, he comes into bed with it. And there's crumbs everywhere. And he gets away with it. How come, Lord, you won't pour hellfire on my sibling? Well, maybe not so dramatic. But you get the picture. Are you critical of God in this way? Brother or sister in Christ, let's not forget things like the destruction of Jerusalem. And how that generation suffered at the hands of God's justice for disobedience for a wide range of sins. Brothers and sisters, let us not forget Noah's generation and the insults The people must have hurled at him while he was building an ocean-worthy vessel on a dry land where there was no water nearby. And it wasn't a weekend project. I think when we consider Noah's life I don't know about you, but I'm thinking if I were Noah, at some point, I'm thinking things like, you better be real. How about a little help here, Lord? A little lightning strike here or there. I do have some recommendations. Should you take me up on that? Just to shut them up for a little bit. The believers, those who feared God, among God's people gathered and spoke to one another Now, this is not uh speaking to one another as in, you know, going by the water cooler and gathering and and speaking to one another. It's not like a union meeting or something like that. It seems that among those in what we would call today the visible church, those who feared God took to heart the accusations of the Lord. They considered how they were responding to God when they saw people getting away with sin. This is obviously a positive movement amongst those that were keeping the commandments, but were complaining that it just simply wasn't fair. As God paid attention to their conversations and their prayers, he was pleased with their deliberation. And their desire to follow the Lord despite, despite what they were seeing and experiencing. They chose to live a life by faith and to trust God even when things weren't going the way that they thought it should. God calls us to that. That pleases our God. The word and the chastisement of the Lord is designed to bring about understanding and repentance. It seems that God's lawyer, Malachi, successfully brought to bear on God's people their sinfulness. The result by God God's grace was repentance. This, frankly, is what we are called to do. Live faithfully and trust God. Living faithfully means that we are obedient and walk with God mournfully for our sins. So that we may not repeat them over and over again. This is important. Because the temptation is either to think Arrogantly about God, or maybe, maybe go along with other people's sins The temptation is always there. Now, as a result of God's approval, we are informed that there is a scroll. That contains the name of those who feared the Lord and gave honor to his name. The idea of God maintaining a book Which eventually contains the names of those that were not only in the visible church, but were also the elect Believers is not a new one. We see that as early as in Moses and Exodus chapter 32. And you can see that in verses 32 and 33. And it doesn't end in the Old Testament. The thought that God keeps record of his believers who are obedient to him is found in the book of life In Revelation chapter 21 and 27. Now I think perhaps the most beautiful expression of this idea is found in Isaiah 49 and verse 6, where it 16, where it reads Behold, I have engraved you on the palms of my hand. What a beautiful sentiment to know. They were constantly on his mind Malachi calls this book a book of remembrance. It's labeled thus because God wants to communicate to the people that none who stay faithful. Will be forgotten. It is comforting to know that you and your faithfulness and obedience to God will not be overlooked, unrewarded, or forgotten. These are things that we fear, isn't it? However, when the time of judgment comes The unrepentant, the unbelieving, and the apostate, they will not be receiving reward for their obedience and trust in the Lord. And, well, the truth of the matter is that they also will not be forgotten. But not in the same way will they be remembered. God will not forget their disobedience. Now, verses seventeen and eighteen returns us to a theme that was mentioned earlier in Malachi. The day. That day of God. Not only in Malachi, but it is an anticipated day for God's people throughout the whole of the entire Old Testament. The next couple of verses will begin to elaborate upon the great day of judgment. God makes clear that he will protect his people on that day. He will spare them from judgment. And on that day. All will be able to distinguish between those that are wicked and those that are righteous. Please note the way in which the righteous is contrasted from the wicked is not that they lead good or moral lives. They are the ones that serve God. It's not enough to be a good person or a moral person to be written in the book of life. There are plenty of people who we would say lead moral lives. To be written in the book of life, you must be a follower of God. And part of serving the word used there, God. Also has the connotation of worshiping God, that He is the one whom your soul magnifies and follows. So let's get to it. The day of the Lord was a welcome and frightening event for the Old Testament saints. It promised to judge and punish injustice. The righteous were to be spared and elevated. The wicked were to be punished for their rebellion to God's law God uses common agrarian language to illustrate the fate of those who will be punished Who are going to not be in the book. He employs the very same word, arrogant, used previously by the faithful remnant for those who are openly rebellious to God. God therefore begins to describe the great day by telling his people that the terrible judgment is reserved for those who are not repentant, those that are arrogant and evildoers. The description of this day seems to be cosmological in breath and possess a temporal finality to it. Fire will be the agent of this destruction on that day, as opposed to water on the day of Noah, which the world received judgment. The chaff is really the unusable part of the grain. The mention of the roots indicates the complete and total destruction of the wicked. It will not be like our gardens and our front yards, who we pull and we pull and we pull, and yet those wonderful wicked weeds keep coming back over and over. again. There will be a finality to this. These are the the root and the and the chaff. They're they're really what? They're the two extremities of the plant. This is to say that not one will remain. The destruction is without exception. No one will escape the judgment of God. Now, verse 2 in chapter 4 offers a contrast to those that will be destroyed. It begins with but But those that are being contrasted with the wicked are those who are what? Fearers of his name. Those who have revered God and what he stands for, what he teaches, and what he commands. Despite what other people around him or her are doing. These are the very same ones that are crying out to God for justice. They see inequity all around them, meanwhile, they obey. These individuals will not face the wrath of God. As was described earlier in verse 1. In fact, these believers will feel the joy and warmth that God brings to his children. Indeed, his people in the final judgment will no longer have to hide in fear of ridicule or persecution. But they will be like little calves that are released from their stalls and jump in the joy of the day sun. Just as the sun's heat can bring about destruction, the very same sun also brings comfort, warmth, and nutrition to our bodies. This time, those who have been faithful to God's word will be healed by his rays of tender care. The wings of the sun, as is quoted there, are its rays, which surround the sun. Franz Diellich, in his commentary on this passage, writes the following on this imagery. As the rays of the sun spread light and warmth over the earth for the growth and maturity of the plants and living creatures, so will the sun of righteousness. Bring the healing of all hurts and wounds which the power of darkness has inflicted upon the righteous. What a wonderful time. Now we don't have the time to develop this notion today. But have you ever been considered Or have you ever considered that in the new heavens and in the new earth, after the final judgment, that your wounds Your pains will be healed, whether it's physical or emotional. All of the effects of sin that has affected you Either done unto you or brought about by you, that is negatively impacting your life even now, God will heal you of it God's promise to make things right on the day of judgment is not limited to justice At that time, you and I will not be repeating patterns of destructive, sinful behavior anymore. We will be fully and finally free of them. Praise be to the God who is and who does all this healing I don't know if you guys are old enough. Maybe some of you guys are. But do you ever remember those commercials from years ago? You know, that they sell these unbelievable products out there. The thing that comes to my mind the most is the Ginsu knives, you know, those commercials. You know, the ones that can cut through steel and then they cut through concrete and they're so good that now they can so nicely slice tomatoes very, very easily and comfortably. You guys remember that? And then all of a sudden they say, you can buy this in four easy payments. Then they say, we'll cut it into three payments. Then you will then at that time they'll say that they'll give you what? A second set of knives for free But that's not all. Because if you order today, we're going to send you a potato peeler. Y'all remember that? Of course you had to call within the next fifteen minutes. I think of this when I read verse three Not the potato peeler. Not only do we have justice, not only do we have healing to look forward to, but that's not all In a remarkable turn of events, those who had been persecuted are now going to appreciate God's justice In the general sense, by not only seeing that God keeps his word, but also avenges you. For the persecution that you have received at the hands of the wicked for pursuing righteousness Why don't you do it? Nobody sees, nobody's watching. Help yourself to it. No, I can't. What are you a dummy or something? Are you a fool? No, my God tells me that I shouldn't do this. That's really light, persecution, right? I think this has a significance for those who are followers of God. For we are told that we are not to exact personal revenge on our enemies. Deuteronomy 3235 tells us, Vengeance is mine. In due time, in his time, our Heavenly Father will avenge us. This passage stands as a relief for us. For we know that on that day That day will come. It is not certain for us when it will come, but what is certain is its fulfillment. But we even see that in God's heart, before judgment, is grace. The unmerited love of God, his compassion, and his mercy, before the great day of judgment, he speaks to us, he calls out to us. Repent, repent, and believe, for the kingdom of God is at hand Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your grace in our lives. We thank you for your word because it does remind us that you are a God who keeps His Word. Your word to extend grace to us. Your word that you are a just God. A God who is a holy God that one day will have revenge, will have vengeance, will have Justice for yourself and for us. Grant us the grace we pray, Heavenly Father. Not to fall prey to these very same thoughts of thinking, why bother, when all the world around me is getting away with sin. But instead, remind us that you have written our names in that very same book. And you will remember us, and in due time avenge us and reward us in accordance with your will. Help us to remember. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. I'd like to ask the elders to please come forward who will be assisting. In the Lord's Communion.