Forever and forever. Amen. Yeah. So I'm gonna uh ask to see if maybe some of you may or may not know the title of a game show. that I'm going to go ahead and give some clues to. It aired from 1956 to 1968. So that was a a good thirteen years of a run that it had. a television panel show where four celebrity panelists were presented with three contestants and their job was to identify which of the three of the central character whose unusual occupation or experience had already been read aloud by the show's host. They had to figure it out which one it was. And when the panelist questions the contestants, the two impostors were allowed to lie, whereas the central character must tell the truth. I'm starting to see some smiles and some some faces here thinking that they've got this one. If that didn't give it away, the name of the show was To tell the truth. Very good, yeah. So after the questions were asked, the votes would be cast by the panelists. Once they were in, the host would ask the following question. Will the real On And the person's name or occupation, please stand up. And eventually, after a playful pretending, the central character eventually stood up to identify themselves. Now, if you are a contestant on the show, and that day it was God that was a panelist that had to identify. Would they pick God or would they pick you? Hmm. In our passage today, James has something to say about that. Would you please rise now for the reading and hearing of God's Word, which comes from the book of James, chapter four, verses eleven and twelve. Do not speak evil against one another, brothers. The one who speaks against a brother or judges his brother speaks evil against the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law, but a judge. There is only one lawgiver and judge, he who is able to save and to destroy. But who are you? To judge your neighbour. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated. And please join me in prayer as we ask the Holy Spirit to illumine our minds and our souls. Holy Spirit, we come before you, your people. We thank you for your great love to us. We thank you for the mercies that you shower upon us each and every day. We ask that now as we come before you, the people of God, called out by you and salvation given to us by the blood of Jesus and the work upon his cross. That you would help us to learn and help us to understand. Convict us, we pray, Holy Spirit, of the truth of the word. And if there be any areas that we need to repent from, that you would show us and that you would grant us the grace we need to do so. so that we may lead lives that are filled with joy and following and producing the fruit of Christ in our lives. And in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So in this passage, James begins by giving us an injunction. He says, do not speak against. Now the Greek word that's used here is katalaleo. It's not an easy word to pronounce in English. Which literally means to speak against. Now, this speaking against is not holding a different position. Having been in GA this week. uh it was um something that was very relevant because if you were um acknowledged by the moderator, uh you would say he would ask, what is it that you are rising to do? And you would say, I'm rising to speak against or I'm rising to speak for. Now it it it can also mean that it's uh a non-sinful behavior on just speaking against. However, in this context It is speaking evil against or slander. Hence the reason why some translations, if you happen to have the NIV or the New Jerusalem translation, it literally says do not slander. Slander against one another. The point is that the type of speech James has in mind is untruthful, full of lies It is not just a simple mistake in understanding, it is intentionally fabricating falsehoods against a brother. And here's the key. For selfish gain. And the means by which this will be accomplished is none other than the tongue. We see that this is yet another dimension to how the tongue, if it is not tame, can cause great strife and conflict Although James has in mind the church context, it has application, frankly, really anywhere in life. Slander is spreading untruthful things about a person. It's basically breaking the commandment of bearing a false witness. I think there are many reasons why we tell lies. Have you ever told a lie about another person? Sometimes we tell lies just to get what we want, don't we? Have you ever lied to get what you want? When you lie, does it usually come at the expense of others What do you think are some of the results that can come by lying within the church community? However, you you you just answer that question in your mind, we're probably not far off from what James is dealing with and trying to avoid in our text today. Before we get into the details of this text, let's just take a look at the notion of fabricating lies in general. Now I just want to let you know this is not some sort of material for an introductory course on how to properly lie. There are historically two ways to break this down. The first is something that we're quite familiar with. It's called lies of commission. And the second one is called lies of omission, lies of commission, and lies of omission. Lies of commission are ones where we out and out tell falsehoods. We say we did something when we didn't. We accuse people of doing something when they didn't, or vice versa. This is a pretty straightforward understanding what it is for a lie of commission. Now the second type of lie is called the lie of omission. We don't talk about this very often, but it is equally a lie. That means that it is no less than a lie or a subly. It's when we don't tell the truth, the whole truth. For those of you who watch detective shows or lawyer shows or maybe you serve in the court today, you have heard witnesses when they get sworn in the following words by the bailiff. Do you promise to tell the truth? The whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God. Amid a part of that promise The whole truth really is intended to address or cover the issue of the sin of omission. Sometimes we leave parts out of the entire story. This is done in order to drive the narrative in the mind of the person to a specific outcome. Now, let's say after a period of time goes by and we learn about the missing information, the omitted part, we may decide You know, that that would have caused us to come up with a a different conclusion and depending upon the situation, made an entirely different decision, right? I'm certain, I'm sure that we have been on the receiving end of that at some point in our lives. You know that this has happened when you say something like this. Well, if I knew that, or why wasn't I told that part The reality is that when you experience this, the feeling of being lied to is no different than the lie of Commission. Where it's whether it's b uh use of a lie of omission or commission The tongue is not to be used to slander. But this word, katalaleo, Also has associated with it questioning legitimate authority. questioning legitimate authority. We see this plainly in the book of Numbers, chapter 21 and verse 5. In the first part, the verse reads, and the people spoke against, to speak against God and against Moses. There's an example of that. Not only questioning legitimate authority, but it also has associations with being or something being done in secret. Psalm 101. 5 says, Whoever secretly slanders his neighbor, him I will destroy. says the Lord. Now the balance of verse eleven and twelve are colored and defined by this evil form of speech. That is to say, a slanderous form of speech that is done in secret and questions legitimate authority. Now let's keep in mind here that James is not saying that you should never question legitimate authority in an appropriate manner. or of inquiring and getting information, nor is he saying that we should never give an accurate and complete description of another person when we are asked. James is concerned with sinful behaviors associated with the tongue as it relates to evil slander. Now James continues. The one who speaks in this manner against a brother also speaks against the law of God. And as a consequence, he is standing in judgment, and if I may add, pridefully, over the law. I think it's fair to surmise that there was, evidently, some sort of slanderous speech going on in the church communities for which James is writing to. Well, it's not something that's so unbelievable, but there was slander in churches back then, and it's not something that the church has become immune to our day and age. It's a very serious issue whenever whatever age it is that the church is in, and James needed to address it. And you know, there are times when the church needs to address it today. Now the employment of slander within the church context, well, really in any organizational context, finds itself prevalent whenever there is a power struggle Slander becomes a viable tool to accomplish one's goals. Not only speaking evil, but James adds judges. Presumably judging with evil intent. James is not suggesting that to judge a brother is a sin As that would run counter to what the Lord has taught us in Matthew chapter 7, verses 1 through 5. But James means it in the context of judgmentalism. which the Lord condemned because it is at times hypocritical and idolatrous. For James to believe that judging per se is evil would make him a hypocrite, because the entire letter is filled with judgment of those to whom he is writing. Maybe you've heard it said that we shouldn't judge a book by its cover. And I think this is good advice, but it doesn't make the case that we shouldn't judge at all. But this subtle shift in using this term judging has had a significant impact more recently within our society. And when I say recent, I'm talking within the last 30 to 40 years. It seems that today you can't render a judgment. We're told not to make judgments on moral issues and decisions that people make. The common refrain is Don't judge me. Don't tell me what I did was wrong. Who are you to judge me? You haven't been in my shoes. Is this not commonplace in society today? Now, in certain situations that helps us to understand, you know, being in someone's shoes, you can understand their sorrow. And you can have compassion for them. I understand that. But frankly, I don't need to commit adultery to say that that's not acceptable behavior What I need, what you need, is the standard that God gives us, the Bible, to be able to make judgments. It seems as a consequence of this shift, you can't make judgments without being called a hater. You know, I gotta tell you, sometimes I'm just mystified by the fact that on the one hand, we cannot judge and we cannot criticize And yet in our society, we still have food and movie critics who say what is good and tasty and what is bad and then unentertaining. We have to peel apart what seems to have become fused together. And what I have in mind is the peeling apart between judging. and condemning. They are entirely two different things. It's okay for us to judge It's okay for you to judge. It's okay for people to judge you. It's okay for people to judge me. Some good advice here is what the Apostle John records for us in chapter seven and twenty-four in the Gospel of John. He says Do not judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment. To judge is to render a verdict on a topic of a person's behavior. We do that all the time, don't we? And and we need to But where this really has an impact is on moral decisions. The Lord Jesus recognized this when he was preaching the Sermon on the Mount. He knew that the temptation would be right there. After getting the right and proper teaching on the commandments of God, he knew that those hearing it would then immediately apply it to Uncle Joey. Or Aunt Gladys, or their brother Jehoshaphat, right? That's why in Matthew chapter seven, he opens with, don't judge. No, it seems that in our society, we stop right there. We want to close the Bible And say, there it is. Out of Jesus' own mouth, he said, Don't judge. But is that really what's there? I think what we need to do is reopen the Bible and continue to read what the Lord Jesus said. He said, don't judge until you look at yourself first. Be humble. Maybe you also are doing the same exact thing. First, deal with your own sin, then after you've done all that, and go and judge your brother. Why? And this is important for the purpose of reclaiming that brother. Not for condemning, but for reclaiming that brother. There is a place for proper judgment. But when you hear things like that's judgy or you're so judgy What may be going on here? As the person who's saying this to you, maybe they just don't want to be called out for their sin You know, it could also be that uh they're saying that maybe you do have a critical spirit that just condemns. Judging is one thing. Condemnation, however, is an entirely different thing. We see that in the next verse There's more to this judginess. It seems to indicate that the type of judging is going on beyond beyond accusing a brother of sinning, but now it has gone to suggesting that the brother's behavior demonstrates that he is not a brother. After all. Hmm. This is not judging. This is condemnation. Do you see the difference We read in verse 12 the following: There is only one lawgiver and judge, he who is able to save and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor? Now let's put all this together. Slander is certainly a sin in the tool belt of selfish ambition, is it not? Now we know previously James has been addressing this within the context of the church. And let's face it, slander is a way to promote oneself, a way to defeat an enemy, it's a way to weaken a rival Gossip, I have heard, is sort of said, that it is sort of related to this It is a true story that ends up in a place that it shouldn't. Gossip is a true story that ends up in a place that it shouldn't. To slander is to create false stories, and at times from pieces of truth. Then recast and remodeled to mean something entirely different. The temptation is always there for us to point to another's sins and state the following. Oh, that person can't possibly claim to be a Christian and live like that. Or He can't say he's a Christian and have a mouth like that. No way. After all, aren't we called to look at the fruits of their confession? You see, do you see why Pastor James has put this as a corrective in here We have a tendency to go to one extreme to the other extreme. And Pastor James is trying to help us to see that we can do this. And there's a problem with doing this. When we use this tactic, speaking evil, slander, for selfish ambition, when we state that our perceived rivals Hmm are not fit to serve in positions of power because we have concluded that they are not genuine Christians, then we are putting ourselves in the position of God, are we not? James reminds us that there is only one lawgiver When it comes to this issue of condemning persons as an unbeliever, there's only one judge. There's only one judge that has the ability to save and to destroy. Only one that can declare innocent or guilty in the God's court of law. Do you guys see the problem here? This is very insightful of James. When you take the time to think about it By twisting the teaching of Scripture, one is trying to achieve their selfish ambition. Do you guys see this? Look, one says, does not Scripture teach us that we are saved by faith alone? But that faith demonstrates itself by works, works of righteousness in the life of the believer. Well, look at brother so-and-so. There's no way that you could convince me that they're saved. They continue. Is this not the main trust in James's argument in his epistle? Do you see? This brother has to be removed from his office, or this person can't possibly be considered for that office. James says, when we're doing this, we are not subjecting ourselves being under the law, but instead we're placing ourselves above the law. Do y'all see that? Who is the proper and only judge of the law? God Himself So by twisting scripture and taking on a prerogative that no one can, a person is speaking evil against his brother and committing idolatry at the same time. Now, in an effort to wake us up to this reality, James ends by asking us, who are you to condemn your neighbor? I don't know if you are struggling with this. Brothers and sisters, it can be so subtle. Our sinful jealousy, our sinful ambitions can drive us to places where we have lots to confess before God. Don't we? In order to get or or to remove people from our way, to get the rid of the roadblocks that are standing and achieving our sinful ambitions. We condemn others and in the process break the first table of the law. We place something before God ourselves. We blaspheme by taking the place of God and make ourselves idols of ourselves. So if you were on that show and the the host of the show asked Will the real Almighty please stand up? Based upon what James has taught, might you accidentally stand up? When we read or hear James say, There is only one lawgiver and judge. He who is able to save and to destroy. But who are you to judge and thereby condemn your neighbor? What should our response be? Our response should always be Oh yeah, not my job. Not my place. That's God's job. But you know what This become this can become a way. This can be a backdoor, if you will, to recognize sin in our lives. That's a good thing. That's not a bad thing. That's a wonderful thing to recognize sin in our lives. Because we can flee from our pridefulness and turn to God in humility for his grace to overcome. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you indeed for this wonderful grace that you have given to us. Help us, Holy Spirit, to recognize when in fact we are being a judge Over the law. The truth of the matter, Holy Spirit, is as you have taught us through your word, so every time we sin We are standing in judgment of the law because we think we know better. Help us to recognize. Help us to not choose sin because we can't do it on our own. We need your grace to help us to choose righteousness. Help us to indeed reflect the righteousness of Christ in our lives. And we ask this that he may be glorified. Our Heavenly Father may be glorified in all the things that we say and that