So we uh continue our study uh in the book of Ruth this morning. We will be going through the third chapter. And last week we were introduced to the idea or the notion of the Redeemer or a kinsman redeemer. Now we really didn't go into that in any detail whatsoever. But I decided to s uh to leave it off for this Sunday. So for this morning's sermon, what I'm going to do is to define what was the practice of a kinsman redeemer. The context in which it takes place, and that is the notion of the Jubilee, and the practice also of a leverate marriage. All of these play significantly into the storyline of the Book of Ruth, especially within the context of chapters 3 and 4. So I'm going to go ahead and define them first for us, then have us read the text for today, and then I will be expositing the text. I um just wanted to let you know as I went through it um this week, as I prepared, there's just so many things that just jut out that are important and interesting and very edifying for our souls. So I tried real hard to to bring it down to as little as I can or distill it as I best I can. Well I have some good news and I have some bad news. The uh uh I guess I'll start with the uh the good news. Uh I've been able to break it down to approximately um 6 p. m. I'm thinking will be done by then. And the bad uh that that was the uh that's the good news, right? Um so we'll we'll we'll uh we'll be working through this rather that rather quickly. So let me just go ahead and go through these items here for us and let us as we're hearing about it start thinking more broadly within the context of um the Bible itself and these notions of a kinsman, redeemer and and so forth. So the system that was uh set up by God um uh was that of the uh every fifty years Uh this was known as the year of Jubilee. Uh this was sort of like a time for a reset, a restarting. Things were a return to what they were, that is, prior to the Jubilee. Specifically, what this meant was for land and as well as people were returned. So for example, If you had sold your land for whatever reason, to pay off a debt or whatever it might be, in the year of the Jubilee, it was returned to you or your children. So if you sold yourself off, for example, into servitude or slavery, in the year of Jubilee, you would be freed. Now, in the case of Naomi, if she died and had no heir, which is currently the case where we are in the storyline, It would have gone to the nearest relative, male relative. Since she had no children of her own, it would have gone to Limelec's brothers or their sons. And this would have resulted in one of the most feared things that a Jewish family could ever experience. Their memory and their family name being wiped out forever. So you can see That the year of Jubilee was a provision made by God so that your name or your family would not be blotted out. Now, it was possible that if you had sold your land as well as sold yourself off to slavery, let's say in the fifth year after a Jubilee celebration, This means that you would be in slavery and lose the use of your land for 45 years. If you're an old man or woman, you may die in slavery, right? God made a way for you to be redeemed from slavery, as well as to have your land returned to you before the year of Jubilee. This was accomplished by a redeemer, a kinsman redeemer. Now, this was a right and considered a moral responsibility that was born out of kindness. mercy and love, but let's make it absolutely clear it was not obligatory. The kinsman redeemer could buy out your land from the person you sold it to or free you from slavery. There is another aspect to the kinsman redeemer, and it doesn't immediately apply here, but I don't want to be negligent. The Hebrew word for this kinsman redeemer is Goel Along with that, what I just described is also the definition of a kinsman redeemer is to be an avenger. No, not like in the movies. Specifically, it's a blood avenger. If someone in your family was killed, You had the right and the responsibility as a kinsman redeemer to avenge the death of your family member Now, this is making the assumption that the murderer escaped justice or fled from justice. Now, there is an exception to this, and it is that if the death was unintentional, The person can take refuge in what's called a sanctuary city. Now you can see this all in Numbers chapter 35. But if at any point he left the sanctuary city, the kinsman redeemer can take revenge. Now, the second thing associated with this whole notion of what we're studying today is the leverett marriage. Which can be found in Deuteronomy chapter 25, verses 5 through 10. Now this should not be confused with the Levites Leverett comes from the Latin meaning brother or brother-in-law. Leverett's uh marriage, uh familial or uh It's a lineage thing that goes on. Basically, it is to prevent the family line of the deceased from dying out. The Redeemer was expected to marry the childless widow. The first son born to this new union would be considered the legal heir of the deceased. husband, ensuring the inheritance passed down correctly as well as his family name The following things were required, however, to be a kinsman redeemer. No one can just step up and say, I'm going to redeem. They are that you needed to be related. You had to be near of kin. The closer the relative, the more rights you had. You have to be able to redeem your family members or their land. You also have to be willing to do it. And then finally you will have to pay the price. Being a kinsman redeemer required selflessness and sacrifice was greatly involved So, when Naomi mentioned that Boaz is a kinsman redeemer, she means to say that he's a relative that is eligible to take on that role. The story of Ruth turns now to chapter three. It's interestingly enough shrouded in darkness. In mystery, and it provides intrigue. It takes place, as we shall see, in the middle of the night It's happening where no one can see. And it's the darkness. The darkness provides a privacy that is tenuous or fragile. Let us turn our attention now to the passage this morning. And would you please rise for the reading and hearing of God's holy word? And the following is from the book of Ruth, chapter 3, in its entirety. Then Naomi, her mother-in-law, said to her, My daughter, should I not seek rest? For you, that it may be well with you. Is not Boaz our relative, with whose young women you were? See, he is winnowing barley tonight at the threshing floor. Wash, therefore, and anoint yourself, and put on your cloak, and go down to the threshing floor. But do not make yourself known to the man until he has finished eating and drinking. But when he lies down, observe the place where he lies. Then go and uncover his feet and lie down, and he will tell you what to do. And she replied, All that you say I will do. So she went down to the threshing floor and did just as her mother-in-law had commanded her. And when Boaz had eaten and drunk and his heart was merry. He went to lie down at the end of the heap of grain. Then she came softly and uncovered his feet and lay down. At midnight, the man was startled and turned over, and behold, a woman lay at his feet. He said, Who are you? And she answered, I am Ruth, your servant. Spread your wings over your servant, for you are a redeemer. And he said, May you be blessed by the Lord, my daughter. You have made this last kindness greater than the first, in that you have not gone after young men, whether poor or rich. And now, my daughter, do not fear. I will do for you all that you ask, for all my fellow townsmen know that you are a worthy woman. And now it is true that I am a redeemer Yet there is a redeemer nearer than I. Remain tonight and in the morning, if he will redeem you. Good. Let him do it. But if he is not willing to redeem you, then as the Lord lives, I will redeem you. Lie down until the morning So she lay at his feet until the morning, but arose before one could recognize another And he said, Let it not be known that the woman came to the threshing floor. And he said, Bring the garment you are wearing, and hold it out. So she held it. And he measured out six measures of barley, and put it on her. Then she went into the city, and when she came to her mother-in-law, she said, How did you fare, my daughter? Then she told her all that the man had done for her saying, These six measures of barley he gave to me, for he said to me, You must not go back empty-handed to your mother-in-law. She replied, Wait. Wait, my daughter, until you learn how the matter turns out. For the man will not rest, but will settle the matter today. This is the word of God. Okay. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, be with us now, we pray. Help us to see, help us to understand, help us to be changed by your word, so that we may be conformed. To the image of our great Savior, the Lord Jesus, in whose name we pray. Amen. So the first verse returns to the notion of rest. It had been something that Naomi wished for her daughters-in-law. that they not return with her to Judah, if you recall, she wished them rest. meaning that they return to their homes, find a husband, have children, and get on with their lives, find rest. Here, she speaks with the authority of a parent, as if it's sort of her responsibility to find Ruth a permanent home, a resting place. Previously, she turned to God for this, and now God has providentially provided an opportunity. Naomi is doing her part She is going through the door, if you will. This is an important lesson for us, I think. When we pray for something, and the Lord has opened the door for us, we must be attentive and take what opportunities God gives us. Sometimes, I think, we pray for something and think that it should come out a specific kind of way. But God who hears our prayers may choose to answer it in an entirely different way. And in the process, we may think that God is idle. They're not hearing us. Perhaps he said no to us. And he hasn't answered the prayer yet. Or something entirely different altogether. Like he just doesn't care. This means that we have to rethink the way that we pray, the way that we approach prayer, as well as our involvement in prayer. Sometimes we need to be specific and not so broad. Father, I pray for peace. You need to be a little bit more specific. And we need to be careful to remember that even in the way that we anticipate our prayers to be answered, that we as Christians have to take Literally and broadly, what we pray when we pray, let thine will be done. And that includes how he answers our prayers. I think when we struggle with this, it reveals something about ourselves, doesn't it? I think what it reveals is that we think we know a better way of how things God should get things done. That reminds us that we are so finite in our perspective. God has an unbelievable amount of balls in the air And he accomplishes them in the best possible manner. It's like that old joke that you've probably heard a couple of times and sadly you you you you won't be spared this morning. It's like when the man is stuck in a storm And floods come in, and you know he he climbs up all the way up to the roof and um and he's praying to God, Lord save me, Lord save me. And God sends a uh a truck first uh with with a policeman saying, Come on down, jump down before it's too late. And the man says, No, no, no, no, I'm waiting for God to to save me. And then next uh it gets so high that a boat comes by and and this man tells him to jump in the boat and th you can be saved. It's no no no no I'm waiting for God to save me. And then once again a helicopter comes with so high and says, Come, give me your hand and we'll save you. And he said, No, no, no, no. I'm waiting for God to save me. And what happens? He dies. And he stands before God in heaven and he and he says Where were you? I've been waiting for you to save me. And God says, Well, you know, I sent several several things and ways for you to be saved, and you didn't take advantage of it. He wanted to be saved a specific type of way. And sometimes in our prayer lives, in the things that we desire before God, we we can make very clear, I think. But we also have in our minds how it's supposed to come about, and we have to be careful in the way that we think. And we have to recognize that God does open doors and uses us to accomplish those prayers. Now in verse 2, she says that Boaz will be at the threshing floor tonight. Her point being that there will be an opportunity for them to talk privately under the cover of darkness. Naomi instructs Ruth to go down to the festivities, which includes the processing of the harvested barley. But before she does, she is to bathe herself, put on some perfume, and put on a dress appropriate to the occasion. But the occasion that Naomi has in mind is not just that of the festivities, but it is for Ruth to be as alluring as possible to Boaz. If that is what she is to do before she gets there, she is now told what to do when she arrives. In verse 3, Naomi instructs her to not make contact with him or even be noticed by him until after he has finished his meal As some commentators have noted, Naomi is shrewdly calculating when the right moment would be for Ruth to make contact with Boaz. She wants him to be in a good mood. Naomi is leaving nothing to chance, if you will. She is trying to get the best possible outcome. She is using human ingenuity for achieving a worthy purpose. We ourselves must be aware of this. When we ask God for something, we have to realize that He may use us as agents to accomplish our requests. We must pray for something and not sit and not wait, as the illustration has already pointed out to us. The word translated in verse 4 as but can equally be translated as something like and finally or now this is crucial. In any case, this is the culmination and the critical part of Naomi's plan. Ruth is to notice where and when Boaz goes to lie down to sleep. Having the possibility that others may be present there also, Ruth is to carefully and stealthily wait and follow him to where he falls asleep. Coming back to the notion of, now this is crucial, Ruth is to carefully follow Boaz, because there is no coming back. from the embarrassment associated with following the wrong man, as it would be pitch black. Hey, no electricity, no lights, no street lamps, maybe some moonlight at the most. Waiting for some time to pass, when the man falls asleep, she was to enter in the area, uncover his feet, and lie down. Now let's just stop here for a moment and think about this. Pretty daring stuff, right Go dress up perfumed with all you know with all your hair all nice But don't let him see you or smell you during the festivities. Not just yet. But follow him to the place where he goes after his meal Listen, it's dark. Be very careful that you are not following the wrong man Otherwise, this can end up very badly with great embarrassment. Would you be fearful if you were Ruth? Would you be nervous If you were Ruth? Would you do it if you were Ruth? And we know that she says, okay. But let's be honest, this requires a bit of boldness, courage, assertiveness. This is a woman who is willing to take a calculated risk and has confidence both in herself and God. That as long as she is not committing sin, God will be with those who pursue and conduct themselves in righteousness. As we mentioned last week, Ruth is not mousy. She is a woman of God. And that does not mean that she is unnecessarily quiet. She is a woman that expresses her opinions at the right time and in the right way. She is not rude. She is not obnoxious. but stands up for her rights and asks for things that may be above and beyond custom, but not sinful. Would this brave woman succeed? Would she follow the wrong guy? Would she kick it out? Now, before we discover what happens next, let's talk a bit about what's happening in verse 4, the rest of the instructions. Uncovering his feet and lying down. Uncovering means to make visible something that is hidden Now, the verb used here in this context was normally understood and used perhaps at times as illicit sexual situations. Readers would have gotten that immediately. This would have been immoral and prohibited behavior. But Naomi saying place of feet meant the place where his feet lay. She was to remove the blanket and lay down next to his feet. So what's the purpose of this action? What does it mean? Well, the first thing is that it was designed to show Boaz that she was a person who was seeking out his protection Some argue that this is a picture of submission or authority, and they would reference places like Exodus 11:8. Now, in the light of verse 9, where Ruth will Propose marriage. This is less likely an explanation. Strategically speaking, it is argued by some This ensures that the two wouldn't talk until they were both alone, or perhaps the only ones that were awake, thus maximizing privacy. Having done all of this, the last move will be Boaz's. She says, he will tell you what to do. As we shall see, Ruth will exceed Naomi's instructions. Not disobey, not be rude, not obnoxious but also be assertive to express her desire. Today you will find, and perhaps you may have attended many conferences classes on many topics of study, and one of them is sales training, for example. And one of the most important things that they will teach you during sales training is that you have to ask for the order. If you don't ask, you may not get. Well, it seems that Ruth understood well that it's a truism in whatever age that if you don't ask You may never get. And this is Naomi's plan. She is taking a calculated risk. That Boaz will not take advantage of the situation and put Ruth in a compromising situation. Naomi has made some assumptions upon Boaz's personal character and commitment to God. Nonetheless, she is asking Bruce to put herself in a very daring situation. Ruth responds with compliance. She will obediently do as Naomi has instructed her. This demonstrates Ruth's trust in Naomi and that she is interested in her well-being. Verse 6 then relates that she did exactly as Naomi commanded her. So after a good meal and a proper amount of perhaps wine. It produced in Boaz exactly what Naomi anticipated would be produced in Boaz. He was in a good mood, his heart was merry, but not only a good mood, but at some point it also produced drowsiness. And so he went to lie down. Boas moved to a different part of the threshing floor besides the grain pile. This heap of grain was already separated and ready for sale. Now our translations have it as, after he went to lie down, then she came softly. The then could very well and is translated as sometime later. The amount of time is not specific, but the idea is that she waited until he fell asleep. And so you can imagine, and almost here, in the silence of the night, Ruth's heart Beating loudly as she carefully makes her way towards him, neither winking or getting anyone's attention along the way. She follows Naomi's instructions to the letter. She uncovers his feet and lies by his feet. Now this is an uncomfortable scene, right? Maybe this man can sleep through a nuclear holocaust. What if he doesn't wake up before someone else does and sees her there? What do you say? What do you do? And so Ruth waits. We're told that it's about the midnight hour. We really don't know exactly how much time has just passed, but it's about midnight. The man was startled. And he turned over, and what did he find lying at his feet? A woman. What would you be thinking? How much did I drink? Is this a dream? Is this a joke? Does this remind you of something? Maybe the garden. The man goes into a deep sleep. Then he wakes up, and there's a woman. We'll return to that at some time in the near future. Now, verse 9 has two verbs that are difficult to figure out. And one specifically to translate, as it's rarely ever used. The first is that he was startled Very literally, it means to fear or to have fear. And so some commentators say there was something that caused him to get up in fear, but there's nothing in the text that tells us what it would be. But another way to understand this verb is that he woke up from the chill on his feet. And the second that is difficult is the turning over. The word could mean to grasp, to grasp oneself, but as you can see, it just doesn't make any sense to translate it that way Another is to turn over or perhaps bend over, to bend up, as he is on his back. He's bent up to grasp the blanket covering him to extend it over his cold feet. What is really more important here is that after he has turned or bent up, he discovers this young woman by his feet. And since this is not what normally happens when you wake up, he responds quite naturally with surprise. Remember, it's dark. And he wouldn't have been able to make out who this woman was. Think about it. Here is this godly, honorable man. Godly follower of God, finding a woman by his feet in the dark. What a tense, silent, awkward. Long moment. And even instilling fear, this is where we find ourselves Will he now tell her what to do as Naomi speculated that he would? After he asks, she identifies herself. I am Ruth Note, she does not answer Ruth, the Moabitus. She says, your maidservant. And that immediately identifies her not as a lower class servant, but as one who is among those in society who is eligible for marriage. Just when Naomi predicted that he would give her instruction, Ruth departs from the script. She tells him what she wants. Again, this is an assertive woman She really isn't afraid of rejection. So let me ask you, Christian, are you afraid to do things? Because of a fear of rejection. I think one of the ways for us to overcome rejection is to recognize that God has a plan for us. And when it doesn't go the way we want, it's certainly not going the way God wants. And his ways, it certainly will go the way God wants, and his ways, we have to admit, are the best ways. You see, overcoming rejection requires us to be flexible in the way that we see God working out his plans in our lives. The language is quite clear. It is that she's asking him to take her as his wife. The verbiage that she uses to be under his wings or corner of the garment is matrimonial language We see this clearly in Ezekiel 16 and 8, where we read, this is now God talking to Israel When I passed by you again and saw you, behold, you are at the age for love, and I spread the corner of my garment. Over you and covered your nakedness. I made my vow and you entered into a covenant with you, declares the Lord God, and you became mine. Now, not only there, but we've already seen this type of language before. In the book of Ruth, if you recall, it was in chapter 2 and verse 12. The Lord repay you for what you have done, and a full reward be given you by the Lord, the God of Israel. And here it is, under whose wings you have come to take refuge. Right. It was then that he affirms, Boaz affirms, that she had given herself to God. the God of Israel, and she carried her name, carried his name as her God and protector in covenant bonds. Here in this verse, she is using the very same language he used to tell him that she wants to be in the covenant relationship of marriage And to have his name and for her to be his protector. What she is asking for is undeniable Now, a reason that she offered was that he was a redeemer. I don't know if we caught that in her request. And in this statement, we get a hint in that this would be for Naomi's benefit This may provide her an heir so that her husband's family name and lands would continue. She is demonstrating actions that would show herself as being worthy of membership within Israel as a Moabitist. After she makes her proposal, Boaz speaks. May you be blessed by the Lord, my daughter. There it is again. Both Naomi and Boaz address her in a fashion that demonstrates a significant difference in their ages. For example, teenagers don't call one another my daughter or my son unless they're being fresh with one another, right? So this immediately reminds us that there is an age gap between them. And he continues. You have made this last kindness greater than the first. The first was that she cared for Naomi and was faithful to her. But the bigger picture was that she gave up her false gods and gave herself to the God of Israel, Yahweh. And now what he means by this kindness, the second, is that she did not make herself available to eligible bachelors of the day. The young men within the community who would have you know, been considered m m marrying her, and for for young ladies to marry men. Now, if you're asking w what that means, it's that when she said, Since you are a redeemer, The kindness is in similar fashion. Just as she showed faithfulness to God by coming with Naomi to Judah to be uh uh with and adopt the ways of God's people to live with the law of Moses, she was by appealing to his ability to be the kinsman redeemer by use of the Leveret law We talked about that earlier on. She has shown great kindness to Naomi, because those young bachelors may have not been kinsmen redeemers. in that she would give Naomi an heir, so that Elimelech would not lose his land, nor his family name. Secondly, she has shown her kindness in that she has so fully adopted the way of Israel. That she, a Gentile, a stranger to the people of God, an enemy of God, has so fully accepted God's ways She is living up the law so much more than the average Judyite. Especially in their generation, if you recall, where people did whatever was right in their own eyes. In this verse, we're seeing something very significant. Ruth, Emoabitus. Has been so readily seen and understood by a righteous man. As being committed to God and his ways, that she is a Gentile who has been engrafted into the community of God. She is a legitimate believer and follower of God, and should be given all the rights and privileges of being a Jewish believer. And frankly, be someone to emulate a Moabitis. Let's take a time out here to point out two things before we move on We can see here that there is a foreshadowing of Gentiles entering into the community of God's elect to live amongst God's Israel. We have seen the fulfillment of this. We are the fulfillment of this. The Israel of God, the church, is filled with both ethnic Jewish Christians. And Gentile Christians. It welcomes all sorts of Gentiles, whether they are converts from cults of Christianity or Muslims, Buddhists. All are welcome into the arms of the church. And this is all by a singular and common faith in Christ as our God and our Savior. Secondly, this book was written after the time of the judges and may well serve as an apologetic. A defense against those who would side with Saul as king. David's opponents would say something to the effect Why should we go with David? Look at his heritage. There's a Moabitus in that lineage. This is scandalous. Boaz, a worthy man, quote unquote, worthy man, a righteous man. As a collective representative and speaker for the nation, has deemed her as acceptable and held up as someone to imitate. Going back to verses 11 and 12 now, he assures her. He tells her to not fear. He will not take advantage of her. Nor will he report her to other people of any impropriety. She took a big risk by coming out and doing what she did. Boaz, and for that matter anyone, who saw what she did and recognized her could very well Misunderstand her intentions and brand her a harlot, wanted to take advantage of a wealthy old man. But Boaz says, I will do all that you ask. And people know that you are a worthy woman. He uses that very same word in the way that he is described by our author. Same word. And he is a righteous, upstanding man of God, and therefore she is also an upright, righteous follower of Yahweh. Now, to the point of acting as the kinsman-redeemer, Boas says it's true, I am a kinsman-redeemer. But there is someone else who has a claim that comes before me. Do y'all remember at the beginning of the sermon we talked about the different aspects of kinsmen redeemers? Being an upright man, he is not going to usurp someone else's right, but he's going to do it God's way. He will offer him the opportunity to exercise his right as the kinsman redeemer before he does anything. He knows that as part of the Leverett custom, Boaz could not offer to marry Ruth without that compromising. Naomi's claim for an heir. If he is not the kinsman redeemer and he marries Ruth, Any male offspring from that union could not claim Elimelech's land. The kinsman redeemer would have to sire a child. Through Ruth, as Naomi is no longer able to have children. I hope this is not too confusing. But the idea is that for the sake of Naomi It's all or nothing. And they are willing to wait it out and see what God will do. So he instructs her to remain with him, as he did not want her to go back in the middle of the night, as this was potentially dangerous for a young woman to travel in the dark. And he says, if the man is willing to redeem you, good. He's not saying that it's a good thing or something that he wants to occur. But it should be understood as an acceptance of God's will if it plays out that way. What a mature believer this man is, isn't he? He has a desire. And a goal. But he is willing to place them under God's desire and pleasure and goal Isn't this where we need to be Christian? In our lives and in our walks, in all things. Truly accepting the meaning of, let thy will be done. not let mine will be done in the manner that I think it should be done However, he continues, if he is not willing, this other kinsman redeemer, I stand ready and willing. In the meantime, get some rest. On the pre-dawn hour, as our text tells us, before anyone could recognize another, they get up. Not want to be noticed, still with a scandal, a very real possibility They depart. But before they do, he tells her to hold out her garment and hold it out firmly and tightly, as he pours out a large amount of harvested, processed barley. We really don't know the amount that was uh that was given, but it in the in the Hebrew it just says six, a measure of six, but not really what that measure is. And so it it probably wasn't an FF because it would have been hundreds of pounds. There's no way she would have been able to carry that back But it could have been um a seha, which would have been on the the lower end maybe 59 pounds and that is reasonable if Ruth It was hardy, right? She could have handled that. And it was put on top of her, right? He helped her to put it on top of her so she would carry it over her shoulder, I guess. Many have said that it would have covered her head and made her unrecognizable. And at the same time, if she was recognized, it would have shown her to be industrious. going early, working hard, and making a purchase. Saruth arrives home very early in the morning. Naomi, knowing that she didn't return the previous night, I think would have been on pins and needles. With great curiosity, she asks, What happened? So Ruth tells her what transpired. And that he gave her barley to take to Naomi, saying that she must not go back empty-handed to Naomi. This has been understood as this being a way for Boaz to communicate a desire to marry her daughter-in-law A wedding gift, if you will. And also that he is willing to take on the role of the kinsman redeemer. So in summary, Naomi replies, just you wait and see. This man is not going to rest until he settles the matter. He's not going to waste any time. He's going to settle it today. How will it be settled? Will the other kinsmen redeemer say yes and live up to his obligations? Where will this leave Boaz? Who seems quite smitten at this point and impressed by this godly woman. Will Ruth, who seems to be also attracted to this godly man, Have to marry another, one whom she does not or may not know? If that should happen, what would Naomi do then, if anything, to prevent that from happening? This we shall have to return to next week, knowing that none of you have read ahead. I don't want to spoil it. However, before we close today, there are some things that we need to reflect upon. According to law and custom, the goel. Had to meet three criteria. Be a blood relative. You had to be part of the family. Be able to redeem. He had to possess the financial means to pay the redemption price, and he had to be willing to redeem. He had to voluntarily agree to take on that responsibility. We see that Yahweh is the Redeemer of Israel. The one who promised to defend and vindicate them. He is both Father and Deler. We see that in Exodus chapter 20 and verse 2. There are numerous Old Testament appeals to God as the rescuer of the weak. and needy, and preserver of the sheep of Israel. Now there's a theological parallel here. The kinsman redeemer in Ruth is seen as a foreshadowing of Jesus the Christ. Who acts as the ultimate redeemer for humanity You see, he qualifies as a close relative by becoming human, by taking on flesh. He is both willing and able to pay the price through his death to redeem people from slavery of sin and death And to get us to the land, the new heavens, and the new earth In the New Testament, Christ is often regarded as an example of a kinsman redeemer, because, Hebrews 2. 11, as our brother. He also redeems us because of our great need. One that only he can satisfy. In 3. 9 of Ruth, we see a beautiful and poignant picture of a needy supplicant, unable to rescue herself. Requesting the kinsman redeemer that he cover her with his protection, redeem her, and make her his wife. In the same way, the Lord Jesus brought us for himself. He saved us from the curse. He made us his own beloved bride and blessed us for all generations. He is the true kinsman redeemer of all who call on his name by faith. Shall we pray? Heavenly Father, we thank you for sending us that kinsman Redeemer, who is your Son, the Lord Jesus. That he has saved us from our own slavery. And we live out the year of Jubilee throughout all of eternity. We pray, Heavenly Father, that you would help us to reflect this great kinsman, Redeemer, in our lives To be selfless and sacrificial, to proclaim the praises of your wondrous name and the offer of salvation. So that you may use that to redeem those whom you wish. And we ask that you would do this ultimately in all for your glory. And we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.