Well, good morning. Good to be with you all again. For our New Testament lesson, let's turn to the Gospel of Matthew. You'll uh perhaps be able to keep up with me, but I'm going to be dipping in in the fifth and sixth and seventh chapter for our reading this morning. So it might be just as well if you just listen along. But if you want to try and keep up, I'll alert you as I move through these selections from our Lord's teaching. Consider now the Word of God from Matthew 5 at verse 13. You are the salt of the earth, but if the salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? It's no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet. On to verse 44 of that chapter. But I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. So that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes his son rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and the unjust. Now of chapter 6 at verse 19. Do not lay up for yourselves treasure on earth where moss and rust destroy, where thieves break in and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, where thieves do not break in and steal. Now at chapter 6, verse 24, no one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other. Or he'll be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money. To chapter 7 at verse 9. Or which of you, if his son asks him for bread, will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will give him a serpent If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him? In that same chapter at verse 16, speaking of false teachers, you will recognize them by their fruits, are grapes gathered from thorn bushes, or figs from thistles. So every healthy tree bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit. A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good fruit. And finally, at Matthew 7 and verse 24, everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, but it did not fall, because it had been founded on the rock. And everyone who hears these words of mind and does not do them will be like the foolish man who built his house on the sand, and the rain fell, and the floods came. And the winds blew and beat against that house, and it fell, and great was the fall of it. And when Jesus had finished saying these things, the crowds were astonished at his teaching. For he was teaching them as one who had authority, not as the scribes. May the Lord add his blessing to this reading of his word. Our text this morning is found in Proverbs chapter twenty-four, verses thirty to thirty-four. This is one of my favorite portions of Scripture, and it always reminds me of a love that I have, a love for understanding the way things work. Whenever I go to some new town, if there's some factory or uh some uh manufacturing plant that uh allows for tours, I always love to take the tour, to find out. how things were put together. I have to admit, when I bought our children that lovely illustrated book by David Macaulay entitled the way things work. It was as much for me as it was for the kids to see his wonderful illustrations about the different ways that things are put together and the way they accomplish their purposes. It's extraordinarily interesting, but uh we know well that there are times when it's probably not so good to know the way things come to pass, the way things are put together. One of our favorite uh television programs in our home is Good Eats, a program by Alton Brown, where he talks about how to cook and uh the different ways the chemistries have uh cooking come to pass and the tools to be used. He recently did one on sausage. And although sausage is one of my favorite things in the world to eat, when I saw that his recipe included a a half a pound of fat back. It did make it a little grim to think about the next enjoyment of sausage. So too in this uh uh part of the country, of course, we're aware that sausage is often compared to the way legislation is made. And if you know anything about the story of this new film, Charlie Wilson's War, you see there vividly portrayed perhaps some good thing done, but in a manner that is absolutely distressing to behold. It's hard to think of our government functioning in the way that's described in that film. But not only is it interesting to know how things work, uh sometimes distressing to learn it. But the fact of the matter is, often if we can watch someone bring something to pass, we can learn, learn a good bit about how to do it ourselves. We have a good friend who's an electrician, and uh uh I am fascinated by the work of the electrician. It's exciting work because you always know straight away if you've done something wrong, if you're working with hot wires, which seems to me to be a great advantage, although a little shocking. And uh when our friend Herb comes over to the house to help with the electrical work, I always watch him intently so that if it has to be done again, I don't have to call on Herb but I can figure out how to do it myself from his pattern. Well, our text this morning in the Proverbs provides for us not only a bit of wisdom, An outcome, but it also provides for us a lesson in how that outcome was achieved. Not only wisdom, we learn in this text, but the way of wisdom. Consider with me then Proverbs chapter 24, beginning at verse 30. I passed by the field of a sluggard. by the vineyard of a man lacking sense. And behold, it was all overgrown with thorns, and the ground was covered with metals, and its stone wall was broken down. And then I saw and considered it. I looked and received instruction. A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest, and poverty will come upon you like a robber and want like an armed man. Thus, the Word of God. Let us pray together. Our Father, we thank you that you are the God of wisdom And we pray that as you have been pleased to include in our rule of faith and practice this wonderful book of wisdom. That you'd grant us grace to receive and to learn. And we pray this for your glory in the name of our Savior. Amen. Well, as I say, what we have here is both wisdom and the way of wisdom And that distinction will set before us the two parts of what I want to say about this proverb. We're going to look at the principle of wisdom articulated here. But we're also going to consider the lesson about how we get wisdom that's included in our text. First of all, the principle of wisdom. That principle is found in verses 33 and 34. This is the lesson that the wise man would have us learn. A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest. And poverty will come upon you like a robber and want like an armed man. Now we can Consider that this lesson is probably a very important lesson because in fact it's found twice in the book of wisdom, the book of Proverbs. This is the repetition of a lesson that had been previously taught. in a series of exhortations to the sluggard in Proverbs chapter 6, the very same lesson articulated there. It's an important lesson, a truth about the world, that's needed to rouse the sleepy from their indolence. The sluggard is the one who's very much not interested in labor, particularly physical labor. He's one who likes to rest. But the truth about the world is this, that if you simply do nothing, it's not as if nothing will happen But in fact, catastrophe follows upon doing nothing. Here's the way the world is: walls don't just rise up out of the ground. What walls do after they're built is fall down. There's a principle in the world, a principle of dissolution. And if you don't know that that is in fact the way the world is, you are going to find yourself in a hard way. If you do nothing, things will go badly for you unless you labor diligently. Generally speaking, you're going to suffer. And the wise man wants God's people to understand this in order for them to be actively engaged in the world. And in fact, there's a striking discontinuity. The proverb shocks us because we begin a little slumber, a little sleep, a little folding of the hands to rest, this sort of Quiet introduction and suddenly at the tail end of the proverb comes this shock. An armed man is going to pounce on you A brigand will uh take you the what you have away. Uh you'll be beaten, and you'll find yourself in difficulty that you won't be able to overcome This lesson about the world is critical for God's people in order to engage it, and the wise man would have us understand it. But the second point is this, that this proverb beautifully gives us an insight into how this wisdom was gained, this aphorism, where did it come from? Was it the clouds opening and thus saith the Lord? A little slumber, a little sleep, a little folding of the hands to rest. No. Was it the finger of God upon a wall, writing it out? Or perhaps a prophet in some kind of wild ecstasy speaking forth No. Where did this wisdom come from? Well, we see it in our text. We see the uh sort of birth of a proverb. Here's a fellow who's just going by the way. Perhaps he was walking on his way to church. But he is not one who sort of walks with his head in the clouds. He's one who, as he's going by his way, perhaps for some other purpose, is nevertheless observant. He says, I passed by the field of a sluggard. Now not only is he observant, considering what's going on around him, but he's discerning with respect to human character. He knows that, for example, behavior isn't just random, but regular behavior is a manifestation of the inward state of a person. And that's why people can be generally characterized. There's a person who's very little given to diligent enterprise in the world that's manifests itself over and over again, and so he's properly named. is called a sluggard. Our observer here discerns character. Now The field of the sluggard, what's its characteristic? Well, the sluggard hasn't been at work there. It's overgrown. Uh thorns have grown up r rather than uh the perhaps olive plants or uh the grapes. Um And the wall, which perhaps it was inherited, this field, the sluggard's not much given to building walls, but there had been a wall, but the wall hadn't been preserved. It's beginning to fall down. And so he discerns, here is a person who's little given to work, and here is the outcome of such a life. The wrong things are growing, and what had been created is beginning to fall down. There's a principle of decay in the world. He sees this. And notice, he sees it, but it's more, he considers the phenomena before him. He doesn't just perceive with his eyes, but rather, our text says he received instruction from this. He was taught something by this. Now, who taught him? Well, God did. But how did God teach him? by principles of wisdom observable in the world. God didn't come whisper in his ear. But God had put principles in the world that the observant and the carefully thoughtful could discern. The Proverbs, in fact, tell us in 3. 19 that God created the world by wisdom And the wisdom of God is embedded in the world, and the thoughtful observer can discern lessons from God about the way the world works. But he just doesn't consider it at one point and then let it flip out of his brain. But rather the last portion is that he formulates for himself a lesson. out of this observed phenomenon. It's this aphorism, this proverb. He wants to preserve what he's learned, and that's why he puts it in this wonderfully memorable form. A little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest, and poverty will come upon you like an armed man. He frames for himself this proverb in order both to guide his own future behavior so that he can remember this principle of wisdom, but also to be helpful to others. particularly to be helpful to those who aren't experienced, who haven't learned yet the way of the world Because now they'll be able to gain wisdom not only by this process of observation and drawing lessons, but they'll be able to hear this aphorism, as it were, apart from experience, and learn to be prepared for for experience. They won't have to go through the business of resting and being beaten by an armed man. They'll know antecedent to any such experience what the way of wisdom is. Thus our text. And of course, the Lord who is behind the formulation of our canon, behind the gathering of these proverbs from various parts of the world and in the life of Israel, the Lord wanted his people to understand not only this principle of wisdom. but understand the way of wisdom. And so it was preserved for Israel throughout her ages. But now what about you and I? What about in our place in redemptive history? Well, here's the thing. The Proverbs are full of wisdom, but Israel did not act according to wisdom. Israel acted according to folly. And Israel finally came under judgment. And this reminds us of something very important about the Old Testament period of redemptive history. Israel had a law. A law that was perfect. And if a person had ordered their life according to that law, they'd have known the blessedness of God Israel had wisdom, wisdom that was the gathering of all that God had implanted into the world about how to live Well, how to choose the best goals and order then your life according to that choice, the best means to the ends. Israel had all of that, but it was futile For Israel, Israel failed with respect to the beauty of the law. Israel failed with respect to the beauty of the wisdom God had granted them. And this reminds us that it's not just the right rule that's needful for men and women It's not just having wisdom that is needed to make us wise. In fact, you have to have a heart to embrace wisdom You have to have a heart to embrace the right rule of God's holy law. And that's precisely what, apart from God's grace, we do not have. If it's true in the natural world that there's a principle of dissolution at work, all the more is it true in the spiritual world. There is a principle of dissolution at work. We are all under a curse, spiritually speaking, we are all sluggards. It's not enough for us to have wisdom because our hearts are not disposed to follow wisdom. In fact, having such proverbs available to us finally, at least for spiritual purposes, stand in our judgment We may, for a time, for practical purposes, follow them, but ultimately we turn away from wisdom. And for all of those who trust in themselves, they will find that finally their sluggardly character spiritually will lead them to poverty, a poverty that will come upon them like a robber and want like an armed man. And that's why we need Jesus. Because Jesus is the one who comes and follows the way of wisdom. And in his life, in his way of wisdom, he earns the blessedness of God. And in Christ, the wisdom of God, being willing to take the curse that belonged to us. Jesus makes it possible for us to be relieved of the condemnation that's properly ours. And he grants all of this as a gift So that now there is no condemnation for us in Christ Jesus. Now it's the case that we're the heirs of God's blessing, and chief among the blessings is the renovation of our hearts. that we might turn to him and find his wisdom attractive, find it wonderful, find it drawing us to himself. We have the forgiveness of our sins, we have acceptance with God, and by the power of the Spirit, now we're enabled to live wisely as unto God. And thus, Jesus is a teacher of wisdom to his people. A wonderful teacher because he sets out not only the principles of wisdom, but he grants us the heart. To embrace that wisdom. Perhaps you've never noticed this in the teaching of Jesus. But over and over again, Jesus will say, not so much, thus saith the Lord. But he'll appeal to his hearers to consider principles of wisdom. They're embedded in the world itself. Jesus taught not like the scribes, but as one who had authority, an authority that was rooted in his astute observations of the principles that God had embedded in the world. So, in Matthew 5 at verse 13, he says to his followers, you are the salt of the earth. But if salt has lost its taste, How shall its saltiness be restored? It's no longer good for anything but to be thrown out and trampled underfoot. He appeals to their own experience about the world Now, of course, pure salt cannot lose its salty taste. But sodium chloride An impure salt can be leached out, leaving its residue remaining a substance that is accordingly tasteless. And Israel, the observant in Israel, would have known this. And they would have seen that something can have a virtue at a time. But it can lose it and become worthless. And Jesus takes that principle about the world and applies it to their circumstances spiritually. We're in Matthew 5 at verses 44 and 45. He says, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. On what ground? On what basis? He says, look, haven't you observed the world? Don't you know that although men and women are dead in trespass and sin, God doesn't unleash his wrath against them all just now? But rather, both the wicked and the righteous enjoy the blessings of God. He causes the sun to shine and the rain to fall There is a principle of goodness toward even the unworthy in your father's action in the world, and if you are to be a child of your father, You must act as he does. And you'd have known this if you'd have simply observed the world. You ref observe, reflect And draw a conclusion. That's what Jesus has done here. Or in Matthew chapter 6 at verse 19, he says, Don't lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy, where thieves break in and steal. He says, observe the world and reflect on it. My grandfather had a farm in Lancaster. And uh the uh Uh uh o often there weren't folk there during the winter. It was used mostly as a summer place. And uh it was always so interesting. Uh a as a kid I can remember going when we'd open the place up and air it out for the new season, pulling out the drawers and uh often I I'd pick out some bit of linen and and and it would just virtually crumble in my hand and great holes and so on. And I So what on earth is going on with the linen? Well, of course there were moths that had gotten in any Or you think of uh the character of Rust, it's so extraordinary. I mean here you have something that you couldn't have bent with your hands if you were the strongest person in the world, and yet when r rust gets at it it finally flakes up uh l l like uh uh uh breakfast cereal. The and of course if you've ever been robbed, uh y y you know the sense of helplessness. Uh uh one time some folks while we were out broke in our back door altogether, so they must have had a sledgehammer then. That was where they got in and ramsacked the house and took things, things that had been precious to us. And uh it was a lesson on the tenth grade. temporal character of the world. Well, Jesus is saying, now don't just have those experiences, but rather, observing them, reflect on them. And reflecting on them, draw the conclusion that if your life is all about things that are liable to such dissolution, then your life itself is hardly worth anything more than that. Rather, you've got to find some way for treasures to be preserved long term, and that awakens, of course, the interest of a person to say, well, where is such a place as this? Or in Matthew chapter 6 at verse 24. No man can serve two masters. He'll love the one and hate the other. And of course Everyone has seen this circumstance where there's the competition between two who want to be in charge of another But here the wise man, Jesus, reflects on it. And he says, You see, there's a principle here where you simply cannot be ultimately devoted to two different people. There must be a singleness of purpose, a solitary character of the heart's devotion, in order to be faithful properly speaking. He observes, he reflects, and he concludes. In Matthew chapter 7, which of you, if he asks his son for a bread, will give him a stone? Well, here, you've looked around and you see that even earthly fathers, for all their failings, have a profound interest in the good of their children to do them good And here Jesus has said, God is our Heavenly Father. Can you not reflect on the circumstances of earthly fathers and draw the conclusion that therefore your Heavenly Father must be desirous of blessing well beyond the mere earthly father, his beloved children that should strengthen you to ask to go to him confident in his care. Or concerning false prophets, Jesus says, look, have you not observed you don't get grapes from the thornbush? A bad tree gives bad fruit. A good tree gives good fruit. You can know things by their fruits. And this principle about the natural world is perfectly applicable to to the spiritual world. So you can be alert with respect to false teachers because you'll find finally if they're bad within, they will be bad without. Or finally, Jesus says, if you listen to my words, you will find wisdom. And he's been showing us wisdom throughout. And he draws it to a conclusion in this wonderful story of the house built on the rock and the house built on the sand. And he says, you look, in the world, you know that if something is to stand, it has to have the right foundation. And on the right foundation, even great storms, well, something built on such a foundation can withstand it And so he says your life must be this way, built on a solid foundation, a lesson learned. He observes, he reflects, and he concludes. And Jesus does this that we might learn to live according to wisdom. And as I said, he's granted us the heart to embrace such a way of wisdom Now let's think a little further about how this applies to us, first of all, for our younger members of the congregation this morning. Let me say to you that the book of Proverbs is in the Bible, specially for you. Proverbs are provided in the Bible for the young, especially the inexperienced, those who don't know all the lessons about the world just yet And you ought to pay careful attention to that book. You ought to ask mom and dad to help you understand it and to learn its lessons, to take them, as it were, as precious jewels. They're little lights to help guide you along the way. But you'll notice this, my young friends, if you pay careful attention to the Proverbs. You'll notice this, that you'll understand the way of wisdom sometimes, but you won't want to do it. You'll prefer another way. But the proverb helps you even there, because it's revealing to you something about yourself. There is something within you that doesn't want wisdom. And you'll see that in relation to the Proverbs. And that'll be a reminder to you that you need to look to Jesus. Because only Jesus can overcome that principle in you that doesn't want to be wise. Only Jesus can give you a heart. That will lead you to devote yourself to wisdom. And Jesus loves to give such a heart to children just such as you are. Look to him learning the lessons of the Proverbs. Now for parents, let me encourage you in this way. You are folk who are supposed to be living and learning so that you can offer proverbs to your children It's the experienced. It's the aged, those who have learned through experience, who are to be guides to the young. But in order to do so, you have to be observant with respect to the world. You have to reflect on the lessons to be learned, and then you have to frame little principles for yourself and for others. That's one of your callings as parents. To provide guidance for the young. Rooted in your own lessons about the world. But perhaps in our day, if we're observant at all, we're certainly not reflective. And if we're reflective at all, we tend to just let things flit off our brain. We don't preserve them by formulating principles to guide us. But this was the calling of God's people of old and is certainly the calling of God's people today. And I challenge you, what proverbs will you have to pass on? To your children. What will God have taught you in experiencing His world that will become a blessing to your children? Because you framed a lesson for them. Now, of course, you might think many of the Proverbs Uh that the the all the proverbs that are available uh to us have just been written in one form or another. One of my famous was from poor Richard's almanac. I used to love to read that when I was younger. He who lieth down with dogs shall rise up with fleas. It was a wonderful lesson for me to learn. So vivid. in its sensibility that there's a bad outcome in bad company. But the point is this, that Proverbs need a modern dress. The wisdom is ancient, but the way in which that wisdom is conferred needs to be put in the language of your family, of your experience, of the experiences that your children have had as a part of your household. Dressed in that language, the wisdom becomes more concrete to them. And they're better fit to profit from that wisdom. So let me challenge parents to be those who frame proverbs and pass them on to their children For all of us who profess faith in Jesus, let us be well persuaded. It's Christ alone who works on our behalf He is the one who is wise on our behalf. He has borne the penalty of our foolishness. It's not by wisdom that we're acceptable to God. It's by Jesus. But nevertheless, trusting in Him, we must be those who work for Jesus. We do not want to be spiritual sluggards. We must not be spiritual sluggards. But rather, we must be vigorous with respect to the things in this world and the things of the world to come. If you go by the Christianity of a sluggard, you'll find that the walls are falling down. and that weeds are growing. It's only those who are diligent with respect to spiritual things that can have a strong foundation and walls built upon that foundation and fruitfulness. And the proverbs challenge us to be those who are vigorous with respect to the calling to love and serve our Savior. And so finally, let me challenge you to be devoted to the way of wisdom, as Jesus articulates it in his own teaching and through his apostles. Jesus has granted you, each one who believe in him, a heart to embrace the way of wisdom. It's yours already All you have to do is diligently put that heart to work in relationship to wisdom. And so be conscious of the world. as that which God has created with principles of wisdom within. Be conscious of your fellow creatures and discern patterns of behavior. Consider these things and conclude. and concoct truths that will be a guide for you. Thus Christ calls you through his apostle Ephesians 5 and verse 15, Paul insists, look carefully how you walk, not as unwise, but as those who are wise. Let us pray together. Our Father, we thank you for your word. And we pray that you'd bless us now. That the seeds here scattered would not be snatched away by the birds of the air, nor choked out by weeds that would grow up. But rather would find well-prepared soil. They would take root and bear fruit in their due season. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.