Someone I think might have been you asked me about my own story, my own testimony. Why would you with all the things you told us about ridiculous, why would you become a history? Because according to God's foreknowledge I had no choice. Service. I put it that way because that's the question. No, I understand your your question. Um Well, we we sometimes say it this way, and this will be relevant, and I I think it's one of the points I mentioned later. Um despite all of the mistakes and tragedies of uh church synagogue relations or you know the church's treatment of Jewish people If God is turning someone on, nothing or no one can turn them off. If the Holy Spirit is turning somebody on, no mistake that you make in attempting to share the gospel. something that you said or you omitted to say it's not you're s it's not gonna hinder that person from getting saved, from entering the kingdom of heaven. So that's liberating, that's the good thing. I will just tell in a quick nutshell my story. I was raised in a conservative synagogue in the Chicago area. My dad's side of the family was Orthodox, my mother's side Jewish, but not really religious. So I did all the kinds of things a typical uh American Jewish kid and family would do. We celebrated the holidays and you know, kept traditions. We weren't a a real religious family ourselves, so um we didn't have a kosher home. My grandmother did, but we didn't My dad liked Canadian bacon. Um and my mom uh when my dad was gone my mom would sometimes sneak a lobster into the house. But um But anyway, I went to Hebrew school, had my bar mitzvah at the age of 13, and continued on through my my teen years. But uh by the end of high school, I started wondering about life's bigger questions. My grandmother died, she and I had been close, so I was thinking life and death and meaning and why are we here, all those kinds of things, and um didn't really find answers. Went off to the University of Illinois in my first semester there. I wound up writing a research paper for a Jewish professor on why the Jews at the time of Jesus didn't believe he was the Messiah. I didn't know that some did. I knew nothing about Jesus. So I had to see what were we expecting, why didn't they think Jesus fit that portrait? I read a lot of books about the prophecies in the Old Testament from varying points of view, Jewish, Christian, secular. And had a lot of questions, interviewed a couple rabbis and a couple pastors in town to hear both sides. Struggled, finished my paper, but leaned in the direction that maybe it was true. And About uh, let's see this had to be about another five, six months later, um, after praying, is there a God? If this is true about Jesus, show me somehow Um I got to the point where I I knew it was true and uh prayed to you know confess my sins and acknowledge Jesus as Savior and Lord and Messiah. So that's in a real quick way my story. And I'm hoping some of you will be able to play a role in some Jewish people that you know a role in their lives that they might too come to faith in Jesus. Steve can ask real quick how your family responded just it was Not good. Uh I told my parents, uh I was nineteen at the time. In fact I went home from what was this? Uh nineteen uh eighty four no, it was uh nin nineteen seventy five. And that was the year that the United Nations see if I didn't have my beard, my beard is so white now. But if I didn't have that Um my wife is dying over this beard, but I'm I accelerate just till July, then it's gone. But um In 1975, the United Nations voted, they passed a resolution equating Zionism with racism. That was a big deal in the Jewish community. And my mother said, Stephen, there's going to be a big new uh I mean a big Yeah, new wave of anti-Semitism in this country, and you're just trying to hide. So um that was one of their reactions. They thought I was just trying to assimilate to avoid trouble. Uh they thought I was brainwashed. Um so they thought a lot of things. And over time they saw those things aren't true, but a and actually now um We're we're still close. Um it just there were a lot of years of of awkwardness and tension and difficulty. Um they had my my uncle the rabbi try to talk you know, talk sense into me and they would kept sending books and articles and things like that. But all that's behind us Uh Stephen, I I know you know we're not taking all the time on that story, but um is your wife also Jewish? No, my wife is not Jewish. Okay. Um and that was uh you know that was that was kind of touchy when we got married, uh so sort of adding insult to injury. But um But you know they accepted or took my dad. I mean uh we're married, let's see, this year in June, it's gonna be 27 years. And I would say it probably took my father close to twenty before he was very warm-toted. But I mean he was cordial, but not too warm. Um Well okay, let's um this is uh let's see, one, two, three, four, five Sort of sort of your your um standard sort of ten-step approach to you know sharing your faith with Jewish people. I'm not big on formulas, so it's not a formula. It's just a series of helpful things, somewhat sequential, that can help you. And you know I thought of making copies for everybody, but I didn't. So I'll I'll uh I'll leave these and if anybody wants copies, of course, you know you can you can copy them. Um, I started at the very end of the day, I was gonna try and do it, and I I just waited too long because I was concerned about traffic. Um And then I also have here just a um a very cursory look at some common Jewish objections that you would hear, or some of you may have already heard. I have some material on the dining room table that I'll mention in a few minutes that goes into some of this stuff a lot more deeply. But okay, so let's start out. Sharing Jesus with uh with your Jewish friends. Here are some myths that may hinder you. And by the way, questions are good at any point, you know. We'll just be informal. The first myth. Jewish people have their own covenant with God and don't need Jesus. Alright? This is actually gaining momentum in the church. It's sometimes called the dual covenant theory or the two covenant theory, and it goes like this. Jewish people have a covenant with God through Abraham. They're God's chosen people, starting with Abraham, and therefore they don't need Jesus. Jesus came from God for the Gentiles. It takes a lot of nuances, but sometimes it's like God the Father is the Son and Jesus is like the rays of light coming out from the Sun You know, and he came for the jet. There's a lot of things like that. I just there was an article, I don't know if you get the Washington Post, uh, just This past weekend or a few couple days ago is front page article about evangelicals and Jews. Very interesting article And it highlighted a Southern Baptist Church on the border of Virginia and North Carolina. 2,500 people in this church. The pastor has a national radio show about family something. He said he was watching TV one day and he saw an infomercial for some a group called the International Fellowship of of Christians and Jews. It's run by a rabbi named Yehil Epstein, who we are very familiar with. Maybe some of you have seen these infomercials. They're really Well done. They're powerful. They last about a half hour. I don't know. They're really something. But anyway, this is a group that It sounds good on the surface. Uh I'm spending too long on this point, I feel it. But uh anyway, sounds good on the surface, but what they really do is they they help bring Jewish people from Russia and the Ukraine to Israel, the guy is very opposed to the gospel, doesn't allow the Jewish people to hear the gospel. It's really not a fellowship of Christians and Jews. What he does is he has a database of 400,000 Christian people. He raises money from the Christians and then he sends the money to Jewish causes. That's exactly what they do. Anyway, this church down there, the guy says he w the pastor was watching TV. This pastor, uh, it was in the newspaper article. His family broke up when he was young. They sent him to live with some other people in hopes that the family would get together. He never saw them again. So he has this Ache in his own heart about family matter. He says he was watching the infomercial. A Jewish, old Jewish woman came from Russia to Israel, she started crying. She said, this is home. And the rabbi in the show is crying. And the pastor says he's watching it. He started crying. He says, because I know what home means. And he says, from that point on, he says, I'm going to shake up my congregation, my church. We're going to help the Jews. And in the last five years, they've given $175,000. to this group. And it said right in the article, he said, we're not going to witness to them. We're only going to help them. And that was sad for me to hear. But a lot of Christians and a lot of big name Christians are involved in that kind of thing. And I would just imagine it somewhere under the surface this pastor has bought into this idea that the Jews are okay uh because of God's love for them and their covenant, you know and Bad news. Alright. Well I I could talk about that for an hour, but your comment Sunday is just that that's the ultimate anti-Semitism is not to use the He does of course he wouldn't see that, but it is. He would see that as loving them, but he's gonna love them right into hell that way. I mean Jewish people can doesn't matter what piece, you know, where they are on the earth. Without the Lord. But alright, second point. And Pastor you'll appreciate this one. It's all predestined So what I do doesn't matter. Um that shows how you can draw a false conclusion from a true premise. That's right. Justice is God has predestined People for salvation, he has also predestined the means of bringing them to salvation. And you sitting here may be the means of any individual's salvation. He might want to use you to talk to this Jewish person, okay? So, uh Next, I should wait until I feel confident and fully equipped. Alright? Forget about it. You'll never feel confident and fully equipped. None of us do. Alright? Next, all Jewish people know the Bible well. That is a myth. Most Jewish people today do not know the Bible well, and what will surprise you Is that that's also true about religious Jewish people? Alright? They may know the five books of Moses well. They may know the Torah well. But they don't know the prophets, almost hardly at all. You know. The women read the Psalms, they might know that well, but so uh most but When it comes to non-religious Jewish people, they don't know the Bible. All right. I won't know how to answer their questions. Well, that may be true, but uh You will probably be able to answer more questions than you realize. You know the Bible a lot better than they do. I'm just guessing that, but I think it's a good guess. Uh next, if they don't respond, I did something wrong. Okay? That is a myth. Their response is not Directly correlated to what you do and don't do. Okay? That's another matter. That's between them and God. Our part is just to share the gospel. Hopefully, you know, in a good manner, but uh even if we make clumsy mistakes, we just do our part And of the last myth, I'm responsible for their eternal destiny. Obviously, that's silliness, right? Boy, if you if you feel that way, you you got a lot on your shoulders. Okay, so then we uh we begin, and it's always good to start this some of this like uh pastor was hoping for this will apply to everyone not just jewish people start by making friends okay um Obviously our ministry and a lot of other ministries, we sh we're out there as evangelists sharing the gospel with everyone. We don't know all these people. Stand on the corner. We don't know these people. But we're talking about the people that you know. So this is kind of a relational approach to uh sharing the gospel. Start by making friends. And as you do so, let them know early that you are a believer in Jesus. We always recommend that because If you save that for later, they may not like that. They may feel like you tripped them into a friendship or, gee, that's such a big important thing in your life. How come you didn't tell me that sooner? Or um uh uh especially if you were a Jewish believer yourself, well Daniela is, you know, if you if you made uh friends with Jewish people and they think that you're kind of a typical Jewish person like they are either secular or reform or whatever it might be. And then all of a sudden later on you spring it on them that you're a believer in Jesus. It's like Oh man. You know that I've been set up. Yeah, I've been set up. That's a good way to put it. Let 'em know early. Um and then then if they don't want to be friends with you You know, what are you gonna do? It's not your fault. Um find out if they're Jewish, okay? Um The best way to do that is not to ask them if they're Jewish. That'll make them uncomfier. And have everything you shared on Sunday. Okay? Like what's, you know Our executive uh no, our our founder tells the story um he ventured out of his neighborhood one time as a kid and was asked, you know, are you Jewish? And when he said yes, they started throwing things at him. You know, so um he always He he learned something by that. So it's d I always ask people something like, So, you know, how were you raised? Were you raised in the church or, you know? And that's about all I need to say. And if they're Jewish, they'll let you know real clearly, no, I wasn't raised in the church, you know, I'm Jewish. So you find out your answer through the back door. And it's it's better than going through the front door. And at that point it's good to extend a culturally sensitive gesture. In other words, in December, send them a Hanukkah card. Don't send them a Christmas card. Passover or the high holidays of the Jewish New Year Rosh Hashanah, you can send them a Jewish New Year's card. What that says is Alright. They know you're a Christian. You know that they're Jewish. And by sending them a card that has to do with their holiday. You implicitly send the message, I know you're Jewish, and that's fine with me. You know, I I respect that. I'm allowing you to be who you are. It's not like uh, well I don't recognize that, you know, Merry Christmas. Um I hope you like my holiday. Uh you know, so so you know be be culturally sensitive in that way. And then at some point, and I can't Tell you when that point is, move in in conversation or in your relationship from the secular to the sacred. And here's some suggestions for that. You can ask about an upcoming holiday. Gee, uh, how do you celebrate Passover? Um You know, I know I know a little bit about Passover from even my faith my own belief in Jesus, because he celebrated Passover. But you know, what does it mean to you, or how do you how does your family do it? Um and you know that conversation can lead in a lot of ways. Um you can do the same thing with the high holidays. Gee, the day of aton, you know, Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement. How Um that has something to do with forgiveness of sins, doesn't it? Uh you know, how does it work? You know, I I don't really understand. And that's, you know, really good conversation to have You can ask about their synagogue if they're involved in one or their involvement in the Jewish community if they in any in some ways are. You can ask them their views of Christians or of Messianic Jews. You know, I'm curious, you know, I I hope you don't take this wrong, but I've I've never had the nerve to ask, or I've never thought to ask, you know, what a Jewish or Whether either Jewish people or you, I'm just curious, how how are Christians like me perceived, you know, by you? I I'd like to know. Or uh have you ever heard of messianic Jews? You know, Jews who believe in Jesus? What do you all those Jews, you know, that that you'll get a big conversation of how to begin moving in that direction. Here's a few practical matters. It's best to talk one-on-one. Usually if there's more than one person there, Jewish people are going to be a little more reticent to feel free in speaking about this kind of thing. Don't talk too long. In our ministry, we're the way we train our missionaries, when we visit people will stay anywhere from like fifteen minutes to maybe forty five or fifty minutes. Now we all break the rules, you know, all the time. But generally that's how we think of a visit with someone. Because if you wind up You know, I've heard people, oh, I have the best conversation. You know, we talked for three hours, you know, about the blah blah blah. Well, it'll be real interesting when that person tries to talk to that Jewish person again. 'Cause they're thinking, oh man, the last time we got on this subject, you know, it took three hours. So um, you know, if you if you limit your conversation, they be may be more likely to engage with you again on that kind of thing. And the other thing, I don't know if I say this later, if not I'll say it now, which is it's better to leave someone hungry for more than feeling like they're getting indigestion because you gave them too much. You know. Same thing with food, you know, same thing. All right. A good thing to try, again, these are just techniques, but uh stop talking. At one point you're you're moving in this direction about spiritual things, stop talking or completely change the subject and see if that person comes back to it. It's just a little test as to the receptivity of where they are If they're interested in what you're talking about. If they're interested, they may themselves come back to it by asking you to, you know. That's what you were saying about that. I was still curious. Obviously be courteous. Don't argue. Now My next thing is uh building a case by constructive argument. But um when I say don't argue, you know, don't Um it's different than argumentation. It's different than than reasoning and and and uh right. It doesn't mean you can't stand your ground and ask for evidence or present evidence, but don't argue in a heated manner. That's what we're talking about here. Okay, so then uh building a case by constructive argument. Be sure of your facts or logic. I think that's self-explanatory. Um Yeah, I don't know what else to say about that. Um understate rather than overstate. Okay? Um that's a good principle. Uh rather than because overstating just is so it can First of all, put someone on the defensive. You know, if you're overstating your case or like you're blowing them away or they feel like they need to start defending or running or something. But understating helps the other person consider what you're saying and their mind stays open a little more if you understate it. You know how would that sound? Well rather than you know um You know, I'm sure that if you read Isaiah 53, you're just going to see Jesus all over the place. I mean, it's an amazing passage. You really owe you you owe it to yourself to read that. Rather than, you know, there's this really Interesting passage in the Old Testament in Isaiah that a lot of people think sounds like Jesus. Yeah, if you want, you know, I can tell you where. Anyway, so it just sounds different if you understate. Demonstrate that something could be rather than that it is. It's really that same kind of a principle, but um it just helps people to not feel like they have to emotionally run away or shut down. Uh If you're even though you might and I might believe something is, well they don't, okay? So Cut them some slack, you know, just talk about, you know, might this be, or you know, that this this could be true. Um Ask questions rather than making statements. That is a good principle. It keeps the obnoxious factor down. No, but it but it also draws the person into the conversation and and draws them out to to um so if you Well, you know, we can think of a lot of examples for that. But it it's it's a really good way to to uh share your faith and to Help a conversation progress. Offer documentation and expect the same from them. You know, I will have Jewish people say the most outrageous things to me sometimes as if it's true. And you ask him, where do you get that? You know, show me. You know, I'm willing to see. And They usually they can't produce anything because they're you know, who knows where they heard it, heard it from their grandma, heard it from their somewhere, uh Hollywood, who knows. But um So if they ask you, or sometimes, you know, I if you want to see the source for this, you know, I'd be happy to get it for you. Um or if they say something to you, say, you know, you I'm not sure really if that's true. If you could show me the source, I'd like to see it. So that's uh that play by the rules on both sides, you know, it's fair. Um you know the the way Jewish people are raised sometimes. There's this story about Abraham that I taught so many Jewish believers who swore up and down that this story was in the Bible because they were raised out of it. And and then they read the Bible and they find out it's not there. It's all about Abraham. That um it's a great story, but it's just not biblical. And it's about how when God calls Abraham and and Abraham realized who God was His father was an idol maker. Terah was an idol maker. And so what Abraham did was One day his father wasn't around. Abraham went into the shop and smashed up all the idols except the biggest one. And then he put the club into the hands of the biggest idol. And then his father came in outraged. Abraham, you know, Abram, what happened here? How did all the And and Abram says, well father, look, you know, the you see the club in the hands of this idol right here. He must have smashed all the other ones up. And and Terra says, That's nonsense. Can't you see he's just a bunch of stone or wood? You know, he could never have done that And and Abraham says, you know, and then he you know. So it's a great story, but it's you know so many people swear stuff like that is Well that's true of Christians too, also where things are in the Bible. Right. Stephen, you it sounds like or I know you mentioned it at the very beginning making friends. Yeah. And it sounds like um A lot of these things could uh apply to a series of conversations. So especially if it's a person that is a friend that you see regularly, you don't have to do all this at one time. This may be over time and a number of different conversations. Absolutely. Yeah. That would be recommended. Okay. So tell it like it is. Okay. So uh teach If you can, teach through a Jewish frame of reference. Okay? Well Uh the New Testament is a very Jewish book, all right? The themes in there, the ideas in there, the holidays in there You know, it's all Jewish stuff. So, you know, you're familiar enough with many things in the New Testament, so try to relate those things to their Jewish frame of reference if you can. Some people who teach on Jewish evangelism go into all these things like, never say Christ. Always say Messiah. Don't say Jesus. Say Yeshua. I think that's nonsense. Um, don't worry about that kind of thing. Speak your own language, but you can mix it up sometimes and say Messiah, so you know, well did you know Christ, you know, that's just grief for Messiah. Uh you know, so when I Jesus Christ just means Jesus the Messiah. Try to make some of your points. Be familiar with appropriate scripture. Well, what does he mean by appropriate scripture? Um Well, if you if you try to make a point, just You might want to know a verse that helps you make that point. Um some people learn something called the Romans Road, you know, uh Romans 323 and 623 and maybe ten, nine and ten or five uh eight or whatever, but um you know that's pretty good. But there's also uh something we call trot through the Tanakh, which is uh kind of like Oh, it's just kind of a w th those are d way verses that lead a person along the road of salvation, you know, kind of showing them that they're sin sinners and and that the penalty for sin is death. That uh Jesus paid the price for that and and here's how to receive him. Well, there's verses in both the Old and the New Testament to demonstrate those truths, but Okay. But here's uh this is really important. We try to do this and I I did give you a few pointers earlier about how to move from the secular to the to the sacred. When you can, uh start with Jesus, start with Yeshua. In other words Uh he is the one ultimately who you want to sh whom you want to share. Okay? So rather than doing all this other stuff and kind of wait until the bottom of the ninth, Uh if you're a baseball fan and then starting to bring up Jesus, it's better to bring Jesus up earlier. Um uh I've already I think implied or stated, don't be afraid to use the New Testament. Part of Jewish evangelism includes a real educational component Look, I grew up watching Mr. Malu's Christmas Carol and staring at one of the neighbor's Christmas trees in our very Jewish suburb of Chicago, Skokie. But uh so it was sort of this aberration on our block, you know, and it was kind of pretty. But I didn't know anything about Jesus. Um I really didn't. My mother would say his name when she was angry, and that was it. So, um I had to learn about Jesus. Jewish people have to learn about Jesus. So that's your job. That's our job. in the church. Um so here's a here's a good opening question if you want to do this. It's two questions. Who do people in your circle of friends think that Jesus is? Second question. What do you think? Okay? This is the Matthew 16 approach. Who do men say that I am? Who do you say that I am? It's just brought into our generation. Who do most people in the Jewish community or in your circle of friends who do they think Jesus was? Or you can say is or was, doesn't matter. Um and well what's good of you? Who do you think he he is? Or that you was. And that right away brings this the conversation on the person of Jesus. So it's uh we think it's a good approach. Um and see the first question is rather non-threatening. Who do peop you know, who are people in your circle of friends or in the Jewish community, what do they say? That's not that threatening. And then well, what's your view? Remember at the right point, whenever it is, to clarify important terms such as sin, salvation, and savior. It's important to realize that in really in uh in the Jewish in most Jewish thinking today those those are not commonly used terms. uh or concepts. Uh Judaism by and large has become uh a moral or an ethical religion and not a salvific one. It doesn't deal with matters of salvation much. Can I do a supposed to talk about more And how can you not talk about what's wrong, meaning something is a sin? Oh oh how can it be a moral religion uh without talking about sin? Gotcha. Okay. Well, because uh in Judaism one of the chief values today after survival is uh something called tikkunolam, which means repairing the world, fixing the world. And so, like my cousin is a rabbi. We had lunch one day. And um I asked him If he believes in God. He's a reform rabbi, okay, I've got to say that. I asked him if he believed in God. And he said, well I don't know. I kind of think maybe there's something up there, he said, but that's not my primary role as a rabbi. My primary role is to equip my congregation to be decent people and to make the world a better place. You see? So that's really an emphasis in Judaism today. These notions of sin, salvation, and savior, though they're all over the Old Testament, They're not in the like the the daily breathing life of Judaism today. Though on the high holidays they they kind of make an appearance. It's not I what what's your experience growing up through it? Um we went to synagogue. Yeah. My mom took us regularly. Um and I somehow I knew about the mess oh I think I knew about the about Jesus because my mom said if anybody said Jesus was the Messiah to tell her, maybe so then I wouldn't go to the house to play more or something. But what about these concepts of sin and salvation? No, I I think we went to Reform Synagogue. Right. Uh-huh. But And social causes and supporting Israel and whatever else. Yeah, a lot of lot of uh a lot of talk about Israel. Yeah. The Sunday schools, you know, we know what about um you know, the the Israeli state I have community. we watched um activist. Um Stephen, what would be and again I realized it may be different from reform, conservative, and um And orthodox, but just the whole idea of the afterlife at all. Um it I mean it's obviously everything you said is focused much more right on this life. Um right. Is there any kind of a common idea? Um no. There are views on it, but they really differ widely between branches of Judaism. Uh reform Judaism, this is interesting, they got rid of the notion totally. That they're they just eliminated it, but about In the early nineties somewhere at their annual co rabbinical conference, which was well out in the Bay Area where I was living in San Francisco. It was real interesting. On their platform they had um talks about the fact that their people didn't seem satisfied any longer without that and people were asking a lot about that and they were saying We s we need to give it more attention and talk more about it, even though they had said there really wasn't any afterlife. In Orthodox Judaism There is. There's uh Ghanaian, which is stands for heaven, the Garden of Eden, or Olah in the Olamhaba, which is the life to come. And there's uh Gainum, you know, the um which is like hell. But the notions of both of those are a little bit different. A little bit different than the Christian ideas, and they're less well-defined, but they're very real in Orthodox. And conservative is kind of Neither here nor there, that's uh little above maybe. Um would it would it be the case that that people just don't have any definite idea at all? I mean that they wouldn't necess in many cases I wouldn't say I just believe we die and that's the end, but they just it's just vague or is there definitely the important this is a good place for me to state this. No matter what branch of Judaism a person says they do or don't belong to. Forget i in the in the church, we all tend to ascribe to the theology of the kind of church we belong to. You know, uh Presbyterians uh get pretty well trained and indoctrinated in into you know reformed theology and and they ascribe to it Baptists, they learn what the Baptists preach and and the Methodists Wesleyan, you know, and Arminian and whatever else. And it's really the members kind of It becomes personal. In Judaism, it's really not that way. In Judaism, a person, you know One person might have three opinions. I mean free agents. Yeah, we're free agents and uh And and and so I might I might belong to a conservative synagogue synagogue, but I don't buy their shtick. You know, I just go there because whatever. Um And and reform like I'm gonna I'm I'm learning so much about Hasidic Jews. You know, they're supposed to be the ones that are, you know, like, whoa, whoa, whoa. It's not that way. It's such a It's amazing. There are in the in the in the Haseida community there's atheists. You know, they dress the same way. They do all of the law of Moses kosher and all the how they're really strict in how they observe everything, but they're complete atheists, some of 'em. I don't mean all of them, but some of 'em are. And others have other views and it's just it's really amazing. And they can all live in peace together. No, no, they fight all the time. No, no. is that we need to be very careful that we don't presuppose that there under s that that there is this base belief in God. So we're not starting from that point. Right. Exactly. So the first question might be, what do you think of God? Do you believe do you b exactly? Right. Right. Do you think there's a God? Does God exist? What do you think? Rather than just you're part of this Jewish club as opposed to Christian. Right. And then they must must of course believe in all the traditional Jewish things. It sounds like their adherence is to a culture. More than a doctrine. Bing bing bing. Yes. That goes back to your idea of survival, right? I think yeah, I think it does. But yeah, Jewish culture it is uh, you know, um you may have a a Jewish person you might try and share the gospel with They might be an atheist, a dying-in-the-wool atheist. They might despise Judaism, the religion, and hate their rabbi if they ever had one and and disdain synagogue and holidays and all that stuff. I don't know about holidays. But but when it comes to Jesus They may be really proud Jewish people, love their culture, and see Jesus as a a foreign enemy of their culture. And and and you know, take a stand against You know, because their their the strength of their Jewish culture in their life is really strong. And I meet a lot of people like that. I've met some Jewish I call them Jewish Christians, but um but it seems like when God does grab a hold of them and they become Christians or born again or whatever. Um it's like suddenly the pieces all fit together and then they're really excited about everything. And it's like And their Jewish identity takes on more importance. Yes. That's very true. Did that it all happen with you? Yeah. Yeah. It's a typical experience. I think really neat to be to witness something. I call it the toaster syndrome. It's a really bad analogy, but I made it up myself. The toaster syndrome. Toaster. You make you put bread in the toaster. Okay. And what it is bagels. You know how you see bagels? Yeah, okay. Bagels don't fit so well in the toas. Alright. You need a toaster oven for bagels. Um Uh and here's what I mean, is you have a toaster sitting on your counter, alright? The toaster it has a purpose to it. It's designed to toast your bread. But if you have it sitting on your um counter and it's not the cord's not plugged into the source of electricity to the outlet, the toaster doesn't function for what it was designed. Well we as Jewish people We're designed to be God's servants, his messengers, his chosen people to make him known to the rest of the people. But if we don't know God because we've been alienated from him and separated from him because of our sin, We've lost our purpose. We don't know what it means to be the chosen people. We don't know why we're here. And so being Jewish is okay, it's something we kind of are and it's okay, and maybe I like it better some days than others But when we come to the Messiah and our sins are forgiven and we meet the God of our ancestors and our forefathers, we we're we're plugged back into the outlet, you know, and we begin to function and we get excited about who God made us. The poster center appreciate the brother the brothers and sisters in Christ in Uh-huh. We better keep going. Um all right, so remember to clarify terms like sin, salvation, savior. Sin You know, Jewish people can say, well, I never murdered anybody. I'm not a rapist. Uh, you know, I I I don't sin. Well You can do it however you want. Uh I just, you know, if you just ask somebody, so you're saying you you you're perfect? I mean you you don't do anything wrong or Well no, I didn't say I'm not you know that I'm perfect. Well what does it mean to be imperfect and perfect and well what if God was there and he's perfect and you're not and what does that mean? And you know, you begin to help them understand about sin and our need for salvation to be forgiven for sin. Okay. So a little bit more. Hey, we're doing well. Um Oh yeah. Uh yeah, no yeah. Uh I wish you might do things by the book. Make Those are always my my headings of the section we're going into. Make the Bible believable. Okay? Most Jewish people, as I said, are not familiar too familiar with it. So here's a few things. The Bible, the Bible message, you found it to be true in your life. And you can talk about what that means to you. How's the Bible true in your life? I can't strip you on that. Hopefully you can answer that question. Secondly, it seems to fit the real world. Wow, the world is a crummy place. People are hurting each other out there. They're stealing and murdering and at war and people are greedy and corruption and government, you know. The Bible talks about those things because our heart is so corrupt and deceitful and and we've, you know, on and on and on. So the Bible fits the real world. Thirdly, and this is a touch point with Jewish people, the existence of Jewish people fulfills prophecy. You know, God promised to preserve the Jewish people and wow when you think about everything you guys have been through, I wouldn't know you should say you guys, that sounds kind of bad. I've never said that Strike that from the record. But uh you're you know you say y'all. Yeah, y'all, yeah, there you go. Uh you don't want to say. But but um So that would be a good point. And then of course if you're familiar all with these things, you can talk about archaeological or historical evidence that backs up the Bible. So all of these things help the Bible to be believable. See, I don't know what I meant by this. Take it, take it at face value, make specific points. Yeah, rather than general points. Okay. Um and by the way, oftentimes in a conversation of this nature It's good to go in there hoping to make one point and leave it at that rather than making four points Make one point, make it clear, end of discussion, and then next time you go for the next point And this is something I was going to mention to Cliff earlier. I have it here worded about Bibles, but also about books. It's better to lend them than to give them. I'll tell you why. If you give a Bible to somebody or a book like whatever it might be, a Josh McFell book or Betrayed or some other book you like. If you give it to a person, it's theirs, and you, at least technically, don't have much of a right to ask them What's up with that book? Because you gave it away and it's theirs and they can do whatever they want with it. Read it, not read it, throw it away, give it away, ignore it. But if you lend a book to somebody, it's still yours. So now you have the right to ask, um, you know, how are you doing with that book I lent you? Are you still looking at it? Are you done with it? Uh you know, so when you lend a book It can it can just be more of a conversation. That's all. Small thing. Okay. Objections are doors to be opened. Here we go. Most objections Uh results from preconditioning. Um You know, Jews, we Jews don't believe in Jesus. Uh why? I don't know. I never thought about it. Uh we just don't. And that's that's it's just preconditioning. So um just realize that. Uh theology oftentimes with Jewish people, theology doctrine or history are not really the core issues. They will be always in the forefront of conversation. But underlying all of that, there's a more there's a deeper issue, which is the real objection and that being the cost. The cost to that Jewish person if they were to receive Jesus. And the very good question to ask a Jewish person goes like this. If the Bible is true, notice it's if. If the Bible is true, and if Jesus is the Messiah after all, Are you willing to learn the truth and believe in him, even though your decision might bring about severe personal consequences? Obviously that could be worded in a hundred ways, but you get the gist of it You know, if this is true, if if if there is a God, if Jesus really is the Messiah, the Bible is true, are you willing to follow Jesus, to believe in him, even though It it's gonna impact your family, your reputation, friends, you know, whatever. Um Yeah, yeah, but that's a real good question to ask someone. And that will help you discern whether someone is merely curious about what you believe. And a lot of conversations are based on someone who just wants to hear what you believe because they're kind of curious, as opposed to, I really want to know if this is true for myself. You know, there that's a there's a difference in those two people. And this kind of question helps you uh discern that difference. Um okay Um well, let's see, what do we have left? Um I guess I have to explain this because I'm going to leave you my notes. It's just a little point. It's an illustration, really. I call it the circle mentality. It's just a diagram I have here. I don't know if you can see it, but there's this circle with a lot of dots in it. It's not a very sophisticated little diagram. The point I make with this, and then there's one next door I'll show you in a minute. It's it's um it's the idea it it's to help you understand the Jewish community that um there's this invisible barrier of sorts between that that that is it draws a distinction or it becomes a boundary in some sense between the Jewish community And the rest of the world, uh non-Jews. And everybody inside the Jewish community, uh represented by these dots, which are individual Jewish people, everybody inside looks around and says, You Jewish? Yeah, I'm Jewish. Of course. Everybody inside here is Jewish. You know, we're in the Jewish community. And uh We Jews, we don't believe in Jesus. You know, nobody in here believes in Jesus. Okay? And then one of these Jewish people kind of standing, maybe they're near the edge of the, you know, the community somewhere. They become a believer in Jesus. They get saved. They stand up. They're still inside the community. They stand up and make it known in some way. I believe Jesus is our promised Messiah. Okay? Then you see the second diagram I have there is the same circle that the border has changed shapes So that same dot, that same Jewish person standing in the same place they were before, but now the boundary has gone like that to exclude them from the community. So that it's it's sort of circular logic. Everybody inside says, yeah, you Jewish? I'm Jewish. Yeah, of course. We're in the Jewish community. Everybody in here is Jewish. None of us believe in Jesus Because they changed the boundary to exclude that Jewish person. Even though they were inside the community, they're still standing in the same place. They're now outside because the community kind of closes in around them or you know, inside them to to leave them on the outside. It's just uh help you understand kind of the the way Jewish people are ostracized in the circular reasoning. Yeah. One of the things you said on Sunday was that There have been Jewish believers in Jesus throughout history. Yes. Have there been messianic congregations throughout history? No. And are they throughout the world or is it mostly an American No, they are throughout the world today. Um they did not exist throughout most of uh history because the church didn't uh wouldn't have allowed that kind of thing. There is a guy, the former uh head of the Israel Bible Society has a PhD from Hebrew University, not a Jewish guy named Ray Priss did it his dissertation on what he called a Nazarene Nazarene Jewish Christianity or whatever. Because in the early centuries you had as you know, there's uh there was a sect called the Ebionites, they were kind of heretical. Then you had Nazarene uh believers. They were both groups of Jews who in some way had faith in Jesus, but the Ebionites were heretical. But he traced it the Nazarenes were okay. They they affirmed the writings of Paul and they didn't uh they didn't say Torah observance was mandatory and they had a their theology was okay. And he was able to trace them into the fifth century. I guess they in some way maintained their identity that long and then I don't know they disappear. But um and then there isn't a sort of a re-emergence of a identifiable Jewish Christianity until uh we were saying earlier like the late Uh nineteenth century. Steve, does this reborder this exclusion occur? I know this might be rare for other conversions to Islam, to Buddhism. Um uh I'm not an expert on that. Yeah. But the difference but the difference is, yeah, from the community um It it's it's so the Jewish uh situation is so messy because there's this this sort of ine inseparable blend of culture and religion and observance and tradition. Um And I'm maybe that's true in Islam as well. And it could very well be. I'm just not sure. But I just know that in this uh When you drew that picture, it brought to mind of a sort of like a cell. Mm-hmm. You know, there's a cell. And it the whole boundary is we don't believe in Jesus. Right. And then you poke a hole in that cell. And then it sort of turns to Oh reconstitute itself. Yeah. By by making a wound that covered that system Well thank you for the biological metaphor. No, it's we can picture that. Okay. Uh here we'll close this with uh just uh how to be a spiritual midwife. Continue forward when the person receives the word of God gladly. In other words, that's just another indication to you that that God is working in their life. They're receptive to what you're saying. That gives you permission to to continue to the next step in your in your conversation or what you know in your ministry to that person. If they're not, then that's the opposite indication to you Use the text of John 112, you know, to as many as received him, to those who believed on his name, he gave the right or the power to become uh children of God. Um that uh You can use the analogy if you so choose that it's in some way similar to a marriage proposal, that uh uh a man wants this woman to be his wife, but There are exceptions, uh such as my own personal story, but I won't tell you that one. But normally, normatively, the man proposes marriage to the wife, right? Unless she says yes, they're not going to get married. Uh well in the same way, God, you know, Jesus wants to be our Savior, He wants us to be His person, but unless we in some way say yes to Him and receive Him into our life, uh that's not going to happen. So it's just uh an analogy. When the person receives the Lord, have them confess it to another person verbally. That's a very healthy thing to do. Obviously, John Romans 10, 9 and 10 says, unless you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord, and goes on. And that could be to the Lord Himself in prayer, but it could also be openly to others and there's certainly another uh enough other scriptures that would indicate we should be sharing our faith, acknowledging him publicly uh it helps cement a person's faith and and right off the bat gets them gets their toes wet in terms of verbalizing their faith to another person, which we should be doing. So um if someone prays it was me to receive the Lord into their life Uh almost right really right at that same time I'll say, hey, you know what? Would you be willing, if we make a phone call right now, would you be willing to tell someone who uh you know what you've just done or maybe someone who's been praying for you what you've just done because you know we'll in our office pray for people that we have a ministry to and and we'll have people do that and it's a it's a good thing. Finally, follow-up is important. Tongue in cheek, be it a midwife, not a taxi driver. You know how many babies are born in a taxi, right? But then the driver gets them to the hospital Cyanara they're gone, you never see the driver again. It's a good thing sometimes. But um be a midwife, they have this continuing care for the the the new mother or the new baby particularly. And that's what we want to be if if God has used us in that way in someone's life. Um So at this point on the back of these notes, I have kind of a little chart about just giving some very basics. of views from uh Orthodox, Conservative, and Reformed Judaism as well as secular Jewish people, their views of God, Scriptures, tradition, Messiah, life after death, and Christianity. So uh it's kind of a helpful little chart. And then what I have also that we won't take the time, I don't think, at this point to go through uh are these uh very common Jewish objections that you might hear and that it's got some, although some of this is almost like shorthand, but uh it's got some some answers there that will be helpful to you. But I don't think we I mean we could we could spend 45 minutes alone just on this. So um What I think we should do at this point, it's about 10 to 9. Why don't we just open it up fully for uh you know, questions or comments or sharing personal stories. Cliff was telling me a little bit about an encounter he had had. You know, we can do that if You bring up some of these common objections, you know, that's fine. We can cover some of that. I also do just want to say in the dining room I put down A very, very good book that was written by a founder called uh Well, it's I'm witnessing to Jewish people. And it's really practical. It's got not only things in there to help you understand Judaism and Jewish culture and this and that. And it's not a heavy book. He writes in a very uh easy to grasp kind of a manner. But in the back, he's got like sample conversations and how to handle certain objections and in a in a uh really uh down-to-earth manner. So it's very good book. Uh if some of you would find that useful. And then I also brought um and I'm sorry I can't give the books away so nobody's embarrassed later by just grabbing one. But um hi that happens. But then I brought three volumes of this kind of stuff, answering Jewish objections. They each cover different area. One covers general objections like, hey, I'm Jewish, you know, and we just don't believe in Jesus. Uh or uh my grandmother would roll over in her grave if I you know, blah blah blah, or the Holocaust, you know, the church is anti-Semitic, or Jesus, you know, the the New Testament is full of anti-Semitism, that kind of stuff. The second volume is uh theological objections like we Jews don't believe in the Trinity, we j we Jews don't need to kill an animal to find God's forgiveness. We Jews don't need a middleman between us and God, you know, and an intermediary, that kind of thing. The third volume is about the prophecies, the messianic prophecies, you know, hey uh Isaiah 7. 14. You know, your Christian Bible mistranslated. There wasn't a virgin that was going to have a baby. That's just a young woman. Or Isaiah 53 is not about Jesus, it's about the nation of the people of Israel. Or anyway, it's about all the prophecies. So I brought these materials. If you want to dive in deeper, any of you into some of that material, it's here and it's it's good stuff. Wow. Whoever's daughter, that's I just noticed her for the first time. You like blended in, you're so well behaved. Oh both of you. Even the bear isn't making a sound. Stephen, did you bring any tracks? Do you I'm sure you have some tracks to particularly use geared toward Jewish people and and do you find that helpful to have some things like that that that present the gospel in a way that's particularly oriented to Yeah, I I think um I don't know what I brought I do have some with me. I don't remember what I brought tonight, but uh some of those tracks we tend to uh Yeah, we some tracks are written uh we use a lot of humor in our tracks. Well right, that could go south. But um but uh yeah we have we're Presbyterians but we do applications. Okay, good, yeah. You can handle the humor, they could be good. The thing I got with Lenny's um attending the um Jus Vegas um