We are currently in the study of the book of James, and the section we are in right now, and that we began, came from chapter 4 and verse 1. Which focused upon the people of God being worldly and a call to repent from being worldly and being godly in the wisdom that we apply to our lives. We as God's children are are looking like, uh as James would say, in acting acting like the world. And this is happening within the context of all places, the church. There are those who are demonstrating this type of behavior by using their tongues to hurt others, by speaking evil so that they can fulfill their selfish ambitions. Today we're going to look at how subtle our worldliness can become, how surreptitious or how sneaky worldliness is, and how it can come in an unannounced James is going to give us two examples, one in this passage this Sunday, and then one in another where we will cover next Sunday. Now if you haven't already turned to our text for this morning, I encourage you to do so. If you would turn your Bibles to James chapter four, where we will be studying today verses thirteen to seventeen. Would you please rise now as uh we have the reading and hearing Of God's holy, inerrant, and infallible word. This is from James chapter 4, verses 13 through 17. Hear now the word of God. Come now, you who say, Today or tomorrow we will go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit. Yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist that appears for a little time and then vanishes. Instead, You ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will live and do this or that. As it is, you boast in your arrogance. All such boasting is evil. So whoever knows the right thing to do and fails to do it, for him it is sin. This is the Word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer for the illumination of the Holy Spirit upon our time of study this morning. Holy Spirit, attend to our souls now as we study your word. Help us to see and understand the importance of searching our hearts and minds. for latent worldliness that runs counter to God's ways. And we pray that you would grant us grace To not only see, but to repent and return to God's ways. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. So James begins by making reference to a way of thinking, a worldly way of thinking that was prevalent then and uh is no less present today, I think. This common sentiment among the pagans in his day is evidently something that is on the hearts and lips of the church members that he is writing to. He says, Today or tomorrow we will go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit. Now, at the time of this writing, it was not uncommon for Jews to be active in commerce. In the first century was marked by an uptick in economic growth. James's readers would have been able to identify with this sentiment very, very easily The foundation of this type of worldly thinking is that of boastfulness. It's that of boastfulness. If we put a positive picture on this, we can say that this statement is made by people who are self-confident and deliberate planners. They make plans. They go to some location at a certain date For a certain period of time, they know where they're going to stay, and all along they are convinced that their plan will make money for them. It will be productive and profitable. Before we dissect this statement any further, we need to ask a couple of questions, I think. The first is, are statements like this uncommon by today's unbelieving society? Does it sound like something that those who claim to be Christians would make Have you in the past, or are you now making plans with this type of frame of mind in your thinking? Now let's be clear. James is not rebuking the making of plans or engaging in business. In fact, the scripture is replete with encouragement for us to make plans. in life. In fact, not making plans, being lazy is considered simple by the scripture. It's not only okay to make plans, but it's important to make them. What about commerce? Well again the scripture is full of examples of the pursuit of commerce, from the Proverbs 31 woman to the unprofitable servant who buried the talent and did not invest it. He was chastised for not making an investment. So then we have to ask the question, what is the problem here? It is this. There is a rich covering of pride for boasting in the statement. The self-confidence found in this statement is betraying an attitude of self-empowerment and self-reliance. Here it is. It is devoid. of God's involvement. There is no mention of God. The point is that there is no evidence of consulting Him for direction and for blessing. Have there been times in your life when you make plans and for you it's a I guess we'll call it a no-brainer and you just know you're going to be successful at it. And you just go ahead, you know, and go head first without prayer or running it through the grid of biblical knowledge and wisdom. Have you ever done that? See, when when we don't do this, James wants us to see something about ourselves. What he wants us to see is that this rugged individualism Betrays something about our hearts, arrogance. And as we go along, something even deeper Than just arrogance. I think we have to ask, when we are in that situation, how did we end up here? How did we fall into this trap? Well the answer is that, as James said, we should. We did not draw closer to God. In what way? Well, we we probably haven't been praying. We probably haven't sought out his wisdom in the word. Sometimes we just don't want to engage God. Now, in these types of endeavors, especially. And you may ask yourself, why is it that we don't want to engage God? Well, I think sometimes it's because we're so impacted by by worldly thinking that we don't think there is anything wrong with going forward with our plans. Why why would I why would I be asking God is something that we would say. He did say that I I should make plans and not be lazy, right? Hmm. Perhaps another reason is that what we may be pursuing is not something God would want us to get involved in. We don't pray. We don't ask because we don't want to jeopardize our plans Maybe we've asked in the past, and God closed the doors, and we don't want him to, if you will, rein in on our parade. We don't want him to jeopardize our plans and fulfilling our quote-unquote dreams. Obviously, this is not just uh about business plans, right? It has implications of every arena in our lives. A new job. Education Continuing education, a breakup in a relationship, engaging in a relationship. You know, I can go on for a long time on how this has implications in everything that that we do in life. We don't go before God because we fear that He will say no. You ever do that? So now, what I've been talking about is not engaging God because we think he will close the door on our dreams. But what James has in mind is about not engaging God because we're infected by worldly thinking. We don't need to engage God because we are so self-reliant, self-confident, that we become boastful. We become arrogant and we can become prideful. Now, underlying the boastful arrogance is accumulating wealth here The desire to do business and make extensive travel plans suggests that people James is referring to have some measure of wealth and access to capital. I think this is entirely possible here that this paragraph may be reflective of the Lord's teaching regarding plans. arrogance and the transience of life. I'm thinking of chapter twelve of the Gospel of Luke, verses 16 to 20. Okay, read that for us and you can see where it's paralleling from Chapter 12 of Luke, verses 16 and 20 tells us, and he told him a parable, saying, The land of a rich man produced plentifully. And he thought to himself, What shall I do? For I have nowhere to store my crops. And he said, I will do this. I will tear down my barns and build the large ones, and there I will store all my grains and my goods And I will say to my soul, Soul, you have ample goods laid up for many years. Relax, eat, drink, and be merry. But God said to him, Fool. This night your soul is required of you, and the things you have prepared, whose will they be? I think this passage very nicely ties into verse number 14. And maybe you've heard this verse many times before, perhaps at a memorial service or even at a graveside service. Over the years I've used it in those situations because it's very apt for them. It states, verse 14, Yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring What is your life? For you are a mist that appears for a little time and then vanishes. James interrupts this attitude and begins to critique it. Perhaps as some commentators have detected, even ridiculing this attitude. Yet you has the qualitative sense of people such as you. These people are making long-term plans with the belief that they can manipulate and direct their circumstances, presumably people and resources to create, to make come about this future reality. When you take a step back and think about it, a lot has to go right for all of these plans to happen, doesn't it? Maybe you are like this, or you know people like this. They're going to do, they're going to to will something that isn't. to be something that is. They're gonna make it come about. Say you. How would these people see themselves in the cosmic scheme of things? Well, it's not far-fetched to say that they see themselves as Sovereign in the affairs of men. The bumper sticker on the back of their car is if it's going to be, it's because of me. This statement alone characterizes this type of thinking well, and it is without a doubt worldly. Some of you may say, well, wait, Pastor. In the Bible it says in the first part of Philippians 4:13 I can do all things. Yes, it does say that. But I would encourage you to not close your Bible, but continue to read the next part of the verse. I can do all things through him, through God, who strengthens me. So James is offering us a reality check. These people are certain of what will happen years from now, but they don't even know what will happen in twenty-four hours. That's a reality check. This type of arrogant boasting is prohibited by Scripture. Very clearly, if you turn to Proverbs 27, 1, it states, do not boast. about tomorrow. For you do not know what a day may bring. Please note that the passage does not say, do not plan for tomorrow. It says do not Be boastful about tomorrow. Don't be arrogant about what you will accomplish tomorrow How often have we determined that we will accomplish certain things tomorrow only to find out that it simply did not turn out the way we planned and find ourselves angry? At other people, or God, or even ourselves. James brings out the fragility of human life And the uncertainty of future events. He does this by asking, What is your life? He answers this question by saying that life is like the mist. Here one minute and gone the next. Accidental death Illness, unexpected circumstances can cut our lives short. Or suddenly we face a timer when our physicians give us just months to live. This is how fragile. And quickly things can turn. I think the longer you live life, the more you come to realize the truth of James's statements, don't you? You don't know what tomorrow will bring. Now, instead of approaching life as we are the masters of the universe, and impervious to fragility of this thing that we call life, how should Christians approach life? What is the world view that we should take? The next word in verse 15 addresses this issue. That word is instead. Instead, alerts us to the contrast. Now keep in mind that the instead here is contrasting the thought in verse 13 and not 14. He says Instead, you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will live and do this or that or whatever it may be. Not only does this verse provide a contrast, but I think it signals the transition in James's thoughts, and it reveals the purpose of his teaching. The frame of mind that Christians should have when making plans is, if the Lord wills In the end, it all comes down to the will of God and not the will of man. This reality should remind us that even when it comes to prayer, we should neither assume that asking for things nor having sufficient faith automatically guarantees our petitions. Our prayers and our plans must be what? According to his will. 1 John 5. 14 really brings this home. It reads, and this is the confidence that we have towards him. Him that if we ask anything according to his will he hears us. James is urging these presumptuous and self-confident merchants to add this qualifier not just to their tongues. If the Lord wills, but importantly also to their minds. Can we live out James's command To adjust our speech, but yet not our hearts? The truth is that we can, can't we? We can make it a figure of speech. Perhaps you've said in the past, if the Lord wills, properly and appropriately, but had no intention. or frame of mind prepared to accept his decision. Look, you may say, it's good when the Lord wills, right? Is it good whatever the Lord wills Think about that. We say that, don't we? It is good, the Lord's will, but do we really mean it? Whatever the Lord wills is good. We have to remind ourselves that everything that happens, everything that happens, is the Lord's will. Your plans may not be his plans, but yet it is still his will. Yes, we don't know how and why. He has decreed things to occur that we experience and see other people experience. But we know that he has decreed them. This is at the heart of the teaching of Providence. How do you respond when your will does not align with God's will I think that if we take the time to go around this sanctuary and ask each person to give their response, we can come up with a pretty long list, can't we? So here's the real question for us to consider. How and what do you truly mean When you say, if the Lord wills, that's the real question How and what do you really mean when you say, if the Lord wills? Is it? I'm gonna get this done, but it sure would be nice if he was on board. I could certainly use his help. Is it? He will change his mind when I show him how good an idea this is. You do realize that this has implications for the Lord's Prayer, right? Do you mean it when you say, as we just said, let thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven? Or Are you quite content with, let thy will be done in heaven? Is this what you mean when you say, if the Lord wills? It's not enough to think that life is short and unpredictable As pagans and unbelievers can and do believe this. But James is calling us to recognize that our lives and all of its circumstances are in God's hands. Christianity is not a deistic faith. It is not a closed system to God. God is actively engaged in the daily and minute affairs of our lives. Do you realize that God planned that you would hear this today? And that I would tell you that as well. So, how should recognizing this affect your life and your plans in life? Get God involved in your plans. And take comfort when things don't go your way. Wow. Be prepared to listen and learn. When things don't go your way, why is it okay? God is wise. God is good. And his ways are best. That's not to say that you're Plans were technically unwise or sinful or unworkable. But they were not God's plans. You should be okay with this. If you believe that God's ways are truly the best. Finally, if you think God is wiser than you, then you should be okay with it. If you don't think he is, then you could have problems with it. But that's another problem altogether, isn't it? Now, if left by itself, the statement that he just made in verse 14, it may not be objectionable. So James has taken the time to elaborate his concern. The problem is an attitude of arrogance. Verse 16 states, as it is, you boast in your arrogance. All such boasting is evil. Dr. Phillips, in his commentary on James, stated it this way: with such confidence in yourself in planning your future, you get a certain level of pride. It is the sense of self-sufficiency and self-confidence that is so characteristic of worldliness that James is condemning. He uses the word evil. What do you think happens to a person when he or she succumbs to this type of boasting arrogance? They leave God out of planning. They leave God out of their lives. They brag about their accomplishments to the world and sometimes to even fellow Christians. And in effect, what they're saying is that they're proclaiming some sort of an autonomy from God. Are they not? When they do that, I don't know if you thought about this, but you make an idol Of yourself when you are autonomous from God. You made it happen by your power. Bragging about autonomy from God is certainly wrong for pagans, but James James is pointing to the church. We have to consistently be on guard against this type of worldly arrogance as we live in a country that places great stress on self-glory. and self-ability, don't we, brothers and sisters in Christ? When we boast about our accomplishments and leave God out of the the entire process, we become more and more worldly And do not give credit to God, who is sovereign over all. I think that bringing God back into the conversation, bragging on him, Is sometimes more important for our spiritual health than the benefit of the unbeliever whom we may be trying to reach out to. Do you guys see that? It's it's for our spiritual health to bring God back into the conversation, not just trying to do some sort of outreach or evangelism. Verse seventeen starts with so. But here it has the effect of therefore. And it seems to connect verses 13 to 16 together. James is making a statement about the sin Now last week we talked about the sin of omission. And for those of you who are not here, you can always go back and watch the live stream to catch up on it. He says, so whoever knows the right thing to do and fails to do it, for him it is sin. We tend to focus on sins of commission, doing things we we know that we shouldn't do. Last week we did talk about the sin of omission. So we as Christians cannot take any comfort in thinking that we haven't done something that is positively wrong. We can't take comfort in that James has taught us that we need to include God, our Lord Jesus, in our planning. Not to do so, to omit this, is clearly. Sin. You caught that. So if you know that including God in your plans, seeking Him out, and looking into His Word And and you and you've done this, that you that you haven't included him in your in your plans, then you have committed sin. So in conclusion A non-Christian worldview leaves God's involvement in daily affairs out. It is marked by a boastful self-reliance. The reality of God and his ultimate judgment are largely ignored, or even sometimes mocked by the world However, faithful Christians are to lead their lives with the knowledge, one, that God is constantly providing and ordering all things that we experience. Finally We must guard against misunderstanding this passage. James is not teaching us not to make plans or engage in any sort of capitalism. Christians can engage in commerce as well as take out insurance policies, create a college fund, or prepare savings for a day when they may not be able to work. However, we must not fall into the trap of human arrogance that falsely believes that we can determine the course of future events We should also guard against an almost magical formula for following biblical principles and planning. James is not saying that if you You if you follow biblical ethics, principles in constructing your plan, then it is guaranteed to happen that it's gonna come to fruition Instead, we are to follow biblical principles and making plans, but remember that we don't have an inside track to God's broader plans. And his plans will also Always and should prevail as a consequence just because God did not bless a godly plan. We should not perceive it as chastisement or punishment. It simply was not his will. Let's not misinterpret that. If we understand it and we we internalize this, we can overcome so much regret. and bitterness in our lives. Think about that. Misinterpreting godly plans that we make that was just not God's will. Think about that. Do you sometimes feel bitter? Do you feel sometimes that you're chastised? It may not be the case. It just may have been not God's plans. In the end, James is not providing us teaching on how to make wise decisions. It is focused on calling us to maintain a Christian framework in our thought life, which includes God, from beginning to end. And just remember that when we ignore God's providence, not forget, when we ignore God's providence It can lead to arrogance. When we ignore God's providence, it can lead to arrogance. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the teaching of your word and for the warnings that it gives us and for the joys that it shares with us. We ask now that you would be with us, your people, that we would understand greater and greater how wise you are, how good you are. And how you want us to be part. You want to be part of all every part of our lives, every day of our lives. We ask that you would help us to recognize that. Help us to to not think that we are free agents, able to do things on our own without your involvement. We pray, Father, that we would give you the glory. We pray, Father, that the boasting that would come out of our mouths would be about how great you are. How grand you are, how wise you are, how delightful you are. And not about how great we are, and how delightful we are. So we pray that you would help us to repent from that type of thinking so that we don't fall into arrogance, but rather continue to take comfort in being in the presence and delight in being in your presence in the Lord Jesus. And it is in his name