The title of the sermon this morning is Worldliness A Deep Dive, the Sequel. Um a little after uh the bulletins were printed, I began to doubt the The title. Whenever I think of a sequel, it it sort of gives the impression that it's sort of like the follow-up or the ending to something. Wondering if maybe instead of the sequel, I might have gone ahead and done part two. I'm gonna go ahead and and preach this and maybe you all can tell me what it should be. Is the sequel or is it part two as we go through this uh passage of James? Um today we're gonna continue this deep dive, if you will, of worldliness, but it's going to be in uh verses one through. through six of chapter five in in the book of James. If you haven't already done so, please open your Bibles to James chapter five verses one through six. And as you do Will you please rise for the reading and hearing of God's holy, infallible, and inerrant word? Hear now the word of God. From the book of James, chapter five, verses one through six. Come now, you rich, weep and howl for the miseries that are coming upon you. Your riches have rotted, and your garments are moth eaten. Your gold and silver have corroded, and their corrosion will be evidence against you, and will eat your flesh like fire. You have laid up treasures in the last days. Behold, the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields, which you kept back by fraud, are crying out against you, and the cries of the harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord of hosts You have lived on the earth in luxury and in self-indulgence. You have fattened your hearts in a day of slaughter. You have condemned and murdered the righteous person. He does not resist you. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and pray with me as we ask the Holy Spirit for his illumination. Holy Spirit, your word teaches us that the word of the Lord cuts right through us as if separating bone from marrow. It convicts us, shows us where we are falling short. We pray that you would open our eyes to see which areas of our lives the word addresses, so that we may turn to you for guidance. and power to confess, repent, and live free from what displeases our Heavenly Father. And we ask this in the name of the Father and of the Son and your blessed name. Amen. I think before we begin, I've got a question that needs to be answered in regard to this text in order for it to sort of kind of make sense. The question is, who is James writing to? Who is it that he has in mind as he's writing this Now the the section deals immediately as you look at the passage, it says the rich, right? So by the time of James's writing, the rich Came to be known as those who oppress the righteous. I think that in this context, it's safe to assume that James has this meaning in mind. But who and how Is he addressing his audience is a fair question to ask? I believe that it is to the hypothetical wealthy who have been taking advantage of the poor. I'll explain. Let's be clear about this. It's not someone or specific group within the church that that that James is directly addressing. For example like the wealthy who are abusive of the poor and use the justice system for their personal gain. It's like he's speaking to them as if they're in the room But everyone knows that who he really is speaking to are those that may have been harmed by them, which is the poor or those like them. Pastor James will be addressing the church and teaching us what will be the outcome of those who selfishly hoard and who are abusive of the power that they have. In the event where where we ourselves are looking to go in that possible direction, as well as to find relief in knowing That they are not going to get away with it. Thus, to not try to get justice on our own. As the Lord teaches in the book of Romans, that the right of vengeance is God's. in God's alone. Now, in the in the previous paragraph, James pointed out that that self-glory is the motivation behind why the world makes plans and reminded us that the Christian Should have God's glory in mind. So then, the purpose behind this paragraph is to offer another reality check. There may be many in the churches who privately complain, but those who are wealthy in our society lead wicked and unholy lives, while they themselves lead righteous lives, which gets them nowhere. I think there's always the temptation to equalize things or want to equalize things and perhaps even take things into our own hands. However, James is reminding us What's in store of the rich, but in this context, let us be reminded it's of the wicked. Verse 1 begins here with Come now. And this phrase is grammatically connected and to the this paragraph with the previous one which was in four thirteen to seventeen. The reason for the connection is that they both begin with the same verbiage in the Greek And they make use of the hypothetical individuals or groups within society that James is addressing. The focus of this paragraph is none other than the rich, the wealthy. Now the rich were generally associated with those who oppressed the righteous. And the rich had become synonymous with the wicked. The poor had become synonymous with the righteous. Not all uses of this word were associated with wicked. It also meant wealthy without the negative associations, depending upon the context. However, in this situation, it's obvious that what James has in mind is in the evil way. Furthermore, I believe that James is not referring to those within the church because one, they're not called brothers. This is something that he consistently uses when he's talking about the brethren. And number two Unlike in verse 4 and chapter 9, they are not, nowhere in this passage will you find them being called to repentance. They are called instead to weep. and to howl due to their impending sufferings. Now James uses the same type of language, the weeping and the howling, as did the prophets of the Old Testament, when they condemned the pagan nations for their godlessness, uh eschatologically speaking. For example, in Amos chapter 8 and verse 3, we read The songs of the temple shall become wailings in that day, declares the Lord God. In Isaiah chapter 15 and verse 3, he warns of the eschatological end by saying, In the streets they wear sackcloth. On the housetops and in the squares, everyone wails and melts in tears. So then It is evident that the misery that James has in mind for these rich, evil rich, is an end-times consideration It is misery for the unbeliever. Not only does he reach back to the older covenant, but he continues to reference his brother's teachings. When the Lord taught of those who are wealthy. and wicked, that they would have their day of weeping and howling. We see this quite clearly in Luke chapter six, verses twenty-four and twenty-five. But woe to you who are rich, the Lord is saying. For you have received your consolation. Woe to you who are full now, for you shall be hungry. Woe to you who laugh now, and here it is, for you shall mourn and weep. As James has declared the upcoming judgment for the wicked rich, the first piece of evidence against them is their money and their, of all things, garments. Besides currency, it was common to store costly garments, oils, spices, grain, perfume, and disliked by the affluent. These important and expensive commodities had rotted, and the garments had been destroyed by moths. What made these wealthy from other affluent people was that they were, what made them different from other affluent people was that they were greedy. They hoarded wealth beyond their daily and personal needs. Instead of being generous and helping others like the poor, they stockpiled their wealth to the point where it spoiled. James is pointing out that the spoiled commodities and destroyed garments will be proof of their wickedness on the day of judgment. They prefer to hold on to their wealth to the point of its spoiling, as opposed to helping their neighbor in the time of their need. This is something, I think, brothers and sisters, that we need to consider. There's nothing wrong with planning to provide for your old age We don't wish to be a financial burden on our families, our friends, and of course our society at large And yes, there is nothing wrong with making financial plans to care for your loved ones, should the Lord call you home, especially when they cannot provide for themselves. It actually is a sign of love to do these things. However, you knew there was going to be a however in there, right? However When we get to the point where we have amassed wealth beyond our planned need, and now we're preparing for the quote unquote Zombie apocalypse. I think we have to ask if we've arrived at what James is referring to. I'm talking about never needing those funds. It's just sitting there collecting digital dust. And up until recently, that very same fund was getting you a cool 0. 0. 0. 01% interest in the bank Today, we don't really save expensive clothing or spices or oil, but if you were living in the first century, would you Be doing this. Would you be hoarding garments that are very expensive? Would you be hoarding oil and spice and grain? beyond what you need. The tense of the verb rotted is in the perfect tense, and this indicates to us that it is stating a particular condition. And so uh Dr. Douglas Moo uh in his commentary on the book of James offers this uh notion. The idea is that although the rich cannot see it, their great wealth has already lost its luster. It stands already under the doom of things of this world that will fade away and can provide no foundation for the life to come. Now, I hope you're not missing the great irony here. Presumably, one of the reasons they were hoarding was so that they would make provisions for a cataclysmic scenario, but their wealth is already fading away and in reality shouldn't provide them. any comfort whatsoever. Now before we go any further, let's be clear that James is not calling these rich to lament because of the monetary loss of spoiling commodities, or even of inflation which we hear of today by financial consultants and economists. But instead, they need to wail because they will have to pay for their greed one day. Now the Greek word for corrosion can also refer to rust or tarnish. Now since neither gold nor silver corrodes or rusts, James must have tarnish in mind. The tarnish was an indication of how long the metal lay dormant and unused. This tarnishing was also being evidence against the selfishness of these people. They obviously had more than they could use, but instead it just they just left it idle. Tarnishing. The wealthy must recognize, as as must we, that all things that we possess or have are given to us by our our gracious Heavenly Father. He is generous. And he gives us what we need. And sometimes However, he gives us much more than what we need, and that becomes an opportunity for us to be generous and merciful. like our Heavenly Father. Now what I have in mind is not just expensive uh clothing, gold coins, Bitcoin nowadays, and and so forth. Although they're part of it, I also have in mind God-given gifting, talents that we have. I think that we can be wealthy with ability and knowledge, and we just let it sit there Not exercising them for the good of others for our neighbor. Christian Let me ask you, what do you have that God has given you that is tarnishing away? Whether it's tangible or intangible? Now this raises the question, why would anyone hoard wealth away in the first place. I think we can come up with a couple of good answers, but they tend to fall into two major categories. Power and security. Now, if this is the case, and it generally is, what does the reason or reasons behind the hoarding indicate about the condition of the heart? I think it's a lack of trust in God. On two fronts. The first is that hoarding reveals that there's a lack of trust in God to provide. And secondly, hoarding reveals a lack of trust in God's wisdom, which touches upon his providence. When we do this, we're trusting in our wisdom. This means that we want to get things done the way that we want them to go down. Wealth affords you the opportunity to be the captain of your own ship. Now, for the underbeliever who doesn't take God into account, it's the very same, isn't it? The unbeliever says I need to provide for myself and for my future, and I want to be in control of my life now as well as my life in the future. And wealth affords me that opportunity. I hope you're seeing what this has to do with last week's lesson. This is worldly thinking. And when we're thinking the same thing as the unbeliever, we're being worldly. Are we not? Let's continue in verse 3. The imagery of their flesh burning. This is a pretty graphic picture of the result of their greed. their very own destruction. It's as if the corrosion that ate their riches will eat their very flesh. Those of you who are being tempted to think worldly in this regard. How does it make you feel to know that those who have become wealthy by way of sin will have their wealth as evidence against them? on Judgment Day. I don't know about you, but it makes me think twice about being worldly. And I think also it seems like poetic justice, to be honest with you. Just so we don't lose the full effect of what James is saying here in verse 3, he ends it by saying that they have laid up treasures In the last days. James is not referring to the wicked as accumulating wealth for their retirement, their last days. The tenor of this passage won't permit this interpretation, which oftentimes is what people will say. You see, it has an eschatological flavor due to the previous thought that James has offered. of their stored treasure eating away at them like fire. Time period. between Christ's first and second coming was and is referred to the last times or the last days by the New Testament Church James may be commenting with a slight hint of irony. James is living his life as if any moment Jesus will return. as most did in the first generation. Therefore, to hoard up treasure selfishly is just foolishness. What good will the stored unneeded treasure do in a time like the Paroisia? When Jesus comes back, what benefit will it have them? What benefit will it have us? Now the king may be back at any moment Selfishly store treasure will not benefit anyone, but instead be an indictment against the person who is selfishly concerned for himself. over against helping others when he prudently can. The Revised English Bible, the R. E. B. , has a good feel for James's sentiment here. He says And it's interpreted as, you have piled up wealth in an age that is near to its close. How are then we to live? As it relates to the last days. Well, in one sense, we have a different perspective than the first generation of believers. For them, they believed it was going to be immediately imminent. But for us, our perspective is a little bit different and colored by the fact that two thousand years have passed. We can conceive of an idea that it could be a very long time before the Lord returns. But at the same time, we do live with the reality of his return being unknown and perhaps imminent. The answer, I think, is something that we don't really have to speculate a lot about. The scripture is clear. We are to live out our lives like any moment the Lord will return. And at the same time, we shouldn't be fooled by cataclysmic world events such as wars or rumors of wars, natural disasters like earthquakes and hurricanes. As being the end is right around the corner. But because the the reality of the situation is that it could be today, tomorrow. Months from now, only a couple of years from now, should we be selfishly hoarding? That's kind of a foolish thought, right? Judgment Day is right around the corner, and we should be storing up evidence against ourselves? That is foolish, right? Now, let me please reiterate, there's a difference between selfishly hoarding and wisely saving for a rainy day. Now in verse 4, James lays down a second charge against these wicked people and presents the evidence. These wicked people whipped off those who rendered labor to them. Those who were taken advantage of are crying out for justice against these wicked people by paying off judges. These wealthy got favorable judgments from the local magistrates. It's interesting to point out that James is saying that the withheld wages are crying out for justice on behalf of the laborers. James is using biblical imagery, very much like Abel's blood crying out for justice, as we have in Genesis 4. 10. It's like James is saying, even now, every time these wicked people reach into their pockets for a shekel, I can hear the coins chanting, I am ill gotten, I am ill gotten. Now if that happens, that would be kind of creepy, wouldn't it? Leviticus 19, 13 jets out as a relevant part of the law that that that must be considered here. I'll read it for us. You shall not oppress your neighbor or rob him. The wages of a hired worker shall not remain with you all night until the morning. The implication here is that taking advantage of the poor for your own personal gain, your greedy Selfish ambition is leading up to the breaking of the second great commandment, which is to love your neighbor as yourself. The good news is for those who have been either taken advantage of or experienced a miscarriage of justice can rest assured that another judge who cannot be bribed has heard their plea and will one day give them a retrial. And that judge Is no less than God Himself, the perfect judge. These wicked people will have the wages they held back from their workers as evidence that condemns them for their unrighteousness. Have you ever been taken advantage of Or experienced a miscarriage of justice in your life. I think that maybe on some level all of us have. Right? How does knowing that a perfect judge will one day not only listen to your plea, but adjudicate you with perfect justice, so that you will be vindicated. So a as we've progressed in this passage I hope you're seeing that he is not writing to the sinful, wealthy, and greedy, unbelieving, but rather he's writing to the church. who have been taken advantage of and have had the justice system used against them by abusive, powerful people who only care for themselves. Are you guys seeing that? Now these wicked people spared no expense for their own comfort. Their hearts had not only had their fill, but it became fattened with lustful excessiveness. Basically, they denied themselves nothing. It came at the expense of swindling other people. James uses the word fattening. As it has an ominous end to it. Cattle were fattened prior to their slaughter, but they were unaware. of their impending doom. So also these wicked people are being compared to cattle, fattening themselves, all going to be suddenly punished for their wickedness. They're like a bunch of turkeys a couple of months out before Thanksgiving. However, they're not being fed in this scenario. They're feeding themselves Not knowing what's about to happen. You know, there's a suddenness to James's writing, and maybe you've caught it. It has connections to the previous paragraph Do you recall? The connection is not knowing when our lives will end. Do you see there's a suddenness that he has here. There is then sufficiently good reason for James to call the wicked rich. To do what? To weep and to howl for their end is not good. Now, the last charge in verse 6 goes beyond cheating laborers of their wages. It is its consequences. In order to gratify their greed, their actions have resulted in murder. He says in verse 6, you have condemned, you have murdered the righteous person. Before we get to this claim of murder, let us first consider the righteous person in this text so we understand who we're talking about. and who we're not potentially talking about. Grammatically in the Greek, it is literally the righteous singular. The one is provided by translators for understanding purposes. Some argue that the definite article, the, with the singular righteous, is referring to the Lord Himself. This is not technically wrong, but one has to ask how this suddenly came up. James has not been talking about Jesus, and he has not brought him up thus far. And the question is, does he have and does he want us to have Jesus in mind here? I I don't think that that's exactly where he's going with this. We have to realize that it in James's time the the laborers needed their daily pay because they literally lived day by day. If they did not eat They were in danger of dying of starvation, as well as those that were dependent upon them. Since James is writing to the church, the righteous one ends up being a class of people. the typical follower of Jesus, of whom James's readers would presumably know, of fellow believers who died of starvation Even though they worked and they were ripped off. Therefore, the wicked wealthy who withheld the daily wages of the righteous resulted in murder. Now if you're thinking, you know, that was back then. That doesn't happen today Listen to some statistics. According to the United Nations, around 25,000 people die from hunger and related causes every day. including more than 10,000 children. This translates to roughly one person dying anywhere from four and a quarter seconds to twelve seconds. Of hunger, starvation. Numbers from 735 to 783 million people in the world go to bed. Let's just say fall asleep, hungry, each night. Depending upon what kind of global population statistic you use, that's roughly One in ten human beings go to sleep, fall asleep hungry. We can well imagine what devastating effects any sort of prolonged drought in certain parts of the world would have upon those that would be unable to purchase food. There are many people globally who are taken advantage of today laboring and not getting paid for their compensation, for their due compensation. They have it withheld, having their pay tied up for weeks and months in court systems in their own countries, thus making it impossible for them to be able to get their pay. Humans in the first century were not cut off, or not cut from a different cloth than they are today. Humans are the same, still fallen, sinful, greedy, and willing to take advantage of their neighbor, to feed their Selfishness and their selfish ambitions. There's a bluntness to this indictment of murder The rich were not only guilty of attacking an innocent man, righteous, but he was also a defenseless man. who either refused or was unable to fight back because they simply did not have the resources to do so. I think one needs to consider that in the grand scheme of things, the wicked will get their due in God's timing. We, or anyone for that matter, may unjustly be taken advantage of by the wicked, but one day they will have to pay for their crimes. So then, we are to see that this and the previous paragraph are connected In that when wealth is pursued without taking into account the reality of God and His will for humanity It reflects a worldly way of thinking and must be repented of. What is your view on wealth and acquiring it? How does your answer to this question line up with the Christian way or the Christian worldview? What will you do? What are you doing with whatever wealth you possess? What I mean is this, will your lack of works of generosity and mercy towards your neighbor Betray a false trust in Jesus on Judgment Day? Or will your generosity of spirit Merciful and generous use of your resources and talents justify, vindicate your faith claim in Christ on Judgment Day. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your grace in our lives. We thank you for your generosity And that greatest generosity is of giving the treasure of heaven on our behalf, the Lord Jesus. We are indeed very wealthy in so many ways. We thank you for your kindness and your grace and your outpouring upon our lives, upon our families' lives, upon our loved ones. Father, we do pray That you would help us to not be worldly in our thinking. Help us to overcome greediness. Where greediness exists. Help us not to be selfish. Help us not to exercise selfish ambition in our lives at the cost and expense of other people. But instead, let us be merciful. Let us be like you, generous Father, we we admit we can't do this on our own unless you do that work in us. So we ask for you.