For six years, I pastored a church in Harlingen, Texas. Most of you wouldn't know that the town was originally called Six Shooter Junction. Now the makeup of that town now is over 80% Latino as it sits right across the Rio Grande River from Mexico. And actually, if you would look at a map of the nations and our particular continent, you would see that one-third of Mexico is actually sits north. of Harlingen. It was so far south. And moving down there, there were a lot of cultural differences for our family. And I really enjoyed a lot of them. One, especially with Hispanic culture, was their emphasis upon the family. But there's one thing that I just couldn't get used to. Every time I heard it, it would just drive me crazy. I'd meet a man or a boy, and uh, especially if he had a name tag on, and it said, Jesus. And I went, what? You know, because I wasn't used to it. Of course, in the Hispanic culture, it's Jesus. But you know, I I was trying to figure out why are people, why do they have the audacity to name their child after the second person of the Trinity? I mean God Himself, right? I don't go around calling my my boy, hey Jesus. You know, I just don't act that way. It wasn't normal for my culture. Right? And so I'd see it and I'd I'd hear it and I would just go, ooh. It was just bothersome. Until finally I realized that when I met other people's children who are named after people in the Bible you know, James or John or Peter or Paul. I wasn't offended. And then I realized that the Greek translation of Jesus for us really comes from the Hebrew Joshua. And I've known lots of boys named Joshua or men named Joshua and it didn't bother me a bit. They both mean God saves or God is salvation. And so all of a sudden I finally, after a while, just had to tell myself to get over it Well, one of the problems that we have with Jesus in the Christmas story is that we have gotten over it. We've heard it over and over again. I think maybe one of the reasons Pastor Dusenberry had me preach today is he didn't have to come up with one more Christmas message. I mean you've heard them all. Somewhere, sometime. How can it be new? How can it be fresh? Pastors who write books for other pastors, new stories of the old message, you know, and it never works. You just have to get in and say, what is it? You have to ask God to just help us. Help us not worry if we haven't opened the presents yet, about later. Help us not just think about the cookies or the ham or whatever your tradition is. And I'm glad for those things. I can hardly wait to celebrate those things myself. But for us, we've come to worship Jesus And so I've been praying and asking, and I hope, and I pray as that I pray that you would ask him to, Lord, help me just sit quiet enough to hear this again. Hear what I need to hear in this message because we do it every year. Why is it so important? What is there about the name of Jesus? And Lord willing, that's what we'll see today. I'm not going to be reading the scripture as I normally done. It's already been read. But we'll take a section of the time and look at it and say, God, help me to understand. What you have for me today. So let us pray. Our Father and God, I thank you so much for Jesus. And yet I confess that I come to Christmas and was working on another Christmas message. that it took a while to to speak to my own heart and not just to go through a rote rendition of what I've heard before Would you help us as only you can, O God, by your spirit and word? Let us hear it again and even afresh. That our worship to you would be sweet, and that we indeed, as your children, would find great benefit to hear. But much more than that to know the benefit of our Savior Jesus. For we pray in his name. Amen. We'll be looking this morning at Matthew chapter 1, verses 18 to 25. We'll take them a section at a time. First thing I want you to see this Christmas is that you need to understand the dilemma behind the Christmas story, especially for Joseph. So if you turn to Matthew chapter 1 and verse 18. Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. And if you want to understand the the authority of the Bible, why it's true, that no other religion would talk about their God coming in such a salacious way. i i in in such a way that was uh so full of of of of possible guilt And sin and a problem. The birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to betrothed, engaged to Joseph. Before they came together, she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit. Consider here the weight of Joseph's dilemma, the problem that he was facing, having been engaged to marry betrothed, In the ancient Jewish culture, a year before you were married, you were considered married, but you didn't have all the benefits of being married. You had made the promise to each other, but you still lived separately as you were living with your parents to give a year. to understand that the couple were pure and if a child would come it was not from them And so now to have Joseph find out that he's going to have a child and it's not going to be his. He's got a problem because we're told that Joseph is a righteous man. As we'll look through the scripture today. And so he's got a problem. What is he going to do with this bride? What is he going to do with her? And just consider his own hurt. He's being told That not only is she pregnant, but the story comes out that it's the Holy Spirit. Right. I've heard some stories before, but this one is a whopper. How could this be? What is going on? And here he's told that that the pregnancy is not from some other fellow, so that So that so that there there's a problem, but it's of the Holy Spirit. He's being told that it's like in Genesis 1 when the earth was out of form and void. That darkness was over the face of the deep waters, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters, that this would be a virgin birth. Well, how would he believe it? But the question that many people today is asking, how can we believe it? And I hope that's one of the things that we'll see, and God will be gracious to give to us today, but it's a question that many people ask. It's really not a virgin birth, it's a virgin conception. It's of the Holy Spirit that this is happening. In fact, the church through the ages has confessed that when we confessed the Com Apostles' Creed and the more ancient Creed that we have confessed today. Of the Nicene Creed, we said of our Lord was conceived by the Holy Spirit and born of the Virgin Mary. If you are a Christian This is something that not only Joseph had to learn to believe, but every Christian since then must believe. This story isn't just long ago and far away. It affects us and how we understand our own God and our own salvation. So we have to come face to face with this This past week in the New York Times, there was an article by Nicholas Christoph. And in his article, he was he was laying down a conversation that he had with Pastor Tim Keller because he is wondering, that is Mr. Christoph And he's sharing this article with us of the questions that he asked Pastor Keller. He says, am I a Christian? He's wanting to know because he doesn't necessarily believe all the things. that historic Christians would be in the Nicene Creed or the Apostles' Creed. And he's saying, am I a Christian? And one of the questions that he asked in the New York Times is this. And it was great because as he's asking these questions, of course, being in the New York Times, there's so many other people that might ask that same question, can I be a Christian and not believe in this ancient Christian that talks about this virgin conception or virgin birth. Can it w do I have to believe it? Is it true? And so this is a question he asks. He says, Pastor Keller, let's start with the virgin birth. Is that an essential belief, or can I mix and match? That's great, isn't it? Isn't that like our culture today? Uh uh My God is like this and He's like this. No, he doesn't have this. You mix and match. It's like One of those uh little books you give to children and you know, a snowman could have a top hat and a button nose and and uh coal for you know coal coal uh carrot nose and cold for but if you turn the page it could be a floppy hat right and it could have a radish nose and uh, you know, uh candy for buttons, right? You can just mix and match and make any kind of snowman you want. Well, that's the way we are with God today and people. And so he says Is the virgin birth essential, belief, or can I mix or match? And Pastor Keller responds. He says, if something is truly integral to the body of thought, You can't remove it without destabilizing the whole thing. A religion can't be whatever we desire it to be. If I'm a member of the Board of Greenpeace and I come out and say, climate hoax, climate change is a hoax, they're going to ask me to resign I could call them narrow-minded, but they would rightly say that there have to be some boundaries for dissent, or you couldn't have a cohesive, integrated organization. And they'd be right. It's the same with any religious faith. And so what we're stating here and what we're What what Joseph is finding out from the angel who makes this visit, and he's got this dilemma now, he he he's saying he's saying the virgin birth is necessary. And so you have to come to that very question as you come to worship this day, because you're not worshiping the God of the Bible if you don't believe that he was conceived. as we've just found out in God's Word by His Holy Spirit. You're not in the realm of historic Christianity or true Christianity. And so there might be some of you who are here today going, oh man, Pastor, you just uh that was one of my mixer matches. And the truth is we all struggle with those kind of things. There's things we'd like to believe, we'd like to be a little different, but God has said it clearly here today. that that's the way it is. Well let's go on and see how Joseph reacts to this decision. Matthew 1 and 19 This crisis, you need to see Joseph's kind decision, his kind heart. And her, Mary's husband Joseph, being a just man on unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly. Her being pregnant before the period of uh of their year-long Separation was a shame and a hurt to him. And now this story that it's from the Holy Spirit is hard for him to believe. And so he's broken. This woman that I love, this woman that I've given myself to, she's pregnant. Why did she do this to me? And in fact, in the book of Deuteronomy, this sin of being pregnant from another man, from another being, in this case, and people not understanding. She could have been stoned. She could have been had capital punishment. She could have been killed for her sin, as it was seeming that there was. But Joseph loved her. He was broken and shamed. But he didn't want to hurt her, so he said, I'll put her away secretly. And putting her away doesn't mean killing her. I'm going to put her away. bury her under the porch or something. No, no, no. It's not. It's gonna I'm gonna we don't have to let everybody know about this shame. It we'll send her away And uh and and and and I'll have to go on. I love her, but but this is just not right. We cannot, we cannot Bid this way. John Calvin says this. Joseph was moved by an ardent love of justice. He condemned the crime of which he supposed his wife to have been guilty. While the gentleness of his disposition prevented him from going to the utmost rigor of the law He cared for her. He loved her. I believe Joseph sought to do what Micah 6. 8 says. It says, What does the Lord require of you but to do justice and to love kindness? Sinclair Ferguson writes about what God was doing with Joseph's character because You understand that Jesus grew up as his is his first son, not his only son. He had relations with Mary and had uh a brother and a couple sisters. um later on. But this was uh this son and he was going to be before he went into ministry And on his own at 30, he was going to work in the shop with Joseph every day. It was going to be the character of this man who was going to be affecting Jesus as he's growing up. And the man that he was going to affect Jesus, Joseph, had to learn to deal with pain and shame. And as he learned to deal with this, as the angel came and told him the truth, he was the one who would help Jesus learn how to deal with pain and shame Because we know that those are two of the main things that Jesus dealt with. Sinclair Ferguson says it this way, in order for Jesus to learn what it looked like to absorb hurt and cover shame, God deemed it necessary to give him a godly earthly father in Joseph to model it for him. Jesus was going to experience much hurt, immense personal pain, long before the crucifixion. Jesus was also going to experience awful shame and would absorb that shame through his ministry. Now the wondrous thing here that we see on Christmas is God intervened. He didn't want the natural thing to go on. And Joseph being a just man, still loving Mary, but being hurt and having this pain and shame was going to set her aside quickly quietly. They were going to have a divorce, annulment of their betrothal. But God steps in. Let's look at Matthew chapter 1, verses 20 and 21. Let's look at it together. Let's see what happened. But as he, Joseph, considered these things, he's saying, what am I going to do? How am I going to handle this? He probably had many sleepless nights and cried and and and and and and was considering his own reputation and yet his care for Mary. It's hard to even imagine what he was going through. But as Joseph considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David. Do not fear to take Mary as your wife. For that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. What a dream! How great, what great news, as Joseph must have been, as the psalmist said, swimming in his bed at night. You know, going through sweating and concerns and over-roll-turning and and not getting sleep and falling asleep and waking up and wondering what to do, that he gets this dream that God God chooses to intervene. And what great news. Do not fear. Don't fear this angel who's showing up in your dream, but also don't be afraid of your predicament. It's a God thing. The Holy Spirit has caused Mary to conceive. And Mary will bear a son, and you will call his name Jesus. God saves. The message was so important. It was needed. And not just God graciously coming to to to to Joseph and saying, this needs to be his name, Jesus, is because that's exactly what he's going to be doing. He's going to be saving people. But that God did the same thing with an angel to Mary. We find in Luke chapter 1, verses 30 to 31. And the angel said to her, Don't be afraid, Mary, for you found favor with God, and behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. Why? Because God saves. Man can't save himself. God must intervene in the process to save sinners And God will save sinners through Jesus. Every time you hear his name, that you'll remember that God saves. And that God is going to work through Jesus being the Lamb of God given to save sinners from their sins. God doesn't make happy talk, but he tells Joseph that Jesus is born for a mission to save sinners like you. And sinners like me. As Tim Keller also told Nicholas Christoph in the New York Times articles Christians believe that it's those who admit their weakness and need for a savior who get salvation. Christmas doesn't mean anything unless you know Jesus. It's all about Jesus and knowing He saves, and you confess that you need to be saved. I like this season when I come and see the reefs in the windows. And last night at the service to have the candles lit in the windows. And this little greenery lights up with lights you don't see on now. That's really nice. I just feel warm and cuddly. I'm not very much a warm and cuddly guy, but When I when I see that stuff, I like it. But that's not Christmas. Last night my wife and I opened our presents to each other. That was fun. It was enjoyable. I liked what I got. That's not Christmas It's all the patherinalia of Christmas, but if you don't understand that you need Jesus who saves, you're not celebrating Christmas. You're in the holiday season But there won't be a Merry Christmas for you. It will be a horrid Christmas. Because every time you hear Jesus, God saves, you know that if you don't know him, you're damned. God doesn't make happy talk. Men and women, boys and girls alike all hate to admit our need of a savior. I just don't make mistakes. I have an evil heart. I love myself. And if I had the chance And if I were around at Easter time when Jesus was crucified, I would have been shouting with the rest, crucify him, crucify him. And unless you understand your need, there is no Christmas for you. You get to come along with us. We'll be nice to you. We'll even give you presents. But there's no Christmas for you. The hardest thing for us to accept is Jesus Because if we accept him and trust him, we say that we trust you because I need a savior. I'm broken. I'm rotten. I need cleanse. I have no hope on my own. You've come as this gentle child, meek and mild this first time, and you'll grow up to die to save a sinner like me. Because without that, you're coming a second time in your second Advent. You came first as this lamb, but later you're coming as the lion. And the lion will eat and destroy with his wrath all those that don't bow the name to Jesus who saves. And that's hard for us to admit. I always enjoy the instructive message given by G. K. Chesterton. Years and years ago in the Times of London. gave to different important people of the culture an assignment. And every week They would have a different one of these important people, writers or politicians, publish their essay on what is wrong with the world And some people said, what's wrong with the world is there aren't enough financial resources to go around. Some people are rich and some people are poor. And somebody wrote, what we need is world peace. We need to stop fighting one another. And so everybody was looking forward to what G. K. Chesterton would write And they opened up the Times and they looked at his article, and there it was, G. E. K. Chesterton, and says, What is wrong with the world? And his message was, I am sincerely yours, G. K. Chesterton. And until you can come to Jesus at Christmas and confess that's what's wrong with the world is you then Christmas is not yours. You watch it from a distance because you don't know Jesus the one who was born to die to save sinners, so that you might be saved. Let's go on to see what continues in this passage, Matthew chapter 1, verses 22 and 23. This Christmas, you need to know the history behind this birth. That the angel didn't just show up at this time with Joseph, but 700 years earlier there was a prophet Isaiah who wrote about God's plan. And Matthew is bringing us the remembrance and saying, this isn't just some story you're hearing now to make up all that is going on behind this birth with Mary and with Mary and Joseph. It this isn't some story they've concocted, but you can go back to the ancient writings, you can go back to Isaiah, where he lets us know that this was God's plan of salvation. And so he then writes and as he quotes Isaiah, he says this, Matthew 1, 22 to 23. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. Well, first of all, 700 years ago, before that, virgin births, virgin conceptions uh w were not normal. If the story was written 700 years ago, there'd be the same problem. But Isaiah writing 700 years ago is saying this is what would happen. And what happens and when he is born, it's going to be Jesus, God saved, God's going to be with us. How amazing is that? That God in his glory would come down and add to his glorious personage as God who is holy, righteous, just, full of love and care. And all those things would add to it the human personality being born of a woman of Mary. So that he might be with us. And why is he with us? What does Jesus tell us that he's with us to save us? Every time we hear Jesus, God saves. Who does he save? Sinners. And unless you can confess that and your need for him, then you're a watcher of Christmas. But not a participant of Christmas. Matthew wants us to know this that God is with us. He not only at the beginning uses the scripture from Isaiah 700 years ago, but if you look at Matthew at the very last chapter, Matthew 28, we hear this wonderful story as Jesus is risen from the dead and ascends into heaven. What does he say? He said, I am with you. Even to the end of the age. What a wondrous thing. God is with us to save us, but continually to save us. I woke up this morning and and and you know you think about well what what was the pastor thinking about because he's got to preach today. Was he going to think about the message? Uh was he thinking about the presents that his wife got him? Is he thinking about his first Christmas with his granddaughter? You know, and you're thinking about do I have a pimple that I have to get rid of before I preach? You know, what are you what is he thinking about? All right? And I woke up today thinking of one of my sins that I still struggle with. I was thinking about do I have to struggle with this another year? Am I gonna fail again? Am I not gonna get this finished And then I remembered my message and whose birth I'm celebrating. Jesus. He not only has saved me, he is with me now and is saving me And when Jesus returns, I will be saved. Beloved, isn't this good news for us? Amen. It's wondrous. Well, Joseph was in this dilemma. What was he going to do with all his hurt and shame? The God sent his angel to intervene. Tell him that he should go and stay with Mary and have this child and name him Jesus. But let's see his response. Let's look at Joseph's response because his response mirrors the response of those who have come to know the one who saves, even Jesus. Let's look at the last two verses. Matthew one twenty-four and twenty-five. When Joseph woke from sleep He did as the angel of the Lord commanded him. He took his wife, but knew her not until she had given birth to a son. And he called his name Jesus. God saves Joseph didn't wake from his dream and shake off the message from God and say, well, that's certainly one to remember. But by faith and at much personal cost, Joseph obeyed God and followed through with his marriage to Mary, and at the birth of the child. Named him Jesus, salvation is of the Lord The baby's crying on t Is that you, Abigail? Way to go. Maybe it's not. I don't think so. As we listen to that baby, I want to remind you what Pastor John MacArthur has said that we might Take the little cherub picture we have and understanding why Jesus was born. Jesus means God saves, but it was at a cost. He says this. Those little soft hands fashioned by the Holy Spirit in Mary's womb were made for nails to be driven through them for sinners like you. And like me. Those baby feet, pink and unable to walk, were made to walk up the dusty and dark hill called Golgotha, where Jesus would be nailed to a cross. For sinners like you and like me. That sweet infant head with sparkling eyes and an eager mouth were formed so that one day might men might force a crown of thorns onto it and beat it with rods for sinners like you and like me That tender body, warm and soft, wrapped in swaddling clothes, would one day be scourged by a whip and with thirty-nine lashes, and then ripped open by a spear. For sinners like you and like me. And Jesus was born as a child, meek and mild, was born to die. For sinners like you and like me. Jesus coming at Christmas by the miraculous conception of the Holy Spirit enables you to have a miraculous birth It means that you can be born again. By faith in Jesus, you may come to know Christmas. You might know Jesus as Savior and Lord. God saves For God so loved the world that he sent and gave his only son to be born at Christmas and then to die on a cross, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life Forever you are that excuse if you hear the name Jesus. God saves. Does hearing the name of Jesus this Christmas cause you to rejoice? Because by faith you've been saved from your sins? Hallelujah. I'm going to enjoy the day I trust. But I already enjoyed the day when I woke up this morning. I had this awful weight. Well, every morning I wake up, I have an awful weight. I could feel the awful weight of my sin. And remember it's Christmas. Jesus was born to save sinners. Therefore I have hope and joy and rejoice this day. Whoever believes in Jesus, the Son, has eternal life. This is the first advent. Jesus is first coming. He comes as the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world. But beloved, I must tell you there is going to be a second Advent where Jesus is coming as a lion to tear apart with his eternal wrath those who will not bow before him To trust him, to call out that they are a sinner in need of salvation. Whoever does not obey Jesus, the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. What a horrible tragedy it would be for you today if you've not joined us for worship this Christmas. No, you've joined us. You're here, but you have no worship of Jesus. Because you refuse to come and say, I need a Savior. What a horrible tragedy it would be. Acts 4 tells us this. This Jesus, God saves, is the stone that was rejected by the builders. which have become the cornerstone. He's saying many people reject Jesus. Yes, he does save. But they reject him. But God says, there is salvation and no one else, for there's no other name under heaven given among men, which which you must be saved. There is salvation no other way except to come and celebrate Christmas, to bow before Jesus. God saves and said, I need a Savior. I hope that all of you can celebrate as I did when I woke up this morning. Jesus says, the weight is lifted. You're not just saved in the past, you're not just saving you now, you will be saved. That's why I'm celebrating today. That's Christmas for Christians. And if you don't know it, and you're only observing Christmas today is the day that you can join us. Today is the day that you can confess your real need and your own fears And that you need a savior. And understand that God loved us so much that he would send his God, his son from heaven to come and die for us. Hallelujah! What a Savior! Blessed, Merry Christmas! Jesus God saves. Born at Christmas, grew up to suffer hell on the cross for those who by faith entrust themselves to Him. Let us worship and celebrate. But with our celebration, I also must bring the warning that we must take our own friends and loved ones. Because today, if you miss responding to Jesus in faith at his first coming, He will not miss you in his judgment at his second coming. Today, celebrate Christmas. And come by faith to Jesus who saves. Let us pray Our Father and God, what a wonder to be among the saints who like Christian and pilgrim's progress before the cross, he stood there, and the burden of his sin and shame rolled off his back. And Father, I rejoice in knowing that this morning as I awoke. Hallelujah, what a Savior. And may that be the testimony of your saints. And we thank you that that call is open to all. Would you draw many to yourself this Christmas through Jesus our Savior? Amen.