I found it this morning that when my wife and I were dating, we had a long distance relationship. I was in State College, Pennsylvania, where Penn State is, and she was here, so we were at least three hours away. And one of the things that I noted and liked back around 1971 when I came to the area was being able to listen to family radio. And uh it really stuck out because they sang hymns. And it really stuck out because of their Bible programming. And at that time I really enjoyed listening to the Bible Forum with Harold Camping. And you would call in and he'd give great answers on the scriptures so often. It was just Really good to hear. So when he predicted at one point that on September 6, 1994, the Lord would return. I was saddened to say the least. Because none of us have to ever worry about a prediction. Because the Lord Jesus, as we'll see tonight, said he even didn't know the date and time before he left and went to heaven He couldn't tell it to his disciples. So it was even worse when on uh that Harold Camping then came out the second time after the Lord didn't appear the first time. And he said that he would come to the earth on May 21st, 2011. I remember walking around the Commons in Boston, Massachusetts. There were people with big signs from Herald Camping and Family Radio telling us that Jesus was going to return and the destruction of the world would be on October 21st, 2011. Now, maybe it happened and we're all living in a dream, but I don't think so. I pinched myself this morning and it hurt So I don't think it's a dream. But the coming day of the Lord or the second coming in Christ is indeed promised. And we should be thankful for it, looking for it. But not worried about its prediction. I remember earlier when one of our presents, presidents, with all Three of his names had six letters. Ronald Wilson Reagan 666 And uh remember how Lindsay, who's done a lot of great things, but all those books and all the rest about the second coming and uh when it might be. During the 60s with uh our troubles with Russia and the black helicopters and everything else, they're the locusts and uh of the second and and it just goes on and on. And who knows? I mean I I have people coming to me, well-meaning people, people I love, and we can easily say Our times are so bad. The Lord must be coming. I think it's soon. Oh man, do you see what's happening to America? The Lord must be coming. And I don't usually say much. I don't get on the bandwagon. I might feel that way sometimes, but the only thing I can say, yes, he is coming, and we're nearer to it than we were yesterday. So what we're going to look at tonight is there was another church and another age, but God spoke to them to help them with this issue. He gave them all that they needed in regard to the second coming of Christ, the coming day of the Lord. And so as we're going to talk about the very practical outworking of our faith, as we speak in the evenings, when I have this opportunity, I'm going to be speaking from 1 Thessalonians 5. It'll get a lot more practical, but this is where it starts in chapter 5. And so I'd like you to stand with me and I'll pray and we'll read 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, 1 to 11, where It's not everything in the Bible about the second coming, the coming day of the Lord and his judgment, but it's all that you need. And I And once you hear them, you're going to find out that we're called to encourage each other with these very words. And so I trust that you will be encouraged And these will be things that we will remember to be able to encourage each other in our faith. So let me pray. Our Father and God, I thank you that your timing is perfect for all things. That we find out in the scriptures that after thousands of years with the people in the old covenant, the Israelites, your church, That Jesus came in the fullness of time at the right time. At the perfect time. And we thank you that you do all things well in your sovereign hand and love for your church and love for your people And that you have indeed promised that in your time you will come in judgment, and our Lord will come again. to judge the earth and to redeem his church totally. But until then, O God. Uh waiting for it, we need to know what your word says so that we might wait expectantly and rightly, but also that these very things that we're talking about Maybe some of the things that we might use to encourage one another in the faith. We pray this in the name of our Savior Christ. Amen. We can follow along tonight or listen as I read from the fifth chapter to the book of the church in Thessalonica, 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. Now concerning the times and the seasons. Brothers, you have no need to have anything written to you. For you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come. Like a thief in the night. Well, people are saying there's peace and security. Then sudden destruction will come upon them as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman. They will not escape. But you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief. For you are all children of light, children of the day. We're not of the night or of the darkness. So then let us not sleep as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober. For those who sleep sleep at night, and those who get drunk get drunk at night. But since we belong to the day. Let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love and for a helmet, the hope of salvation. For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. who died for us so that whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with him. Therefore Encourage one another and build up one another just as you are doing. Amen. Baby seed Now indeed, this is the topic, the coming day of the Lord to judge the world, the second coming of Christ. That's scriptural and we need to know it. We don't need to dwell on it, but God speaks to it in his word, and we need to be prepared for it. He tells us. And as he comes here, he starts this first verse in chapter 5. He says, now concerning the times and the seasons, brothers. Well, they seem to know what the times and seasons he's talking about. When I read this, what what times? What season? Summer, winter, fall, spring? Football season? Basketball season? Hockey season? What what time? Baseball? No, we have to look back, and it's right in the previous chapter. And and and he's going to use synonymously the second coming of Christ, and he comes to redeem his church, and he's going to judge the world with a with a scriptural principle that's been in the Bible all along called the day of the Lord, all throughout the Old Testament and the New. So we have to look back at half a chapter, because we we have to know what he's talking about. We we we'd have to see the context that he's talking about the second coming of our Lord to redeem his church. So let's go back and we need to read together, excuse me, and see the scripture. Excuse me, in verse 13. I'll read it quickly. But we don't want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep. That means those who've died. That you may not grieve as others do, who have no hope. But since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so, God will bring with him those who are fall asleep. For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord, that we who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep. For the Lord will descend from heaven with a cry and a command, and the voice of an archangel, and the sound of the trumpet, and the dead in Christ will rise again. Then those who are alive who are left will be caught up together with them in the clouds. to meet them in the air. So we will always be with the Lord, therefore encourage one another with these words. This church in Thessalonica was struggling They had faith in Christ and they were being persecuted because of it. And some of their brothers and sisters in Christ had already died, and they thought. Well the Lord hasn't come. So they had all these questions. And so he's trying to say and teach them and teach you in the church what happens. To our loved ones who died. Notice it says, we don't grieve like the rest of the world when it's all over, because Christ will come and raise up those souls or his And they'll be with him. So notice the first chapter, that this chapter from chapter 4 is talking about the second coming of Christ. And now in this chapter, he's talking about the day of the Lord, and they're used synonymously. They're the same thing in the scriptures. This is not new in the New Testament. Paul and talking to the Church of Thlezlanica isn't bringing up a new topic. The prophet Isaiah says this, Behold the day of the Lord, cruel with wrath and fierce anger, to make a land a desolation and to destroy the sinners in it. And Peter, when he preached in the book of Acts his first sermon in the New Testament church, as it was growing and God was bringing on this very day. Excuse me, in Pentecost, 3,000 people unto himself, he, his message in the book of Acts was from the prophet Joel about the day of the Lord. Peter said this to Acts 2, 21 and 2. And the sun shall be turned to darkness and the moon to blood, before the day of the Lord comes, the great and magnificent day. And it shall come to pass that everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord will be saved. And so here's this theme that they understood, but they were wondering, when is this day? When is it coming? And and that's not new, is it? Because we've heard of Harold Camping and we've heard of so many others, and maybe you've wondered. Right? There's often been times. You want to get a Bible study going? Start talking about the second times. You know, the second, you know, Christ comes again, right? The end times. And um, but here we have all that we need to know, which is very interesting as you see it. Now I want you to see that you can know all that you need to know About the con second coming of the Lord, the day of the Lord, when you know what Jesus knew. It would be helpful if you actually turn to your Bible in Matthew chapter 24. And look what Jesus taught his disciples about this day and this time. Go to Matthew 24. We'll just read a portion of it starting with verse 36. And he's talking about this day of the Lord where God will judge, separate the sheep and the goats, and Christ will come to redeem us. Matthew 24 and 36. But concerning that day and hour, no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the Son, but the Father only. See how goofy it is that we try to figure it out? Jesus didn't even know. And he says, we don't have to know. We need to be ready. If you go to verse 42. Therefore stay awake, for you don't know on what day your Lord is coming. But know this. That if the master of the house had known in what part of the night the thief was coming, he would have stayed awake and he would not have left his house to be broken into. Therefore you must all be ready, for the Son of Man is coming At an hour you don't expect. Then upon having risen from the dead and before Jesus ascended into heaven. His disciples asked a similar question in Acts 1, verses 6 and 7. So when they come to ask together, they asked him, Lord, at what time will you restore the kingdom of Israel? He said, it's not for you to know the times or seasons that the Father has fixed by his own authority. Like our Lord. Like the passage we've seen in Thessalonians tonight, the Apostle Peter says in 2 Peter 3. 1310, but the day of the Lord will come like a thief. And then the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved, and the earth and the works that are done will be exposed. You see this theme that's in Thessalonians and from the Lord and Peter? It's that the Lord, his coming will be like a thief that you don't expect. About a decade ago, I was having breakfast one morning in Texas with six other men. We all, I guess there were six of us total, we were all at the same table. And somehow we started talking about having our houses broken into. Every one of us. The six men at that table, we just random men from the breakfast from the church having breakfast, every one of us had had a break-in into our house where thief came in and stole something. 100% of the six. Now, we not only had that in common, but we also had something else in common. When that thief came in and broke into our house, he didn't call us up first. He didn't call us up and say, Jerry, I'm going to be there at 3 p. m. on Monday, April 14, 2000. He didn't do that. You know, the guy broke in. Right? He was like a thief. You don't know when it's happening. Now, if we'd all had good alarms or all stayed in our houses, we might have been ready, but we left the house, and he maybe was watching our houses or whatever, but he broke in And what's Jesus say? He's going to be like that when you're not expecting him. You know, we didn't come home, and each one of us had a similar story. We came home, opened the door, and stuff looked different. And we started looking around. Well what well that that was never on the floor before, or why are those drawers open? Right? The thief doesn't announce that. But you come home and you understand that Either I didn't turn on the alarm or I didn't have one or no one was there or the dog licked him or whatever. You know, whatever happens in your house, you know, when that happens. But that's the way the day of the Lord will be. Each one of us was surprised to come home and find out that we've been robbed. Now the calling here is to be a spiritual ADT. Always ready. For the thief. You set the alarm and it's always got its blinkers covering your doors and your windows. Always alert. You don't have to worry when you have ADT. Well, the Lord is saying to us, we spend our times not ready for his coming. We spend our times doing other things, catching up in our own lives, being busy about our own things instead about his kingdom. And he says that we're to be alert. 1 Peter 1:3 says this: Therefore, preparing your minds for action, being sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you. at the revelation of Jesus Christ. But we get tired, we get lazy. Now it's not this way anymore, but if you were in the military, anybody in the military here? Ever been in the military? Raise your hand. You got one, two, any more? Two? Maybe? Well, you should still know it. Do you know your general orders How many of them were there? Thirteen, I think. Well there were eleven. You're a little past uh the prime, right? But if if if you were in the military you had to learn these general orders. My father was in the military and he didn't make us learn them all, but I knew about them. But there's usually one that knows, and it's what it's talking about, that if you're a sentry on duty, the general orders tell you how you have to act General order two is this, to walk my post in a military manner, keeping always on the alert and observing everything that takes place within sight or hearing And the penalty that if you are to fall asleep when you're to be on guard duty protecting your country or your fellow soldiers, it says. This, any sentinel or lookout who is found drunk or sleeping upon his post, or leaves it before he is regularly relieved, shall be punished if the offense is committed in time of war by death. or such other punishment as court-martial may direct. Well, brothers and sisters, you and I are in a war with sin We're in a war with our own flesh. We're in a war with the devil. We're in a war with this world system. And yet we want to be on holiday. You know, holiday comes in heaven. All right, but we went to vacation now. We think God should make us holiday happy now. He wants to make us holy. He hasn't promised happiness now except in him. And so easily we fall asleep when we get busy about our own things rather than about his kingdom that is going to come. R. C. Sproull makes these helpful comments as we think about what it is to be alert. He says this, while you don't know the day or hour when Jesus will return, you can be absolutely sure about two things. First, it's certain that he's coming. And second, it's certain that his coming is closer today than it was yesterday. That's what you can know. You don't have to worry when you start feeling bad about the news, or you sing fighting in Israel, or fighting in Palestine, or fighting some oh, it must be coming. I think it's tomorrow. What are we gonna do? No, you know that he's coming for sure at some time, but the saints before us have consistently said that, but it's one day closer, and we're to be looking for him. He goes on to say, it's not wise to speculate when Jesus will return, but whether he comes in your lifetime or not, it doesn't change the fact that you're to be awake. To be alert and actively involved in fulfilling the duties the Master has left for you. You don't have to worry about saying to everybody, second coming, oh no, unfilled. No, the duties that he's left for you is to do your work unto the Lord. Whatever you eat or drink, do all unto the Lord and his glory. To love God and to love your neighbor. That's what our calling is. He will return. It's to encourage us, but not to capture us. Each generation has rumors of war and signs of Christ's return because each generation needs to be awakened to expect his coming. Believers as well as non-believers fail to ready themselves for the Lord's return in judgment. Rather than speculate about when Christ might return, ask yourself this question. Luke 18, 8, when the Son of Man returns, will he find faith? When Christ returns, we find you being faithful. We find you to be his, living for him, loving God, and loving your neighbor Now, as it comes to the end and he tells us to be awake, he says, thinking about the coming day of the Lord, that Jesus is coming back to redeem us, he's coming back to judge the world, he says, We should encourage one another with these words. Now, let's look at the words he says to encourage in particular. And it was really interesting for me to see this in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. Verse 10, because look what he says. Follow it with me. Look, open your Bible. Look at 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and 10, because this is the words that he gives us right before he says, encourage each other were these words. For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us, whether we are awake or asleep. What he's talking about there. is whether we're living now or have died, that we might live with him. What is verse 10? What's it a summary of? Uh I'm looking for a response. Verse ten, what is this summary of? Christian Walker. Okay. Who said the gospel? All right. The Gospel, right? That's that's John three sixteen in another way. You see that? He is giving the gospel, not that we'd walk forward again, right? But this is the church These people know the gospel. But he says, encouraged each other with the gospel. Why do you need to be encouraged? Well, one of the reasons you need to be courage, because as I read this and I said, Am I a soldier awake and on duty most of the time, or do I find myself trying to get a vacation? Wanting it easy and to rest, not to be in a battle. Right? So as I read this, I'm just convicted because I say, oh. Man, I know the Lord is coming. I know I'm his child. I know I'm supposed to live for him. But I spend a whole lot of time thinking about me and mine and how we can make our house a little nicer and You know, and uh maybe the deacons will get me a new chair in the office. You know, I'm glad air conditioning's I'm glad air conditioning's coming next week, so I'll be cooler up here. You know, we're not we're not in this battle and staying awake and looking. And so you could read this and think, oh no. You know, I know what happened if if I was in the military and I didn't follow General Order II. What happens? In war you're killed and it and if it's not in war you get dishonorably discharged Is the Lord going to kill me or just honorably discharge me? No. He says Jesus has taken the wrath that we have for not staying awake. And that should move us to stay awake. And say, oh my I continue to need to hear the gospel. Encourage one of the Lord. He doesn't give us what we deserve, but he comes along beside us and he says, get back in the battle. Confess that your heart has been not about thinking about the Lord's return and that he is coming. But the Lord's return should not only encourage us with hearing the gospel, that we're not judged by our slothfulness, but he moves us back to coming after him. But notice, I want you to think about what else The Lord's return does. And one of the things it does is it helps the church that's being persecuted because they don't have justice now. What do you say to our brothers and sisters we prayed for in Syria or in so many of the countries where ISIS is, and there is no justice in this world now? And there's and they some have died. And some have lost their houses, like these people in Fezla and Ica have. And some have lost their jobs. And some have lost all of their savings. And some have lost their loved ones. And it's an unfair world now. Where is there any hope in this? And our hope is that we need to realize this isn't heaven now, but Christ will come again, and there'll be a day where there's no tears, and justice is perfect. That's why we look forward to that day. And so the persecuted church looks forward to it. Turn to the second letter of Thessalonians, the first chapter, and notice exactly where their hope is. It isn't now. You know, we think, oh Lord, you've got to make everything right now. And often it isn't right now. We're not healed now. Things don't change now. And we can tend to lose our heart. And think, oh no, but the hope is that the Lord is coming to redeem his church and to redeem us. And so in 2 Thessalonians, the first chapter, If you look there where their hope is, it says this in verses 5 to 10. This is evidence Of the righteous judgment of God that you may be considered worthy of kingdom of God for which you are suffering He's saying to the Thessalonians that we can say this to our brothers and sisters, and if it happens in America, as it's not just bakers that won't serve uh cakes to To people they don't want to serve cakes to. Or all the other things where where God's people are being put aside or whatever it might happen to the future to the church. For standing up for righteousness and we're going through these difficulties. The Bible says this is evidence Of the righteous judgment of God if you're going through suffering for his kingdom. We don't have to just say to everybody when they're suffering, oh, you poor person, you're suffering. We should come beside them. But God has them suffering like his son. This isn't where everything is alright. But notice what he's saying. He said Since indeed God considers it just to repay with affliction those who afflict you, and to grant relief to you who are afflicted as well as to us. When the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his might angels in a flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who don't know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord. They will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction away from the presence of the Lord and the glory of his might. When he comes on that day to be glorified in his saints And to be marveled among all those who believe, because our testimony to you was believed. And so we need to come along those who are persecuted and say, listen. Everything isn't like America where it's comfortable and easy and we have these freedoms. This is an anomaly in this world. Most of the time, Christians are persecuted. But there is a day. It might never come in your country. We'll pray for it. But you might never be left out of jail. You might never get your house back. You might never have enough to care for your family. But there is a day when it's going to be made right for you and everybody else encourage each other with these words. And that's what the saints here were waiting for. And other people who would like healing that God doesn't give now, other people who might be under depression and heartache And it doesn't seem to change. I can't ever look up. I don't ever have a good day. Or whatever it is, your situation hasn't changed. We have to understand the lie that we bought. This isn't heaven now. God does give blessings. God does give great things. But it's not easy in this life now, in our relationships, at work, with our finances. We've been bought alive that this that you come to Jesus and everything is, wow, it's all right now. It's good. He can be our treasure and our pleasure. But what the saints have looked forward to is at the right time. The Lord Jesus is coming again with his righteous judgment. And he will judge the wicked, and they will be punished. You don't have to worry about punishing them. And there will be a new heavens and a new earth. Where righteousness dwells. Beloved, let's encourage each other with these words. In our own failings. To be faithful and stay awake, remember we're not we're not killed for that. But Jesus shows us once again the truth that we might follow after him. And when things don't change in the midst, it's not because God is asleep, but in his time, like the fullness of time when Christ came. In the fullness of time, things the wicked will be judged. Go home if you'd like and read Psalm 73. Psalm 73 is where that believer looking at the world seems like the world is getting ahead, and believers are going behind. And his heart has to be changed and come around these very truths and trust his living God. And this church in Thessalonica was struggling with being persecuted. And they were encouraged with the gospel, hearing it again, that because they are Christ, God's wrath is not going to come on them. But at the right time, God will judge, charge, Judge this wicked world, and a new world will be made as he judges. It will burn away, and there'll be a new heaven and a new earth where righteousness dwells. And that's what we're to stay awake and look for and pray and testify about. Brothers and sisters, when you're struggling and things aren't changing now, encourage one another. With these words Amen