Thank you, Brother Tom, for leading us in prayer. And thank you, Brother Cliff. Uh I've uh never heard uh the uh wes the Heidelberg Catechism described that way regarding the number of hairs on your head as fine-tuned preservation. I like that quite a bit actually, so I'm gonna stick with it. It's uh it's wonderful to be back with you all. Uh thank you for all your prayers as uh we've been gone for the last couple of weeks. And so let me first begin by asking uh for your forgiveness as uh I have a bit of a cold and I'm going to try real hard not to cough into the mic, so I apologize for any pain that I may cause your ears. as the um as the um the sermon goes forward this morning. Several years ago I um I knew a young lady who uh attended Wheaton College, uh the well-known university in Illinois. And she told me that in an introduction class to the cults One of the projects that her professor required was to create, to come up with your own cult or your religion. So the students all had to come up with something that had plausibility and to offer something that people would naturally gravitate to. I thought that was an interesting and instructive project to do. What I got from her was that Uh the main themes that were presented was that um uh when people were told of a divine order, a divine command in their made-up religions, People just believed and did as they were told to do, and they did not question, but indeed just believed. And the major uh characters of that religion, whatever it was that they were building up, uh looked like they were in pretty good condition. They were in pretty good shape morally. And uh what was offered for people to convert to that cult or that religion were things like uh good health. uh monetary prosperity and ability for one to work off their sins by doing good works, sort of um working your way into heaven, if you will. It doesn't take very long for anyone, I think, who reads the New Testament. to encounter what the God of the Bible offers and how it describes the human response to really miraculous events Today, we will be studying the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 1, verses 18 to 25. If you haven't already done so, would you be so kind to turn your Bibles to that passage, which is the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 1, verses 18 to 25? Would you please rise now for the reading and hearing of God's holy and inerrant word? Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way, when his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph Before they came together, she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit. And her husband Joseph, being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly. But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph. Son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel Which means God with us. When Joseph woke from his sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him. He took his wife, but knew her not until she had given birth to a son. And he called his name Jesus. This is the word of God. And please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit, be with us now as we enter into the birth narrative of our Lord. Our passage tells us of your providential oversight of the conception, the birth, and care of our Savior. Would you now providentially help us to see the beauty of God's redemptive plan coming together in the perfect God man? The Lord Jesus, the perfect gift that God gave to us for the forgiveness of our sins. And may the truth of the word Help us to rejoice in the grace of our Heavenly Father. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Up until this point in the Gospel of Matthew, Matthew has been diligent to provide a genealogy of Jesus with a particular emphasis. In verse 1 of chapter 1, we have Matthew giving us a preview of the genealogy. He first identifies Jesus as the Christ. Who is the son of David, who is also the son of Abraham. He then begins from verse 2, making his way from Abraham to Jesse in verse 6. Who is the father of David? Continuing in verse seven, from David to the exile, To Babylon in verse 11, and then from the return of the exile to verse 16, where we end on Joseph, the husband of Mary. This makes a clear and consistent case for Joseph's lineage that comes from not only the house of David, but all the way back to Abraham himself. Jesus is from the house of David and a son of Abraham. There are major points that cross these individuals Are major points that cross in redemptive history. But now we see that along with these two giants of the Bible, he, Jesus, is no less than the Son of God. Hmm. Now, for those of you who are wondering why he did this, why Matthew did this, it is because it was prophesied that the anointed one, the Messiah. Which is what Christ in the Greek means, would come from the house of David, from the house of Judah. Joseph, it has been established, was from not only the house of Judah, But also he was from the house of David. Now we're going to get back to this later on, but it's important to note that for the moment that there is a clear legal descendance. From King David. Simultaneously, we have the narrative of Mary and her cousin Elizabeth in the Gospel of Luke. being informed by the angel Gabriel of God's decision to call Mary to bear the Son of God. And hence we have the mystery of the incarnation. God taking on human flesh. We now enter our passage where Matthew tells us Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. These were the circumstances surrounding the birth of Christ. I appreciate the fact that Matthew doesn't just tell us that Mary told Joseph that she was pregnant with the Son of God, and Joseph's response being something like, that's great. Imagine what the conversation must have been like. Now note, these are two teenagers. having a really grown up conversation. Mary, I just want to make sure I'm getting this right. Are you pregnant? Yes. Let me explain. Oh, oh, I think I know how this works. No, no, no, you see, the angel Gabriel came and told me that God himself has chosen me to give birth to the Son of God. You want me to believe what? Angel? Gabriel? You carry God's son? And you haven't committed adultery, right? What must have gone through his head Does she think I'm a fool? Or an idiot? Or is she delusional? Whatever it may be, delusions, there they don't make you pregnant. She has clearly cheated on me. Our lives together haven't even barely started. And she's committed adultery on me already. Well, we know from the text that he wasn't buying any of this because the passage tells us that he was going to put her away. To divorce her. Now, if you're gonna make up a world religion and describe a miracle or a fantasy of some sort, What you really expect is a narrative that Joseph is accepting Mary's explanation. and perhaps rejoicing at the prospects of the privilege of raising the Son of God. Now that's what you would expect if someone is making something up. Is that what we get here? No. What is Joseph's decision? The end of verse 19 informs us that he simply was planning to divorce her. So let me ask you: if you were Joseph at this point, What would you do? Joseph's response was, well, I think I had this girl all wrong. So this passage may be confusing, I think, as it states that they were betrothed, but not yet married. And he was thinking of divorcing her, but they were not yet married. Now, I think it uh it would be helpful for a little bit of a description here, an understanding of what this means in their time. Betroth was more binding than our understanding of engagement. When couples were betrothed back then, there were legal obligations associated with it. One way to understand this, and again, it's just one way to understand this, so that they were sort of, you know, off the market. and legally committed to one another. In fact, if they wanted to break the betrothal, it required divorce proceedings, legal proceedings For the period of time that they were betrothed, usually lasted about a year or so, before they had the ceremony and the celebration The bride would live at her father's house and under his authority. This meant that they were to abstain. from consummating the marriage, and that she was under the headship of her father. Any intimacy at this time was strictly forbidden and considered fornication. Now, the flying ointment here is that they have not known each other, and there is the discovery that Mary is now found pregnant. From Joseph's perspective, Mary was simply unfaithful. He had no choice at this point, as a righteous man, to diverse her. This, of course, would have shamed her. It would have shamed her family, and her prospects for any normal life would have been basically thrown away Now the passage tells us that Joseph was a just man, a righteous man, a man who abided by the law of God. He was well within his right to divorce her and vindicate his reputation and reveal her treachery towards him. He had to also protect his reputation. He didn't want people to think that he was engaged in fornication A man who had no self-restraint may well not be a man to be trusted. But we can see that he was a man of God who understood the law of God well. You see, he understood the letter of the law as well as the spirit of the law. The law of God is a gift in itself. It tells us how one is to walk upright alongside of God. How one is to love God, and how one is to love our neighbor. Being a man who was just, he didn't want to leave her without hope. Instead of making it a public thing, he was going to do it quietly. This is something that I think we should take note of. Joseph had the right to make it a big public issue, but he was unwilling to exercise his right to do so. We may personally in the past or may in the future find ourselves in a situation where it is our right to exercise justice and do it in a public way. Perhaps in a fit of righteous anger, perhaps wanting a little more than sixteen ounces of flesh. We may want to be publicly vindicated and simultaneously harm or hurt the person who has hurt us But just because we have the right doesn't mean that we should exercise it, nor does it mean that we must let the entire world know. You see, this falls within the sphere of mercy. Anytime, at any time, after the fall, God, who was the offended party Could have sent his son not to redeem, but to exact justice. And he would have been well within his rights to do so. But instead of insisting on immediate justice, he was patient and merciful. And instead of sending his son to exact justice, he sent him first to extend salvation. It is with the proper application of godly wisdom that we can ask for justice and yet be merciful. Pointing those that have hurt us to God. Now, in order for Joseph To believe her, there has to be some sort of, I think, divine intervention Mary could have lined up a thousand rabbis bearing witness that she was still a virgin, but not a single one would be believed by Joseph. And rightly so. We are informed, however, in verse 20, this is accomplished by God sending an angel. to confirm, convince, and command Joseph to go through with the marriage. And we are told he is to name the child I'll stop for a moment and take time to describe the significance of this, the notion of naming a child. It was the responsibility and the right of the male to name a child. For when he did, it communicated to the world that it was his. and everything that went along with the family name and the family tribe from which they came from. In this case, we're told that Joseph is a son of David. This means that he is from the house of Judah. And by naming the child, the child is now legally from the house of Judah. Now, if you're wondering why this is important, the reason why is because the prophecy of the Messiah stated that he would be a descendant from the house of Judah. And specifically from the house of David. Secondly, the name itself, Jesus. Jesus means God saves. Of all the names that could have come from the throne of heaven. It is Jesus. You know, when you look at all the the heavies of the Old Testament. All the big names in historic, the history of redemption. It could have been what? Noah? It could have been Abraham. It could have been Moses, Elijah, David, Solomon, Ezra. We can come up with really heavy hitters, right? But it ends up being Jesus. Now, in the Hebrew, it's Yeshua. In the Greek, it's Yesus. However, in the Hebrew, Jesus is the shortened version of Joshua. Of all the people for God to name his son, his name would come after Joshua. Now, if you recall, despite the major role that Moses played in redemptive history, he was not permitted to bring the people of God into the safety of the land. He would not experience the victory of God. It was Joshua who would lead the people of God after forty years of wandering into their rest. This looked forward to God Himself bringing His people into their salvific rest and victory over sin. Verse 21 tells us that he was to come to do what? To save his people. Now, it doesn't say that he came to save his people from Rome. He came to save his people from their sins. This divine intervention comes in a dream where the angel tells Joseph that, well basically, her story's legit. You are to take Mary as your wife and give him the name that comes from heaven, Jesus, the anointed one that was prophesied from long ago, and that would come from the house of David. And would come from a virgin. The famous prophecy from Isaiah is quoted here. that Matthew identifies as being fully and finally being fulfilled in Mary, the Virgin. Now, please note that Matthew is very clear in telling us on no less than two occasions in this passage that despite the fact that they were betrothed, In verse 18, before they came together. And then later on in verse 25, but knew her not until she had given birth to a son. They did not have relations before, nor did they consummate their marriage until after the Lord Himself was born. For the prophecy was for a virgin to give birth. This is uncommon. And unnatural. Supernatural. This stuff only happens with the direct intervention and the power of God. It doesn't just say it was a virgin birth. That doesn't tell us really anything But it is identified that it is the Holy Spirit who miraculously conceived Jesus. The baby is birthed by a human being. Mary, and at the same time it is also of divine in nature. So the baby is fully human and fully divine. Now, as we take a step back and and look at this passage, perhaps from a 500-mile view, none of this, frankly, really mattered. As it wouldn't have been believed if it wasn't for the resurrection of Christ. If Jesus went to the cross and died, which he did, and didn't rise from the dead. Well, I think that this this rabbi from Nazareth thing would have just died out over a period of time. You could hear in conversations across the region a couple, even years after. Yeah. Poor Joseph. That Mary pulled the wool over his eyes, didn't she? She must have been really convincing A virgin birth. The fact is, people did know the circumstances surrounding the birth of Christ Word did get out. John chapter 8, when Jesus was confronting the authorities, they bought it up John 8. 39. They answered him, Abraham is our father. Jesus said to them, If you're Abraham's children, you would be doing the works of Abraham did. But now you seek to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I have heard from God. This is not what Abraham did. And they responded, We were not born of sexual immorality. Well what about the miracles that he performed? Well, the his his opponents didn't dismiss those miracles. We need to note that. They did not dismiss those miracles. Because he performed them. They argued, however, that it was a work of the devil to deceive them. All this would have been for naught and simply argued away. But not even the devil has the power to bring a person back to life. Only the true and living God can do that. So it all goes back and points to the resurrection of Christ. Do you see how it all hangs together? What this birth narrative helps us to understand Is that Jesus was fully man, a member of fallen humanity, but yet not born with the taint of sin? Born of a human woman, and yet conceived by the Holy Spirit, God Himself, fully divine. So Jesus was fully manned and fully divine, 100% each. And as such When he hung on the cross, bearing the wrath of God on behalf of us, as Matthew tells us in verse 21, on behalf of the sins. Very clearly, right there, of his people. He died for everyone who would place their faith in him. This is what Christmas is about. It is the gift that God gave us in his Son. It is the Son of God giving up his life as the perfect and unique sacrifice as fully God and fully man For his people, it is us Being forgiven for our sins, so that we can have fellowship with God again. Something that we could never achieve on our own, no matter how hard we try. If you haven't accepted this gift of salvation before today, do so now. By trusting in what Christ has done on the cross for you personally. Salvation is by faith. And it is a gift from God. Accept it now, simply by believing and submitting. Please join me in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your great gift. You are indeed a great Father. You are the perfect father. You know exactly what we need. And you sacrifice what is absolutely needed for your children. to the point of sacrificing your own unique son in our place to justify Your righteous anger to satisfy your righteous anger for our sins. We thank you, Heavenly Father, for your great gift. Lord Jesus, we thank you. For indeed you are that gift. You are the gift of life for us. You are the gift of breath for us. You are the gift of forgiveness to us. We pray that you would help us to appreciate, to give thanks. for your great work for us. May we come to love you and the Father and the Spirit. More and more each day. And we ask that you would help us to reflect this type of merciful love to us, to our neighbor. May we proclaim Christ in the words that we speak, in the ways that we live. And we ask this all for your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen.