This morning we will be studying from Exodus, the book of Exodus, and it is from the Ten Commandments. If I had a dollar for every time that I said I would be happy if only I had more money. I would actually be wealthy. Let me ask you, how do you fill the blank in this very question? I would be happy if only I had fill in the blank. There are different ways in which we can fill this blank, isn't there? This morning's passage is from the Ten Commandments as found in Exodus chapter 20 and verse 17. I would like to ask you to turn for a moment and turn open to your sermon notes. It's a separate page of notes that I've provided for you this Sunday morning and is inserted in your bulletins. On the back side of that bulletin or page, I've provided for you a top ten list regarding this question From Americans. This top ten list is a list of what Americans seem to want most. I particularly like this list because I thought it was a bit more insightful than typical lists. What I mean is that many lists will actually give you a proxy for these particular needs. For example, most people will put down the top ten electrical gadgets or specific vehicles or cosmetic surgeries that people desire This list, however, seems to get closer to the heart of what's beneath those desires. What moves folks? It attempts to pinpoint the appetites or desires that humans, you and I, typically have. What they all have in common is a drive or a desire for something that people feel they need. Presumably, to be fulfilled, to be satisfied, or to be happy. So it is a perceived need, these items on here. Each of these. They believe But they would be presumably happier, or more content, or joyous if they had a better job. Or more money in the bank, or looks aesthetically more appealing, for example. The outworking of these desires takes on tangible actions. Like trying to get a better job, looking to upgrade your vehicle, and so forth. But in the process of trying to achieve this contentment or happiness, Sometimes the means and the goal of achieving can be tainted with sin. We'll sort of go back to this notion in a bit. But for the moment, I would like to turn our attention to our text this morning. Please rise for the reading and hearing of God's holy and inerrant word. The following is from the book of Exodus, chapter 20, and verse 17. You shall not covet your neighbor's house. You shall not covet your neighbor's wife Or his male servant, or his female servant, or his ox, or his donkey, or anything that is your neighbor's. This is the word of God. Amen. Please be seated and join me in prayer. Holy Spirit We ask you now that as we study the Word of God, that you would be with us, that you would open our eyes and our ears to understand and to see the beauty of Christ. Help us to see our great God. Help us to see ourselves in light of our great God And help us to see how you have cured the problem that exists through your Son, the Lord Jesus. And we ask this in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Amen. Now this passage tells us that we should not, you shall not. This is a commandment. Not a recommendation. The last of the Decalogue, the Ten Commandments, that we should not covet. What I want to do is take a look at first at what this word covet means. To covet something is the desire to aspire for something that you don't currently possess. Presumably, if you had it, you would not covet it. Of course, the exception exists in that you haven't gotten what you covet in the quantity that you wish to possess. But whether it's used in a religious or secular setting, it has a negative connotation. More so in a religious context, but to covet, in general, has the association of something improper. or unholy. For Christians, it is certainly unholy and an ungodly desire. The question that is raised, and there's been a lot of ink that has been dispensed on this topic, is, when does coveting begin and end? When is it no longer coveting? The point of this question is when does coveting begin? And at what point is the desire for something no longer coveting? but something else. If I can sort of distill the thinking on this topic, I can define it as some have, including John Calvin, who put it and defines it in stages. On the back of the, again on your handout, you will see that I've identified four stages Or an evolution involved in Calvin's definition. The first stage comes when you are confronted with a temptation. This is when you are engaged, approached by a temptation. The first stage is when you begin to nurse an unholy desire, you haven't really given way to it But you begin to nurture and play with the idea of how it can make you happy, Now this may give way, mind you, may give way to surrendering your will to this temptation. That would be the second stage. At this point, you have convinced yourself that you must have this. And it can provide perhaps a number of reasons why it is that you should have something that you don't currently possess and someone else may possess. Reasons are rationalizations, strong arguments for your position. The third stage is planning. Depending upon the object of your desire, you set out a plan to obtain it. The level of detail the plan contains depends upon, of course, its availability, the cost, the time, the distance, and so forth. Now, at this point, to be clear, you are no longer debating whether you should do this or not. You are actively thinking through how to achieve Possess what you currently don't have. Final stage is, of course, the deed. When you actually act upon your desires and commit an outward sin. Now, John Calvin answers our question, When is it no longer coveting? By drawing a line between the second and third stages. Between willing and planning. He believed that once you are making a plan, you've crossed the line and you are no longer coveting. So coveting for Calvin is at the second stage. It's the nursing and the rationalization step. However, many Reformed theologians and scholars believe that coveting should include number three. Thus, planning becomes part of the coveting process. I think there are situations in life Where we can plan, third stage, and plan for a long time, perhaps waiting for the proper time But we may never execute our plans for reasons that may include lack of funds, bad timing, and so forth And perhaps that desire may go away or morph into something of another desire. But I think that is still coveting. For example, a group of people attempting to take over another country for their resources or see it as a buffer state, may decide to abandon their plan, but their idea may have been in works for several months, several years, or perhaps even several generations. They desired and planned, but did not go through with their coveted desires. So you see, I reason that there are times when plans are made but never come to fruition. And the idea of coveting is what goes on the inside. not on the outside. And I think that's a very clear and important distinction for us to make Coveting is what happens on the inside and not on the outside. One of the things that we have to keep in mind is that whether you achieve your desires or not, It does not have any bearing on you committing sin or not. So you can't say, well, I didn't commit the sin of coveting because thankfully I never got it. No, no, that's not getting away with it. What's very important to acknowledge is that it is entirely internal. Let me be clear. It is exclusively internal. But very briefly, let's look at what it is that we are doing when we covet. When we covet something, we see or hear of something that we lack in our lives and begin to desire something. That someone else has in an unholy manner. Coveting by its very nature creates in us a belief that we are not satisfied. We are lacking something, and this leads us to a discontented state Coveting, in a way, creates a state of disequilibrium within our souls Now, let me just say, it's okay. And we should be motivated to be industrious in whatever set of circumstances that we're placed in. We should try to do the best that we can provide for our families, our church, our neighbor, but it should be done in a godly manner and for the glory of God. So, just as a footnote, when I say godly manner, I mean that the ends don't justify the means. The means to the ends must be godly. We must not use or exercise sin to get our ends. At this point, it's important that we remember that the Lord taught us and told us that our Heavenly Father knows what our needs are before we even express them. Experience them. So God provides all things that He thinks we really and truly need. But when we covet, we believe that if we had the objects of our desire, we would be truly, finally, happy. we would finally become contented and satisfied with our lives and our surroundings. Is that not true? That, you see, is the false promise of covetousness. The logo of covetousness is the grass is always greener on the other side. If there was such a thing as a church of covetousness, and they wanted people to know about their church They would be, or their bumper sticker would that they would distribute and put on their cars is exactly that. The grass is greener on the other side But once you have it, the covetous desire of your heart, you discover after a little while. It really wasn't what you hoped for. And you begin to seek out that happiness that you were seeking in something else. And this begins a cycle of covetousness that never seems to fully and finally satisfy. But along the way, it can leave a trail of devastation in the lives of loved ones that would put a Category 5 tornado to shame. Brothers and sisters, is there something that you're coveting today Is there something that you think will make you happier and more content? Is it a product? Is it a person? Do you think that the grass is greener on the other side? So much of why we are looking in different places for happiness is that we really don't believe what we say we believe about God. Let me repeat that. So much of why we're looking at different places for happiness. Is that we really don't believe what we say that we believe about God. Now we're going to circle back on this, but by way of introduction, the truth of the matter is it's about faith or the lack of it in God. Let's take a look at this issue regarding God. The scripture reveals many things about God, and that's of course where we need to go to learn in depth About what God says and reveals about Himself. For the purpose of our study this morning, I want to focus on four things about God. They are, one, his omnipotence, number two, his wisdom, and number three, Goodness. And there'll be one last thing, but I'm gonna save that for the last thing. First. His omnipotence, which is one of the three commonly known omnis, you know, omnipotence, omniscience, and omnipresence Omnipotence means all-powerful. This means that God can do whatever it is that he desires. And he does whatever he wishes to do. Everything he wishes to accomplish will be accomplished. There is no power in all of creation that can prevent the sovereign God from attaining his good pleasure. Now, this also includes everything in your and my life. Everything that comes to pass in our lives is God's providence. Yes, this means that all pleasant and unpleasant circumstances that we go through happen because God did will it to happen. If he didn't want it to happen, he is powerful enough to have prevented it. This also includes us having what we do or don't have. This includes also what other people do and don't have. This, of course, doesn't mean that he is responsible for ours or other people's sins. It just means that it was in God's divine and eternal decree for us to undergo and experience sometimes bad and painful circumstances should we go through any. So the first is omnipotence. Let's move now on to the second, which is wisdom. God is all-wise. He knows what is the absolute best way to get things done. There is no decision that he makes which is unwise or foolish. There is no better way to accomplish his will in your life. Yes, despite the fact that you may think otherwise. This is a very difficult thing to grasp We can look at our world, our lives, other people's lives, and think that If I were God, I would have done it this way. Or I would have done it that way. Maybe you thought this way once or twice. Maybe. There may be other ways that things can be done or come to pass, no doubt. But God knows the wisest, the wisest way amongst all possible ways to accomplish something. Additionally, when another way may seem wiser to you to accomplish something. Because of his omniscience, his knowing all things combined with wisdom, he has chosen the best way to accomplish his will. Although sometimes we act like it, we are not omniscient. Only God knows all and the best possible outcomes. Moving now on to the third, his goodness. Not only is God wise and all-powerful, meaning he knows the best way to accomplish his will, but he also is good. God is morally upright. God cannot sin. He is the fountainhead and definition of good It is his character that all of creation is to and should emulate. The safest place for any human being is what God defines as good. Now this means that his decisions in your life are undergirded with goodness. moral uprightness in every decision that impacts your life. It is based upon his goodness. It is not evil, and it is meant for his glory and your good. And he does this with the free exercise of sin committed by mankind. I think we struggle with this because we define good as something that we experience in life without difficulty or challenges. Or pain and suffering. I think that once we jettison this presupposition, we can get to a much safer place. Yes, let us not forget that sometimes we confuse pain and suffering as not being good. But we know, Christians, we know that's not true. God, in his inscrutable goodness, uses pain and suffering and sin to bring about good and accomplish his plans. Now, if you're wondering how can that possibly be, let me direct your minds to the pain and suffering that our Lord Jesus, our Savior. Jesus of Nazareth experienced at the hand of his father as well as sinful men. Did not the Father bring about good in your life from the suffering that he wrought in his beloved Son Okay. So let us not confuse difficult circumstances in life as God not being good or just making unwise decisions in your life. Let me just take a moment to say that I'm not diminishing the pain that you are, you or you may be undergoing in life. It's real and it's agonizing. But let me also say that it has a purpose. And we may never understand its purpose on this side of eternity. But let me just say If you love Christ, whatever it is that you're experiencing, it is good. To recap then, we have said that God, who has in his good providence The sovereign of all creation, who is in control, the sustainer of all things, the one who has decided all things, including all that goes on in your life, has made his decisions upon. the greatest possible goodness, wisdom, and power. Moving on to our third point now. Which is what our covetousness now reveals about ourselves. Every detail in our lives, including the number of hair follicles remaining on my head has been determined by God If I am unhappy about that, I can look to change it. But why? Why would I want more hair on my head? The truth of the matter is, not what is on my head is what's Really growing in my heart. If the reason I'm going to have some sort of procedure, for example, on my head is so that I can be liked by people or accepted by, let's say, you Truthfully, I would be committing at that point idolatry. It would be my belief that if I made that sacrifice at your altar, I would get your attention and your favor, and that would make me happy. But I would also be covetous. You see, for as long as I've been in Presbyterian circles I have seen many ministers, upwards of two to three decades now, and they are two to three decades older than I am. Parading one after another a full head of hair. Yes, in my head it's a parade. They've got banners and some of them have drums like they have in colleges and they're playing the oboe and they've got a horn with all of that hair in our ministerial and denominational background. If you don't know what I'm talking about, I just got back from GA in Chattanooga. And you only need to look around the assembly hall, and a bald head will be like looking for a needle in a haystack. I have looked at them and realized that that's just not gonna be me. I have coveted something someone else has. And I believe that it would make me happy and contented. By this example, I hope that we can see that my desires betrays a fundamental lack of contentment in the one and true God. who has determined the number of strands of hair on my head. Now, look, I'm not advocating Some sort of sanctified frumpiness, I recognize that there are good reasons for doing all sorts of things, but what I am saying is that you should look to your heart. first and see where the motivation is coming from and to what end When you have done that, then the question can be asked. If it is for ungodly reasons Why do I desire to do that, possess that in the first place? Why do I, and perhaps you Wonder, why am I going through this? Why am I going through difficult situations? Why can't I have the peace that other people have? Why can't I have well-behaved children like so-and-so? Why can't I have a sharp mind like so and so? Why can't I take a nice vacation like so and so? Why can't I have nice clothes like so and so? Why can't I have a nice body like so and so? Why can't I have a nice vehicle like so and so? Why can't I have a nice house like so-and-so? Why can't I have a nice husband or wife, like so-and-so, for crying out loud? Why can't I have an ox and a donkey, like so-and-so? When we covet what we are saying. Now hear me That I am unhappy, and there is something better and wiser for me. Please note the words I used. Better and wiser. Gooder and wiser. I think that life would be better for me and frankly others, if only fill in the blank. When you think this way, what you are saying is, I am unhappy. With God's good and wise plan for my life I am unhappy with God's good and wise plan for my life You see, I have conceived of, and may I say humbly, I have conceived of a plan that would be better for me. This, of course, is another way of saying I am wiser and smarter than God Himself. God, your plan for my life stinks. Look at so and so and what they have. Why can't I have that? God, I've seen them sin. I don't sin like that Or as many times as they sin. When we go beyond coveting and actually execute our plans, then we are saved. I think my plan is better. And I'm taking charge. I think my plan is better, and I'm taking charge. I know better. Imagine that. Thinking that our plans to make us happy and satisfied is better than Not in things. Now hear me. Our plans to satisfy us is better than him. I'm not talking about our plans. I'm talking about what satisfies our souls. Coveting invites us to entertain the notion that there is something out there that can make us satisfied, content, happy. Other than God. So we go about the business of putting ourselves in the place of God, thinking that our plans are better. Then we proceed to find things and people to take his place. Yes, we try to satisfy the whole in our hearts. with things and people. And we're we're back to a God, small g, besides the true God. And of course, this is idolatry. This will help us to understand what the Apostle Paul said in Colossians 3. 5. He said Put to death therefore what is earthly in you, sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and then he ends with And covetousness, which is idolatry. Do you see then how covetousness really is idolatry? We make idols of others and ourselves and things. And not only that, but the sin of covetousness, like all sin, brings about enslavement. In your life. The things that you covet enslaves you. It imprisons you And of course, this brings us to the beginning of the Decalogue. Don't you see? Exodus 22. I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. And we go right back running to it. We imprison ourselves to all of our idolatrous, covetous things. God's commandments are for freedom, not enslavement. Which sometimes is the exact argument that we use to justify breaking God's commandments. He doesn't want me to be happy. He wants me to suffer in this prison. We're really good at this. But not really. Do you see then why the framers of our confession said that the law of God brings Freedom. Well, now that we've discussed what covetousness reveals about ourselves, now finally let's take a look at the cure. What causes us to go beyond the first stage of temptation? What causes us to not put to death, as the apostle advised us, as unholy desires? Well, it's faith. Remember, I said I returned to that, didn't I? I'm here. The reason we don't kill it is because we don't have faith in what we know about God. Sometimes it's not trusting God for who he is. Sometimes it's not trusting him for the promises that he has made to us. Sometimes it is us being impatient about his timetable for fulfilling his promises to us. But I think It's always not being satisfied in him and by him It is simply not having sufficient faith in him. You see, this is so elementary and so foundational. Our first parents didn't believe God, and that plunged us into what we have today. The antidote to covetousness is believing in God. Being satisfied in God. Finding fulfillment in God's plans for you. Not fighting God's plans for you. Spoiler alert. You're gonna lose. He's gonna have what he wants to have in your life. You can fight him, but you're gonna lose. Praise the Lord that we're gonna lose. You may ask about this antidote to covetousness. What is it? The antidote to covetousness is believing in God, being satisfied in God, being satisfied by God. Finding fulfillment in God's plan for you, not fighting God's plans for you. You may ask, well, how can I do that? When my life is so hard. Pastor, you don't know how hard my life is. And I see so many people around me, Pastor, living an easy life. A cushy life. The first thing I have to say, don't fool yourself. No one has an easy life. The grass, frankly, is not greener on the other side. That green lawn Enslaves its owner to putting down chemicals. Endless hours gardening, pruning, mowing in hot temperatures. And if you look close enough, you'll invariably find some weeds. But more importantly and profoundly, it's really about not trusting God. Right? You may walk out of here today reminding yourself, yes. God is good, God is powerful, and God is all-wise. But why should I settle for his plan and not go my way? Got the plan for myself. I got my best plan for now, for life now. It's very simple, Christian. I said earlier in the sermon I wanted to look at four things about the character of God. And we have thus far looked at three. The fourth aspect about God is that He loves you He loves you. Let that sink in. He is omnipotent. He is wise. He is good and he loves you. Think about that His love for you is why we should be content in him It is this incredible, genuine, transparent, real love. For you, that it alone satisfies the inner depths of your heart and soul. Perhaps you may have wandered off lately from the path, forgetting about this wonderful love that he has for you. Perhaps you have forgotten it. Let me remind you of the greatest act of affection for you. Look to the cross. Look to his Son upon the cross. He killed his own beloved son, so that he may pour out his love. Upon you. You, Christian. Be comforted. Be satisfied. With such a great God, whom we have as our Heavenly Father. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your great grace. We praise you. How can we not praise you when we know what you are? We thank you that you have extended your grace to your people through the blood of your Son, the Lord Jesus. Help us, Heavenly Father, to recognize through the work of the Holy Spirit, who inheres in us. When we are unsatisfied with you and are looking at other things, other gods, to find satisfaction Help us to not only understand, but help us to believe what our confession says about you, what the scriptures say about you. Help us to go beyond our mind into our hearts, so that we may find contentment And joy in you, and you alone, no matter what circumstances that we're in. Because you love us No matter how difficult the circumstances that you wish for us to be in, you love us. And it's for our good. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.