From Corinthians, we are reminded of the gospel preaching that we are not like so many peddlers of the God's Word, but as men of sincerity, as commissioned by God. In the sight of God, we speak in Christ. So certainly that's what we're seeking to do this evening is to speak in Christ and to speak of Christ. But I before we begin, I want to ask you a question. If someone, member of a family, a neighbor, someone to ask you to summarize the main points or themes of what Jesus preached, what would you say? Pick out three. What would you say are the three main points of what Jesus preached? Well I hope Lou tonight we're gonna learn what they are Thankfully we don't have to go through all of the scriptures. We'll be in Matthew 11, but first of all, I want to take you to two of the Gospels Because right in the beginning of Mark and Matthew, they have done just that for us. They have summarized The three main points are themes of what Jesus preached. So let us stand together. I'll pray and then we'll look at those two gospels. So let's stand together. Our God and Father, how we thank you that you have preserved the Word and Brought the living word Jesus Christ into our lives. Certainly any gospel preacher needs to be able to proclaim the three points, the main themes of what he said, but also those of us who are his people, as you sent us all into this world. to give testimony of who Christ is and what he's done. So we pray that tonight would be instructive to our own hearts but also useful as we seek to engage others to bring home that harvest that you've asked us to pray for. And we pray this all and because of our Savior Jesus. Amen. Well, if you'll first turn to the Gospel of Mark, we'll be looking at Mark chapter 1, 14 and 15. All three of those points, the main themes of what Jesus preached are in the scriptures. See if you can find them. Mark chapter 1, verses 14 and 15. Now after John, that's speaking of John the Baptist, after John was arrested, Jesus Came into Galilee proclaiming the gospel of God and saying, the time is fulfilled, the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent And believe in the gospel. And now, you might not have gotten them there, but we'll continue. We're going to go to the Gospel of Matthew and to two passages. Try to see if you can pick out three themes that Jesus would repeat from Mark in these two sets of scriptures. The first is in Matthew chapter 4. Verses 12 and 13, and we'll add verse 17. 12 and 13, verse 17, Matthew 4. Now when he, Jesus, heard that John, John the Baptist, had been arrested, he withdrew into Galilee And leaving Nazareth, he went and lived in Capernaum by the sea, in the territory of Zebulun and Naphtali. From that time Jesus began to preach, saying, Repent! For the kingdom of God is at hand. And if you'll go to chapter 9 and verse 35, we'll get the third of those themes is Jesus preaching, Matthew 9 and 35. And Jesus went throughout all the cities and villages teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom. And healing every disease and every affliction. Thus the Word of God. Amen. He may be seated. I'm not very good at being put on the spot. And I'm certainly not very good at being put on the spot and asked to read by someone else and change and find my places in scripture and try to figure out what in the world I just read. So, if you don't have the three points, I don't blame you. Because it would find it difficult for me. But I have had the great privilege of spending a week in this passage. And so I should have the three points and the themes of what Jesus, these two gospel writers, have picked up with three themes of Jesus preaching. The first is the kingdom of God is at hand. Which means that as God brings his kingdom, he's going to bring judgment. The second is, therefore, sinful men, men and women, boys and girls, need to repent. They need to turn from their sins. And thankfully it doesn't end there, but there is good news that Jesus preached the gospel. The good news. that we find there of his death for sinners, resurrection, and living. Well those are those three main themes. We're going to find them now in the scripture we're going to look at tonight. And I'm going to take a couple verses at a time and open it up. But first, I want you to see those three things, and now in an actual passage, as we'll see in the life of Jesus. Him doing those very three things and preaching those three things. So our actual scripture for tonight is in Matthew chapter 11 And in Matthew chapter 11, we're going to be starting with the first of the four verses in Matthew 11 and 20. And here we find the first of that theme. Jesus preaching calls you to repentance. Matthew 11 and verse 20. Then he, Jesus, began to denounce the cities where most of his mighty works had been done. Because they did not repent. Repentance is the very first thing that you must have in life. uh in the life of a Christian. Faith and repentance. Some people say it's hard to tell which should come first, but repentance must be there. And Jesus denounced these cities. He had moved into Capernaum, where Titan and Sidon were. He had moved in, excuse me, where the the Titan and Sidon were the pagan cities, but also Chorism, which you'll find out in Beth Seda. And he lived there and did most of his miracles, of his mighty works. And as he did them, those people should have repented. And he is denouncing them. Now denounce is a pretty big word, right? What is Jesus, who's meek and mild, come preaching? He's denouncing the cities. Most of us, when we go into some place, we don't start off denouncing people, do we? But Jesus did. He denounced these cities. He reprimanded. He rebuked them. For being guilty of an infraction. And their infraction was they didn't turn from their sin and turn to God. He denounced them for them, and he had done mighty works. Now what are the mighty works that Jesus is talking about here? Um you might not realize they're all, or you might make up your own mighty works, or something you might think that Jesus could do for you, being Almighty God, maybe he would do something you want, but Jesus actually lists and makes a list of his mighty works. Now you might have remembered when we read from Mark and Matthew that both of those passages where it sums up what Jesus preached, it said, after John had been arrested. So John the Baptist for speaking to Herod, the truth to him was uh put in jail and before he is beheaded he sends some of his followers to Jesus and he says Well, I thought you were the Christ. Are you really the Christ? It's hard to believe that of John the Baptist, isn't it? With his fiery preaching that he could be struggling with his faith? Boy, isn't the scripture encouraging. Because there's times when we struggle with our own faith, isn't it even the mighty ones? Something is going on in your life, some hard trial or difficulty. Some of you might even have some of those now and you've had some. And you said, oh my, I struggled in my faith. Well, here's John the Baptist who did that. And Jesus sends back a message to encourage John before he will die for his faith, and he lists his mighty works. So if you wonder what these mighty works are, turn to the just earlier in the same chapter, Matthew 11, verses 4 and 5, and we'll see the list of mighty works. That Jesus did in these cities that as he called them to repentance. Matthew 11, verses 4 and 5. And Jesus answered them, that's John's disciples who came and asked about Jesus. And he's going to tell him how he fulfills The scripture in Isaiah where it was saying how the Messiah, the Christ, would be. He says this, go and tell John What you hear and see. The blind receive their sight, the lame walk. Lepers are cleansed. The deaf hear, and the dead are raised up, and the poor have the good news to preach to them. These are the mighty works. These are the miracles that Jesus was doing all through Capernaum where he had his ministry. And because Jesus was doing these mighty works to prove that what he said was true, they should have repented. Now how many of those mighty works are still going on today? Did you see the list? Did you understand? There's only one that still goes on today. And that's the preaching of the gospel. There are no biblical miracles anymore today. Now God does wondrous things, but the definition of a biblical miracle is it's done to prove that the one speaking has spoken new revelation from God. And so when Jesus spoke and he did miracles, it proved that he was the Messiah. Now that we have the word of God There are no biblical miracles today going on. Because there is no new Word of God. Now, can God still heal if he chooses? Th Yes. Can God still do wondrous things in creation and have earthquakes and all kinds of stories? He can do all of those things, but they're not with the definition of a biblical miracle. But notice, and especially you who are pastors, desire to be pastors or elders who open God's word, when you preach the gospel, you're doing what? What is it? It's a mighty work. Oh my, what does that do to your calling? It's the only one of Christ's mighty works that continue as it continues to use his mighty word, his living word, to call people from being dead in their sins to life. And it continues today, and that's the reason we need to pray for our preachers and those who open the Word of God and when we bring the Word of God even to our neighbors. We're doing a mighty work. How wondrous it was to hear Mysteria today, right? And you know, we have we usually give our our uh our our thanks to God, right? And and it and and they're fine. We talk about blessings. And I I I probably should have said that tomorrow we're supposed to finally get a hole in our dining room ceiling fixed from the leak in the storm earlier. But I get kind of tired of repeating those kind of things, right? And I say to myself, Lord, what am I going to do? A mighty work? What am I going to hear? about the true mighty works of someone coming to Christ again. And it was so joyous, you know, to hear of that mighty work this evening in Mysterious Life. That's a mighty work, and that's the real work that Jesus calls us to, and uh and that we have to say Now Jesus said that if he had preached and done the same mighty works in the pagan cities of Tyre and Sidon, they most likely would have repented, like when Jonah came to Nineveh and said, Repent. So you see how these Jewish cities, these places where Jesus have, what judgment they have against them, because he was doing all these wondrous miracles, but they refused. Now what is repentance? We better get that clear in our mind. The Westminster Confession, shorter catechism, question number 87, gives a great definition. Repentance unto life is a saving grace, whereby a sinner out of a true sense of his sin, an apprehension of the mercy of God in Christ, does with grief and hatred of his sin turn from it unto God with full purpose endeavor after new obedience Repentance is a change. It's a change in direction from following yourself, and yourself is your own God, to following the living God. from following your own desires and wants to having new wants and desires because you have a changed heart and belong to God. You have a new life and a new heart. you've been born again. And repentance, as Martin Luther says, is something that continues in the life of a Christian. Martin Luther said, When our Lord and Master Christ said repent, he will the entire life of believers being one of repentance. And that's what we have to do, isn't it? Because we know as the hymn that says, our hearts are prone to wander, Lord I feel it, prone to weave, a God I love. And we go back and follow so many other things instead of our Savior, so our life must continue to be repentance. Repentance is not Familiar in the church so much today, the calling of that. Repentance is often overlooked in the modern church at large, the evangelical church. But all through the Bible were preachers of repentance. Ezekiel said, repent and turn from your transgressions. John the Baptist said, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Peter said, repent and be baptized. And Paul said, God commands all people everywhere to repent. Sadly, I do believe that repentance is missed in many, many pulpits in many churches in most of our gospel presentations that we give to other people today. We don't want to tell them about the judgment of God, the wrath that's coming, and the need to repent. Kevin DeYoung says, if we preach a gospel with no call to repentance, we're preaching something other than the apostolic gospel. If we knowingly allow unconcerned, impenitent sinners into the membership and ministry of the church, we're deceiving their souls and putting ours at risk as well. I believe that we've taken the gospel of Christ that is full of repentance and changed it what has been called as a moralistic therapeutic deism. Ooh, that's kind of big words, isn't it? Moralistic therapeutic deism. Pastor Steve Lawson defines it this way. Moralistic therapeutic deism is a view of God that says he exists to make us feel good about ourselves. And that he involves himself in our lives only to affirm us and to solve our problems It's making God a Coke machine. You put in your prayers, and out comes your wishes. The magic genie, Aladdin's lamp. You rub him, and he does what you want. He is your a heavenly bellboy. You ring the bell, and God is there to serve you. And so much of the church today preaches that kind of a gospel. Have a problem? Ask God. And there has been a survey all throughout America, and in fact this term moralistic therapeutic deism is from a study done by Christian Smith of churches in America. He's defined what's often preached in this new gospel of five points. He says, first, that a God exists who created and ordered the world and watches over human life on earth. So generally you'll say there might be a God, and if he's a God, he watches over the earth. Secondly, God wants people to be good, nice, and fair to each other, as taught in the Bible and by the way by most world religions. And the central goal of life is to be happy and to feel good about oneself. Number four, God does not necess need to be particularly involved in one's life, except when there's a problem. Then you can be sure to call upon him. And fifth, good people go to heaven when they die. What's missing there? No call to repentance of our sin, and therefore no need of a savior. You don't need a savior with that kind of gospel. You're just asking for a nice buddy to come by and help you when you have need. And so Jesus, first of all, was a preacher of repentance. You could not understand him, and the good news we'll talk about in the while of the good news of the gospel. If he didn't know the bad news that you were a sinner and that judgment was coming Secondly, as we go on and look at this. Um pardon me I've had uh trouble tonight because I printed this off on a different um printer I normally have all my pages in one way, and they all came off differently, I'm noticing. So Jesus' second point of preaching was not that you're going to have your best life now. But he's prepared now, he proclaimed that you must prepare to meet your doom. Jesus was saying that judgment is coming. And we don't like to tell people judgment's coming. We like to tell people that Jesus was a good man. We like to tell people and talk about their felt needs and said Jesus can help you. But we refuse to tell people that they're sinners needing to repent, and if they don't, God is going to judge judge them. But let's look at verse 21 of Matthew 11. Matthew 11 in verse 21, it says, Woe to you, Korazan, woe to you, Beseda. For if the mighty works done in you had been done entire in Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. So when Jesus says woe, he's not talking about a horse. He's not saying these cities lived at such a fast pace they need to slow down and take a rest. No, when Jesus preaches woe, he is saying that a great judgment is coming. Woe is me, I am undone. Woe is you, you need to be undone. Because God's judgment is coming. Because mighty works were done among you. All that anybody should have ever needed to see that I am the Son of God and that you're sinful was preached. And yet they refused. And so judgment was coming. This judgment is talked about in Romans chapter 2, verse 5. It says this, because of your hard and impenitent heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's judgment will be revealed. What's it going to be like when God's wrath comes? to a world that thinks they're okay. Remember back in the 60s, the book written by the Jewish rabbi, I'm okay, you're okay. Doesn't matter what you believe, you believe something, just be sincere, and I'll believe something will be sincere. We're all okay. Everybody likes that. I remember going to New England and thinking it was so hard, but I found out I could preach the gospel to anybody. They really didn't mind because they're very, very open in New England. They want to hear what you say, but then they just say Well, that's what you believe and I believe this. So let's get along fine. I'm okay and you're okay. It doesn't matter. But the difficulty that we have and the people in the scripture had is Jesus was saying, you're not okay. You're sinful. You need to repent and judgment's coming. And if you don't come, the wrath of God is being stored up for you. Now what's that like? Johnny Erickson Tata has written a devotion and in her devotion she spoke of a time before she had her accident. She used to live in Sykesville, Maryland, and she writes this. She says I used to ride my horse near Liberty Dam, which held back a huge lake. Whenever I would cross the stream at its base, I would get the jitters. That dam is storing up a lot of water. What if it bursts? It's hard to imagine God storing up holy anger against us, but it's true. Without Christ and his awesome salvation, we would be frightfully exposed on the day of God's wrath when his judgment comes against us through our unbelief and denying of his son. Dr. John MacArthur describes it this way. God's wrath is a holy raging torrent And only his grace like a dam prevents it from spilling on us as sinful human beings. So has it surprised you as we talk about this that Jesus, first of all, was a preacher of repentance That second of all, Jesus was like what the culture wants to put as a funny papers. I remember growing up, I didn't grow up in the church. But I remember laughing at this picture of someone who was in a robe and there was a sign they were holding up, prepare to meet thy doom. Right? Have you ever seen that in a Commercial, everybody's laughing, ha ha ha. What are they talking about? Those religious people. Well no, I don't, of course I'm not telling any of us to go get a robe and a sign, right? But what was written there was true, and Jesus was first of all a preacher of our need to repent, turn of our sins, from loving ourselves and to following after him. And then if we don't, he was a preacher of doom. We need to be preachers of both of those things, the bad news. And then third of all, Jesus said, you are bound to hell. What? Who are we talking about? Whose themes are these? Let's continue in the scripture, verses 22 and 23. Matthew 11, verses 22 and 23. But Jesus says, I tell you it would be more bearable in the day of judgment for Tyre and Sidon. then for you and for Capernaum and you will be exalted to heaven and you will be brought down to Hades. For if its mighty work had been done in you that was done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day. But I tell you that it will be more tolerable in the day of judgment for the land of Sodom than for you. Sometimes when the word Hades is used in the scripture, it just means the place of the dead. But here and other places in Scripture it's talking about hell. that place where God sends unrepentant sinners for eternity when they die. He's withholding his wrath now to give them time to repent. He's withholding his wrath now to help them understand that judgment is coming. And so they would repent, but he's saying that if you don't repent, you're going to hell. There's no other choice. There's a choice between heaven and hell, but you will go to hell. You will find God's judgment forever if you don't turn from your sin and turn from me. This is the message of Jesus. This is what he preached. Now you might say, Pastor, you've just cherry-picked. You just you've pulled out a couple summaries in Matthew and Mark and you pull this out. No. We could go through the scriptures, but I'll use just two of Jesus' parables. Remember those parables that were given that were stories that tell us about what God is like and what he does. The first is a parable the weeds. You can just listen. It's found in Matthew 13 verses 40 to 42 Just as weeds are gathered and burned with fire, so it will be at the end of the age. The Son of Man will send his angels And they will gather out of his kingdom all causes of sin and lawbreakers, and throw them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Jesus is very clear. And if you haven't repented, if you haven't believed and trusted him, bad news is coming, and you are doomed, you will be going to hell. And in the same way, and another parable that Jesus speaks and teaches and preached is the parable of the net in Matthew 13, verses 47 to 50. The parable of the net. Again, and this is how he uses the very same words, because he wants to be very, very clear with those who hear him, who've seen his mighty works, who've heard the gospel. But if they don't repent, they're doomed and bound for hell. The parable of the net, Matthew 13, verses 47 to 50. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a net that was thrown into the sea and gathered fish of every kind. When it was full, men drew it ashore, and sat down, sorted out good into containers, but threw away the bad. So it will be at the end of the age. The angels will come and separate the evil from the righteous and throw them into the fiery furnace, into that place where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Some people say the reason why there are less converts today is because people just don't want to hear. I believe one of the reasons there's less converse today is people don't hear the whole message. They don't understand that they need to run from judgment. They don't understand Jesus' message that there's hell. I'm certainly, believe me, I'm not telling us to go all go out and find our nearest neighbor, knock on his door tonight, and say, you're going to hell. You know, you're doomed. But that's part of the message. They don't understand the good news of a savior of Jesus without that. They cannot understand the good news that Jesus will end with here without knowing the bad news. Now, this moralistic therapeutic gospel, or theism, this got new gospel, is not new. It's still found in the Old Testament. Our pastor talked about it today in those those uh uh preachers, uh those uh in the in the different um books of the prophets where if They were saying, good news, everything's fine when God's judgment was coming. And you hear that today. It's going to be your best life now. It's interesting, I I didn't know this, but I was reading David Pallison this week, and he was talking about Dostoevsky's poem, The Grand Inquisitor. It was written in 1880. And there, Dostoevsky imagines Jesus returning to the 16th century Spain. But Jesus is not welcomed by church authorities The Cardinal of Seville, the head of the Inquisition, arrests and imprisons Jesus, condemns him to die. What? And the reason was he says the church has shifted course. It has decided to meet instinctual human cravings rather than calling men to repentance. It has decided to bend its message to felt needs rather than calling forth a high, holy, and difficult freedom of faith working through love. Jesus' biblical example and message are deemed too hard for weak souls, and the church has decided to make it easy. This is not new. The church always has to decide what they will preach. Will they decide and desire to tickle the men's ears and make them feel good? Or will we bring the truth of the bad news? Will we tell people? Will you tell your family? Will you tell a father or a mother or brother or sister, uncle or aunt? Will you tell your neighbor or co-worker? Will you tell your fellow Americans the judgment is coming? Will you preach and teach them what Jesus said? Will you tell them of their need to repent? Will you tell them that unless they change their course, they are bound for hell? I'm saying do that within a friendship. But just as our pastor talked this morning about the doctor who sees the one with a cancerous tumor in his lung and just comes back and doesn't want to hurt his feelings and says, oh, we'll see you in six months. Do well. Or does he say you have a tumor unless we operate on it now, you'll be dead Beloved, I confess not just to you. I'm not trying to send you out storming tonight with the bad news Because I know how much I hate to bring that to someone. I don't want anybody I'm bringing the good news to love me. I want my neighbors and family and brothers and sisters to love me and think good of me. And think he's just a good old pastor. He just cares for people. Isn't he nice? And I need to grow in my niceness. But I also need to grow in my love for my neighbors and my family and friends and others. To bring them the same news that Jesus brought them. They have to understand the bad news before they can understand the wondrous good news. But there is a savior for sinners. Now, thankfully, as we've gone through Matthew and seen the bad news, That even in the same chapter, Jesus ends with the wonderful good news, but after he explained the bad news. Because these very cities that he said, whoa, judgment is coming. You have no hope on your own. You have no way to save yourselves. In the same book, in the same chapter, he ends in the end of Matthew 11 with verses 28 to 30. He's calling those ones who didn't listen. He just didn't say, go to hell and I don't care for you. But he then brought them this wonderful good news, if they would repent. And it was to all of them. He didn't single out any of them. The message was the same to everyone who didn't listen, and judgment was coming. But last Matthew 20, 11, verses 28 to 30, Jesus says, Come to me, all you Who labor and are heavy laden. And the context of this is labor and heavy laden because they're like pilgrim and pilgrim's progress. And because he's told them about judgment and their sins, they have this awful burden on their back that's going to crush them and kill them. Come unto me, Jesus says, all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy. And my burden is life. But they will never, ever understand that. If forced you don't point out their burden. So they might feel it and know it and be crushed by it in the judgment to come. But this good news becomes wonderfully. true and good. And they seek to release the burden of their sin and come and live and know their Savior. We need to pray for the church. We need to pray for each other that we would have this holy boldness for our own families and friends. I tell you, I run from it. I so desperately fear them more than I fear God. And I love myself to love me more than I want them to be loved by God. That they have this terrible cancer of sin in their souls, and I'm saying, come back next time, see you again And I don't tell them about the awful tumor. That they might find health and life. And our Savior Jesus. Oh, would we encourage and pray for one another? And realize that this mighty work that Jesus has given to all of us is his work to open up the good news of the gospel. It can only be understood if we first tell people the bad. May Jesus encourage each of us tonight with that wondrous message that we found when the burden fell off our backs. That we might be used to bring health and healing to the world. For Christ's sake. Amen.