It may surprise you that God in his perfect wisdom may choose to answer your wrong-headed prayers Full of your sinful desires. Did you hear that correctly? What? Wait a minute. It may surprise you that in his perfect wisdom, God may choose to answer your wrong-headed, sinful prayers and give you those desires. That's exactly what God has done with Israel. His own people, the church, in the Old Testament in the book of 1 Samuel. God's people became tired of his rule over them with the judges. When they got into trouble, when their enemies came, he would raise up judges for that moment to save them. But they got tired of it. They wanted someone there every instant to lead them. And they were tired of God. So what did they do? They looked around. Oh, look at the Amorites, they've got a king. Look at the Philistines, they've got a king. Look at thee. Everybody around them had a king. And they said, That's what I want Yeah, they wanted what everybody else had. They weren't satisfied with what God had given them. Now it's easy to think of this story long ago and far away. But that's the picture of God's people today. Do you look around at your neighbors and start asking for foolish things? Things that might not help you. You want them. And sometimes God's going to do it. And that's what he did in 1 Samuel chapter 8. Listen to them cry for their king. And all the elders of Israel gathered together. They came to Samuel and Ramon and said to him, Now appoint for us a king to judge us like all the nations. And they said, There shall be a king over us that we also might be like the nations, and that our king may judge us and go out before us and fight our battles. And astonishing, God answered their reckless request So I'm going to ask you to stand as I pray and read God's Word Portion that I'm going to read to prepare us. I'm going to read the scripture we're going to work through section by section so we see it open. But in 1 Samuel chapter 9 to the beginning. of ten, God is going to anoint privately their first king. He's going to give them their reckless requests Now, it's not that God never had purpose to give them the king. It just wasn't at this point to give it to them when they were having their little meltdown. their little pity party, their self, their selfish request. And so in 1 Samuel 9, I want you to see first that God um is going to anoint Saul privately. Let us pray first. Our Father and God, as we come to your word this morning, as we come every time to your word. We need a boatload of your grace not to write off the truths that you have for us. We can easily See how these truths must have applied to those Israelites. And it may apply to my neighbor or maybe my wife or husband or my children or my parents. But I don't really see how this applies to me. Lord, would you enable by your Holy Spirit to bring it home to our own hearts? We would see and hear and respond to your word for each of us today, because and through our Lord Jesus Christ Amen. Well if you'll turn with me to first sap Samuel chapter nine We'll start in verse twenty-six. This is the private anointing of King Saul. Then at the break of dawn, Samuel said to Saul, on the roof, up, that I might send you on your way. So Saul arose. And both he and Samuel went out into the street. And as they were going down to the outskirts of the city, Samuel said to Saul, Tell the servant to pass on before us. And when he had passed on, stop here yourself for a while that I may make known to you the word of God. Then Samuel took a flask of oil and poured it on his head and kissed him and said, Has not the Lord anointed you to be prince over his people Israel? And you shall reign over the people of the Lord, and you will save them from the hand of their surrounding enemies. Thanks be to God. This is the word, his word. Amen. Please be seated. Well now we come to the coronation, the public coronation of this king. It was a foolish and reckless request. And so if you come to 1 Samuel 10, we're going to be working through a portion of that today. Starting in verse ch 1 Samuel ten and verse 17. And it's going to surprise us, and I hope that you'll note this quickly, a coronation is usually a great event. And God's answering their prayer, but God is not going to hold back as he answers their prayer. To show them that he knew it was on their hearts. 1 Samuel chapter 10 and verse 17. Now Samuel called the people together to the Lord at Mizpah. And he said to the people of Israel, Thus says the Lord the God of Israel, I brought up Israel out of Egypt. And I delivered you from the hand of the Egyptians and from the hand of all the kingdoms that were oppressing you. But today you have rejected your God who saves you from all your calamity and your distresses. And you have said to him, Set a king over us. Does this surprise you? Usually when we see coronations and public events of the royals, it's much different. Many of you remember, uh, I think still remember, and we're part of the audience of over 750 million people. Watching on television the grand wedding of Diana Spencer to Charles Prince of Wales at St. Paul's Cathedral on the 29th of July in 1981. At that moment, she became a royal. Marrying him, she became Diana, the Princess of Wales, the Duchess of Cornwell, the Duchess of Rothesy, and the Countess of Chester. Wow. If you saw it on television, you remember all the pomp and circumstance and the celebrations and the going down the roads and all the people lined up and holding up uh British flags and picture plates they bought with Diana's face on it and all those kind of glitchy things we get at those times of celebration. To put up on our walls that our children take down and eventually get sold at a flea market. But we remember those kind of things, right? It's a celebration. It's what we do. But Ralph Davis says this of the coronation of Saul. Since Israel has rejected the God who saved them, and they have not repented of their sin We cannot expect Samuel to smile blandly and say, so good to see you all here today on this happy occasion. Instead, Israel God loved them too much to be nice. His word pursues them. Rentlers. I just wash my mouth, I can't do a thing with it. Relentlessly. God chases us relentlessly if He loves us. The Lord is willing to ruin this nice occasion in order to get their attention and lead them to repentance. James 4-4 speaks of their hearts at this pine, even though it's a New Testament verse, and it speaks of our hearts when we want what we shouldn't want, when we look around at our neighbors and say, Go God, I have to have this to be happy. And so as you think of this, we're not having kings and presidents, but what happens when you don't get the president you want? Or what happens when you don't get the latest toy you want? Or the job or the person or the children you want. What? If your children aren't acting just like you what? Or the parents? But my parents aren't like Johnny's parents. James 4 and 4 says, You adulterous people, do you not know that friendship with the world is enity with God? Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. And see her, God's people are making themselves an enemy because they're choosing what they want. They're placing themselves as kings. Their desires rule them rather than the God who had been ruling them. They wanted that throne and they wanted what they wanted. Christians who desire to be like the world are like the Israelites in their demand for a king. For all the formal claims we make when we come to church, oh, I love Jesus, we walk out and commit apostasy during the world week because we love what we love. Being God's people demands faithfulness to Him and a holiness before the world. Thus, Israel's request for a worldly king was a desire no longer to be his people. I won't We won't have you rule over us. Recently I heard this on a podcast, and I can't remember the person's name, but it was a good podcast. But it said this. Our Christian world view is too much, too often, like a world view. I think I spelled it right. Not like Rouge. Worldview. Instead of having a worldview that it is determined by God's word as he directs us We take the world's views and whirl them all up with God's word and we pull out something that we like, a syncratic version of what we want. And setting God's truth aside. The truth of the scriptures cannot be contaminated by the latest ideas, trends, and fads that are popular in our culture. Pastor Rick Phillips says it this way, God's people are tempted to fit in with the world. If we do just a few things the world's way. falling into a worldly manner of speech or dress or adopting the world's priorities for money and our time and our talents, then we can avoid sticking out to the world. Then they won't be a threat to the world. This is what Israel was doing in demanding a king. They were not asking for a new god to worship, but only a political system to make them like all the nations. It'll all go A little more smoothly, Lord. Thankfully, Samuel spoke the truth about Israel. And you and me. When we reject our God and want what we want instead of his will Beloved brothers and sisters, let me ask you this morning, where is it that God's Spirit, as you're hearing this, might be bringing to your mind your love for the world over God? Where you say, Lord, I'm not going to be happy unless I get this, and he hasn't given it to you. He hasn't given you your king Where is it that you desire to be liked and accepted by others, but actually it's showing your rejection of the Lord? See, this isn't just long ago and far away. It's today here for you and me. Well, Samuel started off by rebuking Israel. Now we're going to see That Samuel is going to review the king that God has chosen for them. 1 Samuel chapter 10, starting in verse 19, the second part of it. Now present yourselves before the Lord by your tribes and by your thousands. Then Samuel brought all the tribes of Israel near. And the tribe of Benjamin was taken by lot. And then he brought the tribe of Benjamin near by its clans, and the clan of Matarites was taken by Lot. And Saul, the son of Kish, was taken by Lot. But when they sought him, he couldn't be found. So they inquired of the Lord again. Is there still a man to come? And the Lord said, behold, he's hidden himself among the baggage. Then they ran and took him from there. And when he stood among the people, he was taller than any of the people, from his shoulders upward. And Samuel said to all the people, Do you see him, whom the Lord has chosen? There's none like him among all the people. And the people shouted, Long live the King! Previously, um You might remember, did you hear how the king was chosen, how God showed his will by Lot? Do you remember that happening before in history? Where God went through things by lot by lot by tribe. Do you remember when it was? What is it on a great a grand occasion? No, if you might remember, uh Joshua had fit the Battle of Jericho and they did a tremendous uh uh destruction of Jericho Um as they were looking to God as they never raised a finger, but they raised their voices as they marched around and shouted, God had the walls fall down. So the people were so excited and they went on to the next town eye, not even consulting God, because they said Who needs God when the walls just fall down before us? And they went down and tried to defeat I, and God said, don't take any of this plunder for yourselves. But they took it. And how did they figure out who took the plunder? God had the whole nation stand before them, right? And he started picking by lot uh all the different tribes and now the tribes he picked the clan and finally got to Achan's family and then they were killed and all their possessions were burned So you can just imagine Israel now as they're going to pick the king this way, right? They're start they're look they're thinking back and say, the Rutro, uh something's happening here And so as they were doing that, it's not an easy time. But God is using the lot here to say something to them. Because you might remember Proverbs 1633 says this, the lot is cast into the lap, but its every decision is of luck and chance. Is that what your Bible says? I hope not. Every decision of the lot is of the Lord. And the Lord was saying here, you might want a king and you might want a king like the world, but I'm going to choose and show you step by step who's going to be your king. Matthew Henry comments, by this method, the people will see what Samuel already knew, that Saul was appointed to be king, and would help prevent the disputes I love the scriptures. I love the scriptures because this is not a cleaned up version here of God's people, is it? Right? It's not even a clean up version of the king because you would expect the second part of what we read this morning when it says And the king God chose was head and shoulders above everybody. And everybody said, long live the king, right? That's great. But what came before that? And they went to find Saul, and where was he? You know, God says, here's your king, here's the lot, ta-da! And where's Saul? He's hiding among the baggage. Remember what kind of king they wanted? We want a king like a nation's to lead us in the battle. Where was their king? He was hiding. He didn't want to come out in front of a crowd. How's he going to face the Philistines? Right? So I love the scriptures because it just shows us ourselves, doesn't it? Just shows us the reality of life in this world. Now, Samuel's going to go on and tell us how the king needed to act, his right. Now that Saul is chosen, what should he do? And so in 1 Samuel chapter 10 and verse 25 it says this. Excuse me. Um Then Samuel told the people the rights and the duties of kingship, and he wrote them in a book, and he laid it up before the Lord. I want you to turn, because that's such a short verse, to Deuteronomy 17 Because even though God allowed Israel to choose their own king, he wasn't going to allow them to act like the world's kings. Now, I had told you earlier that having a king for Israel was no new or strange things. It was what God had planned to do all the time, but according to his timetable and not theirs. And God said, when you come into the land you'll have a king, but I want you to notice how different the kings of Israel were to be than the kings of the world. In Deuteronomy chapter 17. Starting in verse 14, you'll see what God's kings are to be like that would rule over his people. Deuteronomy 17, verse 14. When you come to the land that the Lord your God has given you, and you possess it and dwell in it, then say, I will set a king over me like all the nations that are around me. You may indeed set a king over you, whom the Lord will choose. One from among all your brothers you shall set as a king over you You may not put a foreigner over you who is not your brother, only he must not acquire many horses for himself. or cause the people to return to Egypt in order to acquire many horses, since the Lord has said to you, You shall never return that way again, and you shall not acquire many wives for himself. lest it turn his heart away, nor shall he acquire for himself excessive silver and gold. And when he sits on the throne, his kingdom, he shall write for himself in a book a copy of this law. approved by the Levitical priest, and it shall be with him, and he shall read it all the days of his life, and he shall r and he that he might learn to fear the Lord his God by keeping all the words of this law and these statutes and doing them, that his heart may not be lifted above his brothers, that he might not turn aside from the commandment, either to the right hand or the left. so that he may continue long in his kingdom, he and his children in Israel. You see, God had a time and a place for a king, but it just wasn't then But his king would be a king, but not like the nations, one who would not rule over his people with an iron fist. And sin, but one who would serve his people, being a picture of our coming King, the Lord Jesus Christ. And sadly, as we go on That's not what you will see in this king, Saul. If you come tonight, you will see a little more of Saul and God's using him, but he is not that kind of a king. Worldly kings ruled by Rex Lex. Now I know there's some Latin scholars in here who I'm not. That's why I have written down what Rex Lex means. Rex lex means the king's word is law. Right? And you and you know that. You've heard it all through the history. What happens when the king or queen gets mad at their brother, sister, mother, uncle, subject? Off with her head! And what happens? Right? The king's word is law, but that's not the way it is to be with God's kings. It's not rex-lex, but lex-rex. God's word is king. And that's how it was to be with the kings of Israel. And so Samuel is making it clear as Saul is made king here what is to happen. In this last section here, Israel's response to this king that may have been given is given before us. in the last verses. So let's turn to 1 Samuel 10, the second half of verse 25 to the end of the chapter, just two verses. He Saul has now been anointed king publicly, and uh this is how the people responds as it all ends And Samuel sent all the people away, each one to his own home. So also went to his own home at Gibeah, and with him went men of valor whose hearts had been touched. They were for the king. God had picked this king for him, and they were going to follow him. They were the righteous. But some worthless fellows said, how can this man save us? And they despised him and brought him no present, but he held his peace. Here we have at the end. What Saul is going to go through in his kingdom. There were indeed some people who followed him and some who didn't for different reasons. But As we read in the Old Testament, we need to remember that God is always unfolding for his people pictures of salvation. The Bible is a book of redemption. And as we see God at work with his people in the Old Testament, it pictures what he's doing in the New Testament. And as God would give his church in the New Testament another king, King Jesus, it won't be like the kings of the world that have to have many horses and armies, not to have many wives and lovers, not to have much money and gold. But our king is to be a servant king. And that's what Deuteronomy had laid out for them. And that's what God has given to us in King Jesus When he w rides into Jerusalem the week before his passion and be crucified for his sins, he rides humbly on a colt, on a donkey. As he rides in to give his life and to serve us. And as we end here, I want you to ask, what is your response to King Jesus? Who he has provided to lead and rule his church, to rule you. Are you the rogue? I won't have this King Jesus. I've got a life of my own. I'm going to get what I want. I want to be like the nations. Or have you been made righteous? Has God changed your heart? And will you follow after King Jesus? There's only two answers to the church, but to all people. You either submit lovingly to King Jesus or you are his enemy. Which are you? Now we can go out in the world and evangelize and tell them that choice, but that's a question before the church. It's a question before Israel. Would you follow his provided king or not? And the question for you is, will you follow after Jesus or not? Or are you saying in your own heart, if we had followed you and videotaped you during the week, I want what I want? I know what Jesus says, but I'm gonna do this. I know how he'd have me treat my wife, but I'm gonna rule. I know what he'd have me do with my husband, how to love and serve him, but not that bozo. God, how could you have given me these parents? They might be Christian, but they don't act like it. I don't have to follow them. We all Have to deal with our submission to Jesus who is our King. In Matthew 12 and 20, he says, whoever is not with me Is against me. King Jesus. Picked by our God to rule over his church. You know, sadly, there's been much unbiblical teaching in the church in this area over the last century. In the Bible, God puts forth only two options, being a Christian with Jesus as your King, or being a non-Christian, where you seek to rule your own life, ultimately under the rule of the devil. There's only two choices. Jesus is king or you are king and a devil supports you in being there. Which are you? Which has described your life. You see, the unbiblical teaching is that there's such a thing in the church, there's not just these two choices, but there's a third choice. It's called The carnal Christian. Have you ever heard of that? It's a teaching that's saying carnal means fleshly or worldly It means at some point in your life, you could have walked an aisle and said, I trust Jesus. You could have read a tract and said, oh, I love Jesus. He loves me. You could have joined a church and said, I love Jesus, and so you've signed up to get your fire insurance, so you won't go to hell. But the truth is you live like hell. You live with yourself as the king. That is an unbiblical choice. It's never in the scripture. It says at times we live that way and need to repent of it. But don't hold hope for those people you know. They signed a card such a long time ago. If they're living like hell, that's where they're bound And if you're living that way and making those choices for your own kingdom, then we have to say, is that where I am bound? There's only two choices, following the king or not following the king. Let's turn to Revelation chapter 3 This verse and the verses we're looking at are taken out of context many times. As if they're verses for the world. And of course they are, but God is speaking through John, the apostle here, to the church. He's speaking to a church in Laodicea here. in uh Revelation chapter 3. And he's saying to this church and to our church today, the Revelation chapter 3 and 14, and to the angel of the church in Laodicea right, The words of the Amen, the faithful and true witness in the beginning of God's creation. Now he's speaking to the church. He's speaking to us. I know your works. You're neither hot nor cold. Would that you were either cold or hot. You see. You're either hot towards God or you're cold and living your own life your own way. So because you are lukewarm, you're that carnal Christian, right? Oh, I love Jesus sometimes, but well, when I want what I want, it's okay, but I'll I'll I can play this little in-between game. And that in-between game is lukewarm. That carnality, fleshliness is worldly, is lukewarm. So what happens? God says, because you are lukewarm. Neither hot nor cold, I'll spit you out of my mouth. For you say, I'm rich, I've prospered, I have need of nothing, not realizing that you are poor, wretched, pitiable, poor, blind, and naked. I counsel to you to buy gold from me refined by fire, so that you may be rich in white garments, so that you might clothe yourself in the shame of your nakedness and may not be seen. And salve to anoint your eyes, so that you may see. Those whom I love I reprove in discipline. Be zealous and repent. Why would I bring you such a message to such a good-looking group who are dressed so nice? Well, why would I bring it to you, right? You're not out crazed in the world today, right? It's because you're his church and God brings this word to us because he loves us. A father who loves his children will discipline them when they become errant and cold or just lukewarm. But listen, listen to the plea he gives to the church. This is a plea that's usually here outside as an evangelism plea. This is a plea for the church. Look at God's word to his church to you. Look at verse 20, Revelation 3 and 20. Behold, God says, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice in his church, if anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come into him and eat with him and he with me. And to the one who conquers, I will grant him to sit with me on my throne, as I've also conquered, and sat down with my father on his throne. He who has an ear, let him hear. What the Spirit says to the church is what the Spirit says to you. Charles Spurgeon has said it this way. No neutralities can exist in Christ's religion. We're either ranked under the banner of the prince. King Emmanuel to serve and fight his battles? Or were vassals of Satan? To whom do you belong? If you were Christ, Spurgeon would say he would advise his congregation, and I advise you at least these four things this morning. You who by faith belong to King Jesus, obey him. Let his word be your law. Let his wish be your will. You who by faith belong to King Jesus, love him. Let your heart embrace him. Let your whole soul be filled with him. You who by faith belong to King Jesus, trust him. Don't put your trust anywhere else but on him. You who by faith belong to King Jesus, be decided for him and how you use your time and your talents and your treasures. No, I'm not asking you To do this in your own strength, or by asking you to say, I'm going to put all up my bootstraps today, and I'm really going to go out there and live for Jesus. No, we come here convicted. Oh, Jesus, I I can't believe you're on the throne and I find myself all during the week wrestling you off that throne because I want what I want. I need your help. Forgive me. Put me in my place. As a worshiper of you, you're my only hope. Ralph Davis says it this way, you don't keep God's commandments to earn your salvation and freedom, for Christ, your King, already has won them, and they are his gift to you. But you keep his commandments because he has saved you. And in following him is true freedom and joy. Let us pray. Father, how we thank you that we are ruled by your Son, King Jesus. Who came to be born and one of us to know our sufferings To know our struggles and to be one of us and to die for us And therefore, our king does not rule with a scepter to beat us, but to lead us. And He leads us well. Oh God, move our hearts that are hardened. Do you know that we have eyes to see and love this world? And we so easily stray. Thank you for your mercy to Israel. Your church. Thank you for your mercy to us, your church. We confess how we fight you, and we thank you that you have a steadfast love. May we prove to be yours because of our love and faith in our Savior Jesus, in whose name we pray. Amen.