Good morning. I'm excited to start preaching through Matthew today. I know we were in Matthew last week looking at the the kind of overview of the book, but now we start going through verse by verse and I'm excited for that. We're going to, if you're following along on our live stream, we are going to pause that for a moment, refresh your screen in a couple minutes And you will get us, but we're going to pray freely without being broadcast. And also that just makes sure that Facebook doesn't silence the message in the middle. So we'll be back in just a couple minutes. minutes. Can you turn me down a little bit, please? I'm quite loud and echoey here. Can everyone hear okay? Alright, yeah. That's but uh no keep going. Okay, can you hear me okay now? Okay, good. All right. Let's go to the Lord with a word of prayer. Dear God. You are holy and you are alive, and we are eager to come to you this morning. We come to you. We are soon going to be celebrating The fact that your son uh died in our place by commemorating communion. And Lord, we are coming to you then not trusting in any work of our hands, not in any that we do, any righteousness that we have before or since coming to Christ. Lord, we're resting, we're trusting in your own invitation. And your promise that if we trust in you, if we believe in Christ, then you save us and you cleanse us and we're whole Your son says, Come unto me all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. And Lord, we come because of that invitation. And would you meet with us this morning? We pray that your spirit would be present in a special way as we gather together as the body of Christ. Please speak to us today out of your word. Please help me. I will be preaching, but I pray that your spirit would be taking it to the heart. To each of our hearts, through our ears, let it nestle into our brains, and let us worship you with raised affections and And with a love for you. Lord, please give me the exact right words. Protect me from error. I don't think I've written anything that is error, but I ask for your help. And we pray that you would make your message effective to us today and that there would be a special work of your spirits. Lord, if there is anyone here who needs to turn to Christ to be saved, we pray that and and I know that there there are yet at least young children. who can hear and can turn to you. And we pray for the ministry going on in the nursery as well as here in the main service. Your son says, come and he will give us rest. And so Lord, we ask that you'd give us rest today on Sunday on your day. Give us rest from any attempts that we have been doing to impress you, to somehow earn forgiveness with you or merit restoration from you. We want to serve you joyfully. We want to do good works, not that we may be saved, but out of gratitude for you saving us. Lord, give us rest from self-loathing that we have due to sin that has defeated us yesterday or this past week or this past month. Give us rest from the temptation and the allure and the domination of sin. Especially those those besetting, persisting Lord, give us rest from the pressures and failures of living for ourselves instead of living for you and living to Bless others in your name. Give us rest from fear that you might depart from us. That we might be cast out. Lord, give us rest from these fears and from these failures and from our own Self-guilt. Lord, let guilt play its right work in driving us to you. And then let guilt depart because it is, it was Satisfied, it was it was destroyed on the cross We take refuge in the name of Jesus Christ, Emmanuel, God with us. And we praise you that you have promised to always be with us if we cry out to you. So we we ask that you'd continue with us today and that you would help us to worship you, that indeed your spirit would worship with us. We thank you that you don't pr pay us temporary visits. You're with us forever, but you're with us in a special way when we gather together as a church today. And so we rejoice in that good news and that we are we are enabled, we are safe, we're able to worship you, we have peace, and would you bless this time we spend not just Singing to you, but singing with other people. Help us to sing to your glory, but so that we might encourage others with our psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. We thank you that your grace is more than sufficient to meet our every situation. You are able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we can ask or think. We thank you that you are with us. And so, Lord, we do ask that you would be with those who are struggling and those who are hurting. Lord, I lift up Judy, who is going through the chemo treatments, and we ask that you would would show her her need for you and her insufficiency in herself through her own weakness. Lord, help her to fear To fear judgment, to fear entering eternity and not knowing you, or not having sureness of where she stands with you, and let that fear drive her to Christ. And then we pray that you would show her that Christ in his life and righteousness and in his death and in his resurrection, his death in her place, his blood shed. To cover her sins. Lord, let her see that He is sufficient. And turn to Christ And we lift her up to you and that in her weakness, in her illness, she'd come to see that this illness is indeed a gift, a blessing, that she would know the living God who loves her and gave his son to die for her. And please would you be with Janelle as she keeps as she takes care of her mom, but as she seeks to to communicate this to her and give her wisdom to know when it's right to keep on speaking and when it when it's right to to be silent and let you work on her heart quietly. Please encourage her. We thank you that she's with us today. Please be with those of us, those parents who are praying for lost children or children who are who appear to be in unsafe waters. Lord, we pray that for all of us across our assembled congregation, our neighbors, people in our neighborhoods and our communities. We have burdened hearts for people for our children. Lord, I lift up the children of this church. I lift up Zeke and Ellen and Teddy and Penny and Bella and May May and Aiden. Lift up Arjun, who's away at college. Lord, we lift up these people who are dear to us. And for those who belong to you, please, would you uh direct them in the way they should go while they're young and help them to not depart from that. And those who do not yet know you if those those need names. We lift them up to you and pray for their salvation and pray that they would love Jesus at an early age and turn to Him now. Lord, we pray for our extended family members, for our brothers and sisters, our aunts and uncles, our grandparents, our parents. Dear ones who are living apart from you, living in unbelief, or living for the fleeting pleasures of sin, living under judgment, perhaps delighting in Filth. They are bound for a Christless eternity, and we ask that you would save them because your son promised that he is a shepherd. He's not He he is both, Lord, a seeking shepherd who goes out and saves the lost. And would you would you direct us and lead us, Lord Jesus, as our shepherd, lead us to the lost that we might have the joy of of joining you in seeking Seeking those lost ones and carrying them back on our shoulders as you do that. Carrying them back on your shoulders, in fact. You're a seeking shepherd, Lord Jesus, and you are a caring, leading shepherd. Be Be that to us who trust in you and be the seeking shepherd to those who don't. Thank you for seeking us who believe, and we have hope for those that we're praying for. Seek them out to Make them to be born born again, born anew under your covenant of grace by your Holy Spirit. Be their Savior, be our Savior. Lord, we've prayed this over and over again for these people. people we love. But your word encourages us to keep praying for such things and such people. And so we we come to you boldly yet reverently And I think selflessly and earnestly and urgently, believing that you delight in answering these prayers, Lord, save our children and our Neighbors and co-workers and teammates and friends. Lord, you know the ones dear and heavy on my heart that I want to see come to know you. that I've shared the gospel with, and I want another opportunity. I ask for another opportunity to do that again. And all of us ask for those things. Give us the boldness that we need. Give us the courage. Give us the wisdom and the tact. But Lord, if we need some brazenness as well, give that to us so that we would share the gospel with those who are perishing. Help us to see the urgency and help them to see the urgency, that they would turn to Christ now and not wait. And Lord, I pray that the gospel will go forward from this message taken from seventeen verses of genealogies. Would you let the truth of the gospel, the truth of Jesus Christ dying in the place for sinners, sound forth even from this? Because it's your word and it has power in it and it's precious and you've given it to us for our instruction. Would you build us up, those of us who do know you? And Lord, now we're gonna go to our tower and watch you answer prayer just like Habakkuk did. And we ask that you would speak to us through your word and answer prayer through that. We love you. Would you bless the rest of this worship service and help all of us to be able to partake of your son's table? Without fear, somberly and reverently, but also joyfully in a few moments. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm eager to preach from the Gospel of Matthew to you. So if you're not there already, please do turn with me to Matthew chapter 1. Matthew chapter 1. And I'm just going to read the first verse right now, the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Now, those of you who are old enough to remember back twenty or more years ago, that's not everyone in here, but that's a lot of us. I want you to think back, if you watched TV back then, on how how TV opening sequences used to be. When I was eight or nine years old. I which is more than twenty years ago, but uh I discovered the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers. It was the best thing about moving to America, because we didn't have it in England. If you've if you're not familiar, that's probably a good thing. But um they were a a group of superheroes, group of teenagers who had been endowed with these awesomely cheesy looking combat suits And it they it they enhance their ability to do somersaults and karate moves. Um I look back on it now and it is cheese tastic, uh but but it was it was a lot of fun as a kid. They have these big helmets on, maybe you've seen it, young younger younger people, maybe you've seen it, maybe you haven't. Big helmets, you couldn't see their eyes, but all of them looked vaguely like a different dinosaur. And uh they all had these special vehicles that that would join together into this bigger vehicle, all dinosaur themed. There were five of them. Later on there were six. They were all dressed in a different color. I had a crush on the Pink Ranger. Don't worry, not anymore. Just just back then. I wanted to be the Green Ranger. Every episode would start out With a problem. There'd be some monster sent to Earth from from the Ranger's Nemesis who lived on the moon It was that bad. Um and it would start wreaking havoc in California. Only ever California. Only ever within, you know, five miles of where the Power Rangers lived. Um You would see the teenagers, but you wouldn't see the Power Rangers until after the opening sequence. And that's what I'm getting to, right? The story would get interrupted. You'd see the the problem. And then before the the Power Rangers could go deal with it, there'd be the opening sequence that every Power Ranger one by one would be doing karate moves. And if you rem you may not have watched that show, but you've you remember how cheesy TV was back then, right? Wha whether it was one of your 70s cop shows Uh the the comedies, you know, nothing as as as cool and hip as the Cosby show where they just dance the credits, right? But where they would actually zoom in on each cred on each each actor, each character. And they'd have they'd they'd have them do uh in in the Power Rangers they'd be doing karate moves, but then there'd be a really cheesy one with their their denim shirt tucked into jeans and then leaning back against the off the lockers and laughing or something. Look back, it's really cheesy. But it would get you hyped up, especially the karate moves, as a red-blooded eight-year-old boy. Nine year old boy? I was probably nine when I started watching it. Um and what it would do, it would it would it would pump you up for what was gonna happen. And you probably all remember this even if you don't watch watch the the uh the Power Rangers. Hogan's Heroes did that. Walker Texas Ranger would do that. And we'd get tired of these sequences after a while, right? If you watched it week in, week out, week out, you'd wish that there was a skip button. And of course now in streaming services There's that little button that pops up and says skip intro. And every time I watch anything with Jamie, she's like, skip it, skip it. She usually has the remote, but she asks me to skip it. I I usually like watching those sequences. But I was captivated by those opening sequences the first time I saw the first several times I watched the power engine. Get me hyped up. Same with the X-Men animated series. Although we tended to skip them, they were intended for us to build anticipation for the TV show. And I think that maybe that's a little bit of what God intends by a lot of the genealogies in scripture. That they're like they're not merely informational. They're supposed to set the stage for what's coming, and I d dare I say it, genealogies I know, but get us excited for the story that's about to take place. Think about the first genealogy in your Bible. Do you remember what it is? It's not Adam begot Seth and Seth begot Enosh and so on. It's Cain's descendants. You've just had the first saga, the fall of man, followed by the first murder, and then roll the credits. And you have the bad guys and their credits, their genealogy, and then the good guys and their genealogy, the line of Seth that is going to follow right down to Noah for the first big cataclysm, the first drama of scripture after the fall. You see how it plays that role? What a great action story that follows after chapter 5's opening credits. You get chapter 6, Noah's Ark. The New Testament is doing that here when we open the Gospel of Matthew, and I realize we don't have any opening action sequence. We go straight to the dry genealogy Try to think of it as that, as building your anticipation for the Power Rangers about to fight Rita Rapulsa. Because Jesus is going to come into the world and he's going to destroy Satan. And so I encourage you, whenever you're reading through these genealogies for your personal devotions, or when you're listening to a message that has them. Don't treat it like the skip button on the Roku remote. Don't just hit skip intro. Don't fast forward through the opening credits. Try to savor them. And that's what we're going to do this morning. We're going to try and savor the opening credits. And I will show you some general observations about these genealogies. And then we're going to look at three reasons proved in this passage why we should submit to the king who is described in them. Okay, you ready? So we'll start with some general observations. Now let me read a little further into this. The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham begot Isaac. Isaac begot Jacob. And Jacob begot Judah and his brothers. Judah begot Perez and Zerah by Tamar. Perez begot Hezron, and Hezron begot Ram. Ram begot Aminadab, Aminodab begot Nashan, and Nashan begot Salmon. Salmon begot Boaz by Rahab. We recognize those characters, don't we? Boaz begot Obed by Ruth, we recognize her. Obed begot Jesse, we recognize him. Jesse begot David the king, and it pauses there. David, not just David, David the King. And there's the anticipation that's building up. Now, the human writer of this particular gospel, that's obviously Matthew. The former tax collector, he's also called Levi, and I'm excited for when we get to the introduction of Matthew later in the gospel. Because we're going to be we're work our way our whole way all the way through this gospel. I'm excited for when we get to him. Matthew had one It appears one great purpose in writing this gospel that is different from the purposes of the other gospel writers. And I will run through those gospel writers' purposes, each of them. He has one specific purpose. He wants to show us that Jesus is King and that He's the King, the Great King, who's been anticipated throughout the Old Testament. He's writing to Jewish readers, and so he starts it this way. He appeals to those who are of the lineage of Abraham, and he reminds us that Jesus is the son of David and the son of Abraham. And he's going to skip over a lot of names. You cannot get from Abraham to David and have it be that many thousand of years, thousands of years, or at least many, many hundreds, over a thousand years. About eleven hundred years, you cannot get there in just fourteen generations, even with the longer lifespans that they have. There are some that are selective here. After after uh After Judah and Perez and Zerah, there is a gap. We don't have all of that filled in for us when we get to uh to Exodus. He's being selective, and the Lord has only preserved the names of so many of these for us through history. But he's he's showing us how you can draw a line from Abraham all the way to Jesus. And in fact, that line goes right through The greatest king that Israel's ever had so far, not the most righteous king, but the greatest king. He was righteous. And he was a great military leader. He was not the best economic leader, but he's the greatest king. That Israel is had yet. They have another king who has not yet reigned on the throne in Israel, but he will And this is the king that he's anticipating. He's trying to show that Jesus is indeed that king. And he so he's writing to Jewish readers who've been waiting for that king. Jesus has it by birthright. He has it by legal right. He is the rightful king. So think with me for a moment how Matthew's emphasis is different from the emphases of the other gospel writers. Because all four of them are telling the story, telling the same story about the same man, but they're all emphasizing different things, aren't they? So the second gospel, Mark, he doesn't have this elevated genealogy. He doesn't have any genealogy at all. He goes straight into actions because you know what Mark's trying to show us? is that Jesus is servant, not just a servant, just like Jesus is not just a king, but the servant, the suffering servant, that we just read together a few minutes ago during scripture reading. Isaiah fifty-three, he is the suffering servant. And Ammark throws him right into the action If you watch it like the beginning, the opening line of Mark, it just says the beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. And then he has a prophecy in the second and third verses. John the Baptist shows up in the fourth verse, baptizes Jesus in the ninth, and by verse 14 of the first chapter. Jesus is already out preaching and calling disciples and healing people for the whole second half of the chapter. Why? Because Mark's purpose isn't to show that Jesus is king. He's showing us that he's getting his hands dirty. He's the servant of God right away. Luke portrays him differently again. He calls him the Son of Man. And that title, if you go back to Daniel, does have an exaltation to it: the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven. But the way that Luke uses it, he saves that exaltation for for when he when Jesus is being accused by uh by his his jailers and and those questioning him at Jesus' Illegal trial. The rest of the way, son of man is this term that shows that he's humbled himself He focuses on Christ's humiliation rather than on his royal pedigree. He does show us his genealogy to prove that he's man, but he waits a couple chapters. He shows it to us. three chapters uh in the third chapter and it traces it through Mary's lineage instead of here Joseph's lineage. And that gene that genealogy says that he's both the son of Adam and the Son of God, but he's emphasizing the fact that he's the second Adam, that Jesus has humbled himself, but it's a dignified humiliation. And then John, he does it differently again, doesn't he? He's the opposite of Luke. Just like Mark's the opposite of Matthew, John's the opposite of Luke. If Luke shows him as the Son of Man, John triumphantly and with transcendent language, right at the beginning, you know how it goes, right? Some of you anyway, many of us. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. And he has this elevated language to show that Jesus is indeed the Son of God, and the Son of God is God Himself. They all have different emphases. And Matthew's emphasis Is that Jesus is the King. And so running through this, and I will give you the overarching message at the end. If you're looking for the blanks for that, you won't have that till the end. But running through this, you you'll see on your note sheet, we should submit to Jesus as King. Because too often the world just wants to emphasize that Jesus that you Christians should be nicer because Jesus was nice. And they missed the whole point that that Matthew makes that Jesus is King And we ought to submit to Jesus as our King for many reasons. The first one being that Jesus fulfills the promises given to Abraham and David. And this is one of the two great themes of the gospel according to Matthew. One, that he's king, and two, that he fulfills. A lot of things. He fulfills prophecies and promises given by God. He fulfills the righteousness of the law. We're going to see, once you know to look for it, you see fulfillment language everywhere. He fulfills the righteousness of the law. He fulfills the sacrificial system by laying down his life under the curse of God on the cross. And he fulfills prophecy over and over again. Matthew quotes Old Testament prophecy more than any of the other three gospel writers. More than fifty times. And so Matthew is trying to show us that Jesus is King, and in fact he's the King that fulfills prophecy, making him the one they've been waiting for, the anointed one. And that word, anointed, that's the English word. The Jewish word, the Hebrew word, is Messiah. The Greek word is Christ. We know all three of those words, don't we? We probably know the English word less than the Greek or the Hebrew one. He's the Messiah. There are all sorts of promises about this Messiah and what he will do, and Jesus fulfills them. And that is one of Matthew's two great purposes in this book. And he uses that to show the greater purpose that Jesus himself is in fact King. So he opens with this royal messianic language, the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the Son of David. Because David, the great king so far, had this promise from God that there would be a greater king emerged from his lineage, whose throne would last forever. That is the anointed one, the Messiah. And that's who they've been waiting for. And so Matthew is going to be showing us over and over again that Jesus is the fulfillment of all Old Testament expectation. Actually, more than just what the people realize they should be expecting. But more than that. Like that he would be not only the great king, not only the great prophet, as Moses told them to expect. But the great priest, and not even that, but the sacrifice. He is a priest who offers himself a sacrifice that we see in Isaiah In this genealogy here, Jesus is fulfilling two covenants. He's fulfilling covenant promises both to David and to Abraham. God keeps his remaining promises to Abraham in Jesus. He told Abraham, you remember that, that he would have an heir. And that heir's name is Isaac. And lo and behold, he's mentioned here in the second verse. Abraham begot Isaac. And Isaac had children. He begot Jacob. And ultimately that's going to lead to Jesus. He was told he had an would have an heir, and that that heir would have heirs who would ultimately fill the earth. You wouldn't be able to number them. There are so many And is that not true of the Jewish people today, even though they suffered through the Holocaust in the 1940s? There is they are still spread across the globe, and we don't know how many there are. They have their homeland in in Israel. There's surely there's a census there. But we don't know how many Jews are across the rest of the globe. You cannot number them. He said they'll be like the sand of the seashore. The Lord has fulfilled that promise. He also said that in you, Abraham, meaning in your heir, all the nations of the earth will be blessed. And that is fulfilled specifically in Jesus. That all nations would be blessed by his descendant. The land promises haven't quite been fulfilled yet. But those also will be fulfilled in Jesus when he is reigning politically as the king that Matthew is prophesying. He fulfills the covenant to Abraham. And now you're going to start, like I said, you'll see fulfillment language all over the book of Matthew as you read through it. Now that you know to look for it. So those are the two themes, two major themes running through the Gospel of Matthew that I want you to look for as we go through. Jesus is the great King, and that Jesus fulfills prophecy, righteousness, law, curse even. And Matthew starts his account demonstrating that Jesus is king because he fulfills those things. Now I want us to read the second division here. Starting with David the king of the second half of verse 6. David the king begot Solomon by her who had been the wife of Uriah. Solomon begot Rehoboam. Rehaboam begot Abijah, and Abijah begot Asa Asa begot Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat begot Joram, and Joram begot Uzziah. Uzziah begot Jotham. Jotham begot Ahaz, and Ahaz begot Hezekiah. Hezekiah begot Manasseh, Manasseh begot Ammon, and Amon begot Josiah, Josiah begot Jekaniah and his brothers about the time they were carried away to Babylon. Do you know what all of these names have in common With well, minus Uriah. But all of these heirs here, all everyone in the genealogy, what do they all have in common? Are they all righteous? Absolutely not. Are they all totally wicked reprobates? No. But they're all kings. And you've got a ton of kings here in this genealogy. You go to Luke's genealogy, you have two kings You have David and Solomon, and after that it diverges, and one of David's other sons, a prince, but not a king, Nathan. and his descendants. That's where Mary came from. But Joseph, not the biological father of Jesus, but the legal father of Jesus, the legal representative. He is descendant through the the the heir, not not only through David, but David's heir, Solomon. And we keep seeing this authentication of a king. So you have these 15 names of king right here. But the ideal king, the greatest king mentioned before Jesus, is David. And his name shows up five times more than anyone else in the genealogy. Jesus' name shows up twice. David shows up five times. That's deliberate by Matthew. Because Matthew has been waiting for the king who is greater than David, and he's found him, and he's writing to tell us that. And so we submit to Jesus, first of all, because he fulfills the promises given both to David and to Abraham. But secondly, we should be submitting to Jesus as our King because Jesus redeems the failures of his ancestors. Did you see were you reminded of some really dark spots in Israel's past when you read this? The big one we tend to notice because it's it's He calls attention to it for us. David the King, look at how he says this. David the King begot Solomon. It doesn't just say, and Solomon begot Rhaboam, does it? By whom did he beget Solomon? Well, her name's Bathsheba, but Bathsheba's not mentioned, is she? Look at the awkward way that Matthew calls attention to David's sin. Literally it just says, David the king begot Solomon by her of Uriah. Literally, that's what it says, her of Uriah, but she who had been the wife of Uriah. He has a stolen wife. Now, Solomon was not their illicit love child. Solomon was the child of David and Bathsheba after they married, after he killed Uriah, her first husband And it's glaring for us, isn't it? And yet, God is willing to use such a sin-stained man as David. To bring his own son into the world. If you doubt that Jesus can atone for your sins, that he's enough, no, no, no, I'm too much. I've done too much, I'm too bad. Then, how is it that he came into the world through David of all people? He redeems the failure of his ancestor, the sin of his ancestor, by sending his son into the world through that sinful man. He's twice descended through David because he's fr from his adoptive father and his birth mother. Now what o what about Abraham and Isaac, the the the child of promise, both of them sinned against the Lord. Lack of faith, fear, and lying. Remember that besetting sin that that Abraham passed on to Isaac? That he's he was always afraid that the Lord would abandon him to be killed because his wife was too pretty. And surely they're just going to kill him because his wife's too attractive. And so he'd lie and say that she was his his sister and not tell the whole truth. It always worked out in Abraham's favor after that too, though he didn't deserve that. God was gracious to him. Abraham and Isaac, both scaredy cats, both a little bit unbelieving. And both liars. And yet they conquered that sin of unbelief. Abraham believed God and it was accounted to him for righteousness. What about Jacob? We talk about the biggest rat in the whole book of Genesis. There's nothing in Jacob to recommend that God should save him. And it's a little embarrassing for me to admit this. More recently than you would think, I finally got it when I was reading through the story of Jacob. I used to get so frustrated when I'd read through I'd be reading through Genesis and going pr at a good pretty good clip. And then I'd get to Jacob and it's a pretty action-packed story, isn't it? But he does awful things. He steals from his brother. He lies to his father And this fresh thief goes and camps out in Bethel, and he has a dream, and God appears to him in one of the most spectacular visions. Maybe not the most spectacular, but one of the most spectacular visions in all of recorded scripture. Remember you have the angels descending back and forth going between heaven and earth? Really pointing to Christ, that he would be that one who brings us from earth to heaven. He appears to Jacob? That rat who just stole from his brother and deceived his father? And is going to go on deceiving people for a little while yet. Why would God s why would God appear to him he doesn't deserve it? Oh, I get it now. Finally it hit me when I was reading that. That's the whole point. That is the gospel. Jacob doesn't deserve it. He certainly doesn't deserve to have his to have the great king, the Messiah, come from his loins, come from his line. He's a total scoundrel And and and God just appears to him. He hasn't done anything. He hasn't sought him. He doesn't deserve it. And that's you and me. Jesus came into the world to die. That's why he came into the world, to die for you. Yes, he came into the world to fulfill righteousness, the righteousness of the law, so that he could die. Having fulfilled that law. You who don't deserve it, you who have committed countless unspeakable horrors, at least in your heart. Perhaps with your hands. He came to forgive you, he came to make peace with you. This Messiah here, who has sinners like you in his family history. He came to save them and he came to save you and me and from across the whole world, people from every tribe and tongue and people and nation. Jesus died for you. Judah and Tamar are mentioned here You notice that there's four women mentioned here. Bathsheba is not mentioned by name, but obviously we saw she was she was mentioned. Tamar is. She's the first one to be mentioned. And I I can't, there's children here. I I can't say what they did. It's that bad. They're gross sexual sin And the Lord redeems him. In fact, the great King David comes out of the line of Judah, and the scepter would not depart from Judah until the throne was gone. They both became ancestors of of the Messiah Judah and Tamar and Peras. We have Solomon's sin highlighted. Then of course we have Solomon who split Solomon who split the kingdom with his idolatry and his polygamy Asa violated the temple and the altar. Manasseh committed human sacrifice. And he sponsored it for others to do the same. Some of the sinners listed here repented, some of them did not. Manasseh did. And yet God was able and willing. to bring the long prophesied anointed one through these twisted, fallen, despicable people, so that he might redeem you and me and the entire human race. He redeems their failures and he begins, he brings his son through them. So we submit to this king because he redeems our failures and the failures of his ancestors. ancestors. And finally, we submit to Jesus as their king because Jesus bucks the expectations of the legalistic, of legalistic mankind. Yes, he fulfills the expectations, but there are there are certain expectations that we that The people in Jesus' day had that either were wrong or they didn't expect enough. Let's read the last third here. And after they were brought to Babylon, starting verse 12. After they were brought to Babylon, Jehaniah begot Shaltiel, and Shaltiel begot Zerubabel, Zerubabel begot Abaiud, Abayud begot Eliakim, and Eliakim begot Azor, Azor begot Zadok, Zadok begot Akim, Akim begot Elud. Eliud begot Eliez, Eliezer begot Mathan, and Mathan begot Jacob. And Jacob begot Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ. And there we have that special word again, Christ. We have some heroes here. Zerubbabel, the great trail-blazing pioneer who brought the people back. to the promised land after they had been disciplined and carried away to Babylon and then Persia Now we should expect that the sinful people in this genealogy that I just mentioned to you Should not be deemed worthy for God to have the Messiah come through them, right? That he would share his blood with these people. It doesn't it feel like when you get to certain people, like you get to David who commits adultery and and murder, that oh well I guess I guess God's gotta rewrite the drawing board then. He he's gotta he's gotta bring him through someone else. He can't the Messiah can't have that in his in his in his bloodline. But he does. And if the Messiah's lineage had to be perfect, Jesus w could never come here. We'd still be waiting. He'd be looking for maybe I can go no can't go there. What about uh nope nope he's uh he's far too angry. That guy's far too lazy. They are just all far too sinful. That one's just too much of a slanderer. I cannot come yet. Every family, every person fails the righteousness test. They fall short of God's perfect standard. And that means we're all condemned. Some people they hear that, right? All have sinned and fall short. Well, yeah, we all sinned. We all fall short. Like that somehow means that we'll all get to heaven because we all we're all equally guilty and he's not gonna condemn us all. No, we're all condemned Now, the people waiting for the Messiah in Jesus' day, and those who weren't really waiting for the Messiah and were just happy to rejoice in their own superiority their own righteousness by the law. You know who they would disqualify? Gentiles The Messiah won't come through the Gentiles. The Messiah won't save the Gentiles, even though it says over and over again that he would save the Gentiles, and that you have the Egyptian and the Assyrian Two great enemies of the Israelites, joining with the Israelite, and all of them going and worshiping together, worshiping the Lord. We've already mentioned Tamar, she's a Canaanite woman. Mentioned here also is Rahab, the prostitute of Jericho, another Canaanite, and Ruth the Moabitus, a heroine that we love. She's a Gentile too. And then, of course, the adulteress, Bathsheba. And the Lord comes in despite the expectations. You remember what his opponents were saying about him very nastily? We weren't born to fornication. Right? They're saying that that Jesus was an illegitimate birth because he he came to uh m came through Mary while she was yet unmarried. Of course, she wasn't a sinner, but they but it makes sense that they assume she was. That should have excluded anyone they would say, from being saved. Jesus came to buck those expectations that if you have this legalistic ma mindset that you know God won't save a jok uh a uh Jacob God won't save a Mary. God won't save a woman at the well. Jesus came to buck those expectations and say that He will save anyone who will come to Him because all are condemned. None deserve it. It's all of his grace, all undeserved. And Jesus says, come to me, all of you who are weary and heavy laden, come and find rest for your soul. We submit to Jesus. I urge you to submit to Jesus as King. Not just believing Jesus. Have you heard that over and over again? Look. Submit to Jesus because. Submit to Jesus as king because, right? Here's the overarching message here. Submit to Jesus as King. That means he's the absolute ruler over your life. Submit to Jesus as King. Because he fulfills all Old Testament expectations of the Messiah. He bucks the wrong expectations. He fulfills all of the right inscribed ones. Submit to Jesus as King because he fulfills all Old Testament expectations of the Messiah. And submission means that we do what Jesus commands us to do. We live repentantly. We live righteously. We don't just say, look, Jesus forgives, and so I'm just going to live however my body tells me I want to live. No self-control. No, Jesus came. He died because he hates that. He died because he loves you, but he hates your sin. There was hatred involved when he died. God the Father hated that sin so much that he turned his back on Jesus Christ and Jesus from the cross, cried out, Father, Father, why have you forgotten me? Forsaken me. He lost that closeness with his father That final piece of the fulfillment of the Old Testament was missed and misunderstood. So they weren't looking for it. It's the part where the Messiah was rejected by his own people and pierced through, as Zechariah says. And as David said, his hands and feet were pierced. In just a few minutes, we're going to commit a very special act of worship by recognizing Jesus' death on our behalf. But that death is effective for us only if he has the power to give us life. And so he came To rise from the dead as well. His resurrection assures us that Jesus can share eternal life with us. How can He give you eternal life if he's still dead? He can share his eternal life with you because he's alive. Just as Jesus announced over and over again, sometimes very clear, sometimes more veiled language, he would rise from the dead. This great long-awaited King fulfills every prophecy and expectation. They were expecting a conqueror, and yes, he is a conqueror. He has conquered death. He has conquered sin. But he will yet conquer the nations and then rule over them. He will be the best political ruler the world has ever seen He will do exactly what the prophets in the Psalms say, he just hasn't done it yet. So if there is an unfulfilled prophecy of Christ it It it just hasn't been fulfilled yet. And we're waiting for him to return. Because he's a risen Savior, he can return And these promises of a conquering king who reigns over all the earth from Jerusalem will be will be completed, will be fulfilled when he returns And that's why you submit to him as king now. Because if you don't submit to him now, you will, but not as a co-ruler with him, not as a subject of his kingdom. But as an unwilling worshiper from hell, that's where you bow your knee. That's where your tongue will confess to the glory of God the Father So we treat him as king now, we submit to him now, we ask him to return soon. Let's pray. Ferris Lord Jesus, ruler of all nature, Son of God, and Son of Man, we seek to honor you. Help us to obey you. Because it's hard. And our sin nature is we we we keep fighting against ourselves. And we're tired of fighting against our sin nature. And we ask that you'd forgive us, Lord, those of us who were who belong to you, Lord Jesus, and yet we've sinned against you in the last twenty four hours and in the last week and in the last month since we last partook of communion. Lord, we've we're we're sinners and we don't deserve your forgiveness. We thank you that you know what it is to be to come from a a family of sinners. And yet never to give into it yourself, to feel temptation more intensely than we've ever felt it, because we give into it and you never had you never did. Lord Jesus, cleanse us by your blood. We pray that we can partake of your table with clear consciences, because your blood cleanses us from all our unrighteousness. And we plead your innocence, your righteousness on our behalf. Help us to remember that we are clean in you And to come without guilty consciences, to turn from that sin, to repent, and to seek after you as we now celebrate the communion that we have with you. In Jesus' name. Amen.