Just some good conversations that we've had. I thank you for the uh the time spent on Thursday at Life Group um and then uh conversations I was able to have yesterday and on on uh the actual fourth of july um getting to uh just see brothers and sisters in our church family. Thank you for the for the uh family relationship that we have here. But Lord, more than the freedoms we have politically in this country, we thank you that as great as those blessings are They pale in comparison to being set free from the burden of sin, that you have by your son enabled us to live in righteousness, to worship you with hearts made clean. through the sacrifice of Jesus Christ our Savior. And on this very special Sunday, not because it's the Sunday that follows 4th of July, but because it is a communion Sunday when we celebrate the death of our son, sorry, of your son, our Savior, on our behalf, Lord, we praise you and thank you for the for the freedom we have from sin. And from the freedom we have to approach you at any time, Lord, at all times, through Jesus Christ, who is our intercessor, who is our high priest, that we come to you in his name. And we ask you these things and we thank you for these things. And Lord, we do want to pray today for those who lead our nation. We lift up our president President Donald Trump, Lord, we lift up our Secretary of State. We lift up Marco Rubia. Lord, we we lift up our various senators and representatives We lift up leaders of of other countries as well that are our allies. We lift up our enemies to you. Father, we pray that those leading our country would lead in honesty and integrity and fairness and justice. Lord, you tell us that righteousness exalts a nation, but sin is a disgrace to any people. We are a sinful country. We are a sinful people. And we pray that you might give us once again a revival in this country where your spirit moves and points people to Jesus Christ. who is the only solution for their sin, that he took all of his sin upon himself in his body on the cross, that he bore it to the grave for them. He He endured your wrath so that we would not have to. Lord, we pray that there might be a mass movement of people beholding Jesus Christ. And turning to him and repenting and believing and your spirit filling them. Saving them because that is where true change comes, Lord. That is where uh the righteousness that exalts a nation comes from. It's through your your work in individual heart. We pray for our leaders that they would lead us wisely and that they would either keep us from war or fight the wars that must be fought. In order to preserve freedom. But Lord, ultimately we ask for much greater things to be done that you would work in the individual hearts of Americans and of our enemies across the world. We pray, Lord, for the gospel to go forward to every corner of the earth and that Lord, we look forward to that day when we we gather with believers from all around the world, from every tongue and tribe and people and nation, the bride of Christ, awaiting the marriage supper of the Lamb And we ask that it might be during this day, the our our era that we're living in now, where many more Tribes and tongues and people groups and nations come to Christ, but we'd be worshiping with them in eternity. Lord, we pray for our local church. There might be a sign here on earth of the church that shall be gathered above. I pray, Lord, for the remaining worship that goes on today. that our singing would truly be a foretaste, that it would be wonderful, but that it would point us to something greater of our time spent with you in eternity when we worship you then. Lord, we pray that this congregation would be firmly established in Christ, built up in Christ, performing the work of Jesus and filled with his love for other people and for you. Lord, we pray for the members of your body. We pray for husbands and wives in this fellowship, Lord, that their love for each other might be Be richer and kinder day by day. Lord, we pray for the younger people in our congregation and for children that they would grow in their trust of you. That they'd experience your gracious leadership as they make big life-altering decisions. Lord, be their wisdom. We pray for people who who live alone, who are single, that here at church they'd especially find community, and that they'd find a deep deeper walk with you. deeper companionship with you and that they'd find that in their brothers and sisters in Christ and that they'd give glory to you for that. We pray for those who are older. that they would reflect the the godly radiance that belongs to those who walk with you, that they demonstrate spiritual maturity learned over decades of walking with Jesus. and being near him, sitting at his feet. Lord, we we uh thank you for for those here who who serve in the military. Um Thank you for their service and their sacrifice for us. Continue, Lord, to protect them and help them to live exemplary lives, lives of testimony. to their fellow soldiers, Lord, that they too might turn to you. And Lord, we pray for those who are who are sick and those who are caring for people who are sick and for loved ones that are sick. We pray, Lord, for those who are suffering and perhaps do not have Jesus Christ as their Savior and as their companion. We pray, Lord, that they would recognize in their illness, their weakness, and their need for Jesus. And we pray that to for those who do love Christ and belong to Christ, that his presence would be especially real with them right now as they are sick and as they are suffering. Lord, we ask for all of these mercies in the name of Jesus Christ, who is our intercessor. We come to you in his name. We ask you that you would speak to us in Christ's name through the message, Lord. Would your Spirit do the preaching and help us to receive your message? with attentive hearts and minds as an act of worship, and prepare our hearts for partaking of communion in just in a few minutes from now. Lord, we ask all of these things in Jesus Christ's precious name. Amen. Amen. Alright, so we will uh end the live feed for just a moment. Hang tight. All right. Go ahead and turn with me, if you're not there already, to Esther chapter 7. Esther chapter 7. And I find it uh interesting the way that the Lord has timed things for us. Because uh in God's providence, we're working our way through a book of the Bible that highlights God's sovereignty over very powerful nations across the very weekend that we've been celebrating our nation's birth. And the very weekend that we uh celebrate our country's freedom from tyranny, we're looking at In the Word, we're looking at the deliverance of God's people from an evil ruler who meant to destroy them. So there are some, they're not one-to-one correlations. But there are some similarities here in what we're celebrating in our lives as a country at the same time with what we're reading in the history of God's people. As a result of the events of Esther chapter 7, the Jewish people would be able to guard their lives and their liberty and their pursuit of God The timing of all of this was unplanned on my part. It's simply that God sent me on this book a few months ago, gave us this chapter for this weekend. When we're all keenly aware of the freedoms and protections that we have. And so this morning, though it means protection for God's people, what we're really looking at is how God deals with his enemies And I encourage you to ask yourself this then personally. Where do I stand with my creator? Am I his friend or am I his enemy? Do you know God personally? And would he say that he knows you personally? Would God say that he knows you personally, not just in the sense that he knows all things? That he is omniscient and therefore he knows you. But does he know you intimately and relationally? You may say that you know him, but would he say that he knows you I'll leave that question with you as we open up Esther chapter 7. Now to catch us up if you've not been here recently. This is a momentous chapter. In the previous chapter, chapter 6, things started to turn for the protagonists of the story. They start to turn for Mordecai and they start to turn for the people of God. Haman, the villain of the story, uh he's the second in command to uh a rather weak-willed emperor, but it's the greatest empire on earth at the time. And he started the chapter, Haman started the chapter, having raised a gigantic stake right by his house that he intended to use to impale, to execute his sworn enemy Mordecai, who is, though he doesn't know it, the adoptive father of the queen. Now he went to ask the king's permission, if you remember, went to ask the king's permission to execute Mordecai on that gigantic stake. It's 75 feet tall. He wants the whole city to see his victory over Mordecai. But when he went to ask the king for permission to execute him, The the king was unaware of this rivalry, and instead he commands Haman to exalt Mordecai, to put him on one of his horses. That Haman's own suggestion actually, and parade him around the capital city on a royal horse, declaring that the king delights to honor Mordecai. It was a humiliation For Haman to have to do this. That was our turning point, and it's quite a gratifying turning point in the story The chapter concluded with Haman's wife saying, look, if Mordecai's Jewish and you've started to fall before him, there is no way you're winning this one. And then he's ushered kind of powerlessly just ushered straight to a banquet with the queen, who, unbeknownst to him, is the adoptive daughter of the man that he's been trying to kill. who he's just had to honor. Um so that pretty much sums up all that's going on. The the people the Jewish people are under threat of genocide. Haman has legislated. He has he's passed a decree saying that uh they're all going to be annihilated eleven months from uh this point in the story And um he is now, Haman is at a banquet with the king and the queen that he doesn't even realize he's s sealed her death warrant. You can bet that the Queen is going to try to stop that. Okay? So let's we're going to work our way through these verses and then we'll we'll see how to apply it as we get to the end. Ready? So let's read chapter seven, verse verses one and two. So the king and Haman went to dine with Queen Esther And on the second day at the banquet of wine, the king again said to Esther, What is your petition, Queen Esther? It shall be granted to you. And what is your request? Up to half the kingdom, it shall be done. So first we have Esther's banquet. This is her second banquet. She had one already. And there's both of these, there's only three people present at the banquet. You see that in verse 1? It's just the king, Haman, and Queen Esther. Two days in a row now. This is pretty normal we've seen. The king loves to party. And the very first chapter, he had a six-month-long banquet, followed by a one-week banquet. Pretty ostentatious is an absurd. And so for Esther to do two single-day banquets in a row, that's nothing. And it's all part of Esther's plan to attempt to save her people from this upcoming decree. Well, look at this question in in verse 2. What's your petition, Queen Esther? It shall be granted to you. What is your request that to half the kingdom? It shall be done. That might sound similar to uh when King Herod an asked that in many years after this. King Herod would ask his stepdaughter, I'll give you anything you want, up to half of the kingdom. And she used it to request the death of one of her mother's enemies, John the F. Baptist. This is apparently a normal thing for kings to say, and he has now said it three times, and she put him off the first two times. You remember that? She went into the throne room and he says, Oh, good to see you, Esther, holds out his scepter, guarantees her an audience with him, asks her what she would like. And she says, I just want to invite you to a banquet. I want to invite you to a party. He comes to the party and he asks her again, so what is it that you want to ask? And she she puts him off and she says I'll answer that tomorrow. For now, let's enjoy the partying. I want you to come to another one of these parties tomorrow, but I'll answer your question tomorrow. Now he's expecting an answer the third time he asks it. The first time he asked her, he called her. He did not call her Queen Esther. No, I I I I I apologize he did. In chapter five, verse three, he said, um what do you wish uh Queen Esther He is seeing her now in her royal power. He's seeing her in her robes. He is seeing her as the queen she rightfully is. And now she's going to act like a ruler. She's going to act like a queen. Let's read verses 3 and 4. Then Queen Esther answered and said, If I have found favor in your sight, O King, and if it pleases the king, let my life be given me at my petition. Now, we read it all kind of bibly, right, and and we we miss what she's saying. She's saying, I am dying. The king, look at look at how how she structures it. The king in his his question, he asks one question, but he does it in two parts. He says, What's your petition? What's your request? And she says, here's my petition. I'm dying. Let me keep my life. Here's my request. My people are dying. Let your people live. Let my people live And then she explains what exactly she's asking. And she has to do this carefully, because the king signed off on her death. He doesn't realize it. He was too s self preoccupied to uh when Haman presented the idea of killing all the Jews to even ask Well, who is it that you're killing? He just said there's a nation that that doesn't follow your laws. He never actually asked him, who is it? Apparently the courtship process was was uh quite shallow because he's never he's never come to know Esther's ethnic heritage. And that's one of the things that she's scared about She she withheld her identity from him. They've been married for five years and she doesn't know how he's going to respond. And so she's very careful. She's not saying You did it, you signed this law. She's simply saying, look, for we have been sold, my people and I. It's all passive. You hear that? To be destroyed, to be killed, and to be annihilated. She doesn't say who did it. And surely that is generating some suspense in the king's mind. Who's selling you to be destroyed and killed and annihilated? Now he doesn't pick up on it, but Haman surely does. Do you recognize that language? Turn back with me to chapter 3, verse 13. Here's here's the decree that goes out, and there are letters written, it says, chapter three, verse thirteen. It says, And the letters were sent by couriers into all the kings' provinces, listen to this, to destroy To kill and to annihilate all the Jews, both young and old, little children and women, in one day, on the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month of Adar, and to plunder their possessions Those are the exact words that Esther repeats back to destroy, to kill, and to annihilate The king may not get that, but Haman who wrote those words, he gets it. He realizes, oh my goodness, she's attacking me. I like to picture him maybe fumbling with finger food as she's saying these things and then he he his ears perk up and he you know he drops it or something and stains his nice nice clothes. Um He's aware that that he is under attack now. And the king wants to know who would dare do this. But before He can ask that and he's gonna answer it. He's gonna ask that. But before he can ask that, she says, we're back in chapter seven now. She says, Had we been sold as male and female slaves? I would have held my tongue, although the enemy could not could never compensate for the king's loss. Now, depending on your translation in front of you, you might have a slightly different wording to this. There's a couple different ways that the two different ways this can be translated But either way they highlight the fact that there's a there's gonna be a loss to the king if even if the Jewish people sh sh she's saying, even if the Jewish people were to simply become slaves, she said, In that case I wouldn't bother you, but it would be a loss to you and it would be a loss to the kingdom. She's highlighting the value of the Jewish people. If they're all annihilated, it is not to the benefit of the kingdom. It's certainly not to the benefit of you, King. She is certainly right. Because the Jewish people are under God's protection While the Jews live in Persia, they're a blessing to the king and to the empire because they get the pr because they, the king and the empire, get the protection of the Jews' God. As long as the king acts to bless the Jews, he and his kingdom will be blessed. Because that's a promise that goes back to the very the father of the Jewish people. Abraham, or he's Abram at the time, right? God made a promise to Abram, the father of the Jewish nation. He said, I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him who curses you. So there is a cost to the king and to the empire if they were to annihilate these people. And she's actually highlighting that Well now we move on to Esther's accus accusation. The king doesn't know who that it's the Jews who were targeted for annihilation. He didn't really care. He also didn't know his wife's one of them. It didn't occur to him to ask if anyone he cared about belongs to this people group getting destroyed But now he wants to know who would dare seek to kill his queen, who would dare harm his bride And so now her request turns into an accusation. Verse 5. So King Ahashirus answered and said to Queen Esther, Who is he? And who or where is he who would dare presume in his heart to do such a thing? And Esther can see the Lord's protection here. She didn't know how this was going to go. The king could just as easily say, whoa, whoa, we've been married for five years And you hid your ethnicity from from me all this time, why am I just hearing about this now? Right? He could say that But he doesn't. Instead, he's intent on protecting her. He is indignant. He is angry. He wants to protect his queen. He wants to protect his bride. He's focused on avenging her. And that's all due to God kindly working in King Ahesherisherus' heart to protect Esther from his wrath. And then we get a very sharp accusation as her answer. And Esther said, the adversary and enemy is this wicked Haman. And Haman is terrified before the king and queen, it says So far the spotlight's been on Esther. Now it shifts to Haman. He was winning in chapters 3 through 5. He was totally on top. He started sliding in chapter 6. And now he's finally going to hit rock bottom. Here we have Haman's destruction, starting in chapter 7. It says, Then the king arose in his wrath from the banquet of wine and went into the palace garden. But Haman stood before Queen Esther, pleading for his life. So the king is just so angry at this revelation that his most trusted advisor has actually been targeting his own queen for destruction That he just leaves the room. Maybe he's mad at himself a little bit for being duped by Haman. Probably he recognizes that he signed off on it and that there was There was negligence on his part. He might be wondering how he can rescind this thing and how he can avoid being seen as weak or as part of the problem, as culpable in their destruction. Meanwhile though, you notice Haman doesn't follow him. Why not? Shouldn't shouldn't if he wants to plead for his life, he wants to explain, oh, this is a misunderstanding. I didn't I didn't realize that that it's it that that your your wife was queen she never told me she never even told you right he could have done that why doesn't he go after him because He recognizes the power's not really with this king. And I've been pointing out to you, haven't I, over and over, this guy's pretty weak Everything he does, he hasn't had an original thought in the whole book. Everything he does is as at the is at the suggestion of someone else. The only thing that he seemed to do that was is was his hi was the excuse me of his own desi design and and idea was right way back in chapter one when he asked for the the first queen Vashti to come and and display her beauty to everybody. And we saw how well that went. This this guy doesn't ha he hardly has an original thought in his head. And so Haman recognizes he's manipulated this king plenty of times to his benefit before, but he no longer has that power. And rather go to the king, he goes to the queen. That's where the power has shifted. to now. And he pleads for his life. Now in Persian wine banquets, they would, while they're drinking, they would be sitting on couches. They weren't around a table, they're sitting on couches. Esther hasn't gotten up, but Haman apparently goes to her couch and apparently topples over or something as as he's he's throwing himself towards her, he topples over at the foot of a couch. and landing either at her feet or maybe even touching her on her legs. Now this is this is a major violation of court protocol that Especially the harem protocol. Uh people were not to approach the any member of the the harem, any of the bri the the the wives or concrete concubines of the king, definitely not the queen. But they were not supposed to get within so many paces of one of the women in the royal harem. They weren't even supposed to be alone in a room with them And Haman is. Now it's an awkward situation for him. The king bolts and Haman's left alone with her. And and so then he just throws himself at her seeking her her protection and her mercy. He lands at her feet. And this is the guy that was demanding that everyone, and especially that filthy Jew Mordecai, remember that? that that he bows down at his feet. That's why he he started this whole genocide against the Jews was because one Jewish guy wouldn't bow to him. Well, what's he doing now? He is now bowing at the feet of a Jewish woman, the daughter of his sworn enemy. The Lord is overturning things here And then things get all the more ridiculous. Let's read the end of verse seven and then into eight. So it says, Haman stood before Queen Esther, pleading for his life, for he saw that evil was determined against him by the king. When the king returns from the palace garden to the place of the banquet of wine, Haman has fallen across the couch where Esther was. And he has a We might say a terrible misunderstanding, but it it man, it really happens conveniently for the people of the Jews. It's almost as though God is behind this this misunderstanding. And the king said, will he also assault the queen while I'm in the house? Now this might be uh convenience a little bit for the king. Uh he's he's been outside, he's been angry, he's trying to puzzle out. how to not be culpable in this whole situation. It's possible that he walks in and he sees this and it's just kind of a convenient conclusion to jump to. because it makes Haman just fully the bad guy and the king just ends up smelling like a rose. Maybe. Or simply he really does misunderstand what's going on, and it looks like Haman has just gone off his rocker and is now I how dare he touch the queen like this? It is a a a violation and and one punishable But regardless of what's going on in the king's heart, the Lord is using all of this to vanquish the enemy of his people. He is sovereign over thoughts and misunderstandings. He's sovereign over hearts. And in the second half of verse 8, see it says, as the word left the king's mouth, That appears like it's it's saying the the the word, right, the the the thing he says here, the will he also assault the queen while I'm in the house? It says, while the as the word left the king's mouth, they covered Haman's face. That would mean then that that Haman is not alone in the room with Esther. and that when he fell at her feet, all of these other people are just standing by letting it happen, right? That doesn't appear to be what's going on. Rather, w as the word left the king's mouth, that's that's probably meaning the word for his arrest He gives a command, he calls, the and suddenly there's a flurry of activity in the room. Because the palace guard comes in and they put a hood of some sort over Haman's head. If you think of how terrorists in that region of the world today treat their victims, they put hoods over their their victims and as they arrest them and and do despicable things. things to them. They're putting a hood over him. That's how they arrested him. But at the same time, the eunuchs come into the room too. Because in verse 9 it mentions Harbona, one of the eunuchs. Now if you remember back a few chapters, it says that there are seven eunuchs who can come to the king at any time. And Haman is not one of those seven eunuchs listed. He's actually an eighth And the the eunuchs are, yes, that refers to a physical feature on them that they've been emasculated so that they can be around uh the the women in the harem. Uh Haman is not one of those because he has children and he has a wife Um and and these eunuchs are his most trusted advisors because they're they're trusted that they're not going to mess around with with any of the the royal harem. Uh these are very ambitious guys and they are working in upper levels of empire wide administration. You know about if you if you know some other biblical stories that that many of us know back from from Sunday school, then you know about the eunuchs, right? You know about eunuchs in the same empire. Think of Daniel. Right? Daniel in the Lion's Den. Why was it that Daniel was cast into the Lion's Den? There were eunuchs scheming they wanted his job, right? Daniel was in the place that Haman's in now. He was the number two. He was right below the king. And these guys are ambitious climbers. They don't like it. They like they hate anybody who's above them. So all of them scheme and they they come up with a trumped-up charge and they they manipulate the king into casting Daniel into the lion's den. Not unlike what Haman has done. He's manipulated the king into murdering an entire group of people. Well these eunuchs, the same class of people that that were scheming for the second in command's job, they hate Haman as much as they hated Daniel. Obviously these are this This is many years later, these are different people, but nothing's new in politics. And they are going to team up against Haman now. They're fully aware that Haman erected that gallows with the intention without asking the king. He he made it before he asked the king, and that that He intended to execute Mordecai on it, and he's been humiliated by Mordecai just that morning, right? And now in verse 9, let's see what Harbonna says. It says, Now Harbona, one of the eunuchs, said to the king, Look, the gallows, fifty cubits high. You know? Wonder how that got there. And he says, which Haman made for Mordecai. To kill a friend of the king, and not just a friend of the king, but Mordecai was the one who prevented the king's assassination. He's insinuating that Haman's practically guilty of treason for wanting to to kill your ally like this, and that's all the suggestion that the king needs. Again, no original thought in his head. Harbona has to suggest it to him But he hears that and he goes, Hang him on it. And every time I read it, it's just so satisfying. Hang him on it, right? You can imagine him just pointing with his finger and saying, that's what we will do to him. He will be impaled on a spike seventy-five feet in the air. He'd intended to use it to humiliate and eviscerate his enemy. Now God has protected Mordecai, and he's vanquishing Haman, vanquishing this would-be destroyer of the people of God. And as he says multiple times throughout the Psalms, in Proverbs, that the wicked bring destruction down on their own head. That he who digs a pit will fall into it himself. That's what's happened. He's erected this gallows, and he's going to be impaled upon it himself. And it's all the Lord protecting his people. Now we need to address something here that is uh whoops, I'm not going to give that We need to address something here that is an accusation thrown against Esther. And it really gets to the whole point of this passage and the whole message that we have here, right? Is it wrong that Esther doesn't plead on Haman's behalf? Should she have tried to persuade the king to show mercy? And she probably could have done it, right? She's shrewd, she's Able to manipulate, he's very easy to be manipulated. She could say, You'll be seen as an even greater king if you now show mercy upon upon this enemy of the Empire. Should she have done that? I mean, doesn't Jesus say to love our enemies and to pray for those who persecute us and bless those who curse us? Doesn't Jesus say all that? He does. So is Esther in the wrong here? I want to remind you that from the beginning, when we first got into this book, we we saw that Esther is not someone to imitate. In fact, we see just kind of how rotten Esther and Mordecai have been immoral people for most of their lives. And yet God still intervenes. He still fights for them and intercedes on their behalf. That's the gospel. We don't deserve For God to rescue us. Jesus came into the world when we were his enemies God is the hero of this story, it's not Esther, and and we shouldn't expect Esther to be an example for us here. So don't imitate her. Follow what Christ said, right? And love your enemies and pray for them and seek to bless them because that's what Jesus did. But is Esther wrong then? We need to answer that question. Is Esther wrong not to do that? Is it wrong that Esther sought for Haman to be executed? Well, we need to remember another promise that God gave, and we've seen this promise before. We looked at it when Haman was first introduced. So we're not going to turn back there this time, but I will remind you that in Exodus 16, after the people of God, at about their weakest point when their They're traveling through the desert. Exodus 16. Well, 15 was when they crossed the Red Sea. And they've they've just been delivered from Egypt. Uh they yes they've had a major victory, but now they're attacked by the nation called Amalek. And they win that battle. And as a result, God promised to always wage war against Amalek. In other words, he will always protect his people from the Amalekites. Haman is a descendant not only of the Amalekites, but of their king, Agag. A couple times we see him called Haman the Agagite. He's a descendant of Agag. Well, Esther is a descendant of the tribe of Benjamin, the tribe that gave birth to Israel's first king, Saul. And Saul did not fulfill God's command to annihilate the Amalekites and to specifically to kill King Agag. Now, as a royal Benjamite, the only legitimate royal Benjamite that there has been since co King Saul's death. Jonathan died with him. His son took up the throne for a time when it actually belonged to to David. But the first legitimate ruler, and it's not on the r it's not on the throne of Israel But the first legitimate ruler from the tribe of Benjamin since Saul now has royal power. And this queen, not king, this queen, is representing her people against this Agegite. And her God has promised to protect his people from this Agagite and these Amalekites. And so she lets her God do what he's promised to do. And so I would argue she is not doing anything wrong at all. She is fulfilling her royal obligation as a queen to her people. And so, really, what this comes down to is God's promises. He keeps his promises for the sake of his people. And that is the message of this chapter. And I'm only going to give you the first bit. For now, okay? Because God's people will be preserved and his enemies vanquished. That's what goes in your fill-in-the-blanks if you're following along. Let me rephrase it. God will preserve his people And God will vanquish his enemies because he's promised to do that But God does love his enemies. You know how I know? Because I used to be one of them. And Jesus came into this world and laid down his life while I was his enemy Yeah, I haven't been born yet, but he, having full knowledge of me and my sin, chose to die for me. And chose to die for you while you were yet his enemy, right? And so he gives men messages like this to us to warn his enemies. He doesn't want you to stay his enemy. He wants to turn his enemies to him. So that they'd stop being his enemies and he wouldn't have to vanquish them, but he would actually give them protected status as his people. He wants to adopt you if you are his enemy as his own. Now let's see the full full uh message here. So because God's people will be preserved, and because his enemies will be vanquished Here you go. Make sure you belong to him. Make sure you belong to this king who can vanquish you. He has made it possible for you to become one of his own people, to be to be adopted as one of his sons or daughters. He doesn't want to keep you as his enemy. It's the doctrine in the New Testament of adoption. He actually adopts us into his family. He gives us the full benefit of his heirs. And that adoption is possible because Jesus Christ died to atone for our sin, for your sin. And that's what we are celebrating at this table in just a few moments, is the fact that Jesus Christ willingly gave his life up so that we would not have to give our lives up. That when he died under God's wrath, God vented all of his wrath and dealt with it, dealt with our sin without dealing with it on us. He deals with our sin on him. And we're counted as righteous as he was. We were counted as righteous as he is. He was counted as guilty as we were If you will turn to this Jesus who died in your place, he converts you from being his enemy to being not just his friend, but his younger brother or sister. He gives you royal protected status so that the king will not destroy you in his wrath. Look at verse 10 with me. So they hanged Haman on the gallows that he had prepared for Mordecai. Then the king's wrath subsided. It wasn't until His enemy was was dead that he was fine he finally stopped being angry. He was angry on behalf of his queen. He probably could care less about the rest of the Jewish people, but he was angry on behalf of his queen and anyone who was found with her, who belonged to her to her National identity. They got the full benefits of the king's protection. They got the benefits of the king's wrath on their behalf. God's wrath is against you until you turn to Jesus, and when you turn to him, you get the benefits of his wrath against your enemies. Because he s vented his wrath against your sin on someone else, and it's Jesus. And sin and death could not keep him in the bra in the grave. It was all dealt with, it was all burned up in his anger And he walked out of the grave two days later to share eternal life with you, if you will trust in him So as a result of these things that God keeps his promises, he protects his people, he doesn't want you to be his enemy. There are two things I want us to be aware of. One is we must understand when it comes to God's promises, not just what he promises to do, but also who it is that he's promising it to. Because too often we read the Bible and we read a promise given to a specific individual or given to a specific group of people, and we assume that that belongs to us. And maybe we can principalize, like Jeremiah 29, 11, famously misunderstood verse, I know the plans I have for you since the Lord plans to give you a future and a hope, plans to prosper you and not to harm you. That was not given to us. That was given to the Jewish people. Now I think that we can principalize that verse and understand that God does desire to Take care of, to prosper, not harm his people even when he disciplines them. We can understand that. But it was not actually made to Christians, it was made to Jewish people. in the Old Testament. And it was it was while he was telling them, I'm going to deport you to another country and there's going to be much violence going on. But understand I have your best interests at heart. We can principalize that and say, God disciplines us, but he's always got a good intent for it, because we are his people. But we do need to understand that when God makes promises, He doesn't necessarily promise to protect us from physical harm. Now he has promised to protect the nation of Israel because they are his covenant people. He made that promise with with uh Abraham. That doesn't mean that every individual Israelite will be preserved, but it does mean that the nation of Israel will be preserved. So we already essentially know the outcome of the the current war that's going on. I don't choose to be political about that, but we know the outcome of that war. We know that God will fight on behalf of his people, even if they may commit some wrongs along the way. We must understand that when God says that those who follow my laws will live long in the land, that He's talking about the Jewish law, and he's not just saying If you follow the Ten Commandments, I'm going to give you everything that you want. Because too many people have gone astray assuming that they deserve something from God because they followed the rules. But coming to Jesus is not about following rules. It's about saying, I have broken all of them, and I I don't deserve to be counted as one of your children at all. But on the basis of Jesus Jesus who died in my place, Lord, would you would you extend your covenant to me? But don't suppose that just because you've you've honored him or you've done what what you've been taught is right growing up in church That means that God has to give you the bank account of your choosing. He has to give you the joy the the the career of your choice. He has to give you a spouse. He has to give you children. He has to give you various blessings. you feel that you're entitled to, God never promises that. And so while we're talking about promises, I think it's important that we understand that You can't expect God to do for you something he's never said he will do just because he said he would do it for somebody else. That's the first application. The second one is this. Esther identified with God's people who were condemned to death. Just as she did that, we need to identify with God's Son, who submitted to death for us. And when we partake of the communion table, and I'm going to go ahead and sense the table and say the things I usually say over there, I'm going to say them right now, still as part of the message, right? When we partake of that table, we are identifying with Jesus Christ. We are saying that I am as close to him as though I had eaten his flesh and and drank his blood. And of course it's it's it's not flesh and it's not blood. It is It is a cracker, and it is grape juice, and it represents those things. It doesn't magically become those things. It's symbolic of the relationship we have with Jesus. You are saying that I belong to Jesus. I've been purchased by his blood. I belong to him And if you're saying that while you're intending to live a lifestyle that denies him and that disregards his commandments and his standard of righteousness. Now, he saves you not not by you not by you following his rules, following his law And you stay saved not by following his rules and law, but because Jesus died for you. The same way he saved you is the same way he keeps you saved. But when we trust him, when we exercise faith in him and we love him, we don't go on doing things that we know he hates. He hates it so much he gave his son to die for it. So if there are certain things in your life that you know grieve your God Determine to break off from them. Repent of those things now. I'll give you a few minutes of private silent prayer where you can do that. We need to, if we love our God, we do the things which please him and we stop doing the things that don't please him. There are certain things that that my wife does not like. And they're not moral or immoral, they're just things she doesn't like. So I I try not to do those things around her because I know that they bother her. And I'm sure the thing is that I'm sure it's true in the opposite direction as well. If you love your God, and these are things that often are moral, if God said it, then it's a moral thing. Don't do the things which dishonor him. And if you have no intention of breaking off from those things, of repenting of those things and turning away from them. Then please do not partake of this this supper that we're about to uh commemorate. He says to just to leave that alone because you are you are eating and drinking a judgment upon yourself. Because you are doing it in an unworthy manner, you are misrepresenting Christ with your lifestyle. I don't have anyone in particular in mind here. But perhaps the Lord does. And so this message may be for you. He may be calling you either to well, he's calling you to repent right now, turn from that sin, and know that immediately If you're trusting in Christ and you turn from that sin, his blood covers it. And you have full fellowship with him. But don't go partaking of this unless you are you are earnestly seeking to honor him. You you fail, you mess up. You sinned against him for the umpteenth time with this besetting sin, but you're turning to him again, and you're failing again, but you're turning to him again. And you're genuinely sorrowful and repentant of this thing. Well then he says, come and partake of this. Be reminded of how close you are to me. The the the my son's blood covers you. You're digesting it, he says. If you've been struggling with a besetting sin this week Come and it's not that this has some magical property that it does something to you, but be assured of the nearness you have with Christ, that he died for you. It's only if you are unwilling to break off from that sin, do not partake, because you are eating and drinking judgment upon yourself. He says that in that in that case, in some cases, he has even afflicted such people with illness. or or even taking them into eternity early. Killed them. Because they are disobeying him but but giving the testimony as though they are right with God. So if you're struggling with a sin, I urge you to come and partake of the, well, we'll bring it to you, you don't come, but partake of the Lord's table. Rejoice in what He's purchased for you. And if you have something weighing heavily on your conscience right now, let's take a few moments, confess that sin to him. He knows if you're if you're lying or not. He knows if you're being a hypocrite. So just be honest with your God. Well, that's a movement. Dear Lord, thank you that there is abundant forgiveness with you, because Jesus Christ died for the penalty of our sin under your wrath, and then he rose again just two days. Thank you for Jesus. Thank you that you are eager to forgive and make enemies, sorry, make ch adoptive children of all of your enemies. And we praise you, Lord. Hear our repentance, hear our pleas for mercy on the basis of the shed, blood, and broken body of Jesus Christ. We plead Jesus. for the sins that we have committed against you. Thank you, Lord, that you are immediate and rich to forgive. And Lord, I pray that all of us can partake freely and joyfully of the table, uh the table and the plate set before us, and rejoice in the fact that we are made So Lord, would you bless the singing that we're about to do? Let us praise you and sing unto you, and then bless the the worshiping we do in the uh in your in your Your son's table, Lord. In Jesus' name, Amen