But he died in nineteen nineteen. Now he was when he died, he was worth the equivalent of more than a hundred million dollars. Between a hundred and a hundred and ten million dollars And Burt was an unusual man. Burt is his last name. Wellington Burt. Wellington's the first name. Burt's the last name. For reasons unknown to history. Uh he left specific instructions in his will that the bulk of that gigantic fortune be untouched uh with is a very, very unusual uh circumstances. So he left his money in a trust And he took care of most of his children. He left them annual payments of a few thousand dollars each each year. So he took care of his children. He even did the same for some of his servants, uh for uh a secretary. He he cared for the people left behind, but there were still many millions left in his trust, or the equivalent of many millions. And so he had the stipulation in his will that all of that be gathered in the trust and and then paid out to his heirs This is the weird part. Twenty-one years after the death of his last surviving grandchild. A little odd, right? So 1919 he died. His last surviving grandchild died 60 years later in 1989. That started the 21-year clock. And so 2010, that clock was complete. In 2011, they started going through the will. So it was a big news item in 2011 that 92 years after Wellington Burt's death His heirs who had forgotten about him suddenly out of the blue, some of them great, great, great-grandchildren Triple grade were suddenly notified out of nowhere that they were heirs of multiple millions of dollars. Most of them are middle class people And they find that they've got this this unexpected inheritance. And they didn't even have to feel guilty and sad that he died, because yeah, he died before they were born. I've always thought that'd be awkward, you know. You're grateful for the money, but you gotta you gotta mourn a little bit too. They didn't even have to do that, right? Now these were simply they didn't have to do anything for it. These were simply the benefits of being members of the Burt extended family. But this morning we're reflecting on the benefits of belonging to the family of God, and that is better. We'll read of an actual inheritance far greater than a few measly millions of dollars Now for the last several weeks we've been working our way through here, really since December, been working our way through the Beatitudes. Obviously we were interrupted for a little bit there. But we have a common struggle, and perhaps I hope it's not been reflected in the preaching, but but it's something I've had to fight for sure. We tend to read through the Beatitudes, maybe you've read it several times in preparation for each message. We tend not to read them as straight promises, do we? Maybe we we see them as conditional Because our default setting is that we tend to read this as a list of requirements to get individual blessings rather than what they actually are. So we read, if you want comfort, you're going to have to warn first. If you want mercy from God, you're going to have to be merciful to someone else first. And we we tend to focus our attention on those conditions rather than seeing them as character qualities. And those character qualities being part of the actual promise as well So we tend to pre to treat this whole beautiful passage of of promises Transactionally. Right? We see it as a menu of transactions between us and God. And maybe we even think we can pick and choose. You know what, I really don't want to be uh poor. I don't really want to mourn. I'm going to skip over those. But I sure would like an inheritance, so I guess I'll have to be a low. And that's not how God intends it, right? Instead, the way we should see this, the whole thing The A side and the B side, right? The the blessed are and the for theirs is, right? We need to see both sides of this all as one big promise. It's not a list of individual promises, each with its own condition. It's one big con big promise consisting of multiple blessings. and each blessing can s corresponds to a different characteristic in the same person. So either you have all of these blessings applying to you and being true of you. It might take some time for them to manifest in your life as you work walk through uh your progressive sanctification. You're becoming like Jesus slowly. But all of these are true for you as a child of God, or none of them are true for you, and you're not a child of God. The person who receives verse 4's blessing of comfort will also receive verse 5's inheritance and verse 7's mercy, and that same person will at the same time be a hungry mourning peacemaker It's all one big promise given by grace, received by faith. And so what I want to do this morning is Focus on because we tend to focus so much on the first half, I want us to focus on the second half, on all of the gospel blessings The first half are blessings too, but I want us to see the grace in all of this because the gospel is a gospel of grace. It's not something you do to earn. Right? These blessings are all tied up with you being saved But when you trusted Jesus, if you trusted Jesus to save you, you didn't rely any more on your effort, you believed that Jesus would save you. He gave you these blessings too, and now we work them out in our lives. So here is the main theme, the main message of this morning, right? Is that God promises numerous blessings with no strings attached Remember that part. He promises all of these blessings with no strings attached to whoever will simply trust him to give them. If you're following along your bulletin, that's what goes in those blanks there, but you certainly don't have to follow. Just listen if you can absorb it better that way. All right. Let's focus on the second half of these. We're going to read them one more time, verses 3 through 12, but then we're going to put special emphasis on the second half. Because I'm afraid I might have put too much emphasis on the first half. You ready? Alright, let's start with verse three. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted Blessed are they who meet uh Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. So let's start with that that first list, first in the list there. I'm going to skip over verse three for a second, right? And look at verse four's second half. Though we be comforted by God Himself. The gospel of grace produces comfort in the Christians' heart. And it's up to you how you want to take your notes, but I've designed it so that you have the white there in your bulletin and you can add the yellow if you would like. We are promised that the gospel of grace produces comfort in the Christian's heart. Now you obviously are expecting me to do verse 3. I want you to look with me there, right? So blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Now jump down with me to verse ten. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Do you see the similarity there? Right? They're both, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. In uh in theological circles, they use a big word to call this an inclusion. I think that's a Latin word. Inclusio. You don't need to remember that word, but the idea is that everything contained in that, including those edges, so from blessed the poor in spirit right through that last blessing. And we can include right through verse 12, because that's all an extension of verse 10. All of that is to be taken as a unit together. Whether it's 3 to 10 or 3 to 12, I would say 3 to 12. And so all of that has to do with the kingdom of heaven being ours That yours is the kingdom of heaven if you are trusting in Christ. And so that means all of that other stuff, it's all part and parcel of having the kingdom of heaven So what we have in verse 4, this promise that you'll be comforted, that is part of having the kingdom of heaven. And mourning is also part of having the kingdom of heaven. So I'm not going to devote extra time to verse 3 and verse 10 because really verses 4 through 9 are an expansion of what that is. They're explaining what it is to have the kingdom of heaven So to have the kingdom of heaven is to have all of these blessings, and it's also to be characterized by all of these qualities, these characteristics. So now let's start in verse 4. It says that kingdom citizens will be people who mourn. That is part of having the kingdom citizen It's part of being brought into Christ's life and having a relationship with Him, you will mourn from time to time. And of course, when we looked at this several weeks ago, we said this is less to do with Losing people, that's what we associate mourning with, although that certainly will be and is a part of the Christian life. But mourning specifically has to do with where we fall short. Of God's perfect standard. And that mourning, then, is actually the means to a greater blessing of being comforted by God. I think that that sounds maybe pretty profound, that we're called to mourn over our sin, and then the result is that God reaches out and personally comforts you. Blessed are those who mourn for they shall be they shall be comforted. The same thing that caused think about this, the same thing that caused God grief and separated you from him and motivated him to out of love Send his son into the world to die for you. The same thing that caused all of that. The thing that caused him grief is now the thing that when you mourn over it. It brings him nearer to you. And he actually reaches out to comfort you as you mourn. So instead of him, he sees you m mourning over your sin. You know what? I'm seeing my sin in a a deeper life than I even did last night. And you start to feel grief over it, God doesn't look at you and say, finally you get it. That's been bothering me for millennia. He doesn't look at you and say, oh finally He doesn't get glad that what caused him grief is now causing you grief. Instead, he shows you a fresh display of love and you feel it. It's like he reaches out to you with this fresh display of love. When you see someone mourning, what do you do? You perhaps you hug them. If you're not a hugger, you try to say something, don't you? Perhaps perhaps you start to cry. You see someone start to cry, you go to a funeral, you see them cry, you start bawling. I'm not really that way. I don't tend to start crying, but I certainly feel something and I try to reach out. I'm usually I usually hug and I pray and I try to do something to to To ease the grief. That's what God does in his own way. But we're not talking about mourning a death, are we? So let me ask you this. When someone has wronged you and grieved you, when they apologize, do you treat them the way that God treats you when he sees them that you're mournful over your sin. Do you because I think this is how it often goes, is we we give thanks to God. We're grateful that that person has finally repented. Perhaps it's someone you've been praying that they would repent over something for years and it has caused you grief and you want them to be brought nearer to the Lord and and you start to see the Lord working and you praise and you thank him and that's good and you should do that But does your heart break for that person? Do you comfort that person who is mourning that they've sinned against the Lord and that they've hurt you? Or are you simply comforted by their mourning? You see the difference? We can be comforted by the fact that they're mourning, or we can reach out and we can comfort them in their mourning. And and really I think it should be both. That we should be grateful that that person who is is mourning over hurting us, we should be grateful that they see that, but then we should reach out and comfort them. And tell them it's okay. The Lord has strengthened me during this time, and he's going to draw near to you Do you reach out and love them and comfort them and assure them that all is good? Because that's what Jesus does. That's what He does for you. And I encourage you to do the same. So when you're next troubled by your sin and shortcomings, take a minute to feel it. And mourn and confess it to God, but then imagine him drawing near you. Imagine him giving you a hug, if you can imagine Imagine that. Feel him ministering to you. And let yourself be blessed by the fact that you mourn. Because your mourning is good. It means that your your Brokenhearted over your sin, and now God will reach out to you and give you a fresh act of love. We're not only comforted by God Himself if we have Christ will inherit the earth. The gospel of grace promises a counterintuitive reward. Why do I say a counterintuitive reward? I think it might be this might actually be one of the the more helpful ones on the list. Because it is counterintuitive, right? What Jesus is saying here is inheriting the earth, right? I think that that maybe we just spiritualize that. He means it literally, right? When you if you were to receive a land inheritance That means you you actually own that land, right? And and Jesus is saying that you guys are gonna own the earth, planet Earth, with me. He's saying, right? There is a time coming when Jesus Christ will return. And if you're i if if you want to hear more about this, join us on Thursdays, because we're going through this. We're going through the book that details that. He will return, he will rule over the earth, and we will rule it with him. And perhaps he's saying we'll have specific allotments, or he's simply saying that this will belong to us, but the wicked won't be in it. The people who take things by force won't be it, be in it. I find this comforting and strange because who is it that gets the earth today? Well, it's the people that take it. It's the people who are rich and the people that are strong. But Jesus is pronouncing a blessing on the people who don't just take what they want. They wait patiently. They receive things humbly because they're trusting that God will give me what Jesus is saying I'm giving you an inheritance of owning and ruling over the earth. All of these beneficiary all of these beneficiaries, right, ruling over over Earth together. So think of a governmental administration, like a like a president's administration that's got greater power than just our democracy It's something we inherit and own. Now, unlike the Burt for fortune that I opened with, right? Maybe you've heard personal stories, maybe you've lived this. Fortunately, I've not lived it, but I've known people who have. Families squabbling over an inheritance, right? Somebody dies, and before the funeral has even taken place, perhaps, the kids and grandkids are hurrying over the house to make sure that they get the rare books or the expensive jewelry or the fine ch china before cousin Chucky does and before he puts it on eBay. Maybe the will even states that grandpa's first editions all go to a certain member of the family, but by the time the executor of the will comes to it, they've all mysteriously disappeared. They've been pulled off the bookshelf and the one with the legal right never actually gets them. Why not? Because the the inheritance goes to the quickest and the shrewdest. And the most selfish, right? But that's not how it works with God's inheritance. He's just, his children know that. And they can afford to hang back. They don't have to just take what they know to be theirs or what they believe to be theirs. They can be gentle. They can let others go first. Because they know that God's going to make sure that what's rightfully theirs will come to them. They know they're going to get stuff that they feel like they shouldn't even get. Because God is so kind and gracious. And this is an inheritance that bet that's better than getting grandpa's Corvette or the pearl necklace from your grandma. Right? This is an inheritance that will last for eternity. We'll be co-ruling over the earth with Jesus Christ as our High King, reporting to him directly. How cool is that And so if you belong to Christ, stop asserting your right for everything. Stop insisting that you get what's yours. You can let the rude people in the grocery store take your spot in the line. You can let that dingbat on the road cut in front of you. Yes, I call them a dingbat Right. You can let him cut it cut into you. You can let the selfish drivers on I-95 and on one ninety-eight cut in front of you because that doesn't matter. God will make sure that you get everything you need on this life and more than you deserve in eternity. And so we trust that there is a counterintuitive reward. We don't have to take what we need. God will give it to us. Verse 6, we're told that we'll be satisfied with Christ's own righteousness. The gospel of grace satisfies the Christian. You've been mourning over your sin. You're fully aware that you don't measure up and can't save yourself. That's good for you to see. You believe the gospel. You believe that Jesus Christ must save you Right? Your only hope is that he died in your place and rose from the dead. If this not if this is not true for you, if you don't believe these things, if you think, well, that's true, but I know I also need to no stop. You're not receiving any of these blessings if that's your intention. Right? If that's if that's your attitude that I believe all this to be true, but I also know that I need to stop When Jesus died, he said it's finished. That was enough. He atoned for your sins. You can't atone for your sins. But if you're mourning of your sin and you're feeling you're feeling your lack, right? You and you recognize Jesus died for me and that's enough. Believe that. But in the meantime, you're still feeling your sin. You're still feeling your lack. You want to be righteous like Jesus. You don't quite know how you how you can be, but you want that for yourself. Well, he has good news for you. He says here, he will fill you. He's going to satisfy you with his own righteousness. On the one hand, that that has to do with the moment of your salvation, we call it justification. That Jesus' own righteousness clothes you like a robe. Is it true that when he died on the cross, he's wearing your sins? And God condemns not only your sins, but him to his full judgment, his full wrath. Right? Your sins are dealt with. But it also means that what happened to his righteousness at that time? Well, it was transferred to you. The moment you trust in him, your right righteousness is transferred to you It's amazing that you are counted righteous. And Jesus is forsaken. That's just the gospel. I think sometimes we we feel like we outgrow the gospel, like we know what it is. I don't need to hear it every every week. I don't I don't need to read the same thing in scripture. We need to be reminded of that simple truth that Jesus was condemned for you and you were exonerated and counted as righteous as he is. So in that sense You are filled with his righteousness, but that's not the only sense. Filled carries with the idea satisfied as well. The Holy Spirit, then, who has declared you righteous with Jesus, goes on to make you inwardly and outwardly righteous. That he is actually okay, he's w he's united you to Jesus in his death and resurrection. You were counted righteous, and now he's going to produce righteousness. in you. We're able to follow what he says now. We couldn't before. We were dead. Now we're alive. We've been risen spiritually just as Jesus has been risen physically. One day we'll be raised physically too, but night But in the meantime, because we're raised to new life, now we can work out what He's already worked into us. We start to have new desires. We start to hate our sin. And then we start to see more sin and we hate that too. And gradually, over the course of years and decades You become more and more inwardly, but then outwardly, right? Because you live differently, more like Jesus. You will be satisfied. You will be filled with that righteousness. And then a natural follow-up then to being filled and satisfied by God's holiness is that He will give you mercy. It's on the basis of that righteousness. The gospel of grace is accompanied by mercy. And we could just skip over that phrase, blessed are the merciful, because Because obtaining mercy mercy is the result of being built and covered by Jesus' righteousness. But on the basis of that righteousness, not your righteousness, but the righteousness of Jesus Even the stuff that that's coming out of you now, that that's that's Jesus' righteousness, is not yours. We could say, that's why you're saved. His death on the cross purchased mercy for you, and it enables think about this. This is really cool. We're not really at the blessed or the merciful part yet But it enables the whole Trinity of God, the Father and the Son, right? The Father who vents his wrath on his son, the Son who died for you, but also the Spirit who unites you to Jesus. And Jesus, who has his own wrath at your sin, he can show you mercy as well. The whole Trinity is able to show you mercy. despite your sin, because it's been covered by his righteousness. All of that's true. And that's why we can say, despite how it sounds here, right, it sounds like If you want to obtain mercy from Jesus, you need to start forgiving and start being merciful to people in your life, right? It sounds like that. It's not that that's untrue, but it goes in a different different order. You can be merciful because all of the stuff that I just said, all of the stuff that he said in the previous, you've been filled with righteousness He shows you mercy, and now you're able to show mercy to others And so that's why we can say this, that it's not a condition. Showing mercy to others is not a condition for your salvation. It's a result. But the way that Jesus is saying it is he's saying it in such a way that you feel that, oh man, I'm not merciful enough. That's part of him causing you to mourn for your sin again. Right? I'm not merciful enough. I need to be more merciful. Not that he's going to suddenly take away your salvation because you're not you're not showing it enough. But this is part of the means by how how he makes you righteous, how he fills you with righteousness. See, it all works together. So he he objectively can give you mercy because of the righteousness of Christ. That you are wearing at this moment if you're trusting in Jesus. And then because of that, go be characterized by this mercy. People who aren't characterized by this mercy, they're not showing this mercy because they haven't been shown this mercy. And if you're reading this and you're thinking, oh my goodness, I I don't show mercy to other people, well, that might be a reflection that you you actually have not been shown that mercy. Or or perhaps you have, but this part of of Jesus' righteousness has not yet been worked out in your life. So feel that. Feel where you fall short and do just what we said a few minutes ago, right? Repent of it. Mourn over it. And then Jesus will comfort you. And then he'll start to Produce that righteousness in you as well. He will help you to show more mercy this week. He'll help you to be more patient with your husband or with your wife. He will help you to be gentler towards your children. Kids, he'll help you to be kinder to your parents. Feel your lack of mercy, and enjoy the benefit of being characterized and covered by that mercy. God's grace makes us into merciful people who obtain mercy from Him. Getting towards the end now. The gospel of grace reveals God to the faithful. This is that we will see God. The gospel of grace reveals God to the faithful Now this is one of those statements that's looking more at the more at the end, right? More more looking at the final ultimate consummation. of things for Christ's followers more than than the here and now, right? In our lives, this side of heaven, we're expect experiencing fellowship with God. But and and as you as you worship as you walk with God, you pour the Bible into your soul, right? And you you're spending time pouring out your heart to him in prayer, you're trusting him through uncertain circumstances in your life. As you learn from other Christians how to honor Him. In all of this, God is purifying you, right? That's the kind of the conditional statement, right? Blessed are the pure in heart. That's one of the blessings, right? For they shall see God. In all of this, God's purifying your heart. As he purifies your heart, he shows you more of who he is. He shows you what he cares about. He shows you what he's like. When you're reading the Bible and praying and and as he guides you through hard things in your life, and as he gives you, as he He gives you victories in life, all of this stuff as you're going to church and learning from other Christians, all of that, he's showing you more of what he's like. You're seeing God in that sense. As uh we we have these revelations sometimes when we're reading the word, right? Of that that, oh my goodness, I didn't get this about God. Like maybe you read Re Revelation 4 for the first time and you see that his his throne is surrounded by a rainbow, girded by a rainbow, and you realize, oh my goodness, I never saw this before. Jesus' reign is established. In the rain, but that's the fact that he keeps his promises. Back in in Genesis chapter 9, God's reign is established by faithfulness, right? It's like a fresh revelation to me when I when I first understood that We're seeing more and more that is the truly the character of God, and he reigns by that character, his faithfulness, his his loyal love for his people. All of that stuff is exciting. You're perceiving more of Jesus, but not with your eyes. Right? What's the blessing? You will see God. He's not just speaking metaphorically. I mean, that's true metaphorically, you're perceiving more of God, but there's a day coming where you will see him with your eyes. This is really a promise of the resurrection. You will have a new body. Your sin will be gone. You will be in his presence. You will see him as he is with your own physical eyeballs. That's amazing. And if you place your trust in Christ and His finished work on the cross in your place, you can have absolute certainty that He's going to keep you in His hand, He's going to bring you into His presence. And when he does that, whether it's at the rapture or uh rapture when he when he comes for his people left on earth and raises our bodies, or before that when when you die, you go to be in his presence, so you won't have a a a full body at that point. At that point you will see God. Christ's death and resurrection, your faith in them guarantees That you will see God. Now, I want you to listen carefully to me. You might have zoned out, that's okay. Listen to me now, because this is important. If we really believe this, right, that the genuine Christians Who die before Jesus returns will immediately be in God's presence. We believe that. Not all churches believe that. We believe that that that to live is Christ and to die is gain, meaning that we gain the presence of God. If we believe that, then this should change the way that we tend to think about death. Some of us are walking through hard things. We're facing loss. Either we've lost somebody or or it's looking like we might lose somebody. This truth should change the way we talk at funerals. And when we when if we get like a fatal fatal diagnosis or a loved one We we learn that they've got only so many months or weeks to live. I realize this is an emotional topic. I realize that it's hard to receive this. I want to encourage you then to And I just want to urge you to think joyfully about the thought of you or the person that you love that you're maybe you're afraid you're going to lose or you know you're going to lose them. And it's hard. I want to encourage you that to think joyfully about that person you love getting to see Jesus. Getting to be whole with him. If you let's say you find you you get a prognosis from your doctor, it doesn't look like you've got a whole lot longer. Or or you don't have a prognosis from the doctor, but you're just you're seeing yourself decline in health And you know you're you're not getting younger, right? And and and you're you're feeling your frailness, you're feeling your mortality. I know that that can be discouraging, but try to think about the truth. Oh my goodness, like a year from now I could be with Jesus. I'm going to know more about him then, exponentially, than I do now. I love Jesus now. I'm going to love him more than. I'm going to feel his love then Can that help you when you're facing the the the the death or the oncoming death of a loved one? That My my my dear uncle, my dear wife, my dear husband, my dear grandpa is now With Jesus, or is about to be with Jesus, and is gonna about to be made whole, not just there's no more sin and well Grandpa gets to be with grandma now. Like, yeah, that stuff's good. But the best part is they get to be with Christ. They get to see God as he is. Do you know they still pray in heaven? You don't believe me? It's Revelation chapter six. They're still praying. They're still talking to him. They have better fellowship with him there than they do here. There's no sin there. There's nothing getting in the way Try to let that encourage you. That doesn't mean that you get flippant about grief. Like still feel the pain. But you can feel the pain and the joy together. That's very much what the gospel enables, right? We we mourn that Jesus had to die for us, but we rejoice that he did. Because it brings us to God. It brings us close. I encourage you, try to try to rejoice in the thought that you and that the all the people you love who are who are Christians, who are in Christ. receive Christ. So let that motivate you to share the gospel with people who don't. One day you will see God, and that is a good thing. And very much tied up with that then is that we will gain a Father. We have already, if you're trusting in Christ, gained a Father, Heavenly Father, the Father. The gospel of grace results in adoption into God's family. I mean, that's what this means, right? They shall be called children of God. It's not just that people will say, oh, that guy's a man of God. That lady, she is a godly lady. That's true. But it's more than that. You gain adoption into the family of God. If all of this that we've read is about having the kingdom of God, right? Being a citizen of Christ's kingdom. Then the kingdom citizen isn't just a privileged member of the ruling class, though that's true, right? That's the inheritance. You inherit the earth, you rule with him. But it's not just that. It's not that you just work for the king. You're his child. You're a prince. You are a princess, and not in a fruity way. This is like like the seeing God blessing, right? There's a sense of now and a sense of later. That's true here. Because in the here and now, when you live out God's righteousness, some people will recognize it. And yes, some will recognize it in a good way, then they'll call you a man of God or a woman of God. Or they might be mocking you. And in in that case then the blessing of verse ten kicks in. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake. That is a blessing too, to be treated like Jesus. They might be mocking you, but in either case it's an honor when someone calls you after Christ's name. There was a man who worked for, I think he still does, for uh the the university where my seminary was. His name is Mark Bowles. He told a story of leading a South American man to Christ and he left all he left with him was a gospel tract. I guess he didn't have any uh any uh New Testaments or Bibles in in that man's language. So he returned several months later to bring him a Bible. And as he was going into the guy's house, the guy met him at the door and some neighborhood kid yelled out, Hey Jesus man! And Mark, the the American, uh turned around and smiled, Oh, uh they recognized that I'm I'm bringing Jesus and then he realized, no, they he wasn't complimenting him, he was he was yelling an insult at the the man that he He had one to Christ. In just a few months, this guy had been characterized by his love for Jesus, and he was telling everyone about Jesus, and they didn't like it. And so they yell at him, Hey Jesus man, when they see him on the street He'd been known for the love of Jesus. And so he's called by Jesus' name. That's this being called sons of God. That's this in action. And that is a blessing. Well that's now. But in eternity, with eternity in view, those who trust Jesus their Savior will spend all of eternity with him. Not just safe from hell, not just safe from judgment by living in heaven, but they're members of God's own family. And we'll know him intimately as our Father that starts now. And it continues for eternity, you're going to know him like he knows you. There'll still be mysteries about him. But Jesus, our elder brother, God our Father, life will go on that way forever. Now families tend to resemble each other in looks, but also in mannerisms and certain things that they say. So if you're a child of God, then right now work To reflect the character of your old elder brother. Work to reflect your heavenly father. Not so that he'll save you. That's already been done. You are a part of the family. Now live like your family. Work on that family resemblance. Bring glory to him that way. So when we take communion together in a few minutes, we're celebrating the fact that all of these gospel benefits, all of these blessings that Jesus has lifted here, all of that comes to us by grace, through Him dying for us. They're all given to you freely by Jesus Christ. And it it costs his him giving up his body to be broken, spilling his brut blood, offering it as a sacrifice to atone for our sin. There's nothing magical that happens when when you put the bread in your mouth. When you put the cup to your lips, God's not requiring anything of you to receive these gospel blessings. You simply receive them. You receive them believing that they're true, believing that they're there. So let me encourage you, trust Jesus, who gave himself up fully. He gave not only his life, but even his innocence, his righteousness to you, in order to open God's blessings to you. Believe that he really did rise from the dead. He really did leave the tomb and walk around for more than a month so that he can share this everlasting life with you. Put your trust in him. Receive all of these gospel blessings. Perhaps you have not. Look through this list. Have you received those as blessings? And either that means you need to receive him for real for the first time, or simply you need to let him work these into you Receive all of them, not just I'm glad I'm going to heaven, ka chek. But receive all of these blessings in the here and now, and they'll be even better in eternity. So what's it mean to have the kingdom of heaven? It means all of this. To be kingdom citizen with all these blessings, transformed, victorious over sin, not complete victorious But getting there. It means that we're safely kept in his hand. It means you're going to c conquer sin in this life and then be completely Completely free from sin, living forever with him as your king throughout eternity. That's all. Let's pray