Have you ever been skydiving? I'd like to see a s a raise uh a show of hands. Have you ever been skydiving? If you've ever been skydiving, I'd like to see Zero, I think I'm thinking. So I went skydiving in my early twenties. And uh you know it's I I want to describe my experience to you. I I was uh blessed with getting to do it in a very beautiful part of the world in New Zealand. And they put you in this plane and you're it's not a passenger plane. Um it's like a car it like I guess you'd call it like a cargo plane. It was a small plane, but it was big enough probably to haul some cargo. There's no seats. Except for the pilot, and I think there was maybe one seat next to the pilot. You're just sitting on the on the floor, uh the first time you skydive, and I think for the first several times you skydive, you you have a partner that you go with who you were strapped to. It's tandem skydiving. I was not particularly scared because I knew that the guy that that was strapped to my back knew what he was doing, even though I I didn't. At least I was pretty confident he did. I'm still here, so apparently he did. Um But it it's it's strange. You're sitting there with your partner and and a few others that are gonna jump and um some of them are sitting there really scared and others are just very somber and uh there's no windows on the plane, well then it's your turn and you're called up. I think I may have been the first to go of the of the group of us that were in there. And so suddenly they just open this cargo door, slides it open, and your instructor who at this point has has clipped himself to your back He just kind of sticks you half out halfway out the cargo door. You smile for the camera. There's a a camera on the wing. And it's maybe next week I'll uh I'll bring my uh bring the picture of me uh hanging halfway out of an airplane You smile, and then uh you're assaulted by this cold wind. I remember the one thing that I was scared about. I wasn't scared about the free fall. Have you ever seen The Incredibles where that uh right at the beginning the the uh the superhero's cake gets caught in the engine and he gets sucked in? I was worried about that I didn't wear a cape, but I was worried that I'd hit the engine on the way out. I did not hit the engine on the way out. And you just you're just kind of almost pushed out. I did jump, but the the guy's whispering in my ear to do it. Now when you jump, at least for me, there's an immediate rush of adrenaline and and you have you have this this fe it's very cold. But you have this tangible understanding of what gravity is. And there's this mixture of exhilaration and fear. And at first All that it is about is that free fall and the woo-hoo. And I'm pretty sure I screamed out happy, happy screams. Um I I I also like to snowboard, so I there's always a lot of woo-hooing going on. But you only freefall for I I think it might for me it was twenty or thirty seconds. You only free fall for a short while, then you're your parachute comes out, and I don't know what kind of movies you've seen, but your parachute doesn't just come out and then you hit the ground. You dangle there for 10, 15, maybe more minutes. And for me it was probably between 10 and 15 minutes. Well, it's very exhilarating at first. It can be very scary, and that's all you think about at first is this exhilaration and you feel all these sensations of the cold and the gravity and the speed and all of this all of these hormones surging through your body. But eventually they settle And you're left there hanging, in my case, over some of the most beautiful scenery in the world. I had on one side I had the Pacific Ocean followed by islands, land, followed by a 10,000-foot snowpack peak. snow-capped peaks in uh late spring, early summer, followed by lakes, followed more by more of those mountains. And these lakes, some of them uh separated from one another by just a number of feet And it was just utterly breathtaking. But I didn't see it at first. My mom is planning to take a skydive very soon. And I said to her, Make sure you go somewhere pretty. Don't go where my brothers went skydiving where it wasn't very pretty. Just over the the state line in in Pennsylvania So my mom is planning to go skydiving where she has a great view of the Chesapeake Bay. If you ever go skydiving, I suggest that you pick a beautiful place. Because the majority of the jump is not that initial exhilaration. It's what you see afterwards. But you can't appreciate the beauty and the glory until after that initial fear and adrenaline has subsided. And I think that is what That is the sort of approach we should have to Ezekiel chapter 1, really the whole book of Ezekiel This is how we should expect our encounter with the Lord to go this morning, and I wonder if we should expect that more often when we enter into prayer. We are entering into, in my opinion, one of the most magnificent, exciting passages in the entire Bible. And a number of you have heard me say a lot recently that one of my favorite passages is Revelation 4 and 5. And that's true, and my favorite passage is always changing as I read scripture. I imagine it's the same for you. But I but I hope by what I say this is one of the most exciting, magnificent passages in the whole Bible. There is nowhere in Scripture that I that I can think where we get a more detailed glimpse of our God or at least of his entourage. than in Ezekiel chapter 1. And I find it exhilarating for me to read and now especially to get to preach it. But if you're unfamiliar with the book of Ezekiel or even just this chapter, I don't expect you to love it right away. You're still in the initial free fall stage when you first start reading it. It can be scary and disorienting and unsettling, perhaps My guess, actually, is if you if you have ever started Ezekiel, at least the first time, you may not have finished the book of Ezekiel, perhaps because the first chapter was so weird And I say that reverently, but it's weird. It's strange. Maybe you got to chapter one, you got overwhelmed, maybe you even toughed it through the next few, but you were just kind of dazzled and you you stopped and you know I'll I'll try again next year. That's because this passage is not safe. It's beautiful, but it's not safe. I say with apologies to C. S. Lewis It might be borderline terrifying to you at first, and and I encourage you to stick through. And if there's a young child who needs to step out for a minute, I don't end up Anticipate that being necessary, but that's certainly certainly fine if you need to walk your child out. Ezekiel here gives us a glimpse of what God looks like, and that vision is pretty alien and we need this. We need it in our Bible. Because too often we become far too comfortable with God to the point that he's he's made smaller than he really is. He's made safer than he really is. If you're following along in your bulletin, and again I apologize, we don't seem to have the s slides up there. I'm not sure what happened there. I'm not blaming anybody. I'm not sure what happened there, but uh the the problem there, we are comfortably underwhelmed by God. You'll see the title of this message is Be Overwhelmed. We are comfortably underwhelmed by God. That is our problem, and that's why chapters like this exist in our Bible. To take away some of that comfort that we would see God as He really is. Now, God is our comforter. He intends for us to be comforted by Him. But we need to see So would you look with me at the first three verses? We're going to do this in three stages. Verses 1 through 3 in a much larger swath, verses 4 through 25, and then the concluding three verses, 26 to 28. to be slow at the beginning. At the end, we're going to rush through a lot of verses in the middle, partly because it is disorienting. So look with me at verses 1 through 3. Now it came to pass in the thirtieth year, in the fourth month, on the fifth day of the month, as I was among the captives by the river Chabar. The heavens were opened and I saw visions of God. On the fifth day of the month, which was in the fifth year of King Jehoiachin's captivity. The word of the Lord came expressly to Ezekiel the priest, the son of Buzi, in the land of the Chaldeans by the river Chabar, and the hand of the Lord was upon him there, literally the hand of Yahweh. And these first three verses give us the background information that we're going to need. Let's see what we can glean from these. Ezekiel is a priest. Now he's about to become a prophet. We always refer to him as the prophet Ezekiel, but he's by inheritance, he is a priest. But we're going to see he has no priesting to do. Because he's a captive. Did you catch that? Look at verse 2, on the fifth day of the month. which was in the the fifth year of King Jehoashin's captivity. If you look in verse one, as I was among the captives by the river Chabar. He is a captive. He is not in Judea. He's not in the kingdom of Judah where he grew up and was living. He has been carried off. He's been kidnapped by a foreign army. He and a few thousand other Judeans, Hebrews, Jews, whatever you want, whatever word you want to use, have been kidnapped and moved to the Babylonian Empire. They live by the river Chabar or Kabar, however you pronounce that. But it's not their land. It it it belongs to the Chaldeans. Perhaps you're you're familiar with with that word or we We think of the very King Jamesy sound er of the Chaldees, right? It that that's another word for the Babylonians, the Chaldeans The bottom line is, and by the way, that's like modern-day Iraq. The bottom line is Ezekiel and the people he's going to preach to are exiles from their homeland. They're not in their home country. And they came to be exiled. Well, it's long story short, God is disciplining the entire country. Because they've been ignoring his commandments for generations. God sent prophet after prophet to warn them, but they kept on ignoring him They were worshiping foreign gods, even though they'd been they'd actually entered an agreement where with God where they said, We will worship you alone, Yahweh. That is God's covenant name, Yahweh. Not Zeus, not Poseidon, not Ra, not Osiris, not Thor. His personal name is Yahweh, and he's the only true God. The others are all faithful. They're either total works of fiction or they're demons pretending to be gods. And they've been worshiping demons. And so the Lord is disciplining them. And after he kept warning them and urging them to repent and turn away, they kept ignoring him. He gave them their best king ever. And I'm not referring to King David. You know who the best king according to scripture was? The most loyal to the Lord was not David, it was Josiah. 2 Kings tells us that he was more loyal to more loyal to God even than David was. He reigned for over thirty years. He started his reign as a boy, just eight years old, I believe it was. But even then the country's spiritual life didn't get any better. There was they seemed to be getting better on the outside, but that was it. Their their hearts remained cold towards the Lord. And so the Lord Yahweh moved Josiah aside. It's a remarkable story that we're not going to look at today, but he brought him home early to heaven, uh kind of through a misunderstanding. And the Lord used that because he was ready to discipline and judge his people. And Josiah as a righteous king was actually Standing in the way of that judgment. And so for the next few years the kingdom played this horrible game of musical thrones And the the throne went to Josiah's first son for a few months. Then it goes to his second son for s for a few years. Then it goes to his grandson Jehoiachin, and there would be one more king after him, but it's under Jehoiachin, he was so wicked that at age 18, God did not let him stay on the throne for even four months. And I just want to take this digression to say teens. Look up from your phones for a minute, okay? Teens, let this be a warning. The Lord listens. Sorry, the Lord cares about you and your behavior, and he doesn't just let you off the hook because you're a kid. He wants your heart, he wants your obedience. It matters to him even at an early age, children, preteens. He cares about your heart. He loves you and he wants you to obey him. And he will enable you I encourage you to let him. Well, God sent the Emperor of Babylon to capture King Jehoiachin and capture the city. And it was at that time that Ezekiel was cap was captured along with him and 10,000 others. And most of them, perhaps not all of them, but most of them were moved to this place, the river Chabar. Jehoashin was taken all the way to Babylon. The book of Ezekiel picks up five years, as we saw that in verse two, after they were cat kidnapped. The last thing we need to be aware of, then, is that although the king's been taken away to Babylon, the temple of the Lord is still standing. The temple to Yahweh is still in Jerusalem By the end of the book of Ezekiel, it's not, but at this point it is. Ezekiel the priest, however, does not get to serve at that temple because he's not there. He's in exile. Now, the Lord is about to appear to Ezekiel. You see that in verse 1? I saw visions of God, he said. He's about to appear to him while he's in exile for his own sins and for the sins of his people. You and I need to recognize that we too enter life as exiles from God. Now, you might be born into a Christian family and you have special privileges. But everyone here this morning is an exile of one of two kinds. We start as exiles from God's promises. Like the Judeans, you have sinned. You are deserving of his wrath against you. And if you were to read the book of Lamentations, which is the book that comes right before Ezekiel, you turn the page and you're in Lamentations chapter 5. And if you were to read through that, you'd read some horrific things that were allowed to take place as a result of judgment. We deserve that kind of outpouring of wrath upon us because we are sinners and we have sinned against in infinite God. And and if this chapter teaches us nothing else, it's that we don't see things clearly. Our expectations of who God is are off. Our expectations of what is expected of us are off. So allow yourself to recalibrate today. We all start as exiles from his promises. If you have not embraced Christ as the way. Not just you believe him, you believe he rose from the dead intellectually, but are you putting your faith in him so that he his way of living is your way of living? He said, I am the way, the truth, You can't get to heaven where ha where the Father where God the Father is unless you go through Christ and you walk in Him as the way You can't have him as life unless you also embrace him as the way and as truth. And we may have certain ideas about things that the Bible contradicts. We need to embrace the Bible as truth and Jesus as truth and what he says as to be accurate and we've got it wrong. We need not assume that we have it right and we get to decide if the Bible's right or not Now the Bible gets to tell us what's right or not. If you've been right with if you've been made right with God, then that means that you have You've s you've seen Jesus as he has. You and you you've heard what he says, and you say, I understand Lord Jesus, I don't understand everything. I don't understand how the Trinity works, but I understand that you were put to death Because I was supposed to be. You were put to death in my place. And I'm asking that your death and your blood will be applied to my account so that I'm counted righteous as you are, because you were counted sin for me. And if you've trusted him in that way, it will have ongoing effect. But it means you're no longer an exile from God. But you are an exile of the other category. You're now an exile from home. Because your home isn't Laurel, Maryland. You may sign a lease here, you may own property here, you may have lived in your home for 30 years here, but this is not your home Your home is in heaven. You're currently awaiting return to heaven. You've been brought near to God, but you're waiting to be with Him. And we are living as exiles now, away from him. If you can remember this, that everything that makes up your life here on earth, and it's very much dovetails with what we saw in Matthew chapter six last week. Your possessions, your reputation, your health, even your relationships. And I do encourage you to value your reputation as a Christian, as as a representative of Christ. But all of those things, they're nothing when compla compared with the full life of the Son of God himself. And if you should suffer loss because you're seeking to please him, you can remember, I'm just an exile. This stuff doesn't matter, they don't last forever. I'm seeking to please my my Savior and I will be with him forever. And so we see what is about to happen happens to an exile. God approaches this exile on God's own terms, not on Ezekiel's. But he approaches his h approaches him because he loves him. If you are an exile from God and you're thinking, I don't know that I'm right with him. If I were to die in a car accident on the way home, I don't know what would happen to me. Then this is good news because this foreign alien God approaches you in your exile. He wants to make you his child. He wants to draw you near. Let's see what happens. Oh, here I am about to click it. So the first point that I did not give to you, I apologize. I need those signs. God meets us in our exile from his promises. That was verse 1 through 3. God meets us in our exile. That exile is from his promises. But secondly, in verses 4 through 25, first God meets us, now he terrifies us. God terrifies us by his glory. Look with me at verse four. Then I looked, and behold, a whirlwind was coming out of the north, a great cloud with raging fire engulfing itself. And brightness was all around it and radiating out of its mist like the color of amber out of out of the midst of the fire. And this is the placid part. Things are about to get disorienting. My challenge as a preacher is for me to help you navigate this this section and understand it, but I also need to let the passage do to you what the Holy Spirit intends for it to do and when when he authored it through Ezekiel. I believe his goal was to make us a little bit dizzy and overwhelmed. So if you feel overwhelmed, that's that's not a bad thing. If you come away from here and say, well, that was weird. That was that was different That might be God's intention. Might mean I'm a bad preacher, but hopefully that was God's intention. He wants us to feel at least a taste of what Ezekiel himself felt. We're just reading it. He lived it. God's showing us more than just that he's powerful. He wants us to see how different he is. You know, at at at its core, the word holy, the the true definition of holy means utterly unique. We use the term unique. In a a a much more domesticated sense, don't we? We s we we know someone who's a little bit different, right? And we say, who he's unique But you know other people who are unique like that person, right? Unique sense of humor that lady has, right? But but we know other people who have similar senses of humor Holy means utterly unique, one of a kind, no one like it. That's what God is here. When we say that he is unique, that he's different, that he's alien, that he's other, we mean all of that, and we sum it up with he's holy. Holy. He wants us to see His holiness. So let's go through in the order presented here. I'm tempted to take to skip over stuff or jump. to the vision of God and then go backwards. I'm not going to do that. Let's take it in the order he intended. Ezekiel sees a whirlwind. It's not a normal tornado. It's like a fire NATO And in that fire NATO, verse 5, also from within it came like the likeness of four living creatures, and this was their appearance. They have the likeness of a man. When you see over and over we're going to see words like likeness and appearance and appearing. Right? And what he's saying is, here's kind of what I saw. I don't know for sure that that's what it is. It looked like it. And I'm only describing it so well because words are failing me, but it was something like this, okay? So when we're reading this, understand we don't have the full extent of the meaning, because he doesn't know how to describe it exactly. And he's saying, it looks like that. I don't think that's quite what it is, but it looks like that is the best I can do. Okay? Well let's keep going. Verse six. Each one had four faces and each one had four wings, and it's going to keep on getting trippier, okay? Four faces. Four wings. Their legs were straight and soles of their feet were like the soles of calves' feet They sparkled like the color of burnished bronze. So we have four men, but well no, they're not they're not called men. They're called living creatures. In verse 5 there. So they look like men, but then they got four faces. Now keep in mind this is not God. First of all, there's four of them, so we know it's not God. For created beings, which mean they are less than God. These things are going to disorient us and appear glorious. And you can understand then why when the the Apostle John would went into heaven and had these glorious visions and experiences multiple times he's throwing himself down to worship these These glorious things, not these exact ones, but other ones that appear equally foreign to him. And every time they say, Get up, don't do that, don't worship me, I'm just a servant Just like you. These are not God. They are going to astound us, and yet they are not God. God is more astounding than that. That's my point. Okay? They have wings. They're sparkling like bronze. Maybe they have hooves. Not sure Let's jump down to verse 10. As for the likeness of their faces, each had the face of a man. Oh, okay, well, good. Oh, but each of the four had the face of the a lion on the right side. Each of the four had the face of an ox on the left side, and each of the four had the face of an eagle. It appears that the man that the the human face or human-looking face is in the front, the eagle's in the back, but then it's all this, you know, lion and ox on either side. And this is probably where you're feeling really uncomfortable and like is this definitely the Bible or is this like Greek mythology? These creatures are utterly otherworldly. The four faces, let me just make some observations here. They're they're faces of noble creatures. Man is God's highest order creation. We were created in the image of God. Phido wasn't. Your goldfish wasn't created in the image of God. You were. A lion was not created in the image of God, but it it it's a noble creature, isn't it? We call it the king of the jungle. And as a millennial, like uh right now I've got Rafiki's cry in my my head from the Lion King where that very noble scene at the beginning, right, where he's he's presenting Simba the the the monkey is, but presenting this king to the whole kingdom, right, of of the the uh savannah. Noble, most fearsome of all wild animals, the royal mascot, for instance, of the British monarchy, of course, then there's the eagle, right, that is the mascot of Of the United States, and I believe it's on the seal of the presidents. You naturally see, if you're an American, this animal's majesty And if you've ever seen one sore, you don't need to be an American to see how glorious it is. An ox or a bull, can you think of a greater domesticated creature than this? It is mighty. It can do all sorts of work. Back before we had tractors, it was the thing you wanted. And it was also the way that you would propagate your herd. The greatest, the king of the farm animals. These creatures represent the best of God's creatures in all of their grandeur and glory. All of the glory of creation. It says as the uh um thus were their faces, verse eleven, their wings stretched upward, two wings of each one touched one another, and two covered their bodies, and each one went straight Straightforward. They went wherever the Spirit wanted to go, and they did not turn when they went. As for the likeness of the living creatures, look at this, their appearance was like burning coals of fire. I mean have you seen anything like these things, these these noble beings? Like the appearance of torches going back and forth among the living creatures they appear appear to be moving very fast. The fire was bright, and out of the fire went lightning, and the living creatures ran back and forth in appearance like a flash of lightning. They are fearsome. Now these creatures, they're not named here. They're just called living creatures. But in chapter 10 they're they're called cherubs or cherubim. Cherubim is just that's the the plural of cherub, so I prefer to eat To speak English and just say cherubs. We think of cherubs as the ones in mythology, right? Cupid, a chubby little baby with wings. That is not what a cherub is And they don't if they have if they have an arrow, it's not got a suction cup on the end, and it's not intended to make you fall in love with somebody. It is intended to slay you with fire In fact, they're not described as having arrows, but in the in the third chapter of the Bible, Genesis chapter three, they are described as having a sword of fire. They were God's guardians appointed to To keep humanity out of the Garden of Eden so that we would not go back and try to take what was forbidden. If you were to see one of these creatures It would scare you out of your skin. is uh commanded to to make or to have the people under him make uh for the Ark of the Covenant a piece of gold that would cover over it. It's called underneath that the mercy seat. Well it was the piece of gold depicted these cherubs spreading their wings over it. They're standing on either side of God's presence. There was a a curtain that would section that room of the tabernacle off from the rest of the people, and on that curtain was depicted these cherubs. They were protecting his dwelling place in the Keeping the people out once again. They have similar designs in the temple, and in fact, the book of Ezekiel ends with a nine chapter description of a future temple that has not yet been built. And it has cherubs everywhere, not actual cherubs standing there, but pictures of them actually carved into the wood of the temple. They are his royal guard. They're protecting his dwelling place. They're keeping the people out. The people could not approach God even in the the They could not appreach approach God because he was actually dwelling there. It couldn't contain all of God, but he had his presence there And you had to go past that curtain of uh that was emblazoned with these cherubs. If you were to get there, and if you did not have some the blood of some sacrifice making it safe for you to do so, you could not go in there or you would die because God's presence would do that to you. Only blood would protect you. First Kings six says that there were these giant golden statues fifteen feet high of cherubs in the most holy place in the Lord's temple. On the the door as well on the veil. They were barring the way to the Lord in his house. That's what we see here in this vision. We see the actual creatures that are depicted in those places. Well I'm going to try and speed up a little bit here. Let's look at verse 15. Now as I looked at the living creatures, behold a wheel. So we've seen the cherubs Now we see wheels, and this is this feels especially strange, but it's gonna make sense at least somewhat in a little bit. Each cherub is operating a wheel. Look, it says a wheel was on the earth beside each living creature with its four faces. The appearance of the wheels and their workings was like the color of barrel, and all four had the same likeness. The appearance of their workings was, as it were, a wheel in the middle of a wheel. And it's going to go on to explain that it could go in any direction. If you think of maybe this is not exactly what it would look like, but if you were to have a sphere instead of a a kind of two-dimensional wheel. You know, our car wheels, they you have to turn them to go, but it's saying you don't have to turn anything, it just it can roll in any direction. And those cherubs too, they can see in all four directions, so they don't actually have to turn when they move these wheels. It says in verse 17, when they moved, they went toward any of the four directions. They did not turn aside when they went. As for their rims, look at verse 18. Their rims were so high, they were awesome, and their rims were full of eyes all around the four of them. I know that sounds strange, but they can apparently s this these wheels can see I know it's getting trippy. I warned you. Think of this though. The Lord wants us to recognize He has the ability to see everywhere and to see all things. He has this royal guard, he's entrusted with great power. And not only they themselves see everything, but they stand guard by those things that represent God's omniscience. He knows all things, he sees all things, he sees your secret sins. He saw what you were looking at last night on the internet. And we learn in verse 19 that the wheels are mobile But the cherubs are moving them. The wheels are not bound by space. They can fly if the cherubs choose to do so When the living creatures went, the wheels went beside them, and when the living creatures were lifted up from the earth, the wheels were lifted up. It actually says a little bit later on that the spirits of the cherubs are in the wheels. I don't really know what that means other than that they can will these things to move. I uh you know maybe Elon Musk will try and do something with thought-commanded vehicles or something at some point This goes beyond that. Jump down to verse twenty-four with me. When they went, I heard the noise of their wings, like the noise of many waters, like the voice of the Almighty, a tumult, like the noise of an army. And when they stood still, they let down their wings. In other words, it was loud Ezekiel's ears probably hurt. Maybe he's feeling pressure too. It's not a hundred percent clear to me. I wonder if Ezekiel has actually been raised in the air to behold this. He may be closer And yet there is a beauty to this, right? I mean it's it's weird and mysterious, but there's a beauty to all of this. Like the noise of many waters, is the sound of rushing water not beautiful? Do you like waterfalls? Who doesn't like a waterfall, right? But it's one thing to see it, it's another thing to be there. I love I love those those Microsoft if if you have Windows computer, I love those Microsoft images that are often the the startup when you first turn on a Turn on your computer, bring it out slo sleep mode, right? And it gives you that that that uh like screensaver thing. It's not really screensaver, right? You have to then you enter your password. But a lot of the time, at least for me, it's it's waterfalls or mountain peaks And it's one thing to see those beautiful waterfalls, but it's a different thing to be there, isn't it? And to hear it, and to feel the water vapor touching your skin, and to smell it. It's a beautiful sound, the sound of waterfalls. Compare that to the voice of the Almighty. This is an awesome scene that's unfolding. before us. And yet they these these cherubs, probably angelic beings, can suddenly stop and silence it all just like that. And this isn't God. This is lesser beings than God God. Well now look at with with me. We've had the cherubs, we've had the wheels. Now we find out what this what this is, all of it. Verse 22. The likeness of the firmament above, there's some sort of expanse above the the heads of the living creatures was like the color of an awesome crystal stretched out over their heads. If you're familiar with Revelation or you're reading it with us on Thursdays, you'll see some similarities here. And under the firmament, their wings spread out straight, one toward another. Each one had two, which covered one side, each one had two. which covered the other side of the body, they're actually shielding themselves from what is above that they are apparently maybe carrying. Sorry, I've lost my place. And above the firmament, over their heads was the lightness of a throne in appearance like a sapphire stone. On the likeness of the throne was a likeness with the appearance of a man high above it. There is a throne here. Apparently, these wheels and these cherubs, it's a chariot The cherubs are the charioteers and they are escorting the one on the throne above them. They are like they're carrying him. Like a a great king would be carried in the ancient world, his royal chariot We skipped over verse 25. A voice came from above the firmament that was led over their heads. Whenever they stood, they let down their wings. Apparently, the one on the throne is speaking. There is a throne on top. There's four guards, each by a wheel. They're not just four random wheels. They're attached to this crystal. There's a throne that it's a chariot. And before we get to the king on the throne, let's consider what we've seen so far. As Michael told us in verse 1, he saw visions of God. We've but we've gone from verse four until verse twenty-six before we've actually gotten to the the occupant of the throne We didn't even realize this was a chariot until this verse twenty-six. Before getting to Yahweh, the Lord Himself, God. The Spirit has seen fit to overwhelm us with these three pretty terrifying details about his entourage, his vehicle, and his royal guard. And this is because before you or I can draw near to him, we must fear him. And we must see that he is different. When you, what's your view of God? What is your view of God? When you think about God, do you get images like this in your head? Because our culture, yeah, our secular culture, but it's even crept into the church, we tend to ha see God misrepresented as one of two extremes, or maybe both extremes. We tend to vacillate between, on the one hand, he's basically the Greek god Zeus, right? He's selfish, temperamental, angry, he's always holding a lightning bolt ready to strike you whenever you step a toe out of line. And in fact, wicked scholars have suggested that the God of the Old Testament is not the God of the New Testament. They're two different gods. And that Jesus is opposing that God, and that when he died for us, he's actually going against God, that he did not have the same will of his father. That is not true. That is not what the Bible teaches. He he submits to his father's will. It's even his own will. In eternity, he decided to come into into human existence and live a l among us and die for us. He felt tension with his own humanity, but he gladly submitted to his father, we're told in in He thought it a light thing to endure the cross if it meant That he could save us and make us his adopted siblings. He is not opposed to God. But we have this idea that God's just angry and and waiting. Okay, he's forgiven you, but Did Rob screw up again? Let me get the lightning bolt out. That's what we tend to think of God as. Or we just think of him as like a kindly grandfather who's pretty senile at this point. And, you know, he's basically the genie in Aladdin though he's not blue He really just exists to grant our wishes. And if you sin, it's okay, because he's just gonna forgive you anyway. He doesn't really care. Right. And we have these two great misrepresentations of God, and we kind of waffle between them. And yet God is fearsome and angry at sin And he is also eager to forgive and adopt you, and both of those things are true. We need to see him as he is, or have an idea of who he is. So that when we approach him and we say, Lord, I plead the blood of Jesus. Don't strike me dead. I mean, one day you will see him as he is. You realize that? And you will be terrified. It's helpful that you've seen him in Ezekiel. So maybe it won't surprise you quite as much. I'm sure we're still going to feel flattened But then we can come to him with blood on our hands. We're bought by the blood of Jesus and we need not fear. It's amazing. That this fearsome God is approaching us actually not in anger, but because he wants to draw near to us and draw us near to him. He's still who he is. And this is why he must appoint a mediator for us. And that mediator must both be God, must be man to represent man, humanity, he must be human. But he also must be God, because who else can stand between us? Jesus must be God And when he died, his death was enough to purify every human. Certainly all who turn to him and say, apply that blood to my account, because I have no hope otherwise. Have you ever feared God to the point you recognize his power and his utter utterness and his complete right to destroy you through your heart's rebellion? This is the God that we need to bow before. We need to appreciate who He is if we are to be saved by Him. He is the one who provides our deliverance. He gives us Jesus. Do you recognize his right then? That if he does become your Savior, he has the right to every corner of your m your mind and your heart right now Before you can get to his beauty, before you can know him as the Prince of Peace and and the Rose of Sharon and the lily of the valley. We love to say things like that and sing them, right? But first you have to fear him as the God enthroned between the cherubim. We need to bef behold his terrifying appearance and fear his holiness. And his power and his otherness and judgment. And you can appreciate that salvation, that deliverance better. All that Christ has saved you from. And saved you to. If you see God as He's described here, only then can you really experience the joy and the peace and the love and that still small voice that comes from being called His child. We've seen not only God's entourage. Or sorry, we've only seen God's entourage and we're already overwhelmed. Now we get a, can we call it a discrete description of God? And this will give us actually hope rather than fear. So first we have God meets us in our exile from His promises. God terrifies us by His glory, and finally, point number three, God draws near. God draws near to offer us hope. And that hope is in Him. That final word there is Him. Offer us hope in Him Let's read verse twenty-six and verse twenty-seven. We'll start in the middle. On the likeness of the throne was a likeness with the appearance of a man high above it. More than man, but he looks like man. We are created in his image. I think that has something to do with how we look and appear as well, not just that we're moral reasoning beings. Also from the appearance of his waist and upward I saw, as it were, the color of amber with the appearance of fire all around within it. from the appearance of his waist and downward I saw, as it were, the appearance, something like it, of fire with brightness all around. He can't really Get across what exactly he's seeing. He doesn't understand for himself, but he's communicating it the best that he can. Glorious, beautiful colors and fire and expressions of power But now look at verse 28. Because this should give you hope, especially if you know your Bible. Like the appearance of a rainbow in a cloud on a rainy day. So was the appearance of the brightness all around it. It's fire and it's amber, but apparently also it's, you know, Roy Jib, all the colors of the rainbow around him. So was the appearance of the brightness all around it. This was the appearance of the lightness of the glory of the Lord There's a rainbow there. When did you last see a rainbow in Scripture? If I'm not mistaken, it's at the end of the story of Noah well, the middle of the story of Noah, because other stuff happens in his life Why did God give Noah a rainbow? I encourage you to go and read the story of Noah. uh after after this, maybe this afternoon, part of enjoying the the Lord's Day. Read ch uh Genesis chapters 6, 7, 8, and 9, and you'll see the story of Noah. I encourage you to read that. He gave Noah the rainbow as a sign that he keeps his promises. This is after he has destroyed all of the human population except six. By a flood, he's promised that he will never destroy the world by flood again. So every time we have enough sunshine on a rainy day to see a rainbow, We have evidence that this rainstorm will not flood the entire earth. That's what God's saying when you see a rainbow in the cloud. Or when you see it in the sprinkler sprinkler system, right? Do you ever do that? You put the sprinkler in the yard for the kids to run through or to water your grass. I never understood watering grass. It's really just a vehicle to run through and get wet, right, if you're a kid. And and you see the the rainbow in that that fuzz of of water. God's saying, I won't flood the entire earth. I will remember my promise. But when God gave us the rainbow, it wasn't merely, well, that's what water does, that's what light does. He takes it from himself, from his own glory. It's an expression of his own character. When he shows himself to Ezekiel with another rainbow, he's approaching fiercely. Yes, but in the reminder to Ezekiel that I keep my promises, I will not destroy you. I'm not coming to destroy you He's promised that the Jews are his people. That's what Ezekiel knows. He's been driven from his homeland. His capital city is about to be destroyed. It's been invaded by armies. King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon actually invaded three times successfully. It's in the third one that the temple will be destroyed, but the city has been defiled already. And Ezekiel feels like God has broken up his promises, it's done, but actually God's kept his promises. Because he promised, if you guys break my law, which you will, I will if you commit idolatry, which I'm commanding you not to do, then I promise that I will discipline you by bringing in foreign armies And he's done that. So this is a reminder that I keep all my promises, not just the good ones, not just the ones you like. All of his promises are good because they come from him. But not just the ones that feel good, even the ones that are severe. Ezekiel lives in Babylon or Babylonia and he's in the middle of God keeping these promises. But God has also promised to save them and to bring them back. And it's all of that is coming to Ezekiel's mind, perhaps, as he beholds this rainbow. Now, God has promised to make peace with mankind by the blood of his son. When the Lord Jesus had his last meal before his death, what did he say? He held up that cup, right? We we celebrate it every or commemorate it perhaps we should say every every month. We'll do it next week. And he said, This is the cup of the new covenant in my blood. The covenant is a promise, this new agreement that he's made with his people. I promise I'm nearly done. I realize I'm a little late. I'm nearly done. But he promised. This is the cup of the new covenant of my blood, my new promise. So when his blood was spilled, just what the the next day for the Day after. It initiated, it ratified that covenant, that promise, that whoever's marked by that blood would be Be forgiven. They would have peace with God. And this rainbow reminds us that God keeps all of those promises God comes surrounded by his rainbow, ready to judge and destroy his enemies, but eager to keep his promise to his people. If you will hope in God, there may be times where you you sin and you fail, you're trusting in Christ to forgive you, but then you you have such a spectacular failure and display of sin Maybe you feel disdriven so far despair that you contemplate doing the worst thing imaginable Because you're thinking there's no way that the Lord can forgive me. And yet, He promises to deliver you if you are marked by the blood of His Son. You can go past the cherubs. And into the holiest of holies, because you're marked by that blood, you will not be struck down by their fiery swords or by the appearance of God's Mind-blowing countenance and appearance. We may not be able to look at him clearly. Imagine our eyes will shut themselves. But you can come to him and he will forgive you and he'll say, Welcome my son, welcome my daughter, my child. It's good to see you. The cherubs no longer keep Christ's people out. In fact, maybe I'm speculating a little bit here, but I think it sanctifies speculation. They protect you. They fight for you on your behalf at His command. Revelation tells us that we are to be welcomed into God's own throne Where we'll praise the Creator of heaven and earth right along with those four cherubs. Only if we're in Christ. There is no people group on earth, according to Revelation 7, that will be excluded. God is making sure that He will have every language represented in heaven praising him. Every skin tone, every physical feature, every race will be there in heaven worshiping Him. He is saving out of the whole world. He wants you. He loves you. And you can trust all of these things because God keeps his promises. He approaches you fiercely, but in the rainbow. His reign, his presence is established by faithfulness to his promises. He's the fearsome, all powerful God. He will not stand for us to cheapen his son's blood with some Easy believe is a mantra. If you want to be saved, you have to accept him as he is and not just not just sort of pray a prayer like it's a magical formula and go on living your life like you always did, unchanged. If you come into contact with this God, the God we see here in Ezekiel chapter 1, it will change you. It will transform you. Come as you are. But you will leave changed. That is our hope at Grace Baptist Church. All are welcome. Come as you are, but don't leave as you came. Come for 30, 40, 50, 60 years and go into eternity changed. It's my hope that you go you you go forth from here changed every time you see sing to this glorious God every time you hear his word expound it. The only way to be cleansed by this blood is to come repenting. It's repentant face. Repentance really needs to turn. We turn to him from our way to his way. I turn from my old life, I turn towards this great, glorious God, and he meets me In his faithful rainbow glory. I submit to the authority of what he says in the Word, in the Bi His Word, the Bible.