So we know three chapters in, we're just in the closing verses of chapter three. And Christ has not really shown up yet. I mean, yes, he's of course been there in the birth story and the story of the the magi, the wise men coming and worshiping him, right? But he's kind of a passive character up until this point. All of chapter three has been John the Baptist talking about him But now is when we see him speak for the first time. It's where we see the Lord Jesus act for the first time in the entire New Testament. So this is a big deal. And we should expect it to have special significance because it's the first time that we're seeing him, certainly in adulthood, in his ministry, but really the first time in the whole New Testament that he is indeed. Acting. So let's try and get caught up, right? So we're picking up in the middle of chapter 3. John the Baptist has explained who he is, who John is. He's the voice crying in the wilderness. He has been sent. He's a man who was predicted by the prophets some 700 years earlier. With the mission of preparing the people of God and those who are not the people of God for the arrival of the Lord. to come to them. The Messiah. The Christ. And Christ is the Greek word for Messiah. Anointed is the English word for for Messiah. And we We we s seem to know the n the name Messiah before we know Christ or before we know anointed, don't we? Um and so that that is that in important title. He tells us how to prepare for the Messiah, how to prepare for the Lord specifically. Yahweh himself to come to them. And it is by repenting. That is the message throughout chapter 3. It's by repenting so that our hearts will receive Him And then at the end of addressing them, John describes this one they're all waiting for. Let's read verses eleven and twelve. We'll be picking up in verse thirteen. But here's how he concludes his talking to the people. He says. In chapter Matthew chapter 3, verse 11, I indeed baptize you with fire unto repentance, as John speaking, but he who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. His winnowing fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly clean out his threshing floor, and gather his wheat into the barn, and will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire. He's saying, Matthew is is clearly telling us that that when In verse 13, we have then Jesus came from Galilee, right? Matthew is saying, Jesus is this man. The one that John just spoke of in the previous verse. Who's coming in the baptism of the Spirit and fire? He has the power to judge. He has the power to save and to receive. This is him. He is so great that John is not worthy even to take the man's sandals off and wash his dusty feet. That's how great he is. And John is recognized as one of the greatest of the prophets. Jesus will later say, he is the greatest of the Old Testament prophets. And he is not worthy to bathe the feet of this man. And so if this is the first time that we're seeing Jesus in the New Testament, we should pay attention, shouldn't we? So let's read verses 13 and 14. I'll give you your notes as they become relevant. I'll bring them up on the screen for you. 13 and 14. Then Jesus came from Galilee to John at the Jordan to be baptized by him. And John tried to prevent him, saying, I need to be baptized by you, and are you coming to me. And what we see here is that Jesus fulfills John's expectation. And we would say it like this Jesus fulfills all expectations of the prophets. If you look on your notes and your bulletin This passage. You could divide this in half, 13 through 15, and then 16 and 17. I've chosen to highlight 15 on its own. And so it breaks down in three three pieces like this First of all, Jesus fulfills all the expectations of the prophets. And we're going to see that again in 15, again in 16 and 17, that Jesus fulfills other things. One of the great themes through the book of Matthew is that Jesus fulfills Scripture. He fulfills Old Testament expectation. All of the promises, all of the types, the foreshadowings of what the Messiah shall do, Jesus fulfills all of that. And it's an ongoing theme there, and we see fulfillment not only of Scripture, but of other things, and we'll get there really soon. So let's just briefly look at how he fulfills the expectations. First of all, he fulfills the expectations of John the Baptist. Jesus shows up just as John has said he would. Can you imagine that John is preaching this and he knows it to be true, but there's there's something within him that he's eager to see it for himself? And so when he when the the the Lord himself reveals that this man, Jesus He he was he was able to see sooner than everybody else we're told in uh in in the Gospel of John that he saw the the Spirit upon Jesus earlier than everyone else would see that. When he sees that, he is overjoyed. And he says, Behold the Lamb of God who takes a takes away the sin of the world. This man's not merely his cousin. Yes, he recognized that this was his cousin, but he recognizes beyond that this is the one who fulfills all prophetic expectation. And all of the things that John has said about the Christ that are perhaps not recorded here, all of the things he said about the Messiah in John's role of the last Old Testament prophet are f are fulfilled in Jesus. And so to sum up very quickly, thousands of years, four thousands of years four thousand years of prophetic expectation. We see that every Old Testament prophet who said ev anything about the one who's to come, the Messiah, we find it to be true in Jesus. There are a few things said of Jesus that have not yet come And yet even those have been partially fulfilled already. We have Moses, we have David, we have Isaiah, we have Daniel, we have Hosea, we have Micah, we have Zechariah. Even if you think back to the book of Numbers, that wayward prophet, who we do not expect to see in eternity, Balaam, all of them prophesied against the Lord even when they didn't want to. I'm sorry. Prophesied of the Lord, prophesied of the Lord Jesus. Balaam tried to prophesy against the Lord's people, and in fact he ends up prophesying of Jesus. Some of those prophecies, right? He would bruise Satan's head, and that happened when he destroyed death by his resurrection. He would arise as the great prophet, greater than Moses. We'll see evidence of that in the chapter after next, when he begins The Sermon on the Mount, that he is the greatest prophet, that he would suffer for the sins of his people, that he would be pierced through as Zechariah. talks about. That he will be born in Bethlehem, as Micah says. That he will rule all the nations as Balaam says. Over and over, prophets speak and Jesus fulfills. And then even those prophecies about his second coming have already been partially fulfilled, like his reign. We see him reigning over his people, we hear him, we hear his voice, and we follow if we are his people So Jesus Christ fulfills all the expectation of the prophets. That is one of the great themes of Matthew's gospel. He's made that clear several times. But now in the next verse, we we read of another great fulfillment. It's that Jesus fulfills all righteousness. And there is a depth of mystery and of greatness Here that I don't know that we we can quite grasp this side of eternity, but let's read what he says So in verse 14, John says, I need to be baptized by you, and are you coming to me? And then verse 15, Jesus says, Jesus answered and said to him, Permit it to be so now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness. Then he allowed him. Then John the Baptist allowed him to be baptized. What an amazing statement. Jesus says at the start of his ministry, it hasn't really started yet. It's about to, there's one other thing he's going to do after his baptism, and that is he's going to be tempted in the wilderness. He hasn't really commenced his public ministry yet. This is his first public presentation to the nation of Israel. And he says, I intend to fulfill all righteousness. What does he mean? I have. Well, he intends to keep the law of Moses 100% completely. He's going to fulfill the law of Moses to the letter and to the spirit of the law. He intends to fulfill our righteousness because we can't. And then he's going to let himself be executed as though he had broken it, so that we would be counted righteous. When we are not. He would be counted cursed when he should not. He's counted guilty when we are. It is amazing. But part of fulfilling righteousness apparently means that he needs to be baptized. And so I want us to kind of work through this together socratically. I want us to read, or I want us to consider these questions and and and writhe at what does it mean that he is undergoing baptism and that itself is part of fulfilling a righteousness Yes, he's setting an example for you and I that if you trust in Christ to save you and you have not yet been baptized, get baptized. It's your first step of obedience as a believer. But there's more to it than that. Okay, so let's think through it. What exactly in the previous verse, what is it that John is protesting? It's that Jesus wants him to baptize him, right? And and so rightly so, John's like, whoa, you should be baptizing me. This should be the other way around. Now why would why would John say that? Well John recognizes that he's a sinner. And he's humble and he's marked by humility because he sees himself in the light of Scripture. What God reveals to us, that all of us are sinners. We have fallen short of God's righteous standard. And so when Jesus says, this is what it takes for me to fulfill righteousness, and isn't it amazing he says for us to fulfill all righteousness? He actually lets his people play a role in that with him. Amazing. He says, You're going to baptize me. That's part of me fulfilling righteousness. Now, why would John be protesting this other than the fact that he feels Well, what does the baptism signify? According to John himself, what what kind of baptism is this? He says in verse 11, I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance. We're told in other places in the New Testament that John came baptizing in the wilderness with the preaching the baptism of repentance. Preaching a gospel of repentance. John seems to understand that this isn't right, not only because he is unworthy to baptize him. But because this is a baptism of repentance, and what is it that Jesus is to be repenting of? He's righteous. You see the problem? How can he repent? There's nothing to repent of. So what is it that Jesus is repenting of? Have you thought about this? When we think through that, we realize two things. Okay, one is that John is recognizing Jesus' own sinlessness, right? He recognizes he has nothing to repent of. And he's also confessing that he's a sinner himself. These things are the wrong way around. The righteous one wanting to be baptized by the sinner. So don't miss that significance that Matthew is using John the Baptist to show us Jesus' sinlessness. But let's get back to that difficult question. What on earth is Jesus repenting of if he's sinless? Well, in three years' time from this event, roughly, Jesus is going to die on a cross in the place of sinners, right? And here he is at the very beginning, his first public presentation to the nation, the beginning of his ministry, and he is apparently repenting in the place of those same sinners. He's repenting for sinners of the sin that he will late later on bear for them. He's going to be counted guilty of that sin. Not only is he going to die in your place, he's going to repent in your place. Isn't that amazing? By submitting the baptism, a baptism of repentance, Jesus is repenting in your place just as he would die in your place and has died in your place. Isn't that an astounding thing to ponder? And this is right at the start of his ministry. He is He is giving, and he's not heralding it, is he? He's he's not explaining all of this, but he's showing to them that he has come in humility. To do for them what they cannot do for themselves. We cannot even repent unless God enables us. Unless Christ Himself can repent for us. And He did that as well as dying for us. Jesus is saying even to his father, to the people watching, and to his father, that he will willingly take up the sin of these people for them. And this is good news for you. Let me ask you this. Do you ever repent of a sin? And feel like you do a lousy job of it, you don't have to nod your head. I'm not I'm not looking. You don't have to nod unless you want to. Right? Do you ever feel like you did a lousy job repenting? Maybe it's because you fall back into that same sin. You feel convicted and you hate that sin and you genuinely you mean it. You ask the Lord for forgiveness, you ask him for grace. that you would overcome it, that you wouldn't go back to that again. And like three days later or months later, maybe even hours or minutes later, I'll let you decide if I'm speaking from experience or not. You fall back into that. Do you feel like you've done a lousy job of repenting? And maybe you're like you you go to you go to pray again, you're like, Lord, I I I don't I don't get it. I really thought I meant it when I told you how sorry I was. Here I am failing again so soon. Lord, I'm repenting again. Forgive me Maybe it's not about the subsequent failure though. Maybe it's simply like you you you say you repent and you mean it because you know that you should be. But you're not you don't really regret all of it. There are parts of your sin and parts of your heart which which you're which are genuine, but there are other parts that I'm not really offering that to the Lord. Lord to be cleansed. Okay, so you're lousy at repenting. But Jesus isn't Before he bore his bore your sin to death for you, he even repent repented in your place. And I just find that so encouraging that when I feel myself failing in a an area of besetting sin. I know that my Lord repented for me. And this is why we plead Jesus as our advocate. in in 1 John, the end of chapter 1, the beginning of chapter 2, we plead him as our advocate when we ask God to forgive us of specific We know he's already cleansed us. He's already made us right with him. But we hate that we're grieving him, don't we? And so we ask for help. Lord, forgive me of that thing I just did. That attitude I just had again. The same day. We don't appeal to God on the basis of our own repentance, do we? I I hope you don't. We're not appealing based on our own faith or our own repentance. We're pleading Jesus. We're pleading the fact that Jesus shed his blood for us and he died for us. And we ask God to save us based on Jesus' blood and Jesus' death because Jesus repented already. Of sins that he did not commit, but you did. So if you're struggling to feel assurance that you're forgiven after you sin, remember that Jesus has not only shed his blood for you, but he's even repented for you in your place. Tell God that as you pray and ask him to receive Jesus' repentance on your behalf. We can't even repent unless Jesus helps us. And so this is part of Jesus fulfilling all righteousness. That he has to get baptized. Yes, he leaves an example for us, but more than that, this is part of him fulfilling righteousness. We've seen he fulfills prophecy. Finally, then, we're going to see that Jesus fulfills every hope and every desire of God the Father Himself, so that God is actually pleased with him. And those are your last blanks here. For your notes. Jesus fulfills all his father's pleasure. Let's read verses 16 and 17. When he'd been baptized, Jesus came up immediately from the water, and behold Look, he's saying, look, the heavens were open to him. And he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and alighting upon him. And suddenly a voice came from heaven saying, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. And we will hear the same thing said in chapter 17, verse 5. It's the same thing. Same thing that God the Father says at the transfiguration. He'll just he'll add one more phrase, he'll add a commandment then. This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased. Hear him, or listen to him, obey him. But right here, even distinct from the transfiguration, right, this specific event, Jesus' baptism, is one of the most unique I think we would say, in the true sense of the word, almost incredible, almost unbelievable events in the whole history of planet Earth. Because here we have the whole Trinity clearly present and visible, if I can call it, if I can use those words, but perceivable. Because we don't see God the Father in a physical form here. But the whole Trinity is clearly present and can be perceived. The Holy Spirit and the Father are together anointing and approving and commissioning the Son of God as the servant of God. And so I want you to turn with me just briefly to Isaiah chapter forty-two. Isaiah forty two We tend to focus on Isaiah 53. This falls in that same category of passages of the servant, the suffering servant. I want to read this one. Isaiah 42, verse 1. Behold, my servant whom I uphold, my elect one in whom my soul delights, I have put my spirit upon him. He will bring forth justice to the Gentiles. And he goes on in a rather familiar passage. I'll read just a little bit of that. He will not cry out nor raise his voice, nor cause his voice to be heard in the street. A bruised reed he will not break, and smoking flax he will not quench. In other words, he's gentle. He won't put out a wick that is just smoldering smoking. He will bring forth justice for truth. He will not fail nor be discouraged till he has established justice in the earth and the coast of the This is the same servant who will be bruised for our iniquities. The stripes of the scourge would be on him in order to atone for our sins. Did you catch the the language there that he that he is well pleased in his servant and his spirit is put upon him? That is exactly what is happening here in this event. So we're told in verse sixteen that Jesus has just come up from the water, which Which means he was baptized by immersion. He was down in the river. You don't go into a river in order to be sprinkled. He was baptized by immersion, not a sprinkled Super important point, but but it is relevant. He was in the Rebber river, he's in the water, and as soon as he comes up, the sky opens to him And we read heavens here, and I think sometimes it's uh at least in in the New King James here, uh behold the heavens were open to him. We read heavens, right, and automatically our mind goes to heaven, right, as in the place where the Lord lives. Heavens, plural like this, the heavens, is referring to the sky. The sky is open. But it has the same effects, right? Because It appears that heaven itself is coming through the sky, that the Holy Spirit is coming down out of heaven. It may be implying that Jesus Himself can see into heaven and see his Father. But at the very least, it means it's open so that the Holy Spirit can come down and come out of heaven The Holy Spirit comes down. He looks like a dove. He's not actually a bird. It's not actually a bird that is there. It is the Spirit who is there. And the Spirit being a he. He is there. And he is resembling a dove somehow. He looks somewhat like a dove. We aren't given more details like than that. It seems that the people are perhaps aware that this is more than a dove. That perhaps there's other stuff visually going on that indicates that this is more than a dove, or perhaps it's simply what comes next, the voice of the Father that makes it clear that this is more than a dove. This is the Holy Spirit We aren't given more details, but people seem to recognize that this is more than a dove. They may realize that this is indicating this dove-like Manifestation is indicating the presence of God. Now, why does he choose to show himself like a dove? There's a number of reasons, and we may be conjecturing a little bit, but the place that most people's minds go will go to, right, is Noah's family trying to leave the Ark. After a very long flood. They don't they don't know whether or not it's safe to leave the ark yet. They don't know if they'll find anything, and there's probably a lot of difficulty in opening up the ark if Ben to just find out that it But they're going to have to close it up again. That may be very difficult if you remember, because God closed them in the ark. They didn't close themselves in. And so rather than just get out and look, they're sending birds out. They send a raven and they send a dove. And it's not the raven but the dove that brings back signs of new life. He has an olive leaf in his beak, or or her beak. I think it specifically says it's a female dove. So life has returned to the earth, and this dove represents peace and new life, fellowship with God, fresh beginnings. And this is a little bit more speculative, but I think it's worth keeping this in mind. Doves are universally thought of as gentle. Gentle birds, gentle animals. They're beautiful. And they're they're seen as gentle, right? We even have the terms hawks and doves, right? Hawks are the ones that want war, and doves are the ones that that protest war. It's possible that Christ's gentleness is being highlighted here, then, too. We've had John the Baptist speaking with very fiery preaching against whom he calls a brood of vipers. And it's implied that Jesus himself is gentle, like the servant that we just read about, that he won't if there's if there's a reed at the side of the river and he walks by it, he's not gonna snap it off. He's gonna He's gonna gently correct that bruised reed. Not speaking, of course, about reeds, but about people who are bruised and are hurting, that are like wicks that are about to be put out, and yet he will gently blow upon that wick and he will he will increase the flame again. He is gentle. He is a healer. There's a contrast here a little bit between Jesus Jesus and John, though he himself, Jesus will have some fiery preaching. So the Holy Spirit settles upon Jesus, and here we have both God the Spirit upon God the Son. And it's so important because the Spirit is coming down on Jesus and anointing him for ministry. That's what Messiah means. It means anointed. And he is anointing him. When kings in the Old Testament would be anointed with oil, the oil represented the Holy Spirit. You know who else was anointed? Not just kings, but also priests. And in at least one case, probably many cases, prophets too. Anointed by the oil to represent the Holy Spirit. And this Holy Spirit is coming and anointing Jesus for all three offices: prophet, priest, and king. Everything that Jesus would then go on to do, he will do by depending on the Holy Spirit. We tend to think that, well, he has all the power in himself, which he does. He is fully God. But he does so in dependence on the Holy Spirit, which is why we must always depend on the Holy Spirit, if even Jesus depended on the Holy Spirit. And Jesus would go and spend an entire night without sleep in prayer because he depended so much on God's grace. How much also should we depend on the Holy Spirit for all things? But then as soon as the Holy Spirit reaches the Son, God the Father makes his presence known. In verse 17, this is my beloved Son. An audible voice coming out of the sky. Can you imagine how shocked everyone is? Identifying Jesus as the one in whom he is well pleased, the servant in Isaiah 42. Look at this last phrase in whom I'm well pleased. That's the best translation. You could also accurately translate it. This is my beloved son. in whom I'm delighted or in whom I take great delight. The word well pleased can mean to delight or someone that is taking pleasure in something. Or in this case, in some one. He's called his beloved son. Adam is called the son of God in Luke chapter 3. He failed to please His Father. Jesus Christ, the firstborn over all creation, the second Adam, pleases God perfectly. Brothers and sisters, the more I read the Bible, I am struck by just how how much evidence there is. In both the New Testament and the Old Testament, especially in the New Testament, for the Trinity. There is so much evidence that God is a triune God. I want to be clear. I want to just teach on the Trinity just a little bit here before we conclude. We don't believe in three gods. We believe in one God who is triune. And what that means is he's one single being. He is one God, one being, but he exists as three distinct persons. Now that's not personalities, he's not schizophrenic. He's not switching between personalities or psyches. We struggle to understand how he can be three persons in one b one being, and the reason for that, right, is because everybody that you know Aside from God, is a single person in a single being, right? I don't think you know any other being who is not a single person. No, I I say I don't think I know you don't know anybody who is yeah, that there's two persons in in in there God is different. He is infinite. He cannot be contained by our pinhead minds. He is utterly unique and unlike anyone we know, and so we don't have any comparisons that we can use. A popular way to describe and try to understand him, people are well-meaning, but they're wrong, is to say he's well he's switching between roles. See Um sometimes he's playing the role of a of a father, like he's well, we sing we we pray our heavenly father. Other times he's playing the role of a son, like Jesus when he goes to earth, he's playing the role of a son, though. He is also the father when he chooses to play that role. Now there's several things that I would say in response to that. And the first one is that The problem with this view is that God doesn't only play three roles. We only ever talk of three persons. And only three persons are referred to in divine terms as deity, as God. But God plays the role of king and the role of judge and the role of healer. As Jesus, he plays the roles of prophet, priest. King as well, I've already mentioned that one. Servant, husband, bindresser, brother, apostle, as he is called. The Holy Spirit is called helper. So if you add all of those rolls to the first three, you got like twelve rolls. And I could go more. I could go into more, right? So does that mean That we would say that God's a 12-person God? No. Anyone can play multiple roles. I play multiple roles. I'm a husband, I'm a father, I'm a pastor, I'm a son, I'm a brother, I'm a Friend on the friend I'm a customer in some roles. I'm a patient. I'm usually an impatient patient. There's nothing special about any of that. Just because God plays roles, well so do I. That doesn't mean I have multiple persons. But the second thing I would say about this, to say that he just switches roles, is There's a label for that. That's the ancient heresy called modalism. It's been denied by Orthodox Christianity for at least 15 centuries. I do not have an exact date on that. But at least fifteen centuries. The three persons of God, as He reveals Himself in Scripture, exist as distinct individuals who have fellowship together as one God. Each person is fully God and is fully distinct from one another. I don't understand how it works. I'm just telling you what scripture teaches. And we don't find the Bible's not a textbook. We synthesize these together. But there is there's a beautiful truth that comes out of this, that God has perfect fellowship with himself. He's not three pieces. He's three persons. Each person is fully God, and he's able to have fellowship within himself. That means in eternity before he created the world or the angels or time even. He was complete. He didn't lack anything. He didn't create the world because he needed something from us. He's fully self-sustaining and self-sustained. He wasn't lonely. He loves us and wants our companionship. He wants our relationship because he loves us. I think a lot of that is he wants our companionship so that we might have his, but not because he needs ours. We need him. He doesn't need us, yet he chooses to love us. And so this God, in each of his persons, with a single will decides I'm going to create humanity and I know they're going to rebel against me. And I am determined, perhaps he says we are determined, but I am determined to save this rebellious creature, this rebellious human race. And so God the Father agrees, I'm going to send my son into the world, and I'm going to rule and guide from heaven while he goes into the world. And God the Spirit says, I'm going to empower him. in his mission to redeem humanity. And God the Son says, yes, and I gladly volunteer for that. He agreed that it's good and right for him to give himself up to an accursed death. He volunteered in eternity to sacrifice himself. To sacrifice his life, to sacrifice his righteousness in order to redeem us. And that's what we call the gospel. Jesus went willingly, though at a great cost. God the Father, who loves his son, sent his son willingly, though at a great cost. And here, the train God at the start of Jesus' public ministry is proclaiming Jesus as the one who would reconcile us back to himself. Will you trust in this God and this God man to reconcile God to you? Will you follow him and do what he says because of this great cost which he has spent for you? Will you turn and repent, follow his own example? Will you turn and repent from doing things your way? So that you can belong to him and do things his way. He died in your place. He even repented in your place so that he could atone for your sins and wash you clean. And now's the time for you to trust him. Now's the time for you to turn to him. If you've not yet committed yourself to him publicly in water baptism, I encourage you to do that. Come and talk to me. Come and ask me to baptize you. Don't stand on the sidelines anymore. Let's live for Jesus who died for us. If you have any questions about this, you want to turn to Christ. The baptism won't save you. That's something you do after you trust Him. But if you want to turn to Christ and you're not sure if you have or you're not sure how, please seek me out after the service. I would love to talk with you for a moment. Let's pray. Dear Lord Jesus, this is sacred ground that we've been treading for the last forty minutes or so. Thank you for willingly dying for us. We praise you, God. Help us to continue to repent. Those of us who have belonged to you for Decades. Help us to continue to repent of our sin, of our self-will, that we would gladly follow you. And help us to rejoice in the fact That you have done so much for us and that you are worthy of praise. And Lord, we pray for anyone who is here, who is yet to turn to Christ, to to put saving faith in him. We pray that they would turn, they would repent, they would believe, all in one thing, one motion. And we pray that you'd receive glory for it. Help us now to sing in a way that's pleasant Pleasing to you and help us to delight in getting to sing to you who alone is worthy to receive glory and power and honor and riches. In Jesus' name, Amen.