You know, I did not expect to be excited to preach this message to you today. You see the the title slide, Christ Diagnoses Divorce. Total bummer topic. It's a very sad topic. It's a it's a depressing thing. It's controversial. There's always a high risk that I'm gonna Offend or some or anger somebody when I preach this, but it is God's will that we preach that I preached this to you today because we were working our way through the Gospel of Matthew, and this is where we are today This is his message for us as a church family today. But all of that said, I have found that behind this Heavy passage, there are glorious truths hiding in plain sight. And this is not some Something that you've never heard before, but we don't always locate these truths right here. And so I hope to encourage you this morning. I hope that you will go away even if you have divorced in your past, or it is perhaps you are not the divorce, but it's in your family, and it brings up hard feelings. It is my prayer that you will be encouraged, and I have been praying for you through over the last few days as I've worked on this message. I've been praying for you that you would not be discouraged, but that you would actually come away marveling at our God who hates divorce. Now, there are a lot of opinions as we get into this passage. There are a lot of opinions on what Jesus says about divorce. Unfortunately, in many of those cases, not in all of them. But in many of those cases, people have already made up their minds about what they want Jesus to say. They've already made up their minds on on how they want to view divorce. They go to the Bible afterwards having already drawn those conclusions. And so we don't want to do that. Now of course I've thought about divorce before today, obviously, and most of us have. But we want to come in eager to see what God says to us from His Word each time. And so what we're what here's what we're not going to do today, alright? We're not going to get so caught up in all all of the various controversial opinions that it takes us 45 minutes to work through all of the possibilities. And you know sometimes I do say there's this way to interpret something, there's that way, and there's this way, and I think it's option two. I will sometimes do that. I'm not going to do that today. For the reasons that I've already outlined. Now what we're also not going to do, we're not going to just throw up our hands and say, everyone just seems differently on this one so we're just I don't know just just be nice to your neighbor right we're we're going to take a stand on this but we're not going to take forty five minutes together What I really want us to do is go straight to the text, determine its meaning. We're going to look at a broader context as well, determine its meaning, and then get out of the way so that we can focus on bigger truths that are behind this prohibition on divorce. So if you've got pre-existing your preconceptions on this, or you're already starting to feel some of the soreness from your own past Okay? I'm not condemning you if you have divorced in your past at all. I want to say it up up front and I'm gonna say it probably another couple times. I'm not I'm not condemning you, you're not being judged. I actually hope that this will be a comfort to you Okay? But I want you to see the the character of our God who is against divorce. Alright? So can you try to listen, though you may you may find your your your mind going and reasoning in other directions. Yeah, but what about this? What about that? We'll we'll try to get maybe I won't anticipate your every objection Because it's it it's actually my my goal to not anticipate every objection but take you to those more glorious truths. But tr try try to to redirect yourself, try try to to follow what I'm saying, okay, because I think you'll find it encouraging. You can do that. Sound good? Steel? Is that okay? Alright. Thank you. I do realize that some of you have divorced in your past. And there may be more here than I'm aware of, but I know that there's a handful of us. And so the first half of this message might make you feel uncomfortable. It's the second half, though, that I trust will be more encouraging to you. I want you to know that I'm not judging you for your past. Anytime I preach against a sin, I'm not judging you if that if you're if you're guilty of that in your past because the blood of Christ cleanses you, if you're trusting him, cleanses you of that sin. But if it's in your presence or if you're planning to make it part of your future Then it's my goal that you would turn away from that sin. That is my prayer that this would be a way that the Lord prevents us from shipwrecking our faith. And our testimony in him and our joy in him. And I want you to turn and run the other way. If it is in your past, like I said, I'm not judging you for it. But you do need to turn to Christ and confess that sin if you haven't before, that it would indeed be under the blood of Christ, and that you would have peace knowing that He has made peace with you. by the blood of his son. And then we're going to move forward together without condemnation. So let's read the first, let's read these two verses, Matthew 5, 31 and 32. We are going to be Going to a lot of different scripture today. And if it is easier for you to not try and flip and find it and you just want to listen, that's fine. If you want to flip, that's fine, but I will keep on preaching because otherwise it will take a long time if I wait for you. You do whatever is best for you to pay attention, all right? But let's start with the passage in front of us. Matthew 5, verse 31. Furthermore, it has been said, whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce. But I say to you but I say to you that whoever divorces his wife for any reason except sexual immorality causes her to commit adultery. And whoever marries a woman who is divorced commits Now these verses are coming in the middle of a bunch of examples that God that Jesus has already given, right, or or is in the middle of giving. In order to prove that anyone who wants to enter his kingdom, he calls it the kingdom of heaven, needs to be more righteous than the most righteous people in the country. In the land of Israel at that time, or at least so they think. They think that these people are the most righteous people. He says in verse uh 20. For I say to you that unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, those are the ones they think are the most righteous, you'll by no means answer them. And so what he's done so far is he's shown, you've heard it said in the law, and they've heard it rightly, right? You will not murder. But he says, look, you are guilty of murder when you've started meditating on your anger. You are guilty of adultery when you've you've even had a a a lustful look, a look with the intention of And now he gets to adultery now he gets to divorce and shows that that too is tied up with the sin of adultery. So this really shouldn't surprise us that this passage is coming right after the passage in adultery because divorce often results from adultery. So our first main point today, and I will get to the theme at the end, if you're following along in your bulletin and you want those blanks, those will be at the end. First of all, Jesus reveals the sin. Jesus reveals the sinfulness of divorce. Now what what was really said about this certificate of divorce? divorce. He says, furthermore it has been said, whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce. So Jesus refers to the certificate. This is what the the religious teachers of the day would point they point To the law of Moses, where it does mention a certificate of divorce, and then they reduce it down to what you see right here. But is that what the law of Moses actually says? Not quite. Let's look at what is said in Deuteronomy. Let's read it for ourselves, okay? When a man takes a wife and marries her, and it happens that she finds no favor in his eyes because he has found some uncleanness in her And he writes her a certificate of divorce, puts it in her hand, and sends her out of his house. When she has departed from his house and goes and becomes another man's wife, If the latter husband detests her and writes her a certificate of divorce, puts it in her hand, and sends her out of his house. This is the second husband now. Or if the latter husband dies, he took her as his wife, then her former husband, that's the first guy. Who divorced her must not take her back to be his wife after she has been defiled. For that is an abomination before the Lord. And you shall not bring sin on the land which the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance. Let's put that back to those first two verses there. Do you seek? Right? Remember what what's being said in Matthew. If you're able to look at uh the verses in Matthew in your Bible and then deuteron on the screen, I'm not going to bring the other verses up on here, but for this passage I am. If you look, he says he quotes what they're saying. Whoever divorces his wife, let him give her certific give her a certificate of divorce. Is that what this says? Is that verbatim? It's certainly not verbatim what it says, right? He's more describing a situation that when this happens, here's how you ought to carry it out. It's a making the best of a bad situation. This passage is telling men specifically how they should treat their wives if they go forward with getting a divorce. But the way that the Pharisees and Scribes have been teaching it, they make it sound like a market marketing pitch, don't they? Hey, you need a quickie divorce? Call 555, 5555 and get a certificate of divorce, right? It it sounds like one of those ambience chaser commercials. All you need is a certificate. That is not what the they are not accurately representing the law of God. In Deuteronomy. This command is neither instruction for how to get a divorce, nor a permission to go forward and get one for any old reason. Instead, God is saying in effect Right. Look, if you go forward with divorcing your wife, make sure you treat her rightly. Here's what you should and shouldn't do once your marriage has been d dissolved. Now you may see there in verse one it refers to an uncleanness, and I realize you may have a different translation. We're in the New King James here, not the King James, but the New King James. James. It says in uncleanness. Now if I were to give you the the the literal English translation of that term there uncleanness It would scandalize some of us. We've got children here, we've got mixed crowds. I'm not going to give you a literal rendering of that. It comes across as very crass. Of course, scripture is not crass, but it is very frank at times. It's in context, it's referring to some sort of sexual indecency or indiscretion. And that is totally in line then with what Jesus says in Matthew 5. 32, isn't it? I say to you that whoever divorces his wife for any reason except sexual immorality causes her to commit adultery. You see that? He is being consistent with the law, but the Pharisees aren't. Because they would grant a divorce certificate for the most trivial reasons. Let's remember this in the context of what Jesus had already said. So we're in Matthew 5. Look back at verse 27 with me. We're in 3132, so just before that, 27. We're not going to read the whole 27 through 30. He says, You have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that whoever looks at a woman to lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. And then he goes after a brief interlude, a warning Now he's talking about divorce because these men are desiring women other than their wives, and they're finding a creative way to legally and lawfully get to sleep with another woman And their hearts are wicked and defiled. And they have found a way to do it and say that they're still righteous, and the law agrees with them. You know, some rabbi said you could get a divorce if you didn't like your wife's cooking. That would never have been a problem for me because my wife is an excellent cook. I think I need to get that on the record. But I mean isn't that absurd? They're saying you can you you if you want a divorce, you can get a certificate because you found this uncleanness in her. But no, it is a sexual uncleanness. This is not the uncleanness that God had in mind. Let's look at the case in Deuteronomy, right? What's happening? Did you follow it? So one man divorces his wife. She gets married to a second man and she has to because how else is she going to support herself? In that society, you didn't have single women working and making livings. She's either going to be supported by her father, her brother, or another husband husband. And so she gets remarried. And then it says if that second guy either he divorces her or he dies, doesn't matter, that second marriage comes to an end. Well now the first guy wants her back, and then it deals with the implications there. No, you will not do that. Well, if it were a real uncleanness, the kind of uncleanness that both Jesus and And God in Deuteronomy are talking about, right, that true uncleanness, he's not going to want her back. If it's an uncleanness like he didn't like her cooking or she she didn't make the bed right, That's the sort of thing that he'll have second thoughts about, because he realizes it's trivial, right? And Jesus is against that. God is against that. These religious leaders are manipulating what Scripture says in order to let them indulge their lustful desires and just move on to another woman, but God has always been against what the Pharisees are saying is okay. Do you understand? If we want to really understand what what God is saying here Here in Matthew, we have two verses, and if we try to build a whole doctrine off of two verses, when Jesus is not trying to give a full exhaustive teaching of on adultery. He's he's trying to show us where we are where we are defiled in our heart and that we need a new heart in order to have a a new righteousness. That we can be in the kingdom of heaven. So if we really want a more exhaustive teaching on divorce, let's go to Mark chapter 10. I have it right here tonight. Mark chapter ten, starting in verse two. The Pharisees came and asked him, Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife? Testing. him. And he answered and said to them, What did Moses command you? They said Moses permitted a man to write a certificate of divorce and dismiss her. And Jesus answered and said to them, Because of the hardness of your heart he wrote you this precept. But from the beginning of the creation, God made them male and female. He's quoting Genesis chapter 2 there. For this reason I'm sorry, chapter one. For this reason, a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. That's from Genesis. So then they are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore, what God has joined together, let not man separate In the house, his disciples also asked him again about the same matter. So he said to them, Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her. And if a woman divorces her husband and marries another Another she commits adultery. Now based on the plain reading of both of these passages Grace Baptist Church is against divorce. And I'm speaking as your pastor as well. I am against divorce. Remember how Jesus starts this teaching, right, in Matthew 5 32. He says, but You have heard it said, or furthermore, it has been said, but he's teaching the opposite of what the Pharisees are teaching and doing. They say you can legally marry another woman and keep on balling, but the go the son the son of God says when you do that You're causing abundant adultery. When you get married again, you're committing adultery against your first wife, and when she gets remarried, she is committing adultery against your first husband. And like I said, she will get remarried because that's really the only way for a woman to to have income in Jesus' day. The only way here that the husband is divorcing his wife and not causing her to commit adultery is if she's already done it. Right? If she's already cheated on him, then his divorce is not the cause of adultery. She's already committed adultery. And he says, whoever may uh I say to you that whoever divorces his wife for any reason except sexual immorality causes her to commit adultery. And whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery Now we see this clause there. And we say, okay, well, there's an exception there where it is permitted, perhaps. Perhaps in specific cases there may be an exception. But even then, does that just mean that as soon as you have adultery involved That it's okay to just go ahead and get that divorce. I think the answer to that question brings us to the more important point of this message. And we're going to answer that in the second half of this message. Because here here's what's happened so far, right? So far we've looked at the whole thing in negative terms. Jesus says, do not get a divorce, and unfortunately that's where the discussion usually stays. But what I want us to do now is to state it in positive terms. So let's ask this question. If God is against divorce, what is he in favor of? What is he for? And why is he in favor of it? We're going to see that God is consistent in his attitude towards marriage and divorce. Because it's essential to his character. So what I want us to do is take a Torah of the Bible, Old and New Testaments, and see what marriage reveals about him. If you are a divorced person, I want you to see the fact that Jesus is against divorce is a good thing. The fact that God is against divorce is a good thing. It's good for God to be against bad things. Hopefully we can all agree that divorce is a bad thing. It's certainly not the ideal. Maybe you would phrase it differently, and you say, well, maybe in but in certain cases. But there's no such thing as a good divorce. Perhaps we'd say that there are necessary ones. Perhaps. I'm not sure. Perhaps. But we would never say there's such a thing as a good divorce. And it is good that God is against bad things. So Jesus upholds the marriage covenant And we're going to see why. I want us to turn to Proverbs chapter 5. Proverbs chapter 5, verses 18 to 19 says Let your fountain be blessed, and rejoice with the wife of your youth. As a loving dear and a graceful doe, let her breasts satisfy you at all times, and always be enraptured with her love. Now Proverbs, you may know, at least the first nine chapters, are the form of a father giving advice to his son. And the whole of chapter 5, actually chapter 5, 6, and 7, the main topic there, there's a couple other things, but the main topic Is on sexual sin and temptation and lust. And in the middle of his his cautions and his prohibitions and saying, make sure you stay away from the immoral woman. In the middle of that, he talks about how wonderful marriage is. Let your fountain be blessed. Rejoice with the wife of your youth. Always be enraptured with her love. God intends marriage to be a great source of delight. It is a very good gift And he gives us an antidote to the temptation of lust and sexual sin, which is what Jesus is talking about in Matthew 5, right? As an antidote to all of that He assures us that marriage and the physical intimacy that comes with it is a great blessing. So Jesus loves marriage and he blesses it as a source of delight. Secondly, Malachi II on the negative side says this. This is the second thing you do. He's speaking to his people who have been unfaithful to the Lord in numerous ways. And he says, this is the second thing you do. I'll tell you what the first is in a minute. You cover the altar of the Lord with tears With weeping and crying. So he does not regard the offering any more, nor receive it with goodwill from your hands. Yet you say, for what reason? Because the Lord has been witness between you and the wife of your youth, with whom you have dealt treacherously. Yet she is your companion and your wife by covenant. But did he not make them one, having a remnant of the spirit? And why one? He seeks godly offspring. Therefore take heed to your spirit, and let none deal treacherously with the wife of his youth. If you are a divorced person, and whether you are a uh a man or a woman in this this situation, if you were betrayed, I am sorry. I want you to see that God is angry that you have been hurt by the person who betrayed you. And I hope that that would be an encouragement. To you, that your God is angry on your behalf. The tears covering the altar, those are your tears, he's talking about. He loves you and he doesn't want you to be hurt by broken marriage. And so he judges his people for it. Here's what he says in verse 16. For the Lord God of Israel says that he hates divorce, for it covers one's garment with violence, says the Lord of hosts. Therefore, take heed to your spirit that you do not deal treacherously. Now you hearing the instruction for us there. God loves us. He is heartbroken for us that we are heartbroken over this stuff. And then he says, don't you be one who deals treacherously. Uphold marriage. Bless marriage. Jesus upholds the marriage covenant. And you know why? It's because covenant faithfulness is essential to who God is. He is offended by people breaking their covenants. Because he is the opposite of that. He's using this language of betrayal in Malachi. It doesn't matter if this person, and in this case it's men, doesn't matter whether they committed adultery before the divorce or after. Remember what Jesus says, right? Perhaps the man divorced his wife according to the the certificate of divorce clause and then he married somebody else. At that point he's committing adultery against his first wife. It's all the same in the Lord's eyes. God hates the betrayal that comes there. Now look at the end of verse 14 he says, Yet she is your wife by covenant. He highlights this because God would never break his promises, and it it sickens him that somebody who belongs to him Who is called after his name would not merely break a promise, right? But that they would make that he would break a relationship that is is so significant and so intimate that it's made as a sacred covenant and that they are counted as one. Did you hear that? You are one. It's the whole one flesh idea that Jesus quoted in Mark. You're one, he seeks godly offspring, godly children. And now you're breaking that covenant. Now, here's why he is so torn up about this. We're still talking about Malachi chapter 2, in the verses right before that. Right, we started with this is the second thing you do. You want to know what the first thing is? He he says in verses ten through twelve that his people have broken their covenant that they may So he starts by saying, you've broken your covenant to me by going after other gods, by worshiping idols. It's as though they're committing adultery against him. And then he says, Ladies, I know how you feel. God portrays himself and his people as having a marriage relationship. He is a he is a covenant-making God, and covenant faithfulness is essential to who God is. And let me show you where he says that he's in a marriage to his people. We'll go quickly through these ones. Jeremiah chapter 2, the first two verses of Jeremiah chapter 2. He said, Moreover, the word of the Lord came to me saying, Go and cry in the hearing of Jerusalem, saying, Thus says the Lord, I remember you, the kindness of your youth, the love of your betrothal, that's what your engagement period is. When you went after me in the wilderness in a land not sown, if your marriage is on the rocks or it's been broken up. You probably found yourself thinking about those early days when you were engaged, when you were dating, when you were first flirting before you were dating. How wonderful it was. And God says, I remember those days too. I hate it that my people are cheating on me, he says. He sees himself as being married. He's a marriage-making God. He's a covenant-making God. Let's look at Hosea chapter 2. He says in verse 16, and it shall be in that day, says the Lord, that you will call me my husband and no longer call me my master. And then he goes on a couple verses later in Hosea 2, verses 19 and 20. I will betrothe you to me forever. Yes, I will betrothe you to me in righteousness. And justice, in loving, kindness, and mercy. I will betrothe you to me in faithfulness, and you shall know the Lord. If God makes a promise to you, He will keep it Even Christian marriages break up. Christians don't always keep their word to one another. In the most sacred of covenants and of relationships, But God always does. Has He promised you, because you're believing that Jesus died in your place and rose again, is He promising you that He'll never leave you or forsake you? Then He'll never leave you or forsake you Your salvation, your soul is safe in his hands because Jesus died to ratify the covenant. with you. What do what do we always read when we partake of communion over on that table right there? What do I always read? I don't read to you from from the Last Supper passage in Matthew or Mark or Luke or John. I don't read from there because I specifically every time I didn't plan to go there today, but I'm going to do it now. I always choose 2 Corinthians 11, because it includes something that the others do not. I'm sorry, 1 Corinthians 11. When he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take eat this is my body which is broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me. We're all on the same page. In the same manner, he also took a cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. You hear that? This cup is the new covenant. He's making a covenant with us. Where? In his blood! His blood ratified that covenant for you. And so he says, this do as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. God always keeps his covenants. He he hurts with you when you're hurting over divorce and over betrayal and perhaps you perhaps you don't have divorce in your in your life. Not in your family, not in your past, not in your own marriage. You've got a good marriage, but you've been betrayed by somebody else. God knows what it is to feel betrayed, and he hurts with you. And then of course there's Revelation chapter nineteen. Where we see all of this actually why don't I give you one more in in uh we'll be in 2 Corinthians. I just had you in 1 Corinthians. Let me give you s let me give you 2 Corinthians chapter 11. We were in 1 Corinthians 11. Now we're in 2 Corinthians 11. He says, For I am jealous for you. This is not God speaking. This is not Jesus. This is Paul. He says, I am jealous for you with godly jealousy. For I have betrothed you to one husband, that I may present you as a child chaste virgin to Christ. You hear that covenant language is not just in the Old Testament, it's in the New. And then finally, Revelation 19 all of what's been building through all of Scripture and all of the redemption that Christ has given us. We are waiting for him to return. And then to finally He's been calling the church his bride all of his ministry, and now she's called his wife. And I heard, as it were, this is Revelation 19, verse 6. The voice of a great multitude, as the sound of many waters, and as the sound of mighty thundering, saying, Alleluia, for the Lord God omnipotent reigns. Let us be glad and rejoice and give him glory. For the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his wife has made herself ready. And to her it was granted to be arrayed in fine linen, clean and bright, for the fine linen is the righteous acts of the saints. This is like a wedding dress here being Then he said to me, Write, Blessed are those who are called to the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he said to me, These are the true sayings of God. God views us, the church, if you are a Christian, if you're trusting in Christ alone, he views us together, collectively, as his bride. And we're looking forward to the day when that marriage ceremony actually happens, where we're not just engaged, but we are, as one called his wife, the wife of Christ, the wife of the living God. We look forward to Christ's return when his bride becomes his wife. So that brings us to the theme of this message. If you love Jesus, I want you to remember, Jesus is the covenant-making God. We just saw that, right? The new covenant is blood. If you love Jesus, who is the covenant-making God, then treasure your covenant with you. Your spouse. Because he cr he treasures his covenants to us. And and we ought to love the same things he loves, and hate the same things he hates. He hates the breaking of covenants. So treasure what he's given you. Now I want us to, before I go into the final applications of this message, and we're nearly there. I want us to see right here in Matthew 5 in the Sermon on the Mount. We'll jump to a little bit later in Matthew 2, but I want you to see how consistent all of this is. That Jesus is always consistent in all that he says. Look with me at 5, verse 9. If you haven't been turning so far, we're just in Matthew 5 right now, so you can look with me. Chapter 5, verse 9. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. If you help somebody to make peace, you are helping to preserve a covenant. If there is a marriage that is in trouble, he calls upon his people to be peacemakers and help uphold those covenants. Look at chapter 5, verses 23 and 24. We we looked at this just two weeks ago. Therefore, if you bring your gift to the altar and now remember that your that your brother has something against you Leave your gift there before the altar and go your way. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift. What is it that he desires here? Reconciliation. God is a reconciling God. This is what the gospel is: it's Jesus coming into the world to reconcile us to Himself because there's nothing we can do to reconcile ourselves to Him. He has to make the first move and the second move and the third move. He has to to shed his own innocent life. And he dies in our place because you and I cannot make things right on our own. He has to die for us. And his blood must must ratify that new covenant. And when we but believe in him, his death is what accomplishes us. He takes our sins and he makes it so that Jesus wears them and God concentrates all his wrath on those sins. It meant the death of his son. But when he killed his son, he killed that sin and it's gone. And that's why Jesus could rise from the dead. I I think. I could be wrong, but I think he could have gotten up off of that cross the moment after he died, but he stayed in that tomb to prove that he really was dead, and he really does have power over the dead. So he waited a couple days to prove His power to us. God came into the world as a servant, as a man. In order to reconcile us to us. And so now he wants us to be working to reconcile others to him and to each other. And that's especially true for the church in marriages. If you know of a marriage that might be in trouble, look to help them. Sometimes meddling isn't good, right? But but sometimes Peacemaking is very good. Always peacemaking is good. Pray for wisdom. Ask someone, how how are you and your wife doing? How are you and your husband doing? Love them, help them, encourage them to value their marriages. Now we're going to jump further into Matthew chapter 5, verses 33. Again, you have heard that it was said to those of old. So this is what we'll be on next week, right? You shall not swear falsely, but shall perform your oaths to the Lord. But I say to you, do not swear at all, neither by heaven, for it is God's throne, nor by the earth, for it is his footstool, nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king, nor shall you swear by your head, because you cannot make one hair white or black, but let your head Yes, be yes, and your no-no, for whatever is more than these is from the evil one. God wants us to keep our word. If you are a married person, then you promised, man, you promised to your wife. Women you promise to your husband to have and to hold, to cherish, even when they're sick, even when you're poor, that nothing will come between you. Except death. Death will be the last thing to part you from each other, won't it? And God desires that we keep our word. Now we're going to jump forward one more time. This will be the last time to Matthew eighteen. Twenty-one to twenty-two. Then Peter came to him, came to Jesus, and said, Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him? Up to seven times? That was his way of saying the perfect amount, the complete amount of forgiveness. I've really been patient. I've forgiven him seven times Jesus said to him, I do not say to you up to seven times, but up to seventy times of seven. Forgive. So we have this question of divorce. Let's imagine a worst case scenario. A wife has cheated on her husband. I recognize that husbands cheat on their wives all the time as well, but the situation we have in Matthew 5. So a wife cheats on her husband. Let's imagine it's present day. The offended party may want to drop that cheater like a hot potato. But the husband's a Christian and he loves Jesus. He loves his Savior. He remembers that God is a long-suffering God. That his God keeps on reaching out to his bride despite her numerous betrayals. Was true of the nation of Israel, is true with the church. He remembers that his own marriage is a reflection of his Savior's relationship to his people. That he's supposed to love his wife as Christ loves the church. And so he wants to show his friends and his family that Jesus is indeed faithful even when we are not. His thoughts turn to Matthew. He remembers that Jesus places a blessing on peacemakers, and that he urges people his people to keep their word even when it hurts. He remembers that Jesus wants him to forgive his wife 70 times seven times. That doesn't mean 490 times and 491 you're out of luck. That's why he doesn't say 490 times He says 70 times 7. He's saying, keep on forgiving for good. So this man who is hurt by his wife and who is angry and righteously so. He decides instead of seeking a lawyer, he's going to pursue his wife. She might not respond to his efforts at reconciling, but he's going to go after her. He's going to extend forgiveness. He's going to keep asking her to return to him. He can't force her, but he's going to pursue her just as his Savior pursues him. That's what Jesus does when his people disobey him over and over and over again. He is faithful to pursue us. And so, our last applications. I'm going to speak to, I think, just about every group of people here in the church. Husbands, fight for your bride. Fight for your bride against yourself. Fight for your bride against your own flesh and your own lusts. There's no temporal pleasure worth losing your marriage to adultery. After salvation, marriage is perhaps the greatest gift that God gives to his people. And the reason for that is it mirrors his own love for his people. And it comes with so many joys. Yeah, marriage is hard, but it is worth laboring for. It is full of joy. Husbands, don't hurt the wife of your youth. Don't cover God's altar with tears. Be deliberate in thinking loving thoughts of your wife Develop an appetite of love for her once again. You will have to work at that if you're if your marriage is strained. If you've gotten complacent. But try to think back to how how things were when you're first going out. Remind yourself how how pretty she was. Remind yourself how her beauty captured you. Rekindle thoughts of love to her now. Remember the sweet times you've had together. Remember all that she's done for you and sacrificed to you. Try to see her kindnesses even today, even if she's really hard to love and live with. And men, don't hurt your children. Whether they're young or grown up and out of the nest, you will inflict great hurt on them if you break off your marriage to their mom. Hurt mom, you hurt them. Wives. Do to your husband as you would have him do to you. The things I just said to your husband I just told him to to to do those for you. Now help him to do those things. Don't make it hard for him to remember how sweet you were. When you guys were first dating. Be sweet to him now. Show him love and respect. Help him to rekindle those affections for him. And do the same for him. Remember his kindness. Remember how honorable he has been to you, perhaps not now, but in the past. And don't, ladies, don't fall victim to the grasses Greener syndrome. Don't just keep thinking about how other women's husbands are better than yours. I I said last last week about the Mr. Darcy effect. You can always find a Mr. Darcy, someone who treats his wife better than you feel like you're being treated treated by by your husband in this area or that area. Yeah, your husband has faults. And so do you. You're not always as easy to love as you might suppose. Jesus is the only groom without faults. Focus on your husband's strengths. He has some. Focus on them, find them, hunt for them, and then praise him for them. You will find that will help him. That will help him to love you. Praise him for his strengths. Couples, together, God's will is for you to love each other. God's will is for you to love your spouse. Don't believe those lies that say that you got God's will wrong. You know, that maybe he really intended for you to marry someone else. You uh I should have I should have married my high school sweetheart and I didn't or I married my high school sweetheart and I really should have waited for who was Next. Don't think about any alternatives. It is God's will for you to love the husband that you have. It is God's will for you to love the wife that you have. He's given you your spouse as a gift, and his will for you is is to treasure that person and that covenant you have with that person above anyone else except for him. For better or worse, for richer or poorer, you married the person you married, and God's will is for you to love and cherish that person and honor the covenant that you made. Divorced people, I say again, I am sorry if you had a spouse who rejected you. And I don't say any of the things in this message to shame you. And perhaps this passage passage kind of poked at some old wounds and you feel sore. And that's not my intention, and I'm sorry for that. But please let me remind you that there is a man named Jesus and he is the perfect husband to his people. to his bride, the church. And he gave his life to make you his own, to marry you, to end He is the perfect husband. And he knows your your sorrows. Flee to him for comfort. Pour out your hurts and your griefs to him in prayer. And I realize there may be some here that maybe you weren't hurt by a spouse, but you were hurt by a fiance or by a boyfriend or girlfriend in the past He understands those griefs and hurts too. So trust Jesus when he says he won't cast anyone out who come to him for rest. But divorced people, I also encourage you. You can help married couples. You can help them by encouraging them to treasure what they do have. According through the lens that perhaps you you failed to see through that lens. Encourage them, you know, you can even offer child care sometimes so that husband and wife can go on a date Encourage the the married people in your life because you love the God who loves covenants. And singles. I know this is hard to hear a message about this when perhaps you've been yearning to be married yourself. Perhaps you're single and you don't yearn for that. And okay, praise God that He's enabled you to be content with singleness. But I know it's hard to be content with singleness Perhaps you've accepted that marriage isn't God's will for your life, but a message like this is still hard to hear, and I thank you that you've been listening patiently. I thank you, divorced people as well, you've been listening patiently. So I say to e to each of you, don't miss the character of your covenant-making God Because he's always faithful to his covenants. He has made a covenant with you by his own blood. Praise him for that. Taking time in the next song to praise him for his faithfulness See the blessing of marriage for what it is. And help the married people in your life. To glorify God in their marriages. Do what you can to help them. And tell others that this is a reflection of the God who died for me to make me his own One last group of people I want to address is children. Kids, this is good news for you that God is so ardently in the favor of marriage because it's an added layer of protection for that your mommy and daddy will stay together. They will continue to love you and your siblings together as a team and as a family Family. So don't begrudge your parents' time together. When mommy and daddy want to go out on a date together encouraging Encourage them to do that. Encourage them to take more dates. Pray for your parents. And especially don't try to f I don't want anyone to have any To mistake anything here, I'm not accusing anyone of this, okay? But don't because this is not true in my family. But don't try to play mom and dad against each other Right? If dad says you can't go out with your friends, it's sinful you do for you to go and ask mom. If if mommy says you can't have a cookie, don't ask Daddy Don't play them against each other. Don't strain their covenant. My my kids don't do that actually, they're really good about it. Jesus has made a covenant of salvation with us. He shed his own blood to give his life to die in our place so that we can enjoy we can join him in eternity and enjoy him in eternity. So anyone who will but trust in him to keep to keep that covenant may join in that covenant. But it's a binding covenant. And he'll expect you to be faithful to him. He'll go so far to keep you faithful to him that he'll actually put his spirit in you. And guide you from within to help you be faithful to him. Isn't that cool? So whether you falter or fail, he will forgive you, you will fail. And yet he will forgive you. And his spirit will urge you from within to turn back to him. So will you partake of the salvation covenant with Christ? Will you rejoice in the covenants that you have made with others and honor them so you can show this is what the covenant-making, covenant-keeping God is like? Our marriage day to our Savior is getting closer by the moment. Now let's pray