As I said in my prayer, I don't anticipate this to be a feel-good message. I uh I don't apologize for that, but I I let you know that uh don't expect that, uh, but it is indeed my hope that we will rejoice in Jesus as we see him as the remedy to I imagine that many of us, you pastor included, are going to feel uncomfortable when we hear the sin diagnosed by our Savior and then as he prescribes drastic measures for us that we might deliver be delivered from that sin. and its effect in our lives. I I uh don't expect this to be comfortable for you, but I promise you that this is necessary. It is absolutely what the Lord intends for us to receive today. And uh and it is good for us to think intently on these things. I'll try not to go too long, but I'm not gonna skimp either. I want us to start with the theme before us in these few verses. God values purity to the highest degree, and he demands it at the deepest level. We're going to find that he enables us to walk in that purity as well. God values purity to the highest degree and he demands it at the deepest level. Let's uh I want us to we we're we're gonna be in verses twenty-seven to thirty, but I want us to get the full context here. We're not gonna read the entirety of the Sermon on the Mount that we've We've been in before, but I want us to start in verse seventeen, and we're going to read through verse thirty two. And our our verses will be the end there, but not not those last two verses. We'll we'll be covering twenty-seven to thirty, but I'm going to read seventeen to thirty-two. You ready? Do not think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets. I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill For assuredly I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, not one jot or one tittle will by no means pass from the law till all is fulfilled. Whoever therefore breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches men so, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I say to you that unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. You have heard that it was said to those of old, You shall not murder, and whoever murders will be in danger of the judgment. But I say to you that whoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment And whoever says to his brother Raka shall be in danger of a council, but whoever says, You fool shall be in danger of hellfire. Therefore, if you bring your gift to the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you, Leave your gift there before the altar and go your way. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift. Agree with your adversaries quickly while you are on the way with him, lest your adversary deliver you to the judge and you be thrown into prison. Assuredly I say to you, you will by no means get out of there till you have paid the last penny. You have heard that it was said to those of old, You shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that whoever looks at a woman to lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. If your right eye causes you to sin, pluck it out and cast it from you, for it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than for your whole body to be cast into hell. And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and cast it from you, for it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than for your whole body to be cast into hell. Furthermore, it has been said, whoever divorces his wife, let him give him a certificate of let him give her a certificate of divorce. But I say to you that whoever divorces his wife for any reason except sexual immorality causes her to commit adultery. And whoever marries a woman who is divorced commits adultery. We see here Jesus assuring his listeners. in the greatest sermon, or certainly one of the greatest sermons ever preached in all of history, that he came to fulfill the law. And one of the ways in which he fulfills the law. It's not a primary way, that the primary way that he came to fulfill the law was to fulfill its i in in its obedience to ful fulfill all of its commands, all of its blessings and all of its curses. And he dies under the full curse of the law, having fulfilled all of the commandments. But he also comes to fulfill it in the sense that he helps us to understand the law at the deeper level and at the heart level that God intended it. And he's already started to prove that to us. He says, look, you've heard the commandments from the Ten Commandments, you shall not murder. And then he he adds a little bit to that. Not that he adds, but he's saying that others have added, and who whoever murders will be in danger of the judgment. Not that that is untrue. But then he then he says, but I say to you. And he he takes that deep, doesn't he? We were here last week, or perhaps you were here last week, where he takes it so deep to say, look, you committed murder long before you slashed someone's throat. Or long before you pulled any trigger. You committed murder when you were harboring anger for the wrong reason towards the person that you killed. And we are guilty of that crime before we commit it. That we are we have been guilty in our hearts of killing people. I'm not aware of any murderers in this congregation. I hope that I'm not wrong about that. I'm not aware of any murderers murderers in this congregation, but uh of the of the actual physical act But according to what the Lord says here, likely we are all guilty before the Lord of the root sins that lead to murder. And he says it again then here with regard to the sin of adultery. He says, You have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not commit adultery. They've heard it said that way. That is exactly what was said. He is accurately quoting that from the Ten Commandments. And he says, but I say to you, and this is part of the formula he uses throughout the rest of this chapter, but I say to you that whoever looks at a woman to lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. And so I want you to see, and I I apologize, there's no underline on the word you're missing from your bulletin there. But the first blank that you have there for each of these points, you're going to see see that this is repeated each time because God values purity at the deepest level. Then the principle from each point follows from that. God values purity right at the heart level, right at the thought level, and our thoughts condemn us, especially with regard to this particular sin. So let's let's exposit it, shall we? Because God values purity so deeply, first of all, recognize that your desires condemn you. just as much as your actions do. Your desires condemn you as much as your actions, as much as your deeds. So Jesus is going back to the Ten Commandments. He quotes it correctly, and then he says, but I say to you, that is emphatic in the Greek text. He adds I when he doesn't need to add I to say this is coming from me. So we would expect If you're familiar with the Old Testament, I want you to think back whenever you've read of any of the prophets, whether you've read, say, the book of Isaiah or the Book of Haggai, real short little Prophetic book. The book of Obadiah being the shortest, the book of Jeremiah being the longest. If you have read any of those books of the prophets, or perhaps you've not But perhaps you've read 1 and 2 Kings, where you have the prophets speaking in the name of the Lord. What do they always say when they're speaking for God? What do they say? Thus Thus says the Lord. Why is it that we always go to uh King James English when we say that? Thus saith the Lord. I heard you. Thus says the Lord, right? This is what God is saying. Jesus doesn't say that, does he? He seems to have this as his formula over and over again when he says, you have heard, and he quotes scripture, but I say to you, he is speaking in the place of the Lord there. We would expect him to say, you have heard it said that it was said to those of old, you shall not commit adultery, but thus saith the Lord today. He doesn't say thus saith the Lord. He is the Lord. And he is speaking to us, and he's giving us God's, hey, here's what I meant when I said that a thousand years, 1500 years earlier. This is what I meant. You guys have have misused it. And so I want to call our attention to that butt there. Jesus needs to stop and emphasize because the leaders of of the day, the Christian leaders who are teaching them how to understand the Bible, the scribes especially, the Pharisees. possibly also the the Sadducees were were teaching they they were doing what Jesus just warned against in chapter 5 verse 19. Let's read that again. Actually, we'll start with with seventeen. Do not think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets. I did not come to destroy but to fulfill. You hear that? For assuredly I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one tittle will by no means pass from the law till all is fulfilled. Do you see that he has fulfilled He's fulfilling that promise right now. He's saying, I'm going deeper than the surface reading of the text. I'm going right to the heart of what it means the heart of what God meant when he spoke out of the sky 1500 years ago. That's what he's saying. I'm going deeper. None of it's going to pass away because I'm going to show you and then I'm going to fulfill it myself. What God desires, what God intends, what he demands of you in terms of righteousness. Okay? And then he says this scathing thing Whoever therefore breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches men so, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. And the religious leaders of the day are doing that. You know why? Well, you saw we we read beyond this prohibition of lust, didn't we? We read to the next couple of verses that says, Furthermore, it has been said, whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce. And then he goes on and he ties it to this this sin of adultery. But I say to you that whoever divorces his wife for any reason except sexual immorality causes her to commit adultery. You see that? He's tying them together. These are these are linked together. So we'll be hearing more of this next week And what the Pharisees were doing was they were allowing for easy serial adultery and yet making it appear lawful Because he quotes here, whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce. That's what they're teaching And they're taking that out of the law. It's not a direct quote. The certificate of divorce is involved in the law, but it's not stated that way. And they are manipulating what is there. And so what they're doing is they they're saying, look, as long as you get a lawful divorce, as long as you you carry it out in the legal way, then you can go ahead and you can marry the next woman that you've you've set your lust on And you can commit adultery with her, but it's not adultery. It's it's now it's okay. It's legal. It's good. You have fulfilled the law. Right? So what they are doing essentially is they are they are teaching men not to fulfill that commandment, you shall not commit adultery. You see? So they are guilty of verse 19. They're breaking one of the well, this isn't one of the least of the commandments. This is one of the big ten, isn't it? And they, if they're in the kingdom at all, they would be called least in it. Of course, he's implying that these men are not at all in the kingdom of heaven, and that's why he says, unless you the r unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. And so this is a message for us that we may be able to say, I haven't violated that, to the letter. And on the surface, but that if we look d beneath the surface and we consider our thoughts and we consider how we've used our eyes Though we're condemned before the Lord, and our righteousness does not exceed the scribes and the Pharisees. We are guilty of sinning against him. He says that this deed is that's listed in the law is already complete in the heart of anyone who's looked with a with a lustful intent at someone else. That's what he's saying. It is about the type of look. He's not saying, oh, you you happened to notice that somebody was attractive. But that then you look with an intent to exercise your lust in some perhaps small way, or perhaps a great way, then you have already committed that sin that leads to adultery. the outer action of adultery. Let's see, God desires purity at the deepest level, doesn't he? He desires there to be purity in your heart of hearts. And so it's what goes on there, not merely what we do with our hands or any other part of our bodies. That's where God looks to determine whether we're pure or sinful. And and that's where He's going to look when we stand before His judgment throne one day. It's not going to merely be looking at the things we said with our lips and tongues, or the things we did with our hands and with our feet, or the things we looked at even with our eyes, but what was going on deep at the heart level So he's talking about somebody who is admiring with a purpose. This is an intentional look. And when when we do that, when you look purposefully at someone you're not married to, perhaps it's even somebody that you're dating. You're in a committed relationship with that person, but you're not married to that person. That is not your spouse, that is not your wife, that is not your husband, then you are proving that your heart is sinful. Because that's where the desire to look lustfully came from. It came from your heart. And so Jesus is telling us to recognize that our our inward thoughts condemn us just as much as our outward actions do. It's just like the angry thoughts in in verse 21. Now if you can't accept what he said here, you're not going to be able to w to to accept what he says next. Because really Jesus is just getting started. Let's see what he says next. If your right eye causes you to sin, pluck it out and cast it from you. Now let's jump to verse 30. If your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and cast it from you. And what we're going to do here, we're going to take the first half of 29 and the first half of 30, because they're parallel commandments. They're really saying the same thing. He's saying it for emphasis. And then we'll take the second half of each of those together after that as well. So because God values purity at the deepest level then. He calls us to cut off our sin at the source. Now, this is a hard passage for us to swallow because we immediately go literal. Alright? So I want us to go absurdly literal to make sure we understand it. We always want to be literal with Scripture as much as we can. And I think when we read this, literally, we say, okay, well, if someone struggles with pornography, which is an extraordinarily common sin among men and among women, If somebody struggles with pornography, does that mean that they should literally be blinding themselves so that they can't look at pornography Or so that they can't look at uh joggers when they're out at the park. Or people who are not wearing enough when they go to the beach or to the lake. Is that what Jesus is saying? That if I value holiness and purity enough, I'm willing to tear out my own eyes or to cut off my own hands. Well, let's take it absurdly literally, okay? If your right eye causes you to sin. Okay? If your right hand causes you to sin. Let's imagine that all of us Let's imagine that just one of us left here today thinking, I need to tear my eye out. First of all, let me say you should feel that You should feel that it is worth it even losing my eye if that would make me pleasing to my Savior and if that would it that that would help me to avoid this deadly sin that much. I hope you can see and I'll say more of this in a minute This is a deadly sin. It is worthy of us tearing our eyes out. It is worthy of that. Please don't tear your eye out. But but understand it is even worth that. Now let's imagine that one person leaves here and and goes and tears his eye out. Would that stop him from his lust? Because he says, if your eye, if your right eye causes you to sin, you tear out your right eye. Do you think that that person's problem with lust is gone? I don't think so. So let's say then he tears out his left eye as well. Is that going to stop his lust? Why is that not going to s stop his lust? What if he cuts off his hands? Will that stop him from lusting? Where where does the where does the sin come from? Where does the lust come from? Can you point for me? Where is it it doesn't come from here, does it? It comes from here. You need a new heart, not a new eye. You need a new heart. Please don't go performing open heart surgery unless you're qualified. You need a new heart though. You need a new spiritual heart. Replacing the organ will not help you either, right? The physical organ. What Jesus is saying is you need to cut the sin off at the source. You need a new heart. That won't lust anymore. The problem is we're still in these bodies that lust I would not stop sinning if I had a new eye or if I had a new hand. I need a new heart. That's the only way for me to stop sinning. You need a new heart. And Jesus puts it this way: you must be born again. That's what he says. If you want to have freedom from sin. Then you need a new heart, you need to be born again. And don't just suppose, oh well good, I am saved, I don't need to listen to the rest of this. But I'm gonna first talk to those who may not be born again. Perhaps you're not sure. Do you feel this? Do you feel your sin problem? Do you recognize that you've taken measures, you've tried various things? But you're not able to stop it. You still have these sinful desires. And from time to time, they win. And you give into that desire. You've done all sorts of strategies, you've taken all sorts of measures, you've prayed really, really hard with your eyes really, really closed tight, and and you still find yourself falling. Now that may be true of you if you are a born-again believer, that you still feel that that is true of you, you will still feel the difficulty. Of overcoming sin. But the person who has trusted in Christ has a power source and has access to that power source. that you do not have if you've not gotten that new heart, if you've not been born again. In the book of Romans, Paul tells us that the The Spirit who rose Jesus Christ from the dead, right? Who raised Jesus Christ from the dead. Imagine that, a dead, lifeless body, and the Holy Spirit raises that body back to life He says that same spirit that raised Jesus dwells in you. So first of all, the question is, does that spirit dwell in you? If it does not, if he does not, rather, I should say. The Holy Spirit is a person. If he does not dwell in you, then you are not united to Christ. And when God looks at you, he looks all the way to your heart and he sees how corrupt you are. And he sees that you are an adulterer at heart, and a murderer at heart, and a liar at heart, and a thief at heart, and an idolater at heart, one worshiping a false god. You need Jesus Christ to make you new. He is your only solution. And I will say more of that later in the message. The commentator S Sinclair Ferguson wrote this. He said, sexual relations have become the door through which many professing Christians have walked to their destruction. He wrote that in 1987. I think that many, many more, and a much higher degree of professing Christians now fall and turn away from Christ because of sexual sickness. Brothers and sisters, I'm speaking to you if you're safe. I want you to see the deadly reality of this sin. I want you to see the danger of this sin. That lust That will ultimately culminate in adultery and other forms of sexual sin. There are unspeakable things listed in the law. They're listed there because people do that. And I don't think that we've seen the worst that our culture is is going to go yet We've seen a lot. The LGBT movement is nothing but sexual sin and the sin of pride. It's very much rooted in pride, not just sexual sin. But I believe there is more to come And we need to recognize the deadliness then of lust. It's lurking inside of us. And it will lead us to sin again. If you're a married person, it will lead you to sin again. against your spouse if you do not take measures to intervene and protect it protect yourself from it. And we do that by the power of Christ. Now we can pro we can apply this beyond lust, for sure. But I would ask you, is there anything in your life that's Preventing you from living as purely as your position in Christ is. Right? If you are born again, if you've believed in Jesus Christ, that He has paid the full penalty for you. Then he gives you a new heart. He hasn't given you a new body yet, he will. Because he hasn't given you a new body yet, you still feel this pull of sin. And it's it's hard, isn't it, to keep fighting. Those of you who are older than me, I've been fighting against sin for, I don't know, 35, 36 years, and I'm tired of it I don't it's tiring, isn't it? It's exhausting to keep having to fight against your own inward inclinations, but it's what God calls us to do, to make war with the sin in our members, in our bodies. And if you're older than me, if you've been a believer longer than I have, then you're more tired than I am, probably. You're eager to be in heaven where you don't have to have this fight anymore. That's one good thing about death this side of the eternity. That it delivers us to Christ and delivers us from these sinful bodies. But Jesus says that if we value righteousness more highly than we value our eyes or our hands, Then certainly we need to be willing to cut out, to give up those things that that we might hold really dearly, if if they are keeping us from being pure. If they're not keeping you from being pure, that's then okay, good. But if you have something dear to you that's keeping you from being pure, perhaps the Lord is calling you to break up with somebody. Or to change your job, or to transfer your secretary, someone that works for you. In order that you can be faithful to your wife, faithful to your God, might have to quit a class. If you're a student, in order to avoid temptation. Is your unfiltered access to the internet Bringing unnecessary temptation into your home or perhaps not into home. Perhaps while you're in your car, perhaps while you're at the office? Is it bringing Temptation to a family member. You may need to take away your internet access or get yourself an app. There are good apps. that will actually monitor what's going on your phone and send a report to an accountability partner that they can that it would block access to those things but also let let someone who loves you know what is going on and hold you accountable. accountable. And then if if if that's something that you're considering, perhaps not because you've fallen, but because you want to make sure you don't, uh that's something to discuss with your wife, but perhaps not not something to make her be the accountability partner, make sure she knows that you have an accountability partner and that you love her enough to filter that access. And then find a Christian brother who can help you with that, unless your wife wants that. That responsibility. Ladies, may need to consider your wardrobe. That though something may not be bothering you at all, your wardrobe could, out of immodesty, cause a Christian brother to stumble. If you're working out in only a sports bra, it may be hot, and not yet, that's later in the year. It might be hot. But but you need to cover that up. No measure is too drastic if it moves you or somebody else towards holiness. We need to uh address those things, cut them out of our lives if they are preventing us from from honoring our our God in every area of life. Of course, this righteousness or purity that Jesus is addressing, it goes far beyond the the sexual realm. He's addressing any Sin that starts in the heart. We need to be willing to exercise extreme prejudice against those things that stimulate us towards sin. So if you have a hobby You have a sport that's become the delight of your heart, and you're prioritizing that over your relationship with Jesus Christ. Perhaps you need to choose a different pastime. If there's if there's a relationship in your life, not necessarily one to do with the topic of adultery But if there is a relationship in your life that needs to be cut out, if if there are certain friends who are tempting you with wrong just with wrong worldviews, perhaps certain co-workers You need to at least avoid I realize you can't avoid your coworkers, but you can avoid them at certain times of of day, certain settings, the way they might be talking, not about work, but about other things. And I realize that's hard to do in in in certain jobs. You may need to cut ties. You may need to transfer jobs and employers if that is preventing you from honoring your your God. Is the entertainment that you're consuming causing you to nurse feelings of self pity? Or is it constantly provoking you to anger? Do you feel like you want to commit murder of the some of the bad guys on the screen? If your entertainment is driving you towards bitterness or stoking fear, these sins grow in our hearts like weeds. We need to cut out the TV shows and the movies and the songs and the novels That draw draw us away from Christ. And it might be subtle and slow, and so we figure it's no big deal. But we need to love our God. That is less. Cutting out a certain type of music from your life is far less than cutting your hand off or tearing your eye out. Do you love your God enough? Now let's talk about the elephant in the room. If there is a sensual form of entertainment, Whether it's music, because music certainly does that, or it's the type of movies or TV shows that you're watching, or those lurid novels They need to be gone. If they're tempting you, even if it's at the emotional level, ladies, do you long for someone who's a better listener than your husband, who's more like Mr. Darcy I mean I like Jane Austen. Can I can I admit that and still retain my guy card? Maybe not. Um I I like Jane Austen, but if If you can't read about Mr. Darcy without lusting for someone other than your husband, then maybe you need to cut Jane Austen and remove her from the bookshelf. Maybe just have a lack of worship towards your God because of these different things. And I'm gonna step on toes. Maybe your job hardly ever allows you to worship him with your church family. Have you asked God to provide you with alternative employment? Are you willing to change your career so that you can love your Savior? Now you might feel like Pastor, you're going too far now. But not according to Scripture. Nothing should be too dear to us. Not our eyes, not our hands. hands, not our jobs, not our friendships, that we're not willing to sacrifice it sacrifice it for the sake of purity in our hearts before our Lord. And I I get it, these sound drastic, and you might think that there are intermediate measures you can take, and perhaps there are. You may not need to remove your access to the internet. You may not have to get rid of your phone. I don't recommend you get rid of your phone. But you can install an app that has the effect that's needed. I realize there are cases to be made to keep non-Christian friends in your life. You need non-Christian friends in your life because you need someone to share the gospel with. But you may not be at the point in your life where they are helping you to honor Christ. In fact, by cutting them out of your life, you may find that that that does drive them towards Christ in time. You need to focus first on honoring your Savior and then on honoring the friend. Because you can't save your friend if you yourself are drowned in lust or in idolatry. This is what it means to be born again, that we God gives us a new heart that values Him above these other things that we cherish. And it's this pure heart that gains eternal life and avoids the torture of hell. If you are trusting in Christ, then yes. Positionally, you are declared to be righteous. God takes your sins off of you and clothes them in his son, and he has already satisfied his wrath on your sin, and he has clothed you with the righteousness of Christ that is all true positionally of you But when you become a Christian, when you believe in that truth and you believe in that person Jesus who died for you, then he does more than just do this surface transaction and wink at it and we all know you're not really holy but I'm making you so right he positionally makes you holy and but then The Holy Spirit unites you to Jesus, who is holy, and he starts to work out in you each part of your life. He works holiness out. He's worked it into you, and now you work it out. And so we demonstrate we have that pure heart. We grow in holiness. When we exercise these things and when we hear these warnings. So hear these warnings. And that's really the final thing, that because God values purity at the deepest level, he gives you hope, that you can avoid the punishment of hell. And please don't suppose I've already believed that, I'm good, I don't need to hear the rest of this. Because you may be demonstrating that you haven't actually savingly believed that. You believe in the the the facts, you believe in the truth. But you much prefer your lusts, you much prefer your sin to Jesus It's hard, isn't it? It's hard saying no to the flesh. It's hard cutting things out. There are times where I feel I've really succeeded in in cutting something out and resisting. And then there are other times where I feel that I haven't made any progress at all. But we have hope that the Spirit who raised Jesus Christ the body from the dead. Gives us power over our sin. You can put those things to death. Let's not miss what Jesus says here, first of all. First he says in verse 29, it's more profitable for you that one of your members perish than for your whole body to be cast into hell. And again in verse 30, for it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than for your whole body to be cast into hell. Hell is what's into you. And that we cut these things out of our lives in order that we would avoid hell and therefore stay with Jesus. Be with Jesus, be closer to Jesus than we are now. Hell is a real place. It is very popular now to say that hell is just some figurative idea that really just represents not being with God. And of course there are intermediate positions where people say hell is real and you're punished there, but not forever. But that is not what Jesus says. In fact, in one place he quotes the closing verses of Isaiah. Perhaps you think of Isaiah as that great book of hope. And that uh those who trust in the Lord will mount up with wings like eagles, right? He'll run and not faint, not be weary And you'd expect the book of Isaiah to finish on a really triumphant note, wouldn't you? Jesus quotes the closing verses three times in succession in one case. Here are some of the not the vi uh yes, but the final verse of Isaiah says, And they shall go forth and look upon the corpses of the men who have transgressed against me. For their worm does not die, and their fire is not quenched, they shall be an abhorrence to all flesh. And Jesus in one place, three times He says that hell is the place where, he replaces for with where, where their war worm does not die, nor is the fire quenched. And right here he talks about hell. Just earlier in in uh this chapter he mentioned hellfire. Hell is a real place. It's the default destination for all of us when we're born. You were born a sinner, and sinners belong in hell. We're not born Christians. You were not born a Christian. That's why Jesus says you have to be born again to become a Christian. We're not able to please God while we have the old sinful heart. When you're in Christ, you can only please God by faith, by trusting in Jesus. And when you don't have faith, you can't please him at all. The writer of Hebrews says without faith, it's impossible to please God. Now, do you think that Jesus would tell us all this painful stuff and have such a dismal end note here about hell if there were no possibility of avoiding it? No. He's laying out all of this hard stuff and he's laying out two possibilities. One of them involves hell. The second time that Jesus says this in the same Gospels in chapter 18, he lays out the other alternative. It is better for you to enter into the life maimed. It's a very similar passage where he talks about Losing body parts. And it is better for you to enter into life maimed. What literally is is written there in the Greek, not in the English Is it is better for you to enter into the life. There's the word the in there. Because there is a life. There is a specific life. He calls it the life. And Jesus wants us to enter into the life. He wants us to enter into that life. And we do it by cutting out our sin. And the only way for you to cut out your sin is by turning to Jesus Christ. Your sin soaks you all the way through You're guilty of acts that your hands and feet haven't performed because in your heart you've meditated on them You have seen someone who's attractive, and you've imagined more than you see You've perhaps imagined doing things that you have not done. You're on the pathway. Sexual sin. Ruins people. Adultery ruins families. And so Jesus gives us these stern warnings because the ultimate ending for an adulterer is hell. And if you are guilty of committing the act of adultery, perhaps you are, I'm not saying that I'm aware of anybody in this room that has. But I also recognize the likelihood in a room of s of this size that perhaps there is such a person here. Your hope, if adulterers are destined for hell, is for you to not be considered an adulterer anymore. That's why God says, be born again. He gives you a new heart. He puts a new spirit in you. He takes away your heart of stone. He gives you a heart of flesh. He makes you a new person so that no adulterer will be in heaven. And all adulterers will be in hell. And you can be a new person. Jesus Christ can give you that new heart. He he gives it to you because he was raised up from the dead. He's the power to conquer the death caused by sin because he never sinned and yet he was ac executed on the account of sinners. Your sin and my sin. Because he was sinless and perfect, the grave couldn't hold on to him. The grave holds on to us Until he returns and finally does away with that power altogether So let's review those points again. One, recognize that you are condemned by your sinful heart. Two, turn to Jesus Christ to give you a new heart. So that he raises you to spiritual life so that you no longer have to live the way that you used to. You will continue to feel a struggle and a wrestling match. But you have power over it. And you're going to find you fail in that in fighting those battles, but you fail less. And less, and less, until you you conquer that sin, and then he he moves you to to fight against another one We will never have perfect conquest of our sins this side of heaven, but we will gain, we will grow, we will have progressive conquest, progressive victory over them. You can avoid hell. You can go instead to Christ's presence. But the only way is to be found in him. Him. If you don't recognize that you need a new heart, and you don't live by Christ's resurrection power, you won't have a new heart. You have zero hope. If you've started to drift, I'm nearly done. Hear this though, okay? Hear this. A person who is redeemed by Christ's death and resurrection. Takes every opportunity to cut the sin out. Perhaps they don't take every opportunity, but they ultimately they will. They will be moved to cut the sin out, to cut the idolatry out. Whether it's With regard to sexual sin or some other form of idolatry. If you are redeemed by Christ's death and resurrection and his Spirit's in you, you have an inward motivation to cut this stuff out. It's just part of being raised to new life. If you're not raised to new life, you won't be able to do it. If you're not raised to new life, you won't want Do it You might be conflicted, you might find that your flesh doesn't want to do it, but your spirit does. That's the mark of a believer when you have that tension in you. But if you think, hear me please, if you think that you can just play it pray a simple prayer but keep on living characterized by a sin that you that you've always known. And you've always known it's wrong. You think that I've prayed that prayer. I believe in Jesus. I know he died and he rose from the r rose from the dead in on the third day and I know I'll go to heaven. If if that's all and it doesn't impact your life It doesn't change your thought life, it doesn't change your behaviors, it doesn't change your desires, or you you will not obey those desires. You are probably proving that you are not actually born again. That you're not exercising faith in him. You're just exercising intellectual belief, and that's not the same thing. You are saved only by believing in Jesus, but that is by exercising trust in Him. But if you are not making any effort to cut the sin out of your life, then please hear me take heed. Turn back to Jesus. Repent of your sin. Because you were demonstrating that it is highly likely that the Spirit of God does not dwell in you, that you are not a safe person. Let's have every head bowed. Let's bow every head. Let's let's close every eye. Maybe you need to confess some sin to the Lord. You fall in one of two categories. The first is you've never actually repented, never truly repented of your sin. You may have confessed some sin to God You felt convicted that you're guilty before him, but the faith in Jesus that saves us is a repentant faith. Simply stating that you've committed a sin. Perhaps in the Roman Catholic sense, where someone goes into a confession booth, they confess that they did something. I've heard of c Catholic priests saying that some people it sometimes it feels like people are just bragging about their sins. Simply unburdening yourself by confessing that you've committed a sin, that does not make you right before the Lord. You need to turn from it. Repenting is is confessing that sin before the cross of Christ, giving it up, leaving it there to be nailed to the cross. And turning forward in the power of the resurrection. You may have confessed sin to God, but never left it behind at the cross. And then you've not repented of that sin. Well then right now you have the opportunity to exchange that sin for a new heart. And I I encourage you to come and pray with me afterwards. Talk to me afterwards or one of the deacons here. Keep those heads bowed. Keep those eyes closed. Maybe you have experienced repentance. You have been living in the power of Christ's resurrection. But the Holy Spirit is now convicting you of some sin. Keep those eyes closed. Keep those heads bowed. Maybe the Holy Spirit's convicting you of some whole other area of your life that you've been living in without forsaking it. Perhaps it has nothing to do with the sexual sin we've just discussed. You've trusted Christ for new life, but there's an area of that old life You've been holding on to. Perhaps you weren't even aware of it, and God is kindly shining a light on it now. It could be the very sin of lust that we've been talking about. Maybe you've been living by that mantra, it's a horrible thing. Just because you're on a diet doesn't mean you can't look at the menu. And you seek every opportunity to look other people up and down like a piece of meat. Or perhaps it's not that at all. You're struggling with something else. You're unwilling to forgive a family member for some wrong. that they've done to you three hours ago or thirty years ago. It doesn't matter. You can't expect to enjoy God's forgiveness of your own sin, but withhold forgiveness from your sister and brother. So perhaps God has been convicting you of a lifestyle that you haven't yet yielded to him. Your Savior died so that you can live without this nasty stuff. So let's do away with these sins now. I'm going to pray. I'm going to give you an opportunity to confess these quietly. And then I'll pray again. We'll close.