Please turn with me in your Bible to Matthew chapter five. Matthew chapter five We've been working slowly through the Sermon on the Mount. We are now in the final section of Matthew chapter 5, though the sermon continues beyond here. At age 23, John Payton was ministering in the slums of the Scottish city of Glasgow. He was a m essentially a missionary employee. He was hired by a missions board uh to to just work directly for them in in a specific ward of the city. They assigned him to uh the the the worst ward of the city. They historically had had tremendous trouble uh penetrating just the hardened hearts of that district of the city. It was where there was the most poverty and there were a lot of problems. There were a lot of problems with with drinking. And of husbands and fathers drinking away the things that they'd earn the money that they've they'd earned so that their children were actually going without food to eat. It was it was a very hard place to minister. And though he would go on to become a very famous and successful missionary on the islands that we now call Vanuatu. John Payton was at at this point, still in his own country, learning how to minister, learning how to be a missionary in this very difficult ward of the city. And after a full year of evangelizing house to house, uh doing at minimum four hours of direct evangelism per day, he had about half a dozen people who would meet with him for An evening Bible study and also for another evening's prayer meeting. These people hadn't all committed their lives to Christ, but they were committed to hearing young John Payton. And at the one-year mark of his ministry, the missionary board met with him, the people paying his salary, decided that John didn't have enough people following him, hearing him to justify keeping Keeping him there in that ward. They were happy with his work as a missionary, but they wanted to transfer him to a different district of the city They told him, You're gonna go to another ward of the city, you'll probably get faster results and better results there, we want to use you there. But he said no He loved these people. And he he felt that he finally gained their trust and he really believed that the Lord was starting a work and that he would finish it and that he was going to save these people and transform these people. Specifically, some of those husbands who are drinking away their family's meals have started to attend. And John wanted them to turn to Christ. And so he begged the board to give him six more months. Let's reevaluate in six months. And you can reassign me if you want after that, if if I haven't gotten enough fruit. But give me six more months. And they said, okay. They were happy with that Well then John did the wise thing of telling his listeners at the Bible study that next evening uh w about the conversation he had and he said that uh if if we don't grow they're gonna reassign me to a different part of the city I won't be able to continue teaching you. Well they did not want to lose John and his ministry. And this news awakened something in them. And so the very next Bible study, everyone had invited a neighbor, and the the attendance immediately doubled. They paid better attention. And people started turning to Christ. They they doubled again. They started inviting people. And those men who had been slaves to alcohol gave up their drinking, and not only did they start not only did they stop drinking, but they started caring for their families. But they didn't stop there. They started caring for other people that they knew were lost like they had once been. And they started showing kindness to them. And and Selflessly loving others and bringing them to the Bible studies, bringing them to Christ. In just a couple of years, that hopeless ward of Glasgow became characterized by a new lifestyle They were selflessly loving their neighbors, they were sticking their necks out for them, and they ended up having to build an entirely new complex in order to house the meeting They kept getting taked out of Haloft to Haloft where they were meeting because they just they were too big. How do we know That those people there had become Christians. It's because they went from selfishness to caring for other people. A selfless love has always characterized genuine Christians, especially in times of revival. God loves his people. God loves people, and he calls his people to be like him. He calls his people to love others selflessly. If you're following in your bulletin today, then in the here is your theme statement that you can fill in. If you prefer not to fill in, you just want to listen, that's fine But here's the theme. God calls his children to a radically different kind of love from the culture around them. Our world defines love one way, God defines it differently. Now we find ourselves in the last of six sections in chapter five that start with, you have heard that it was said, dot dot dot, but I'm telling you. That we call or commentators call these sections the antitheses, which I think is an unnecessarily intellectual word. It's just these these same sections that say, you've heard one thing, but I'm telling you a different thing. This is the last one. In each case, Jesus has been telling his listeners that the way their teachers have been explaining God's word to them has been wrong. I want you to hear this. Jesus has not been saying that the scripture is wrong or that there's anything wrong in the scripture or in the Bible. He's not saying that. What he's saying is People have been misinterpreting and misapplying and misquoting the perfect word of God. And so now we come to this last one, and we find that the Bible teachers, which we tend to call rabbis, have have twisted and basically added to what God's Word says. They've been saying you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. Why don't we read this whole section for a moment? You have heard that it was said, you shall love your enemy and hate your I'm sorry, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you Love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you, that you may be sons of your Father in heaven For he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. For if you love those who love you, what reward have you? Do not even the tax collectors do the same And if you greet your brethren only, what do you do more than others? Do not even the tax collectors do so. Therefore, you shall be perfect, just as your Father in heaven is perfect. They've been saying, love your neighbor and hate your enemy. Now these two statements, or maybe we call them half-statements, never appear together in the Old Testament. The words you shall hate your enemy never occur at all, actually. Now let's let's look at these two halves. Let's look at the first half, right? You shall love your neighbor. That's definitely correct. We see that throughout the Old Testament and the New Testament, right? You're probably familiar with that one. The law commands God's people to love their neighbors. But the rabbis have left it incomplete, haven't they? There's something missing from that first half of the sentence. What is it? You shall love your neighbor as yourself, right? We know that. We've heard that, even if you're not raised in church, you've probably heard that at school, right? You should love your neighbor as yourself And by leaving that those last two words out, that as yourself, the teachers have redefined love. They've changed what The love is that that God is calling these people to. We are to love people to the extent to the same extent that we favor ourselves. Do you do you want yourself to always get the largest piece of pizza? That's how you ought to love your neighbor. That's how you ought to love your brother or your sister who's competing for that slice. Or your spouse. We ought to treat the people in our lives the way we want them to treat us. We call that a golden rule, right? We attribute it to Jesus, it goes back a couple millennia before that, because it's in this this uh law that Jesus is quoting. Well then we look at the second part of the quotation and hate your enemy Now, we need to be honest with the Bible, because this is where it gets hard. And it'd be easy for me to gloss over this and just say it's wrong and move on to the next verse. But then I'm leaving you with an incomplete understanding of the Bible because the Bible does, in the Old Testament, speak about hate. And it doesn't just say it's wrong to hate. The scripture does in limited contexts command hate. And we need to face that head-on. We're going to look at these statements. But never, I want you to understand this, never are God's people given the general command to just hate some undefined enemy in general. Either you love these people or you hate them. Right? That is that is not what God is like. And so they are misrepresenting God. See, God is totally unique, and that's the first main point of this message. God is unique. And so his commands are different from what even his own people here expect Because God is unique, his commands are going to be different. They're going to be unique. They're not going to be what we expect. And this is not what they expect And never does God's word join two statements together like this in the Old Testament. Love one, hate another. They've been teaching a lie, and now Jesus is going to expose that lie. But before we go into what we ought to do, let's look head-on at where they might have gotten this concept that just go ahead and hate your enemies. First of all, let's let's get a very positive one. Let's look at let's look at uh the these hate hate speech examples. Woe to those who call evil good and good evil. Woe is he saying, this is bad for you. I have pity on you for calling evil good and for calling good things evil. That is bad. You should not do that. Would any of us disagree with that? Right? Of course you don't say what is good is actually bad. And you don't say what is bad is actually a good thing. It means that you are morally twisted around inside. So this is a good statement. I think it's going to help us make sense of the next two that I'm going to quote. There's one of them: You who love the Lord hate evil. He preserves the souls of his saints. He delivers them out of the hand of the wicked. There are wicked people. And there are people who love the Lord. And those they seem to be in two different categories. And he says, if you love God, hate what he hates. Now at this point he's not saying hate who he hates, but he's saying hate what he hates. Hate hate evil, not hate evil people, but hate evil. There are limited times where we are to hate evil people, but it's in a very specific sense. Okay? Let's look at the next one. The fear of the Lord We're used to one that says the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, right? Here it says the fear of the Lord is to hate evil. Pride and arrogance in the evil way and the perverse mouth I hate. Now this is King Solomon speaking. He's saying, because he loves the Lord and he fears the Lord, he has come to hate seeing arrogance. And he hates seeing evil ways, and he hates it when people say nasty things. He hates that. I love watching the Olympics. But I hate when they do one of those profiles where they practically elevate the the uh arrogant person into a god, right? And and they're they're just bragging about how much better they are than everybody else Solomon would have agreed with us on that one. So God does hate wickedness. Let's just deal with the facts. He's created the lake of fire to punish evil and to punish evildoers. Specifically, he created that for Satan and for the fallen angels who follow Satan. But for those who persist in their wickedness, human beings, he will punish wicked humans there as well. It's not something we like to talk about or think about, but our just God hates evil, and those who will not turn from their evil, he does punish. But he's patience. And he doesn't just cast into the lake of fire everybody that is is wicked immediately. He doesn't cast his enemies into the lake of fire immediately. If he did, we wouldn't be having this church service right now. We would all be in the lake of fire right now In fact, no one has yet been cast into the lake of fire. That's not going to happen until the end of this era. And he gives wicked people numerous opportunities across a lifetime, multiple decades. To turn away from their wickedness. He gives them people to share the truth with them that you need to stop this and turn to your God who made you. While he waits for them to turn back to him, he is showing them kindness after kindness and to just jump ahead in our passage a little bit. Do you see that that's what what Jesus is appealing to? He's appealing to the character of God. He says that you may be sons of your Father in heaven. Well, what is our Father in heaven like? He says he makes his son rise. On the evil and on the good. He sends rain on the just and on the unjust. Do you ever see mean people, nasty people who are doing well for themselves? And and you get frustrated. And why doesn't God smite them? Why is it that they get to stay employed in their job? Why haven't they been found out yet? Because God is loving them, God is being kind to them They don't deserve it, but he's being kind to to wicked people. He's the the the goal is that they see his goodness and they turn back to him. Sadly most do not. But that is the goal in his showing kindness to them. Now, the greatest act of all, the greatest act of love that God has shown wicked people was when he came into the world as the Son of God, as Jesus. With the purpose of dying. When Jesus died on the cross, he voluntarily was dying under God's wrath. He took the penalty. God was angry at the wickedness. Do you have a really nasty, perverse coworker? And it's hard for you to go to work and hard for you to keep your thoughts clean because you keep hearing these nasty things that one or more co-workers say Or perhaps customers or clients that you have to interact with. Do you have a bully at school? Who is just persecuting you? Who is mean? Who is slandering and gossiping you? God sees that, and far worse than that, and all of that, he concentrates his anger on punishing that sin, but in on punishing that slander, on punishing that mean-spiritedness. But he doesn't punish that in the people themselves. He punished it on Jesus. Jesus was counted guilty for that. Now, that doesn't mean if those people never turn from their sin that, well, Jesus took that and they don't they don't perish. No, you have to turn to Jesus and he will apply his redemption to your account. But Jesus was counted guilty. And when you turn him, when you put your faith in Jesus, he's counting you as righteous as Jesus is. God the Father is counting you as righteous as Jesus is. And he's taking your your sin and and he's transferring it to Jesus so that your debt was paid, your penalty was paid. And if he could rise from the dead from that. That means that God is satisfied with his payment on your behalf. There is no anger that God has left to direct at you because you're trusting in his son who died for you. His wrath is exhausted. It's gone. If you will but trust in Jesus. Not that you have to do these things and go through these different ceremonies. You simply trust in Jesus and let that be enough. When Jesus died on the cross, right before he gave up his spirit, he told God that he was committing himself to him. But before that, he said, it is finished. I've done the work I came to do. I've atoned for this sin. All that was left was for him to rise from the dead. There's nothing that we add to that. And indeed he did rise from the dead so that anyone who trusts in him is freed from punishment And he makes you into a new person. And now the things we do, the worship we give him is out of gratitude. We turn from from our sin. In repentance, and we continue staying away from it out of gratitude for what God has done for us. We can't turn away from it until He enables us. And now, having believed Him, we turn away from it. Now, that's what God has done. He loves the wicked so much that he sent his son into the world to die for them. And Although he wants us to hate evil, he wants us to hate evil things and evil people, he's calling us to do as he does. And he makes a distinction between What we feel and what we do. God is about, Jesus here is about to make a distinction between your affections, how you feel about mean people, wicked people. And your actions, how you treat them. Okay? So when we struggle with this concept of of uh hating enemies, but we do see God hating people in the Bible, we need to understand that there's there's a diff there are different types of of love and hate here. And that God is Is hating in a judicial sense. God is j is judge, and sometimes he even calls his people to act on his behalf in the capacity as judges. Let's look at one more passage before we move on. In Psalm 139, a beautiful passage about how how deeply God knows us and cares for us, how He is He is He's omniscient, he's all-knowing, he's omnipresent, he is everywhere, he's omnipotent, he is all-powerful, and he is omnirighteous, he is complete Completely, perfectly, fully righteous. And in that, towards the end of that psalm, here's what the psalmist says. Do I not hate them, O Lord, who hate you? Do I not loathe those who rise up against you? I hate them with perfect hatred. I count them my enemies. What are we to do with this? It sounds like hatred's being set as an example, doesn't it? And in one sense it is. The psalmist is counting as his enemies those who are opposed to God and hate God. Well, who is the psalmist here? Now I didn't ask you to turn there, but if you turn to if you were to turn there, and you go to verse one and then you go up one more to the title, it says, this is David. Well David, what was his job? He was king, right? And one of the responsibilities as king was to be the judge and was to execute justice upon injustice. And so speaking as one holding that office, he is saying in a judicial sense, I hate your enemies. And there are times where God calls the king, sometimes even calls a priest or a prophet to act in that judicial capacity. So Samuel once executed an evil king and he was a priest and he was a prophet. He was not king, but he was both of those other two officers. And he he executed a wicked king uh in in the the pronoun the judgment that was pronounced by God. In other cases, God commands the whole nation of Israel to act judicially as his people, for them to stand against evil and communicate To the world what is right and what is wrong. In in some cases it's against other whole nations, one nation condemning the evil of another nation. And so when they conquered the land of Canaan God had them do that for the seven Canaanite nations there. In other cases, he calls them to uphold the law and to act judicially, to hate wickedness. against individual lawbreakers. So murderers are are put to death for their crime. In each of these cases God's using hate in that judicial sense that as judge, he's having his nation or his king or his prophet or his priest act as judge. And that's a picture now of what God is going to do in eternity when he acts as judge and judicially hates his enemies, casts those who will not turn to him and do good Who will not repent, he casts them into the lake of fire. But this is not the case for normal individuals, not for individual Christians. You are not called as an individual Christian to act as God's judicial agent. You are to be an agent of grace, not of judgment, not of hate. So there's no contradiction here when he calls us to love, when he also calls us occasionally to act in an additional capacity of hatred. The normal way that we are commanded to act is not hate, but is love. There's a lot more we could say on this topic. And you may have certain questions buzzing about you. Save those for Thursday night. We can talk about those. Write it down if you need to. But uh but this message is not about God's love. God's hate or his justice. This specific message is about his love. We need to appreciate his justice in order to appreciate his love, but the message is about his love. So I'm showing you these things so that we can look at them honestly And that you wouldn't be surprised by them when when someone who's either attacking the truth or really is struggling with these concepts, that you're not surprised. Excuse me. I'm showing you the these things so you're not surprised, so you're not bamboozled, so you can see I'm not pulling the wall over the wool over your eyes. There's no contradiction in Scripture, but there are different capacities that God calls his people to act. God the Son is not arguing with God the Father here. We've seen what God isn't saying. Now let's look at what he is saying. From the mouth of God the Son. Because God is generous. First we have the fact that He's unique and He's different. They're always rooted in God's character, God's nature. Because God is generous. Generous to all. He commands his children to love their persecution their persecutors sacrificially. He commands us to love with a sacrificial love. That comes out of his his generosity. We've seen that already, haven't we? He said that you may be sons of your Father in heaven, for he makes his Son rise on the evil and on the good. He sends rain on the just and on the unjust. He is generous to all. But I want us to look at verse 44. He says, But I say to you, you've heard to hate your enemies, but here's what I say. That's not what God said. That's what your teachers have been saying. Here's what I say to you as your authority teacher, he says. Love your enemies. Bless those who curse you Do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you, that you may be sons of your Father in heaven. Now I want you to see something here. It's subtle. It's clearer in the Greek, but we see it here in the English. He says, it has been said, you shall love your neighbor, you shall hate your enemy. That is in we would say future tense. Here's what you will do, right? But then when he says, But I tell you, he says, Love your enemies. Bless those who curse you. Do you hear the difference? He's not just saying, here's what you will do, he's telling you, do it. Love your enemies. Pray for those who persecute you. Bless those who spitefully use you. These are direct commands. There is a change in the language there at the grammatical level. He's saying, This is what I intend for you to do, and he commands us to do it. This is not optional for Christians. They're full-blown commands, full-blown imperatives. And they're in the present tense, so we should actually read them this way. Be loving your enemies. Be blessing those who curse you. Be doing good to those who hate you. Be praying for those who spitefully use you and persecute you. Or those who are persecuting you. This is an active, ongoing thing, present tense that we ought to be doing. You don't show kindness to your enemy once, and then you say, well, I did my best, and then you go up and go back to hating them. You need to keep on looking for ways to love and bless those who are treating you terribly. Did you catch that? Those who are persecuting you, those who are going after you? Those are the people that we need to sacrificially love and put ahead of ourselves. And that goes against the grain of what we feel in our hearts, doesn't it? It feels unjust. But it's not. God will give justice, and if we if we have faith in our God to be just. Then we can do what he says and we can extend grace and we can extend love to people who mistreat us We've already talked about some enemies, those who are directly opposed to God, right? That's the that's the kind that are talked about in the Old Testament. specifically the wicked people who are actively seeking to offend God, trying to frustrate his will, worshiping other gods who aren't real, they're actually demons. That's who God is. setting his his judicial hatred on. But sadly I think that we're more likely to just count people as our enemies when they offend us personally, when they're me a bit mean to us. When they don't do as we would like them to do to us. Maybe you do have personal enemies who are legitimately wicked. Maybe you do have bullies at school and they persecute you at school, they slander you online, they they they They make fun of your posts on Instagram. Bullies are enemies. I had enough of them to know experientially. Bullies are enemies. Suppose the coworker who's trying to get you or your your spouse fired from your job. Maybe you have a neighbor on your block that you find yourself in just an adversarial relationship with. Jesus speaks of our persecutors. But the Lord Jesus doesn't rebuke us for thinking of these people. As enemies. Do you notice that? He doesn't say, don't call them enemies. Instead, he just tells us how to treat our enemies. Love them. Do good to them. Pray for them. And I want to zero in on one type of enemy here. In the passage just before this one, and we we looked at this last week, it doesn't matter if you weren't here last week and didn't hear this last week. But I want you to look up at verse 41. We're in 44, just go up three verses. And whoever compels you to go one mile, go with him too. Now, specifically, Jesus is talking there about the Roman authorities. The Roman government is a foreign government to the people of Israel They want to still have an heir of King David on the throne. They want to be an independent kingdom. They don't want to belong to this bigger empire. They're Gentiles. They've they've essentially defeated uh the the uh the people of Israel. They they kind of inherited them from a different empire that they conquered, but they've they have conquered God's people effectively And they hate them. God's people hate the Romans. And what Jesus is talking about here is saying when the Romans, according to their law, which they can do according to their law, they could compel private citizens into public service So when we see Simon of Cyrene being compelled by the Roman soldiers to carry Jesus' cross to Golgotho, the specific place on Mount Calvary where he was crucified, they could legally command him to do that up to a mile. And Jesus says, love them by going an extra mile with them. Now, if Jesus can say that about this most hated government and these most hated government soldiers Do you think he might have you love your enemies in the the federal US government? In the state of Maryland governor government? In our local governments and in our school boards, which is basically a governing body, right? Do you think if he can command them To love and honor their persecuting, conquering enemies. Is it f do you think he could command us to love the people in the government we hate? Do you hate President Trump? Well, if you count him as your enemy, Jesus tells you here's what you to do with President Trump. Love him. Pray for his conversion. Ask God to bless President Trump with wisdom to lead your country. Ask him to bless him personally. Pray for his marriage. Doesn't look like they're in great shape, him and Melania. But it's not just Republicans. What about Governor Moore? Do you hate Governor Moore, Governor of Maryland? Well then here's what you have to do. He's your enemy, love him. Pray for personal blessing on him. Ask God to save Governor Wesmore so that he can better govern Maryland according to what pleases God. Ask him to save President Trump. The same goes for our local school board members. They're promoting ungodly curriculums, so we pull our children out of their schools. Or we at least work with our kids to counteract their influence. Well, are we praying for those school board members so that they might bless our children rather than be adversaries to them? Let's ask God to change the curriculum by changing the hearts of these people and ransom them from hell. Let's pray for our enemies. Let's love them. Let's stop speaking meanly about them. And just taking team red or team blue and and and swearing when we talk about them Now prayer is the best way that you can love your enemies, but it's not all that you were called to do. Let's go back to these people who are in our personal lives. I I recognize it's it's not easy for you to go and give President Trump a candy bar and bless him in that way, right? You wouldn't get past the Secret Service. But there are people in your life that you can bless that maybe you you think of as wicked. Pray for blessings upon them, yes. But also when you're praying, ask God to show you what you can do, how you can love them, how you can bless them. Now, be aware. This is a dangerous prayer. If you ask God to bless your enemy, he might do it. And then you might find yourself getting jealous. So prepare yourself and ask him to help you to want to see their blessing. Ask God to help you to love someone that you don't like. He may answer that by bringing you into contact with them. And that might start with a negative run-in. So recognize the first time you see your enemy after you have prayed for a blessing on them. So you pray for your enemy. The next time you see them, you might need to be ready to sacrifice in order to benefit them. And that is good. And it's what we're called to do. But it is not easy, is it? It's hard. It's good. It's simple, but it's hard. Now perhaps there's a need that they have that you can give them. Maybe they need a work a right to work or to school. Maybe they need a financial or or material gift. Maybe you can give something to them. Maybe you can write a reference letter to help them get a job or a promotion. And I imagine on an emotional level that's going to be costly. You don't want to see them. Blessed. But this is what Jesus calls his people who are characterized by his own love that drove him to go to the cross. This is how we act. We put ourselves out for people that We would otherwise hate, but we're commanded not to hate them. It's one thing to count them as an enemy, but we don't hate our enemies. We love them. We sacrifice for them. Or perhaps simply what you need to do is turn your attitude around to this particular person or these particular people. So that instead of giving a cordial but frosty greeting, right, whenever you see them. Hey Steve, hey. How are you good? How are you? Yep. Actually try to have a genuine conversation with them and expect them to be mean, expect them to dismiss you, and then try again the next time. Put yourself out to try and build that bridge. You're you're not condemned if if they don't if they don't take you up on that olive branch, right? But you are commanded to love them sacrificially. You are commanded to to seek blessing upon them. Now consider. After prayer, this is maybe the most powerful one. Consider if it's safe to do so. And I think in most of these cases it is safe for you to to love your enemy in this way. Invite that enemy over for an evening hangout, or for a meal, or for a board game, and get to know them. They might say no, and that's okay. And when you invite them, don't invite them in a way that makes them not want to come. Do it warmly, do it kindly. Hey, I really want to repair this between us Would you would you and your wife like to come over for dinner this Saturday evening? Well we see in Jesus' ministry And in the lives of the apostles, hospitality is one of the great means of the gospel going forward. Jesus is often in other people's houses, isn't he? He's showing hospitality sometimes to sinners in sinners' houses. Other times it's it's righteous people who are following Jesus who are inviting wicked people into their homes so that Jesus can bless them. That's what we want to do with our own homes. The Apostle Paul is commanding that over and over again. In fact, it's one of the requirements for church elders that they be given to hospitality. We see that in two out of the three pastoral epistles. In 1 Timothy and in Titus, that elders of the church ought to be given to hospitality. In Romans 12, Paul commands that of all Christians, we ought to be given to hospitality. When we invite people over to our houses, over to our homes, we can really show love when we have that time Away from the rest of the world and we invite them in and we stick our necks out for them. And we can turn the conversation, if possible, to Jesus who love who enables us to love. You can't do this on your own. He has to enable you to do it. And if you think that in order for you to be saved, you need to start loving like this, you've got it the other way around. In order for you to love like this You must first be saved. Ask Jesus to save you that this same love he's commanding you to, he's already shown it to you So take him up on it, believe it, and say, Jesus, I'm done going my own way. I recognize that my way is different from yours because I don't want to love other people. But I recognize you died for me. You gave up your righteousness for me. So first you ask him to save you, and then he starts helping you to do the things that he's commanded. You cannot do it on your own. You cannot do it until you have been converted to God, until you've been made a new person. And it happens instantaneously when you trust him, when you turn to him and say. So I urge you, examine your heart. Have you turned to Jesus? When you say you believe in Jesus, what does that mean? Is it just intellectual assent that you believe he existed? You believe he's the Son of God, you believe he did die, you even believe in the supernatural work that he he rose from the dead. That's wonderful. Are you trusting in him though? Are you turning from your way and saying, because this is true, he must be king of my life. He must be Lord. Turn to him. Ask him to save you. Immediately he does. And then he starts setting you apart and making you different. And he calls you and he enables you to do hard things like this, like love your enemy. And he's calling us to do the hard thing and love foul, evil people, because that's what he did for us. He's called father in verse forty-five. He wasn't always our father. Do you realize that? The statement that says we're all God's children is just not true. You were born into this world as his enemy, you stayed his enemy until the moment you turned from your own way to Jesus. But when you turn to Jesus, he adopted you, then he became your father. And so that's why Jesus says, this is what it's like to be children of your father. We need to love our enemies the way that God loved us before we became His children, before He adopted us, before He became our Father. And so finally, as because God is perfect, he calls his children to a superior record of love. Let's look at verse Verses forty six and through forty eight. For if you love those who love you, what reward have you? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if you greet your brethren only, that is, brothers and sisters Brethren is a bit of an archaic word. If you love your brothers and sisters only, what do you do more than others? Don't even the tax collectors do so. Therefore you shall be perfect, just as your Father in heaven is perfect. Jesus is calling us to a better life. The better life is a harder life Then the one that comes natural. It's easy for us to hate our enemies. It's very hard to love them. It means we're going to have to die daily to self. We're going to have to be saying, I'm not going to do what I feel like doing today. I'm going to love this person even if it's costly, even though they're foul. And then we say, God help me to do that. And this is what Jesus meant when he said, take up your cross and follow him. That you're you take up the thing that you're going to die on today and you bring it with you. You give up your will, you give up your way, and you do his way. And I want you to see something here. He's he names the tax collectors, doesn't he? Don't even the tax collectors do the same Which gospel are we reading right now? Gospel according to whom? Matthew. What was Matthew's job? He was a tax collector. Sometimes he's called Levi. You have two names. Levi, Matthew. is a tax collector. Matthew is is willingly deprecating himself here. He's saying, Yeah, I used to be like that. And you know, before I turned to Jesus Yeah, I loved my family, and I loved the people who were nice to me. I loved my fellow tax collectors. That's easy. It's hard for you to love those people who are nasty towards you. Now when he says if you greet your brethren only, or your brother and sister only, what do you do more than others? That word more there translated. Should really be like the word like remarkable. What do you do that's remarkable? What is different between you and a filthy tax collector? These were the most hated people in society. Except maybe the Romans. I mean they were they were kind of neck and neck there. They hated the tax collectors because they were considered uh Traitors to the Jewish people. They were working for the enemy, and they would routinely, it was expected even by the Roman authorities, they would buy that office, the office of tax collector, they'd actually purchase it from Rome so that they had the authority and the freedom to overcharge tax money on people. And so this is why Zacchaeus was hated, for instance And no one wanted him to be saved because he was wicked and he was a thief. He was a legalized thief. But he's saying you ought to be different from them, and you ought to be different from the rest of the world. You ought to be remarkable. What is there remarkable if you only love the people who love you? I think we've said enough about this type of love. I want you to see what's at the core here. We're expected to be different. You realize that? That's Jesus' assumption that if you are if you've trusted in Jesus and you are alive while the rest of the world is dead, that ought to be evident. We ought to be different We need to stand out from the self-centered culture around us. The world expects Christians to be better. You know how we know that? Because whenever a public Christian fails. It's a news story, right? Pastor of such and such church of X number of people fell and and was fired today because of Allegations of sexual misconduct, or allegations of a fierce temper, or allegations of drinking, right? It's always a news item because the world expects us to be better, and when we're not, they make sure we know Have you ever had an angry b outburst in front of a non-Christian? Maybe you've cursed, you've said a swear word in front of maybe atheistic people, and what do they say? They sneer, right? I thought you were a Christian. I didn't think you talked like that. I thought you were better than me. Does Jesus know you talk like that? Right? They make fun of us. And rightly so, when we act like that. And the man who discipled me in my college years went on to be a missionary to Tanzania in East Africa for ten years. He's back in Maryland now. He's a pastor at the church I used to attend. And he recently told me something just a few weeks ago that I found really interesting. It was about performing marriages in Tanzania. Apparently in Tanzania, pastors purchased in advance, you purchase a pack of marriage licenses ahead of time. Uh he he bought a pack of fifty. And to me who like the crew weddings, that's just weird. Usually the here the couple goes and gets a a marriage license and all my job is simply to sign it in front of witnesses. And they sign it in front of me and other witnesses. The thought of the pastor having to purchase them ahead of time is kind of funny to me. But these marriage licenses have two lines on them, and each of these two lines have three boxes each. You check one box on each of the lines. The first line is your line about your religion. Muslim, Christian, or pagan. You check one of the boxes The second line says monogamous, polygamous, or potentially polygamous. Imagine being the uh the wife who checks monogamous and then she sees her husband check potentially polygamous. Can't you imagine? Well here's the interesting thing. By Tanzanian law, Muslims and pagans can check any of those three ladder boxes, monogamous, polygamous. Potentially polygamous. By law, if you check the Christian box, you can only check the monogamous box. See, the world expects Christians. to be different. They expect us to be like Jesus. And so Jesus says in verse 48, you shall be perfect as your heavenly My Father is perfect. He doesn't expect you to reach tangible Christian perfection here on earth, though one day we will in heaven. But when you walk with Christ on a daily basis, your level of love will become so remarkable So much better than that of the non-Christians who are watching you. That you'll be reflecting this truth, that God the Father indeed is perfect. We ought to aim for perfection as God is perfect, as Jesus is perfect. And we pray that that when we love in that section sacrificial way that that would lead them to trust God to be their father too. Brothers and sisters, we need to start loving our enemies the way that God loved us before he became our Father. Let's pray