In late September 1781, after six and a half long years of fighting against the British Army. General George Washington finally had Lieutenant General Charles Cornwallis right where he wanted him. The British general was hold up with his army uh in the fort at Yorktown, Virginia. Perhaps you visited there. I did as a fifth grader. The York River is right behind him. The the Chesapeake Bay is at their back. And you'd think that that'd be be uh the way to go, to escape across the river or across the bay. But the British Army had no chance of escaping because the Americans had allied with the French, and the French had a naval blockade behind them. And so after about three weeks Cornwallis finally cried uncle, he caved, he started negotiating terms of surrender. George Washington, obviously our nation's first president. was hailed indisputably as the hero of the revol of the revolution with that victory at Yorktown. Now, the Battle of Yorktown is widely considered by practically all historians to be the final major battle of the American Revolution. But strangely enough, fighting continued for close to another year. They were smaller skirmishes. There were no major land battles after that time. But there were defeats and there were victories. But regardless of any of those smaller skirmishes, it couldn't change the outcome of what was won at Yorktown in October 1781. That victory had ongoing results and significance for the Continental Army, for General Washington, and even for us today, some 200 years later. We would not be a nation today without that victory wrought at Yorktown. Well, more than 1700 years earlier than that, an even greater battle was won, a cosmic war between God and Satan, life and death, there was a decisive victory in a little tomb hewn out of a rock outside the city of Jerusalem. There one Sunday morning, the creator and king of the universe dealt the final death blow to his enemy, which ironically is death. Jesus of Nazareth proved himself to be the long-expected Messiah, the Christ, by rising from the dead. And though those who fight in his army today, and we we refer sometimes to the church, those who are following Jesus as his army. Those who fight in his army today still have skirmishes and battles 2,000 years later. We sadly have defeats. We have some victories. But we have many defeats. But none of those can overturn the victory that was won two days after Calvin. Every day, the resurrection of Jesus Christ continues to have ongoing, significant, practical results for everyone who follows him. And this morning I want to show you that Jesus' resurrection was more than just the one-time victory that like lets us go to heaven and let Jesus go to heaven, right? I want you to see that for everyone who puts faith in Jesus Christ, the resurrection itself, and spending time meditating on that resurrection, thinking hard about it. has practical relevance for you and actually gains, can I use the word power for you in your daily life, your daily living And in the one who rose again when you put your faith in him. So first we're going to look at that story one more time. We're going to be in Luke chapter 3. We already read actually the account of his resurrection from Mark's gospel. from his death as well. So I want us to actually read his death once again for those of you who who perhaps were not with us on Good Friday, two, two days ago. But after that, after we've looked at the death of Christ, the resurrection of Christ, the rest of the time, we're just going to spend the rest of the preaching time on five practical ways that Jesus' resurrection helps you day by day. Are you ready? Okay, so I'm going to read the account of Jesus' death in Luke chapter 23. To keep us moving, I will skip some verses, but I will let you know when I do. We're going to start in Luke 23, starting in verse 26. If it's easier for you to just listen and not try to follow, that is totally fine. But if you like to follow along, that's where I'll be. Luke 23, starting in verse 26. And I'm I'm already in the wrong book, so give me a second. Here we go. He's like that's not where I'm supposed to be. Now as they led him away, they laid hold of a certain man, Simon, a Cyrenian, who was coming from the country, and on him they laid the cross that might that he might bear it after Jesus. And a great multitude of the people followed him, and women who also mourned and lamented him. There were also two others, criminals, led with him to be put to death. And when they had come to the place called Calvary, there they crucified him, and the criminals, one on the right hand, one on the uh on the left. Then Jesus said, Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they do. And they divided his garments and cast lots. And the people stood looking on, but even the rulers with them sneered, saying, Pfft, he saved others. Let him save himself if he's the Christ, the chosen of God. The soldiers also mocked him, coming and offering him sour wine and saying, If you're the king of the Jews, save yourself. And an inscription also was written over him in letters of Greek, Latin, and Hebrew, saying, This is the king of the Jews. King of the Jews. Then one of the criminals who were hanged blasphemed him, saying, If you were the Christ, save yourself and us. But the other, answering, rebuked him, saying Do you not even fear God seeing you are under the same condemnation? And we indeed justly, for we receive the due reward of our deeds, but this man has done nothing wrong. Then he said to Jesus, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And Jesus said to him, Surely I say to you, today you will be with me in paradise. Now it was about the sixth hour, and there was darkness over all the earth until the ninth hour. Then the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was torn in two. And when Jesus had cried out with a loud voice, he said, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. Having said this, he breathed his life. So when the centurion saw what had happened, he glorified God, saying, certainly this was a righteous man. And the whole crowd who came together to that site, seeing what had been done, beat their breasts and returned. But all his acquaintances and the women who followed him from Galilee stood at a distance watching these things. Now, historians call this event the crucifixion of Jesus, but Christians like to refer to it by another name, a mere more theological name. You may have heard it, you may not have. We call it the atonement. See, when Jesus died by crucifixion, which itself was an illegal form of execution for God's people, for the Jewish people. It was said in the law actually to bear a curse that anyone who die who dies hanging, whether it's on a tree or just a piece of wood. That God's curse rests upon him. It was illegal for them to do this to him. And he willingly took that upon himself so that God's curse would rest upon him. By dying in this way, Jesus willingly took on the sin and guilt of mankind. Now I hope you understand that the Bible teaches that Jesus never once did anything that was displeasing to God. The Bible further teaches that Jesus himself is God in the flesh. And he was, he could not sin. Certainly he did not sin. Not even at the thought level did he did he sin or displease God in any way. He was totally pure and righteous, and there is no one in existence who fits that description aside from Jesus. So Jesus and Jesus alone could die in the place of other people. See, we deserve to have God's curse upon us because we are sinners. We think things, we say things, and we certainly do things. That go against what he's revealed is good and right. But Jesus, who had done nothing wrong chose the cursed death so that God's wrath and curse would rest upon him so that it wouldn't rest upon us. Now, he objectively died for all of mankind. That death is only applied. His death in in in my place was only applied to me because I believed in him and when I believed in him. You must believe in Christ. You must put your trust, your faith in Jesus to receive it. And that's it. You don't rest upon anything else. If you really do trust him, then God does more for you. He takes Jesus' righteousness. He took your sin and put it on Jesus. Then he takes Jesus' righteousness and puts it on you. It's like you're wearing it. He was wearing your sin as a garment or a cloak on the the cross, and when he died, he dragged all of that down with him to the dead, to the grave. But his righteousness is placed on all who trust in him. You don't add to it. But but simultaneously, not not only are we counted righteous with with Jesus, or as righteous as Jesus is, But his own spirit, you heard me praying about the Holy Spirit a few minutes ago, comes and lives inside of you, so you will live differently. It's not just, yeah, I believe that. Yep, I'm okay, I'm good. Punch my ticket for heaven If you really put faith in Jesus, he's going to put his spirit in you and give you new desires and actually give you new ability that you can now please him whereas before you can't. That's a lot of theological facts that are just concentrated into all those sentences, isn't it? So if you've not heard this before, it might feel like a lot. So how about we just slow down and show you a few details from Jesus? Jesus' death, and then we'll look at his resurrection. Verse 14, which is a little bit before where we started this reading. At Jesus' trial, there was a governor who was functioning as judge. His name is Pilate. You perhaps heard the name Pontius Pilate. He told everyone gathered at the court that he found no fault in Jesus Christ. So, he actually sent him to another governor. There happened to be another governor, King Herod. I know he's a king, but he's also governor. Just go with it. He was visiting for the religious holiday, and he's like, hey, you know what? Let me get a second opinion. So he sends him over to that other governor. And Herod too says, I don't see anything wrong with him He shouldn't be condemned to die. So I want you to read with me verses thirteen to fifteen here, or just follow along if you if you're doing that. It says, Then Pilate, when he had called together the chief priests, the rulers, and the people Said to them, You've brought this man to me as one who misleads the people, and indeed, having examined him in your presence, I found no fault in this man concerning those things In other words, he's he's innocent. No, neither did Herod, for I sent you back to him, and indeed nothing deserving of death has been done by him. And yet we find that he ends up on the cross because he the governor, Pilate, is afraid of mob mentality ruling, and he just gives him over to that mob. Now Pilate tries to release Jesus, but he just gives in to mob rule. So I want you to see that he's innocent. Secondly, I want you to see this. Let me just read verses 33 and 34 to you again. And when they come to the place called Calvary, There they crucified him and the criminals, one on the right hand, the other on the left. Then Jesus said, Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they do. See what he's doing? He's being a murderer. This is illegal. And he was convicted by false witness. It is flat-out murder. And what is he doing while they're murdering him? He's praying that his murderers will be pardoned. This is a very unusual convicted felon. This is a very unusual death row inmate Jesus is choosing to die in the place of the very people who are murdering him. It's really odd. See what's going on here is there is an agreement that Jesus the Son of God had with God the Father and with God the Holy Spirit. He is one God, not three. He is one God, but three persons. And God the Son has this agreement with God the Father back in eternity before the creation of the world that he intends to die in the place of those murderers. And in the place of every sinner. And so he's hanging there, bleeding out, and he essentially reminds God, not that God needs reminding, but he reminds them of their deal. Now Jesus isn't asking God to show mercy to mercy to his murderers. I mean he is, but that's not all it is. He's actually pleading for justice. Because Jesus is dying in their place. And so now actually the just thing, because Jesus is dying for them, he's saying Father, you actually have to pardon these people. As long as they will trust in him, as long as they will repent, you have to pardon them. Justice demands now, because I'm dying for them You have to pardon them. There's no pleas, right? Father, forgive them. Not please forgive them. God has to forgive anyone who will plead the death and blood of Jesus Christ. God has obligated Himself to forgive you and to save you and deliver you to heaven if you will trust in Jesus Christ. He knows if you're faking, if you're a real one, not just a fire insurance prayer. But justice demands that now. It's not just mercy, it's justice. If you will put your faith in Jesus' death, believe that Winnie Diety satisfied God's wrath against your sin. Then he's got no wrath left to throw at you. It all went to Jesus. And it was satisfied. And your sin was burned up. Now, I encourage you right now Pray and ask Jesus. If you have not trusted in him or you knew you were faking before, ask Jesus to pardon you. Tell him you're trusting that he Jesus, I don't understand how all of this works, but I know you died in my place, and I know that I I deserve to be condemned. And and when Jesus Jesus could die and atone for our sins in in a finite number of hours, but for us we've offended an infinite God, we'd have to Atone for our sins for an infinite amount of time, right? He's an infinite infinite God. It would be an infinite punishment. That means hell forever. And you say, Lord, I don't understand all of this, but I know I'm guilty. I know I've sinned against you. I know that Jesus hasn't, and that he died for me. And would you apply his death to my account? And he will. And he will save you and he will give you his spirit to help you please him. But here's the question, right? How do we know that that was enough? How do we know that Jesus dying for us was enough and that God that God was pleased, God the Father was pleased to accept that? And the answer to that question is what happened on the third day. It's the resurrection. By the way, if you're following along in the bulletin and you're looking for the fill-in-the-blanks, you haven't missed anything yet. This is You can just take notes as you need to. You'll get the theme statement in a moment. Now Christ's atonement of sin, his dying to to satisfy God's wrath. That's what it means to atone for our sin, to deal with it, to make God satisfied. It is incomplete without his resurrection. Because the resurrection of Christ confirms that Christ's sacrifice actually did atone for our sins. I'm going to jump ahead to the book of Romans. And if you like to flip with me, you can do that, but it's totally fine if you just want to sit and listen. Romans 5 has a very big theological statement to it. And I'm just going to read one verse here. It says, Therefore, just as through one man sin entered the world, and death through sin, and thus death spread to all men, because all sinned. That is referring to when our first parents are great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great grandparents Adam and Eve voluntarily sinned against God. We inherited their failure and their sin nature. They became sinners, they fell into sin, and we we did as a human race. All of us. One sin all fell into sin. But Through one act of obedience, this this book says. Says in verse 18. Therefore, as through one man's offense, judgment came to all men, resulting in condemnation, even so through one man's righteous act, that would be Jesus. Through one man's righteous act, the free gift came to all men, resulting in justification of life. But I want to call your attention to that first verse I read. Just as through one man sin entered the world and death through sin. That means that before Adam and Eve sinned in the Garden of Eden, if you're familiar with that historical narrative Before that time, people could not die. In fact, even animals did not die at that time. And you can only die if you have sin. If you if you die, it proves that you were a sinner. So the fact that Jesus could die, Jesus who is not a sinner Jesus, who is God coming in the flesh into this world, the fact that he died at all means That he was counted a sinner. Right? It's literally against the laws of physics. I don't think you'll find this in a physics textbook, but it's true according to the word of God, it is against the law of physics you You cannot die unless you're a sinner. Jesus was actually counted by God as a sinner, and that's how he was able to die. It couldn't have happened otherwise. Did you catch where he actually voluntarily gave up his spirit even though he'd been bleeding out for hours? He could not die unless he was a sinner. So when he rose again from the dead two days later, what does that mean? Well that means that there is no sin left to keep him in the grave. And according to the laws of physics, he can just get up. He can just get out. Now perhaps you've heard some preachers say he actually didn't need the the the the tombstone to be rolled away so he could get out. He didn't need that. He could have stepped through, maybe But it was rolled away at least so we could see in and see that it's empty. The fact that Jesus rose from the dead means that there's no sin left. God's wrath has burned up the sin, and his fiery wrath has been quenched by the sacrifice, by the death. And so he gets up. There is no wrath of God left for him to shoot a lightning bolt at anybody who trusts in Jesus. If you're trusting in Jesus. I know some Christians struggle with this. We we're trusting in Christ, we still struggle with sin, and we feel like God's disposition to us is just like He's praying again? Well he's gonna he's gonna say sorry again? Or even worse, we're we're we're expecting him there. He's like he's he's ready to throw something at us, right? But because Jesus Died for us. His wrath is spent. It's gone. It's diffused. He's not mad at Jesus anymore. And if you are identified with Jesus, you're trusting in him, then he doesn't he looks at you, but he sees Jesus as righteousness, clothing you He's not mad at anyone who identifies with Jesus. In fact, when you do sin, it displeases him, sure. It grieves him. But he he hates your sin all the more. He doesn't hate you more. He doesn't hate you at all. He hates your sin and he wants to help you. And this is why we need to cry out to him and ask him to apply Jesus' death to our account. That's what you need to do. And it's all you need to do. Trust him and accept him. Uh trust him and ask him to keep his promise to you. Christ's resurrection proves that God was satisfied with Jesus' death in our place. It also proves that he is the Messiah or the Christ. Christ and Messiah mean the same things, just two different languages. Hebrew for Messiah, Greek is is Christ. Anointed. Yeah, anointed would be the English word. It proves that he is the Messiah king. And I'm just going to read these Rapid fire to you. John, the Apostle John said, These are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, connected to the resurrection. Luke says, at the tomb, two angels remind or rather, this is this is not a direct quotation, but two angels remind the women that Jesus had foretold his death and resurrection. And then later on, and I will read this to you, Jesus appeared to two disciples who didn't recognize him after he had risen from the dead. In fact, they didn't believe that he'd been risen from the dead. And they're they're talking with him, they don't recognize him, and they they they say don't don't you know about all the things that have gone on? And some people were saying he's he's risen, we didn't think he he would die, we thought he was the Messiah. But some people some ladies are saying that he's risen and we we just don't understand. And here's what what Jesus said O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken, ought not the Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, in other words, beginning at the very beginning of the Bible, all the way through the end of the Old Testament, he expounded to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. So his very death and resurrection proved that he was the one that they were worshiping. Christ's resurrection is necessary for us to be forgiven and for salvation from sin. This is good news. It's amazing news. We're forgiven on the basis of somebody else intervening and interceding for us. If you haven't yet become a Christian, again I urge you To do as I've instructed, turn to him as your Savior, believe in him. But now the rest of this message is going to largely be aimed at those of us who have been trusting in Jesus. I want you to see that the resurrection does more than just grant you access to forgiveness and to heaven, and that then you don't really think about it except once a year at Easter. Right? I want us to spend the rest of our time considering these five practical ways that the resurrection of Jesus can help us each day. Here's a theme that we we're in the middle of here. Christ's resurrection empowers redeemed sinners daily Don't miss that word. If you're following in your bulletin, get that word daily. Christ's resurrection empowers redeemed sinners daily to live out their potential in Christ. And so now I want to take us through these applications. The first thing is that Christ's resurrection enables Christians to share the gospel with lost people. Now this is only true if you are a Christian trusting in Christ. Turn with me, please, to Mark chapter 16. Mark chapter 16. Right at the end of the gospel, after he has risen, when he's speaking with his disciples in his resurrected body, it says this. Later he appeared to the eleven as they sat at the table. I'm in Mark 16, verse 14. Mark 16, 14. And he rebuked their unbelief and hardness of heart because they did not believe those who had seen him after he had risen. And he said to them, Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Did you catch that? He rebuked them for not believing in the resurrection. He rebuked them for not believing eyewitness testimony. You should believe that I'm risen, he says. Now go and preach it to others. Right? You see the connection there. If you believe that Jesus rose from the dead, then you ought to be sharing that with others. He specifically links the resurrection to evangelism. Now, brothers and sisters, I think you know that you should be sharing the truth about Jesus with I think you know that. I think we struggle with guilt about this. I know I do. But let me just say this in case you need to be convinced, right? People all around us are dying and going to hell every day. And by 11. 59 p. m. tonight, more souls will have entered eternity, and the majority of them will not be in heaven, they will be in hell. That is just the honest truth. And I think you know this. But we We get scared and we get intimidated, right? And we we go to share the gospel with our our kind of cranky neighbor down three doors down, right? Or or that kinda taciturn coworker who just just kinda keeps to himself or or maybe it's the real the real outgoing coworker. You you you you want to stay in his good grace, right? Or just your crazy uncle, right? That you're probably gonna see after this service, right? That you you you don't wanna start anything controversial, right? And and we get intimidated and we we we We scare out. Well you know where you can get confidence to share the gospel and what you believe to be true with your crazy uncle and your cranky neighbor? Go to the Gospels, go to Mark sixteen, go to John twenty, go to the Matthew twenty-eight, Luke twenty-four, it's just The last chapter or two of each of these Gospels has the resurrection there. Read it. Think about it. Pray and ask God to help you. He he he there is a resurrection power in your evangelism then. Because that's what Jesus is doing. He's linking the resurrection to your evangelism. Read an account of his resurrection or go to 1 Corinthians 15, that's a great one. Go to 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, that's a really good one. Read about the resurrection and then ask God to, in that power. To help you take that message to the people you love. Pray through it. Ask God to help you share the gospel and go do it. That's the first application. Number two, Christ's resurrection enables Christians to overcome sin and temptation. I think all of us who have been walking with the Lord for any amount of time find it hard I mean that is, wow, that's a stupid understatement. It is so incredibly difficult to master our flesh, isn't it? It's hard to say no to temptation Even if we've been walking with the Lord for decades, there are certain besetting sins that we can't seem to defeat, right? The resurrection specifically is what gives you power over that. I'm going to read from Romans chapter 8, verse 11. Actually, I'm going to start in verse nine. It says, But you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if indeed the spirit of God dwells in you. If you have if you've if you're trusting in Christ and his spirit dwells lives inside of you, then he's speaking to you. He says, Now if anyone does not have the spirit of Christ, he's not his And if Christ is in you, the body is dead because of sin, but the spirit is life because of righteousness. But here's what I want you to hear. Ready? But if the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you Hold the phone. Think about that. The same power that raised Jesus from the dead now lives in you. And he's talking about fighting sin. He who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his spirit who dwells in you. In other words, you can say no to sin, you can say yes to holiness When you believe this truth about the resurrection, that the same power that raised him is now enabling you to say no to sin. It's incredible. You have this power to wield, and the power is not an inanimate force, it's a person. And you can ask him for help. But I I I know we pray and we ask for help and then we then we pray and ask forgiveness, right? Keep doing But sometimes the the battle is believing this to be true. Believe that, yeah, I really because I'm trusting Jesus, sin is no longer my master. I don't have to say yes, even though it feels like in my body I have to, it's all I know to do. It's it's an ingrained habit But you can say no because you have the same power that brought a dead body back to life, helping you say no. And not just saying no, but you can say yes to obedience. You can please God. Christ's resurrection enables Christians to please God by overcoming sin and temptation. Because Jesus is alive, you are alive, and you can fight against your sin. nature. Number three, Christ's resurrection gives Christians hope and comfort when confronted with death. Some of us have recent deaths in our family lives. And we're mourning and we're struggling. Some of you have told me your stories. I had a dear friend who died at the age of 32. Uh maybe 10 years later this year. His name was Drew. He's he's one of my closest friends. And I was I was a year younger than him, so I was thirty-one at the time. And I s I probably think about him, maybe not every day anymore, it's been ten years, but Every week I think about Drew and I miss him. And what I found myself constantly saying when he died was, I believe in a God of resurrection, so I'm going to be hopeful. See, people who who trust in the risen of risen Christ, we know this to be true, right? People who trust in the risen Christ go to live with the risen Christ. And when when when we're waiting together, once they go to heaven, right, they are waiting with Jesus in heaven to return to earth. He's going to come back to earth, he's told us numerous times, and so do the apostles. He's going to come back, and he's going to bring them with him. And he's going to raise their bodies up like his. Their hope is still in resurrection. My dear friend Drew is with Christ. He gets to see him as he is, but he's still waiting on his own resurrection. He's not complete yet. He will be. He's fine with not being complete because he's with Jesus. But he's waiting for Jesus to bring him back to earth and for him to take up life here again. And when he does, it'll be a perfect world with Jesus reigning over it visibly. Won't be any president in the White House. We'll have King Jesus on the throne On top of all of this, right, that means that when we trust in Jesus' resurrection, then we we're in fellowship with all of the saints who have gone before us. All the ones in in the Bible. Do you have you have Bible heroes? David? Paul? He's he's mine. Peter, Silas, Onesanus. Right? Whoever your your heroes are, but then throughout all of history, including my friend Drew and your your godly grandparents Martin Luther, John Newton, name your favorite heroes from church history. We're in fellowship with them because we're trusting that God will raise up their bodies with our bodies. As he's already risen up his own body. And so we can face death and we can miss our loved ones and yet be happy for them that they're with Jesus and that will be raised to full life right alongside them whenever that comes. Number four, Christ's resurrection brings resolution of the canonist scripture. This might feel a little less practical, but if you're walking with with Jesus and you're trying to read His Word each day, you're reading the Bible each day, Then there are s there's stuff that's hard to understand sometimes, right? When you're reading the Bible But when you s when you take yourself back, like I said before, go back to Mark 16, go back to John 20 and 21. When we do that, keep going back to the resurrection, it makes everything makes sense. God created the world perfectly, it fell into sin, and we die, and then death entered the world. But it's only here temporarily. We can't imagine a world without death. But there's a day coming where there will be no death in the world. And that's all because of the resurrection of Christ. Human history makes better sense there, and it's far more hopeful The Bible makes sense. I mean it fulfills all sorts of statements in the Old Testament like, I know in my flesh that I will see God. King David wrote that, and he hasn't seen God in his flesh yet. He sees him now, he's with him now, but not in his flesh, in his spirit. One day he will see him in his flesh. We already looked at Luke 24, where he said that all of this is already written in the Bible. Ought not the Christ to have suffered these things and enter in his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expanded to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. If you're struggling with understanding part of Scripture, back up, go back to the resurrection. Pray and then go back again and ask him to help you to understand it. The spirit who wrote it will help you to understand it. But especially if you are if you are wrestling with issues understanding the Bible or let's say even to believe the Bible to be the Word of God. If you're struggling with that, like is it man-made or is it is it really from God, like the pastor is telling me that it is? I'm telling you that it is. If you're struggling to believe that, then let me encourage you to spend time meditating on Christ's resurrection. Because it makes everything Else makes sense. Let the Holy Spirit minister to you when you're considering the fulfillment of just the whole problem that humanity has. All of the wars will one day come to an end because of the resurrection All of death will be gone. Let the Holy Spirit convince you of the absolute truth that you are reading as you contemplate this most amazing miracle. I just add one note for you in case this would help. The resolution it brings to the canon of scripture is theological, and it's very logical to believe. Finally, Christ's resurrection enables Christians to persevere in trusting Christ. I can really just repeat what I've said already. If you are struggling to trust God, right? Sometimes I think we do we do this weird thing. I know I do this weird thing, right? Right? Where I'm su I imagine you do it. Maybe nod along if this is true of you, right? But I believe these things. I'm praying, right? I'm reading the Bible. And then I or maybe maybe it's not while I'm doing that. Maybe it's when I'm lying in bed before I fall asleep, right? And just this stray thought enters my head, right? And I'm like, but what if it's not true? Right? And I panic, right? What what if I've been believing this and it's not true? And then we we think, uh-oh, that means I'm actually not saved. If I have any any stray thought enters my my mind, that's what I really am No, deal with it like any other thought you shouldn't be thinking. You shouldn't be thinking an unfaithful thought to your wife, so you banish it, right? Same with this. You don't think an unbelievable you banish it, but then what do you do? You go back to meditating on the on the resurrection and you ask the Lord to minister to you through that. Read his word and let him convince you of its truth, and he will do that. Don't just get in, fight for your belief. Read one more verse. I know I've taken you a lot of verses today. Hebrews 4, verses 14 to 16. One more passage. It's three verses, but it's one more passage. Here's what the author of Hebrews says, seeing that then that we have a great high priest, that's Jesus, spoiler alert, who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God. Let us hold fast our confession, for we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but within all points tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace. Right? Go and ask him for help that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. What did he say? We have a high priest who has passed through the heavens. He was risen again. And then he ascended. And because of that truth, Come to the throne of grace. Believe in him, and he will help you. He will help you to believe. Thank you for listening to me this morning. If you're not sure where you stand with the Lord, I encourage you, please seek me out afterwards. I would love to help you understand these things. Maybe we can set set a time that we can get together over coffee. And we can talk through your your faith journey and and and the things that you're the the stumbling blocks that you have. If you're not sure where you stand with the Lord, talk with me after the service. Brothers and sisters, Christians, let me encourage you keep persevering in seeking Jesus. Keep persevering and being holy like Him. Especially in the things like sharing the gospel, evangelism, fighting temptation. Keep doing all of that by looking to our risen Christ. Let's pray.