Well turn with me please to Matthew chapter five once again. Matthew chapter five. There is a very prominent Bible teacher in this country. A very prominent Bible teacher with a very large platform and a significant family name and a gift for communication. Who wants you and me to cast aside the Old Testament? And he's wrong. He says it prevents us from ministering the gospel to uh people around us because it teaches outdated things that are neither binding on us nor relevant to us anymore. And my advice to this highly gifted communicator, yet mere severely mistaken Bible teacher Is that he should read Jesus Christ's greatest sermon again. Especially the verses, the two verses we're digging into this morning, chapter 5, verses 19 and 20 in the Gospel of Matthew. Because our Savior makes it clear there, along with numerous other places Throughout the New Testament and of course the Old Testament in general and the law in particular, that it is of lasting importance and lasting value to Christ and his followers. It is not the means by which he saves us But it is important and it is relevant and it is helpful because Jesus saves people from sin. I want you to get this. This is not the main theme statement, although it's related to it Jesus saves people from sin so that we can live lives that prove we've been freed from sin Now let me say that again. Jesus saves people from sin so that we can live lives that prove we have been saved, freed from sin. that that we would walk in holiness and and that the whole world would see that guy, that lady They are different. They have been changed. They have been transformed. But what caused that? And that they would become trophies of God's grace. of his transforming power. That we would live lives, that we can live lives that reflect his character And we do that after Jesus has saved us by beholding God's perfect character revealed in His Word and revealed in His law. So here's our main theme, and I'm going to elaborate on this. Here's our main theme this morning. I'm only going to give you the first half. You have to wait for the second half, right? God saves people by himself. And just yesterday after I'd already written this, I was reading uh in uh Isaiah chapter s uh chapter 59, and it is the closing verse on the slide at the end of the service today, where God says just that. I'm saving you on my own. He doesn't need the law to do it. We cannot obey our ways our way into heaven. He saves people by himself so that we'll live lives that reflect his character. Now I want you to understand something before we get into the main body of this, right? Because Jesus is talking about the law. We looked at this last week where he said, I've come to fulfill the law, not destroy it. to fulfill the whole new the whole Old Testament, he said. He said that till heaven and earth pass away, not the tiniest stroke of the tiniest letter will pass from the law till Allah is fulfilled. And when we if you spend some time in your Bible reading and you're and some of you I I I've even had conversations with with more than one of you where you're going through like Exodus or Leviticus right now seeing the specific laws, right? And and it can be difficult. And maybe you need like a an audio Bible to help you keep pushing through. And that's fine. That's good. It's a good idea. It can be difficult to read those laws, but let me tell you, try to look for, though they may not be binding to you anymore, and though you may never have to scrape the fatty lobe off of a kidney If you're going through Leviticus, you know what I'm talking about, right? And those those sacrifices. Try to see the character of God expresses there because like anybody the things we talk about reveal what's important to us. And the law, especially by the perfect God, the perfect Creator, who has no shade of of darkness in him, right? He only communicates perfectly. So he communicates his priorities and he communicates his character And when we read the word and when we read the law, that part of Scripture we usually don't like, most of us don't necessarily enjoy reading the law as much as we enjoy reading the Psalms or the Gospels or one of the really joyful books like Philippians, right? Or John's epistles. But when we read any of those, but especially the law, try to see his character there and discern the The unchanging principle behind it, because it tells you about your God, it will always be relevant for that reason. And so today we're going to look at the basically the second half of a four-verse passage. I had intended to preach all four verses, that is 17 through 20 last week And there is just so much richness here that I had to break it into two pieces. So we're in the second half of a two-verse passage, but I promise you this stands on its own. It's okay if you didn't if you didn't if you weren't here last week. I encourage you to do that when you miss a service. But I promise you that this will stand on its own. Now I'm going to do something out of the ordinary today. I'm going to read these verses, but then we're going to take them in reverse order. I'm going to exposit verse 20 And then verse 19, because I think that that best helps us to capture the gospel message in this passage. So you ready? Alright, let's let's read. We'll read all four of those verses, and then we'll uh we'll go right into exposition. Matthew 5, verse 17. Do not think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets. I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill. For assuredly I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, One jot or one tittle will by no means pass from the law till all is fulfilled. Whoever therefore breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches men so shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven But whoever does and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I say to you that unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven Let's look in at verse 20. I say to you, unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. God expresses his perfect character in the law. We've established that, right? He does it so that he must because Because he must save sinners some other way. Because he reveals his character in the law We cannot live up to it, and therefore he must save us by some other way. The law will not do it. It is beautiful, it is perfect, because it reveals our God to us, but it can't save us because we're too fallen, we're too sinful. He must save us by some other way. Now, what he says here is your righteousness must exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees. The scribes and Pharisees were seen as the most holy people in Jewish society in Jesus' day. The scribes were the people who literally wrote down copies of scripture. It's an outdated profession now. We don't need it because we can't We can print multiple copies, no problem, right? Long before the invention of the printing press, though, they would have scriptoriums where you would have They have professional scribes, professional copyists, right? And uh they could certainly do this with other works of literature, and that would sometimes be done in monasteries in later days But where you would have uh a uh a row of scribes writing down a copy of scripture. One man, one scribe would be reading from the scroll. And these professionally trained men would would write down a copy and they would do their best to make it with no errors. There could be copyist errors from from time to time. But we can look at all of the manuscripts and see uh what the original certainly was. The scribes knew the law because they were writing it down day after day, full time. It was their job. The Pharisees, many of them were of a uh were were wealthy, but they were they were part of the political class. Now there were Sadducees as well. You've probably heard that term. They tended to be the wealthiest But a lot of the Pharisees could be as well, but they were known as the mo the most uh careful observers of the law. And they were meticulous. And if the law says to go this far, they'd go this far, right? Just to make sure. And they would establish their righteousness that way. When when they talked about the law, they often were not talking if they refer to the term the law, like Jesus says here, I came to fulfill the law and the prophets. And then in the verses to come after this, that we're going to be seeing for the next few weeks. Just look ahead with me actually. Verse 21. You've heard that it was said to those of old, right? And then he goes on to say in in the next verse. Verse 22, but I say to you, over and over again, verse 27, you've heard that it was said to those of old, verse 28, but I say to you. Thirty-one. Furthermore, it has been said, but I say to you, and again and again They're not necessarily talking about the the law of Moses. I mean they are, but they're talking about the rabbis' interpretation of it and their own extension of it. They take it further because they want to show just how darn holy they are The people did not see the Pharisees as the bad guys, right? That's important for us to recognize. Because don't you tend to see the Pharisees as the bad guys? You know why? Because they are. But the people didn't see it that way. The the Pharisees are the ones, not the only ones, but they were instrumental in crucifying Jesus. They are no doubt the bad guys. There are some good guys in there. Nicodemus. There are other ones that we we see came to know Christ, especially in the book of Acts. But for the most part, as a group, they were the bad guys because they are not only Seeing the law and treating the law as a means to be saved by their own righteousness, not by God's righteousness But the teaching others to rely merely on the law instead of loving God and letting His righteousness save them and justify them. And so this is why Jesus came to explain: look. The law will never pass because it expresses my own character, my Father's own character, the Holy Spirit's own character. It cannot pass away. I'm here to fulfill it. Because you cannot be saved by it. You must be saved by some other way. And I debated putting a capital W in way on that slide because he is the way. Jesus is the only way. Now I want to give you an example of of what these how these Pharisees live. So turn with me, please. To Philippians chapter 3. I want to prove to you by Scripture that the character revealed in the law cannot be obtained simply by observing it outwardly. Philippians chapter three, we can read from verses four through seven. Though I also might have confidence in the flesh, this is Paul talking, if anyone else thinks he may have confidence in the flesh, I more so. He's talking about himself, his experience, what was true of him. Ready? He says, I was circumcised the eighth day, according to Of the stock of Israel, genetically he was pure. Of the tribe of Benjamin, again genetically he was pure, and he even comes from the tribe that had the first king of Israel. Israel. A Hebrew of the Hebrews concerning the law of Pharisee, concerning zeal, persecuting the church. Now hear this. Concerning the righteousness Which is in the law, blameless. Well then he's going to heaven, right? Close the book. We don't need a New Testament. Concerning the righteousness of the Which is in the law, blameless. But what things were gained to me, these I have counted lost for Christ. Why would he count those lost? Because the righteousness that he can attain to by the law is not enough. And so Jesus says, you need to have a righteousness that exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees. You can turn back to Matthew 5 now. The people saw the Pharisees as the good guys. They saw them as the the great standard. Most people didn't expect to live up to the righteousness of the Pharisees. If if your kid in church decides he's going to become a Pharisee, I mean you got you got clout at church for uh synagogue for for for being the the the the parents Of a young budding Pharisee. This is a big deal. And for Jesus to say, that's not good enough For you to enter the kingdom of heaven, you're gonna have to be more righteous than that. This is mind-blowing and countercultural, and it's gonna take a whole lot of people off. Other people are going to despair. And it's good we should. Because he's trying to show us that won't save you. You can't measure up to the perfect character, the perfect righteousness. Of Yahweh, the creator and sustainer of the universe. Paul came to understand that. He's a Pharisee himself, but he realizes that that righteousness That he could attain by observing the law, it wouldn't gain him Christ. And without Christ the king, there is no kingdom for you to enter. So he gives up that righteousness that he detained by the law, because it wasn't enough, because he recognizes I need a righteousness that exceeds that of the Pharisees, and he is one. And he goes to Christ. He gives it up that he may have Christ. Now this is the same for you and me. Obey all the the commandments in the Old Testament if you can. You can't, but let's imagine for a moment that you can, right? You keep all of the moral commands You follow follow the civil legal code. You make sure you're very careful about where you put the pits in your your uh field so that no other ox wanders in. You you follow all of the civil uh guidelines to the letter. Maybe not to the spirit, but to the letter. You risk getting hanged by the animal rights roots so that you can obey all the sacrifices. That still wouldn't be good enough. That was a joke, by the way. Outwardly you you would appear very religious. You'd appear very righteous. But you'd still have a dirty conscience. You'd still have this, well, maybe you wouldn't feel it, but you would. You'd have this dirty, impure heart. And that God, if you were to try to enter heaven, God would recoil. He would have to cast you out. You wouldn't get in. Because the r the righteousness according to any code of following laws, th that just w w law following, law keeping, rule following will not save you. And I hope you realize that this is how all the other religions in the world try to attain righteousness. This is how they view it. Law-keeping Muslims are no different from law-keeping Pharisees. The only difference is they keep a different set of laws. They have the five pillars of Islam. The Pharisees took a certain interpretation of Moses' law and they tried to follow that. There's really no difference. Sikhs are the same. I had a good conversation with a Sikh last summer where he explained to me that that yeah, just do your best and keep keep the rules and yeah, hopefully it's good enough. It's not. That's the problem. That's why Jesus had to enter into the world. That's why God had to slay the Son of God. If there were any other way, God would not have given up his son. He loves his son. His son is of infinite worth, infinite value. If there is more than one way to be made right with God, perhaps you've heard the ludicrous statement that God is one mountain with many paths, if he is, those paths don't lead to the top. They end up going off a cliff off the side. The only way to be made right with God is for you to be given a righteousness that you can't obtain yourself. It has to be has to be gifted to you. You need the righteousness of God given to you, that you might be clothed with it, as we sang just a few minutes ago, his robes for mine. You need those robes, the robes of Jesus Christ. Do your best. Be good according to whatever measurement you have that defines good, you will find it will not get you to heaven. You won't make it to heaven, paradise, nirvana, nanda, parbat, whatever you want to call it, unless you have the righteousness of Christ given to you. You cannot attain it yourself. So how do you get it given to you? How do you get a righteousness that exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees? Well, first you stop trying to attain righteousness by following rules. That doesn't mean that those rules are bad. It reveals the character of the one who made those rules. It reveals his priorities. But don't try to just attain Second, ask Jesus to Give you it. Ask him to give you his righteousness. Jesus is God, so if he gives you his righteousness, that that will qualify. That will please God the Father. God the Son's righteousness plea pleases God the Father because they are one and the same being. They're three persons, but but he is one God Only only Jesus' righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees. The only one who can please God with ru with his own righteousness Is Jesus himself. It's the only human who can do it. He's fully human. He's fully God. The Pharisees can't do it. Muhammad can't give you some something that will make you right with God. Joseph Smith certainly can't. And so when you ask Jesus to save you, you're asking him, Lord, please Please give me the righteousness that you forsook on the cross. Lord, would you count me righteous just as you were counted as a sinner? And that'd be in my place. Let that apply to me as well. Jesus died on the cross. God w the the only reason he could die is because he was actually counted guilty. Like it was actually real that he had committed the sin. Because you can't die unless you're a sinner. It was impossible for Jesus to die. So he had to be counted guilty by God Himself. And so he was clothed with your own sins. The laws of physics work in such a way that they only apply to sinners when you when you get to the death and the breaking down of things. Jesus had to be counted guilty. He died in your place. So what happens to his righteousness? If you will put your faith in him, his righteousness is applied to you just as your sins were applied to you. And the amazing thing is then, of course, that the resurrection, and some of you have heard me say this many times at this point, the resurrection proves that God, the Father, accepted the sacrifice of God. God the Son. Because he had no wrath left. All of his wrath burned up, all of the sin placed on Christ. Nothing was left to keep him in the grave. And so once again he cannot be dead, and he walks right out of that tomb. My my boys have some wonderful boys I would always, always, always uh encourage you to get i if if you're looking for books for children, get anything from the series The Tales That Tell the Truth, published by the Good Book Company. Absolutely wonderful. All of them explain the gospel really well. But one thing that they tend to miss where they tend to kind of blur together as they talk about Jesus uh rising from the dead and and going to heaven as though there's as though he just kind of went out of the tomb straight up to heaven. Jesus didn't do that, right? He walked around for a while. He was here for 40 days. He preached. He ate. At one point, he was seen by 500 people at once. Can you imagine that? 500 people all seeing threw his hand out the other side, both wrists, both feet, that hole in his side. They recognized him from before he died. They've seen him bleeding out on the cross, and yet here he is preaching to them. Here he is hugging them, sharing meals with them. They can touch him, they can hear him, they can see him, they can even smell him. Before he went up to heaven, proving that God had accepted his death in your place. That's why the resurrection is so important, just as important as the death of Christ. He died for you, so that you might be given a righteousness that is far superior to anything you could obtain by any legal code at all. Anything that the scribes and Pharisees can do, anything that the Imams can do, anything that the elders of the of the Church of Latter-day Saints could attain to. Your only hope, their only hope, our only hope, is that we be given the righteousness of Jesus Christ. There is no other way. Now this is good stuff. This is how you get the righteousness that pleases God so that you can be saved. saved and I'd say we can just go home now or we can start the business meeting. But Jesus said more, because we've skipped over verse 19, haven't we? Right? Let's revisit the theme. God saves people by himself. So that they will live lives that reflect his character. And that's what we see embodied in verse 19. Whoever breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches mentioned So shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. See that Jesus values the law in this life. We've seen that God saves us by himself. We understand that God has revealed his character in the law So now the question is, what is our relationship to the law supposed to look like? Right? This is a big question that Christians have debated for centuries. What should our relationship be to the Old Testament law? How much of it still applies to us? And I've tried to get at that throughout this message and last week as well by explaining that though the individual laws themselves may not atta uh may not apply to us anymore Like I ate bacon for breakfast this morning and it was glorious. And if I were following the law to the letter, I would be condemned for it. Because that outlaw is the eating of pork. And lobster and crab and shellfish, oh man. I'm grateful I live in the New Testament era, but I'm still seeking to honor that law in the sense that I'm seeking to honor the character of God revealed in it. Right? So what we want to do is try and understand what when it when it forbids pork, when it forbids delicious crustaceans. When it tells us that we need to do certain things with our property, like what it though those things are no longer binding by letter. What is that revealing about God? What what is what are his priorities so that I can live by it And so when Jesus says that whoever breaks the least of these commandments literally looses one of the least of these commandments. He's saying that what s someone says you don't need to worry about that, like the the Bible teacher I told you at the beginning of this message. Ignore the Old Testament. We don't care about that. It doesn't reflect God. They are wrong. And they are they are showing a disdain not only for what God said, but who God is. by saying it doesn't matter. It is true that you don't have to obey the prohibitions on food. In fact, if you seek to obey all of those, you're now disobeying what what God said that super precedes that in Acts chapter ten. We're told, eat those things, it's good, because God was showing by us eating those things that now He's intending for all of the world who eats those things to be saved. Now I want us to look at this difficult statement because it it gives us some questions before we talk more about the character of God and the law and how we honor. What does it mean when he says that there are people who will be esteemed least in the kingdom of heaven? There's three interpretations. So let me read this one more time to make sure we're all on the same page. We know what I'm talking about. Okay. Whoever therefore breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches men I'm going to mostly focus on that, but the corollary he gives us is just as true, right? Because he says, whoever does and teaches them, meaning that those First of all, the key is that we need to be seeking the spirit of those, the character behind those, not necessarily the letter. And if we are if we are seeking to honor the character and teaching others, encouraging others to do so, that's pleasing God. You're not the least. You'd be more Like one of the greats. But what does he mean that there is a least in the kingdom of heaven? Okay, so there's three possibilities that I have come across the most common ways of understanding this as I read commentaries and different things One is basically just he's not actually talking in terms of heaven here. He's not talking about eternity. He's saying that these people will be called least in the kingdom here on earth. What it's saying is they appear to be saved people, but they don't actually know the law, uh d know the Lord, because if they did, they wouldn't be teaching wrongly, and they won't actually enter the kingdom. So they're they're in the church in the kingdom in that sense they're esteemed the least. You know one really big problem with that with that uh Interpretation? First of all, let me just say like there's truth to that. Like there are people who do this who won't enter the kingdom of heaven. I don't know the heart of the man that I told you about today, and I notice I'm deliberately not revealing his identity to you. I don't know the heart of that man. He may be a genuine believer. He may not. There are people who teach you to Ignore God's law because they don't belong to Him and they won't enter the kingdom of heaven. But that's not what Jesus is saying here. One big hint of that is that there are people that do this that tell us disregard the law and they are esteemed very well. In fact, the man that I'm I've been describing, he's esteemed very well. He's worth many many millions of dollars because he is so well esteemed in the life. Unless he changes, he will not be well esteemed in the kingdom of heaven. He will not be well esteemed in eternity. Now this is talking about eternity. So the second interpretation. Of being called least in the kingdom of heaven is simply that they're barred from entering it. It says that those who are teaching in this manner and saying don't honor the character of God and the law, don't obey the law, it doesn't matter, they won't actually enter the kingdom of heaven. And that's what it means to be a The problem is this inclusive language, right, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven It's the same langu language used for for uh the the corollary. He shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. This is not language that excludes. It's applying the same rhetoric to both groups This is talking about within the kingdom of heaven in eternity there will be least and there will be great. Notice it doesn't say great as. So that leaves only the the last option, which is just the plain meaning here. There will be people in heaven who, right now on earth, They're trusting in Christ for his own righteousness, just as I've described. They're attaining salvation by him, not by following the law. And because of that, they misunderstood some things and they disregard God's commands. Probably they're not just disregarding commands in the Old Testament, but much of the New Testament. And that there are people who are genuinely saved people and genuinely mistaken, and they're teaching people wrongly, and that's not pleasing to God, but they will be in the kingdom of heaven. They will receive all the benefits of being children of God for eternity. And they will rejoice. But they will not be esteemed as highly as those who in this life are seeking to honor the Lord and promote holiness and seek to fulfill the character of God in their lives so that he'd receive glory. God assigns apparently a better reputation, possibly rank. It may be talking about rank. I'm not 100% certain on this one yet, so I don't want to say that. But certainly reputation. The Lord is assigning a higher reputation to those who seek to honor his character and encourage others to do so, as opposed to those who encourage others to ignore the character of Christ and the character of God. of God revealed in the Old and New Testaments. And I we need to stop there. Because we want to say, okay, well what about crowns? What about rewards? Right here, this passage is talking about reputation. There are other passages that talk about rewards in heaven, that talk about crowns. The reward is not to be confused with salvation itself. That you receive by grace. But we're not going to go there because that's not what this passage is talking about. It is talking merely, at least on the surface level, it is talking about reputation And possibly rank. So wh what so what? What does that mean? Well, it's simply further cementing this truth. that you can only be saved by grace. Do you get that? Like there are people who right now we would say we wholeheartedly, fundamentally disagree with, don't ever go to that church because they they teach you to live that way which is wicked and not this way as described in the Bible. And yet they will be in heaven because God is kind and gracious and they are trusting in him, though severely mistaken on what the Word of God says. God graciously saved them. Pray for such people that they will understand the Word of God and that they would live out holiness this side of eternity. And that they wouldn't lose reputation in eternity. That they might publicly repent. Now not everybody who That way, who is is saying, live wickedly, contrary to what scripture says. Not everyone who does that is a saved person. Probably most are not But we are told that, nevertheless, there are people who fundamentally misunderstand, yet they are trusting in Christ and they will be saved. So those denominations and churches that we would say don't go there, it's dangerous. Sometimes there's enough gospel there for them to hear it and to be saved. And that's only out of God's kindness It's not right, it's not deserving, humanly speaking, but God kindly, graciously still snatches out of the fire there for himself those who will trust in him. He is a God of grace. We're not saved by the law. But He wants us, He saves us so that we will Demonstrate his righteous character. He saves us from our sins so we can prove that we are no longer under the power of sin. He saves you to make you a trophy to his grace. Seek to live a holy life. Seek to obey his commandments, not so that he will save you if you trust me. And he's already done that. And now that he's done that, you're born again, you have new desires, satisfy them by what God says. You can please him, but you can't be any more saved. You'll be happier when you obey his commandments. When you forsake some sin, perhaps it is a crippling lifestyle sin that you struggle to say no to, but when you turn your back on that, when you forsake it, yes, there will be times that you stumble back into it. But then you will feel the grace of God as He kindly comes around you and Jesus says, I am your advocate in your place. I argue for your salvation. I clothe you with my righteousness. Do not fear. Get up and be holy again. You will be happier when you pursue that life of fighting against your sinful inclinations. You won't always feel happy because you will fail. And you will feel the enemy fighting against you, the enemy within and the enemy on the outside. But ultimately, he will satisfy you. Those, he says, blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed the pure in heart, for they shall see God. I don't think there's anything more to add to that, though I had more planned to say. I think we should just praise our God for His grace and close and pray and sing. Let's do that.