My wife is a very good cook. A lot of you know that actually because you come to a life group and you have heard her uh or you you've you've tasted her baking a hundred plus times. If you haven't, then you're probably going to get to taste her food in like an hour from now because we got the fellowship meal coming up. Um and uh those of you who have tasted Jamie's cooking know that she didn't need to bribe me to say all this. Um That was a joke, I guess it didn't land. Okay Uh now I know that Jamie generally enjoys cooking. She enjoys serving her dishes to me and to the boys, and I definitely enjoy eating it. She really I especially enjoy her soups. Uh we both really enjoy soup, and so sometimes in the middle of the summer, like the heat of August, we'll be eating soup because her soups are just s There's some dishes that Jamie doesn't enjoy serving. And I talked to her about this. She gave me full blessing to share this. Some dishes Jamie doesn't enjoy serving, not because she doesn't want to make it, but but because she anticipates how it's going to be received. That it won't be received the best, especially some of the excessive feedback she might get from the two younger members of our family, for instance I'm not usually the problem. I'll eat almost anything. But I'm not guiltless. And for instance, Jamie loves baked potatoes, loaded baked potatoes If I'm honest, I'm not the biggest fan of baked potatoes. I I I I will I will eat them, but the problem is you load them with bacon and cheese or or with you know with with healthy stuff, broccoli and and hot sauce But unless I'm diligent, I I'm liable to uh to eat the good stuff off the top and leave most of the potato. Um now the boys are not the biggest fans Of baked potatoes either. But it's a good, cost-effective meal, and it fills us up, and with the right toppings, they really can be nutritious. And Jamie will give us different things to to uhy it up. So every now and then Jamie makes baked potatoes. Even though she knows, like she'll look forward to eating it herself, but she knows that we may not give her the best responses, and she'll be dreading serving it to her ungrateful family. members. Because she doesn't like the reception that she's she she'll get to a good meal that she's serving. Maybe you've guessed where I'm going with this. The passage in front of us this morning is like a loaded baked potato in some ways. And if you like loaded baked potato, well, I hope you'll like this one. There's a lot of good spiritual nutrition in the meal that I'm about to serve you, and it is indeed a meal. Each sermon, try to see it as a meal. Jesus said that man would not live on bread alone, but by every word which comes from the mouth of God And I seek to, I am, I am not speaking from God's mouth. I'm not an Old Testament prophet, but I am speaking according to his word that he has given to us. And there's a lot of nutrition in this meal, but I'm afraid you're not going to enjoy eating it. And the difference between Jamie serving baked potatoes and me serving this message is I'm not even the biggest fan of eating some of this that I'm about to preach to you. And so I want to urge you to try not to fight with mental arguments against I I will try to anticipate your mental arguments and respond to them, but if I do that the whole way through, we'll be sitting here for two hours. Because it's that kind of passage. And we have stubborn hearts. Now I have watched a lot of good Bible exalting pastors and preachers falter on the passage that I'm about to preach. They'll be killing it as they were walk as they walk through the Sermon on the Mount. Like they will urge prideful people to be humble. They tackle anger and lust and and they don't back down. They boldly confront the sin of divorce. and the the varying perspectives that our culture has on that. Then they get to this passage about turning the other cheek and giving your personal belongings to people who ask for it. And suddenly three-quarters of the message is the pastor saying, Jesus doesn't mean this. And I will have to say some of that because we can take it too far. I am not immune to this risk, and I'm not saying I'm a better preacher. I'm saying this so you can hold me accountable. I'm saying this before the Lord, that I want to say what the passage says and not what I want it to say And I don't want to excuse away all of the things in it, so we're left without the words of Jesus on this topic. And sometimes people do go far with this, too far with this. They they'll especially tie it to political movements, for instance. But I think that this passage has been mishandled more by churches in our own camp than by those who tie it to the politics with which we might discuss it. And that's because we don't like being told that we need to let offenses slide. We don't like being told that we need to stop insisting on being vindicated. We have pride and it gets hurt. And when we're offended by sinful people, we want to see the wrong righted right away And when we're told that we need to be patient about that and be okay with maybe not even seeing vindication this side of eternity, we don't like it. Not when it gets to the nitty-gritty. We don't like being told that we need to be more generous with our belongings. You don't like to hear it. I don't like to hear it. I certainly don't like to tell you it. But it's what Jesus has for us this morning. It's what he's called for me to preach to you. So please don't shoot the messenger. So by God's grace, that's what I'm going to preach. And I'll tell you what, if we can see the character of God behind these commands and these exhortations in this passage, it's going to help us to palette this message. So let me let me just give you the theme up front. I don't always do that. God's people can be patient with the people who wrong them. You can be patient when you are wronged and cheated. and mistreated, because our Savior, who is also our judge, will give us justice and treat us graciously God's people can be patient with the people who wrong them because their Savior and Judge will give them justice and treat them graciously. So we're going to read this five-verse passage and jump in. You have heard it said, you have heard that it was said, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. But I tell you not to resist an evil person. But whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn the other to him also. If anyone wants to sue you and take away your tunic, let him have your cloak also And whoever compels you to go one mile, go with him two. Give to him who asks you, and from him who wants to borrow from you, do not turn away. First thing we need to do to receive this right is to recognize that God's commands come from his just and merciful character. If you are doing a Bible in a year reading plan right now and you find yourself in the law, maybe you're in Exodus or Leviticus right around now, maybe Numbers. You're going through a lot of of laws, a lot of commandments that God gives, some that maybe don't even make sense to you in in our modern world. But recognize that every command that God gives in his word comes out of who he is. It reflects what's valuable to him, what he cares about. And so Jesus reads something or quotes something from the Old Testament. He says, You have heard that it was said, an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. And then in the next verse, he says, But I tell you, so Stop reading there, right? But he says, but. You've heard it said. He gives us scripture and he says, but. Don't suppose that Jesus is going to contradict what is given in Scripture. But he is going to contradict misapplications or misunderstandings of what is is given in God's Word. Okay? So he is not about to say, I know it says this in in the Bible, but it's wrong. He's not going to do that. And we need to still uphold what is there. Have you seen those bumper stickers? I've seen them attributed to Gandhi and I've seen it attributed to Bob Marley, and when I look online I don't think either of them actually said it. But the the that bumper sticker that that says if uh if everyone takes an eye for an eye the whole eye would the whole world would go blind, something like that. Have you seen those bumper stickers? They were really in vogue like ten years ago Usually, like I said, Bob Marley's face would be on him, sometimes Gandhi. That implies that God was wrong. to command this. And I want you to see that he's not wrong, but we apply it wrongly This quotation here is a short-form quotation of a longer one that appears three times in the Old Testament law. It appears in Exodus 21, verse 24. You don't have to write these down, but you might want to. Exodus 21, 24, Leviticus 24, verse 20, and Deuteronomy 19, verse Verse 21. Let me read from the Leviticus one, because I think that's the clearest context. Starting in verse 19, it says, If a man causes disfigurement of his neighbor, As he has done, so shall it be done to him. Fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth. As he has caused disfigurement of a man, so shall it be done to him And whoever kills an animal shall restore it, but whoever kills a man shall be put to death. You shall have the same law for the stranger and for one from your own country. I am the Lord your God. I want us to recognize, first of all, as I said, that Jesus is not about to contradict Scripture. He's going to explain to his listeners that they and their religious leaders have been misapplying it. And here is why. This is a legal principle. In all three of those cases in the Old Testament law, it is written for the judge. Trying to apply justice to a situation. In one case, in the first case, Exodus, it's written specifically for Moses. It is God speaking to Moses, and he's saying to Moses, When when people bring this case to you, here's how you, Moses, ought to handle it, because Moses was the judge of his people. In fact, there's a whole chapter where His his father-in-law comes for a visit while they're in the wilderness, which I've always thought was kind of the weirdest in-law visit ever. His his father-in-law comes to visit in the wilderness And he watches Moses judging the people from from dawn until dusk, literally. Right? Do you remember that story? And his name's Jethro. And then Jethro says, look, you gotta you gotta come up with a better system. You need to get some under underlings, some underjudges. for you. You can be the Supreme Court, but but you need some judges under you to hear all these cases. And so this was written for the judges of the people. This is a legal passage. And it was intended to. To be fair in both directions. So did you catch the context? If there is a disfigurement of someone, permanent disfigurement, if there is permanent harm done to somebody. It would be wrong to just let that person skate with a slap on the wrist. Imagine that some guy gets drunk in a bar and he he hits somebody with a beer bottle in the face, right? And the person he hits loses the eye. It would be wrong to to j for the judge to simply give this guy 30 hours of customer serv uh customer service, community service. That's not even a work week. Thirty hours of community service. Customer service is pretty punishing. Maybe that would be a better one. If he says you can skate, all you need to do is thirty hours of community service of picking up trash at the side of the road and pay a two hundred dollar fine, that guy goes on with his life, nothing's changed a month from now. Right? Well never see properly again. That's not just. That's not fair. And this this person who lost his eye is going to want justice. God is a j a just God, and so he says you need just punishment. However, on the other s on the on the other hand Let's say that the person that he hit, who lost his eye, the person who lost his eye, is the son of a well-connected political official. And his dad decides, or his mother, decide that they are going to be vindictive. And they're going to push for the harshest possible penalty. In fact, I want this guy who blinded my son, I want him to get capital punishment. I want him to lose his life. Imagine they say that. So one person loses his life while the other one only lost an eye. So the idea here is to limit the punishment to to s to appropriate levels. So that justice is given on the one hand to the victim, but but also that justice is given to the the perpetrator, that he is not unduly punished. The punishment must fit the crime, we say. Jesus doesn't say that the law is wrong because it was given by God. If it's given by God, it's right. It comes from his character. Any commandment in Scripture reveals what's important to God. And this shows that God values fairness and justice. And so he gives law like laws like these to j to g guide judges in the a in ancient Israel. It's it's not an American law. We don't necessarily well we don't do this. We don't put people's eyes out if one person puts another eye out, and that's okay. But the principle is to be followed. Fairness and justice. And Jesus is just. Jesus is wise. And so in the next four verses, he's going to apply his world-famous wisdom to situations where people have been wronged And he's going to urge that when we are wronged, but we don't just demand our rights to be fulfilled. And I think this is especially a problem for us as Americans. Because every other word out of our mouth goes back to the Constitution sometimes and and our our Bill of Rights and our inalienable rights. I know it's a Declaration of In independence. But we're always talking about our rights and our civil rights and our cu our human rights and our constitutional rights. And sometimes we we just even as Christians we insist so much on our rights. that we forget to be gracious and we forget to be merciful with other people. We want justice for ourselves at the expense of being gracious And Jesus is going to insist that yes, God is just, but he's also gracious. And the God who extends grace to you by pardoning your sins. By taking them on himself and punishing his son, is going to say that his people ought to extend grace to others. And I want you to see that we can trust God to be just and fair. You can extend grace to people when they have wronged you, when they're evil people, because that's what Jesus is going to say. He says, don't resist an evil person. So he's not talking about even when this is with your friend, when a brother or sister at church does something that hurts you. This is when an evil person does it to you. How much more ought you to extend grace to a brother or sister at church or in your family? You can do it because God is just and fair and he will treat you fairly. You can apply patience, there's your second point, apply patience instead of retaliating, apply patience to injustice because God is just. And you can You can trust that he's gonna be fair. You can trust he's gonna treat you fairly at least. He is at least going to give you what you deserve. Most likely he's gonna give you better than you deserve. And so I want you to see in the verses that follow that we can do the things Jesus is saying because Jesus has already reminded us from Scripture that God will treat us fairly. So let's look at these next two verses. He says, But I tell you not to resist an evil person, but whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn the other to him also. And this is where we start to chafe and fight back a little bit. Now, first off, let's understand what he's saying. The word translated here as resist can also mean to set yourself against somebody. Now pretty much all of the translations say resist here. And that makes good sense when you read it with this idea of offering your your your left cheek to be slapped along with the right one. But if we read this word in the context of the verse that we just went through, right? In the context of verse 38, the eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth. Then it makes sense and it works for the rest of this passage that he's saying, I tell you not to set yourself against an evil person. Jesus is saying, don't set up an adversarial position, even when the person is evil. Don't make him your enemy. He might choose to be your enemy, but you don't need to help him with that. He may set himself against you, you don't have to do the same. Now, this phrase, turn the other cheek, I've I was bullied a lot when I was a kid And I heard this all the time, turn the other cheek, but people used it meaning, just ignore it. Right If if I was upset that I was being picked on, people say, Oh just turn the other cheek. What they meant was, oh just just pretend it didn't happen, just just ignore it. Just don't say anything. And that's not necessarily bad advice. It's not always good advice. But that's not what it means. What's he saying in context here? Says, I tell you not to resist an evil person, but whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn the other to him also. He slaps you here, I'll let him slap you there. That's what he's saying. Be willing to take more abuse, is what he's saying. Now abuse I realize is a charged word and I don't I don't mean it in the way that we've been using it for the last ten years online I want you to see the type of incident that Jesus is talking about. First of all, this is not a legal scenario Right? So eye for eye, tooth for tooth, when it's applied correctly by judges and by juries, that's good. But when it's applied in a one-on-one scenario, one person slaps you in the face. This is where he's saying don't don't apply that that principle. Don't apply the eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth scenario when somebody slaps you, hits you. You know why? Because you're not the judge in that situation. Even if you happen to be a judge by occupation. If someone says something to you that hurts you, what do you want to do? Well you want to retaliate. You want to say something mean back. Right? Someone slaps you in the face, you want to hit them back And he's saying don't do that. Don't take that legal verse and apply it to your personal vendettas. That's revenge. Justice when it's carried through the God-ordained channels, that's justice. When punishment is doled out. When we dole it out according to what we think is good, then it's revenge. And that's not honoring to the Lord. And we glorify revenge with the movies and the video games that we watch and play. We need a detox. We need to really meditate on what this means. Now, notice that he is not talking about people being permanently disfigured When he says, if someone slaps you in the face. This is not the case that we see in verse 38. This is not someone having a terrible, grievous harm done to them that's going to have lasting uh lasting uh effects. If you're starting to argue in your mind, try try and listen to me here, okay? This is not saying don't defend yourself or don't defend somebody else, right? The scenario put here is one of two things. Either someone is picking a fight They slap you and they're trying to goad you into a fight. And Jesus is saying, don't escalate. The other scenario that's also in view here and probably is the main thrust of what he's getting at, is when the type of the type of striking here, and it's specifically referring to with an open hand hand is intended to disgrace somebody, not to harm them. It might sting, it'll sting, it'll hurt. But this is this is a disgraceful strike. He's talking about hitting on the right cheek and speaking mostly to to right-handed people. How do you hit if how are you going to hit with your hand with your right hand and get someone on the right cheek? It's going to be a backhand. And in the ancient Near East, actually even in the modern Near East, this was considered highly offensive. Apparently in some countries today, there are extraordinary fines for backhanding somebody. This is more about somebody getting their pride hurt. Yeah, literally stings on your your face and you might have a little bit of a bruise. But this is the sort of thing that you don't have to you you do not have to defend yourself, you do not have to hit back. And that is Jesus's He is not talking about somebody coming at you with a closed fist or with a weapon. Okay, so so if you're if you're arguing already in your mind and saying, yeah, but if If somebody is trying to harm me, Jesus wouldn't want me to get hurt. I agree. That's not what he's talking about. He's talking about those things where you insist that you must strike back, whether it's with your words or with your hand. He's saying you don't need to do that. Okay, so if you've got this idea of of bullies on the schoolyard uh surrounding a kid and kicking him until he bleeds. Get that out of your head. That's not what's going on here. Okay? He is talking about when you have an argument with your sister. And she brings up that nasty thing from 40 years ago that that she continues to hurt you with. And so because she did that, now you're going to bring up that other thing that she did 15 years ago, and you're going to hurt her back. That's what he's talking about. And he's saying if somebody wounds your pride, if somebody disgraces you, if somebody is Mean if someone was unkind and unfair, don't treat them according to the way they deserve. And can we just go right to the the point here? Isn't that the gospel? You deserve to be in hell. I deserve to be in hell. Because we have sinned against our perfect God who made us just fine. He made us beautifully and he put us in this beautiful world. And we have sinned against him and we have hurt people. And what does he do? He doesn't treat us as we deserve. He sends his son into the world to bear our penalty so that we wouldn't have to bear it. So we wouldn't have to be separated from him. And if you were a recipient of his grace and his mercy, if you were trusting that Jesus died for you so that you can be with him forever in heaven. I hope you're trusting that. If you are, then you then you don't you don't really have a leg to stand on when you say, but it's not fair and now I I'm gonna I'm gonna go for I'm gonna go for it It's on now. Gloves are off, right? He says, No. You've received my grace. Now extend my grace. Can I tell you a funny story about revenge though? It kind of goes well with the next verse because it says if anyone wants to Someone takes from you, don't just take back. Whether they're using the legal channels, even in a way that would shame you, that they've actually taken your clothes from you Don't try to get revenge. Don't try to retaliate. Because God is just and He will give you justice. Now I have permission to share this story as well. And coincidentally it has to do with food. I don't know. Maybe I was hungry this week. My brother, when he was in high school, and I I was still in high school with him. Uh we used to get uh visits from my grandparents in England and they would bring back English and European chocolate and it was just the best. And uh if you've ever had Cadbury's uh dairy milk, I mean it it's just really good. And it's it's not the same as buying it from from sheets here. Like you got to get it in England and flown in uh across the Atlantic because it it's it's there's just no comparing it to anything else. And so my brother had a hoard of this this chocolate and he decided he wanted to have one in his lunchbox. And he took it with him. This is high school, not elementary school. And he takes it with him and he's really excited to eat that in the middle of the school day. And when he goes to to uh eat his chocolate bar. Some kid at his lunch table grabs it out of his hand or out of his lunchbox and just scarts the whole thing immediately. My brother didn't get to have a bite. And he was really upset and he was really angry. So he decided. I know what I'll do. He he went to CBS and he bought some of that X-lax chocolate, you know, the laxative chocolate. It will cause incontinence I can't say the four-letter P word in church, right? Uh so it'll cause you uh some some vowel discomfort. And so So he he unwrapped the chocolate bar, used the wrappings to put it on the XLAX uh candy bar. He made sure he scratched off the XLAX logo and he put that in his in his uh lunchbox So that the next day the same kid would steal that candy bar. And he did. And he opened it up. My guess is that my brother did not give him the reaction he was expecting, but also that he saw the the logo scratched off of the chocolate. And he and he stopped short of eating the the chocolate. My brother was quite disappointed. But it ended up that the the kid realized he realized what had happened, he realized how upset my my brother was, and he did apologize. I I don't know if they reconciled, but he did apologize. Now you might be thinking, I know what I was thinking when I first heard it. That's brilliant! I should have done that to so and so when such and such happened. And if that's what you're thinking, it's going to be hard on you now, then you're proving that you have a problem with retaliation. I mean I admit, it's really But we have a problem with retaliation, right? You have to get revenge. I have to get justice for myself. You know what this really is? It's an example of idolatry. Where we make being vindicated and getting getting what I deserve back, getting justice for myself That is an idol. I cannot bear to be humiliated. I cannot bear to be talked to. Can you believe that that woman had that tone with me? Well, you know what? It's on now, right? And so in the moment we we grab for our own vindication instead of letting God give it to us. Or we do, we wait, and we turn the other cheek, and then we expect, like the heavens to part And for all of the world to see heaven's light shining on us and say, He is just so gracious. Right? And we expect to be exonerated by everybody. We have to have our vindication. When we don't get it, when that doesn't happen, because it doesn't happen, then we get mad and we we find a way that we're going to get bad. Because we have to get justice for ourselves. This might be you Perhaps you don't say anything mean back to the person, but you make sure everyone knows how badly you were offended, the gross injustice that was done to you. Vindication becomes more important to us than the well-being of the person who wronged us. Even their salvation. If I sound like I know what I'm talking about, it's because I know what I'm talking about by experience. You don't trust God to be just. Unless you get justice here on earth, you'll be dissatisfied. But Jesus quotes that scripture to show us God's justice. We need to trust that He will give us that justice. If He doesn't give it to us this side of heaven, that's okay. We're going to be enjoying it for eternity. You don't have to have every wrong against you right it, and you won't, this side of eternity God has already given you better than you deserve. And if we all got what we deserve, we would all be in hell And so what we need to learn to do is to respond graciously to evils and to hurts and betrayals and disgraces. But also in these last two verses, we're to respond graciously to frustrations and inconvenience. Because God is a gracious God. He extends grace. We can extend grace because we've received grace. The next two verses are there they're a very different context, very different matter. He's still talking about don't retaliate, don't take justice into your own hands, but it's a different matter And I think we've we've lost this context when we use the phrase go the extra mile. And whoever compels you to go one mile, go with him two. Give to him who asks you, and from him who wants to borrow from you, do not turn away. This extra mile idea uh has to do with the Roman world that Jesus was living in, right? They're living they are a conquered people, living in Israel under the thumb of the Roman Empire. And under Roman law, the soldiers could actually compel people into matters of public service. If they needed help with somebody, they could just take a private citizen and force them to do something. something. There was a legal limit to how much they could do it, how how how far they could take someone with them. It was one mile. And so Jesus references that one mile. At least in in some provinces, in some cases, that that limit was one mile. Do you remember Simon of Cyrene? That's an example of this happening. Jesus is on his way to the cross. He cannot carry his whole cross. He's got the one piece Nailed to him, but then he's got the other beam. And so they compel, do you remember that's the word used? They they c the soldiers compel Simon of Cyrene to carry the the other piece of the cross of Jesus. Probably no more than one mile. But what Jesus is saying is if someone compels you to go one mile, Double it. Go beyond the legal mandate or the the the legal uh limit. Think of Simon Osaire First of all, he he's traveling and then he's he's forced to do this. Highly inconvenient. Takes him away from where he's going, probably soils his clothes. We don't know what he's doing. Maybe he was going going to a business meeting I mean that makes sense. He travels for business, right? And then he arrives with splinters and blood, a lover's clothes. Greatly arduous. Painful, heavy, and deeply humiliating. But they couldn't compel him to go more than a mile. And Jesus says, go beyond the limit, do what they ask, but then stick around and go above and beyond. Why? Because Jesus went from being as exalted as high as possible, highly than we can understand, and he went lower than we will ever go. He humbled himself to the death of a cross. It is the most shameful type of death. In order to reconcile you to him, me to him. Now can you imagine if we start took started taking this seriously? Do you have to do du jury duty? I know one of you actually that has to do jury duty at the moment. I it might even be more than one of you that I've talked to recently. I promise I'm not talking about you. I didn't bring this up because of you. But as I was writing this, I realized, or after I'd written it, I think this is irrelevant for at least one person. Jury duty is highly convenient. It's annoying Do it without complaining. Be a joyful, positive, civil servant for the sake of sharing the soul-saving gospel message. with your fellow jurors. Be nice to the bailiff. Don't gripe and complain. Show that you are there eager to serve your fellow American citizens. And perhaps you'll have an opportunity to explain why. Because Jesus has shown you so much grace and you want to show that to somebody else. Students. Do your teachers ask you to stay after and help tidy up the classroom for them? Or do they call you out in the middle of class and just ask you to distribute something? I remember how that was and you'd they'd they'd ask some kid and he'd always be like, Why? What do I do? Nothing. They just need a little help. Do it joyfully. And you know what? After that, stick around. And you might get called a brown noser for doing this. But do it anyway. Offer to the teacher. Is there anything else I can do for you? Can I bless you in any way? That is going to smack them between the eyes. Just seek to be a blessing as Christ is a blessing to you. Ms. Smith, can I can I do anything else for you? Did you need any of those uh bookshelves organized or straightened up? Can I grab you a cup of coffee? You're probably not allowed in the teacher's lounge, but offer. Maybe I'll let you It will blow their mind. Now verse 42, this is also inconvenient and it's awkward, isn't it? This is probably referring to uh to beggars asking for money or asking for things. And we feel awkward when homeless people there's there's there's enough of that around Laurel, right? Whether it's the pandemic handlers standing in the the intersection of one ninety eight and twenty nine there, right? Or uh or or going around Panera asking you for money while you eat. It's annoying. It's inconven And I don't know how to respond sometimes. Don't view the requests as nuisances. View the people as human. Love them, recognize they need to see an example of grace because they probably don't see a lot. And they, you know, not long ago, I uh probably a year or so ago I was in Panera and I had an opportunity to do something kind and so I did and I went out of my way to to get something for this person and when I brought that thing to that person they complained And didn't even want the thing that I bought them. And then I got all grumpy afterwards. I wasn't rude to the person, but I got grumpy afterwards and I poured out my complaint to the Lord. And then I saw I'm just being silly What's 20 bucks? It's okay. I had an opportunity to show Christ-like kindness to this person. And even if they didn't appreciate it in the moment, the Lord did. The Lord appreciated it Can I encourage you to find a way to bless homeless people? themselves with it. They might buy things they shouldn't buy with it. They might hurt others with it. But you can have like ziploc bags with some some food in it that It it's you know it's not gonna be a a a a a surf and turf meal, but it's at least gonna get them by for the next one. We we like to use peanut butter crackers and stuff like that. captains wafers and stuff. You can give them some other stuff too, chapstick, especially it when it's really hot or really cold. They appreciate that. You can give them tissues. And And some some food items that won't melt. But always stick a gospel tract in there. That way you're doing it in the name of Jesus, and they get the message of the gospel there. Even if they don't read it, you've done it in the name of Jesus. You see these things as opportunities to show people who are beloved by Jesus Christ that he died for them. Use it as opportunities to extend grace as it has been extended to you. Now can I give you one more application? So we look at this whole thing as a whole. That Jesus is saying essentially, stop trying to retaliate, stop trying to get justice back for yourself, stop insisting that you have the right to be vindicated. Can you imagine if we applied that consistently, what that would do in, say, our marriages? If we stop insisting on our rights. Ephesians 5 tells husbands to love their wives sacrificially, and for wives to honor their husbands. And how often do husbands feel disrespected by their wives? She won't respect him. So he he He's gonna start being short and curt and rude, and he's not gonna go out of his way. I'm not gonna wash the dishes. She can wash the dishes She's going to talk to me like that. What if we actually did what Jesus said there? What if we we decided that I'm not sure my wife really deserves grace in the moment, but I'm going to extend it because it's been extended to me. I'm going to love her sacrificially. What if the wife who has been saying, I will give my husband respect as soon as he deserves it, right? He's gonna be waiting forever. She's gonna be waiting forever. He's gonna be waiting forever. Right? We both wait for the other to give us what we want before we'll give it to them. That is not how Jesus works. He went and became sin for us. He wasn't waiting for he didn't say as soon as they come groveling for mercy, then I'll go die on that cross. He died on the cross And then he invites us to come to him and we still mock him, and we still argue against him, and we still deny that he even exists. And yet he went, he made the first move and the second move and the third move. We need to stop insisting on our rights. I have a right in Scripture to be respected, and I'm not going to love my wife until she respects. What about when grown children who have undeserving parents who who were perhaps perhaps abandoned them or they didn't abandon them, but they weren't loving examples of of what a parent ought to be. They didn't e exemplify the the Heavenly Father. They have a you have a terrible view of of God because you didn't have a good view of your Father That's not your fault that you were treated that way, and he does not deserve your respect. But God says to honor your father and mother anyway. That's grace. That's the gospel. And so what if grown children start honoring their undeserving fathers and mothers, not because they deserve it? But because they've been loved when they don't deserve it. And they extend Christ's grace to their parents. When we stop insisting on being treated in a certain way, and we try to treat undeserving people the way that we want them to treat us. Can we just start doing that? What I really want here from this person is this. I'm going to show that to them. I need to feel loved, well, I'm going to show it to them even if they don't show it to me. I need to feel respected. Well I'm going to show that respect to them even if they don't show it to me. This sort of love is hard and it's sacrificial and it takes a long time to bear positive fruit and sometimes it doesn't. But it showcases the God who changed us by humbling himself in order to exalt us. And sometimes, not all the time, but sometimes, that changes hearts and improves relationships. And it pleases God every time. Let's pray.