I don't know if you heard the very sad news, but just three weeks ago, one 16-year-old student shot another 16-year-old student at Wooten High School, just up the road in Montgomery County. Some of you guys live in Montgomery County. We praise God that the victim is still alive and that there were no other victims. Police have charged Rockville resident Khalil White Biatoro with one charge of attempted murder and multiple charges of dec degrees of assault and firearms charges. It's very scary and disorienting, isn't it, when such violent crimes occur so close to home. And of course we're getting deadened to these reports, aren't we? That it's just another one we hear, but we really notice what when it's nearby. There's far too many. But I'm always I I I I guess I shouldn't be surprised. I'm always surprised when things go the way that I expect them to go. And that is that the The discussions, whether it's in our legislative houses or on social media, or morning news shows, or just in private conversations, they keep going to the same tired places. We take one polarized position or another on gun control, and then we blame mental illness. And it seems that the common assumption behind all of these discussions Whenever we we talk about these sad acts of violence, go back to this. Basically, the assumption is the crazies do this, the sociopaths do this. Mentally ill people do this, but not us normal people. Normal people don't do this stuff. Only the weirdos. But that's not what the Lord Jesus Christ teaches. I'd say he blows that rhetoric wide open in the passage that we're about to read because he's going to show us that we all have lingering within us, not only the potential to break the sixth commandment, thou shalt not murder, or you shall not murder. We're new King James, not King James people, right? Not only that we have the potential to break it, but that we are already on the path to doing so. That we have the seed of that sin growing in us and progressing in us sometimes. And so he calls us to recognize it and diagnose it. He puts the root cause in anger. You and I have most likely, I don't know your heart, and perhaps you're unusually placid and calm and even, Keel, and this is not a struggle for you. I do not fit that description. Perhaps you do, but most of us are already on the on-ramp to this crime that I just described, this terribly violent crime. At least the thought and heart level. And so I want us to read. Normally I have us read the whole passage up front. Let's just read the first two uh verses here and we will work our way through slowly. Just so you know, we're probably gonna front load most of the exposition uh in the the first uh main bullet point and uh we we'll have uh shorter points after that. So if you're trying to plan your notes out on the bulletin, I know it's hard to do so. You you'll want to dedicate more space to that first bullet point than to the other. Let's read. You have heard that it was said to those of old, You shall not murder, and whoever murders will be in danger of the judgment. But I say to you that whoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment. And whoever says to his brother Raka shall be in danger of the counsel. But whoever says you fool shall be in danger of hellfire. Now I want you to see that the way that Jesus starts here, and I think I've shown you this before. This you have heard that it was said, and then but I say to you, in verse 22, we have this repeated throughout the rest of chapter 5. Uh if you have uh good paragraph divisions in your Bible like I do, it probably uh folds out really easy for you in their in your Bible, easy for you to find it. Verse twenty seven you have heard that it was said of to those of old you shall not commit adultery, but I think 31. Furthermore it has been said, whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce, but I say to you. 33 Uh you have heard that it was said to those of old, and so on and so forth, again thirty-eight, again forty-three And this is this is a pattern that the Lord uses because He He's already told us, hasn't he? He has come to fulfill the law. He said, I know that it sounds like from the things I've said, because he's been speaking all grace. And saying it's not those who follow the law, but those who recognize their poorness in spirit. Those who who are merciful shall obtain mercy, whether they observe the ritual clen cleansings I know, he says, it sounds like I've come to abolish the law, but I've come to fulfill it. Because I want you to know that God demands a greater righteousness than you see in even the supposedly most righteous among you, the Pharisees and the Scribes. And he's saying, I came to show you the full extent of the law, to help you understand it, not just outwardly, but inwardly. You need a righteousness that goes back to the heart level, not just What everyone else can see with your hands and your feet and your and what they can hear coming out of your mouth. No, you need a greater intrinsic righteousness. I'm going to expose to you that you don't have it, and then I'm going to fulfill the requirements of that law so that I might give you my own righteousness. Now I'm embellishing what he said a little bit because that is that is the that is the the general extent that that all of what is embodied in what he is doing here and what he has come into the world to do as he dies on the cross and rises again. So here he is trying to get to the heart level. And if you see, as we work our way through, we're going to see in each of these sections there are different Beatitudes, you know, those lists of blessings, lesser the poor in spirit and all of those, that that correspond to each of these different Different sins that are being said. For instance, we're told that uh the the merciful shall obtain mercy, and he's talking here about uh our own anger towards people. When we when we get angry, we tend not to show mercy to others, don't we? We tend to uh be pretty quick to give justice or more likely vengeance rather than mercy. purity as well uh comes into play. So the pure in heart, those are the ones who will she shall see God, not those who are at the heart level breaking the sixth commandment. And so uh again let's look let's look back at verse twenty. I say to you that unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. And then he tells us in verse 21, here's why. Because we have murder that is a violation of the law. And it's it's a violation of God's own sense of rightness. He has created us in the image of God. And he hates it when we destroy that image, right? And so he's saying that that, yes, murder is a violation of God's God's character and his sense of righteousness, uh and and those who who commit it are deserving of God's full wrath. They're worthy of God's judgment and condemnation, and that's why he says here, whoever murders shall be in danger of judgment. Revelation 22, the very last chapter in the Bible, tells us who is going to be present in the city, New Jerusalem, where the kingdom of heaven is is headquartered in and where the capital is. And then there are people outside of the gates. And this is to be taken literally. That there is outside of the gates what's called the lake of fire. We call it hell And he says who will be in the kingdom of heaven contrasted with those who will be in the the the lake of fire, and he says that murderers will not be welcome in Christ's kingdom when Christ returns. They must stay outside the gates in New Jerusalem. They'll be cast into the lake of fire. That is judgment. God hates murder. But where the shockingness of this comes is in verse 22, when he tells us that when If you've been angry with your brother without a cause, if you've said unkind, insulting things, you've called someone, you see that word racka. If you're in the New King James, you might be wondering what that is. emp means empty head. It's an Aramaiism. It comes from the Aramaic language. Uh empty head, blockhead we would maybe say. Whoever says you fool. In all of these cases, he says that you'll be in danger of judgment, in danger of the counsel, imagining like a uh a jury or perhaps the Jewish Sanhedrin And then of course hellfire. Now, one way that we would want to view this, right, is that there is a that there is a progression here. That, well, if you uh if you're angry without a cause, you're in danger of the judgment. Not just judgment but the judgment. The judgment would be the ultimate judgment, wouldn't it? It would be hellfire, which he says at the end But he says, whoever's angry will be in danger of the judgment. Whoever s is says to his brother Blochhead, well, that's even worse, in danger of the council, and then after that, even worse, is if you say fool, then that you're in danger of hellfire, right? Does that is that a logical progression there though? I think the better way to understand it is that he's putting all of these on equal levels. after talking about murder. That all of these are equally you you you equally endanger yourself of judgment, whether it's by a counsel or or simply the judgment that results in hellfire. He's talking about the same thing. Blockhead or fool, I don't hear a major difference there, but I've been guilty of both of those. What he says though is that, but I am telling you. In verse 22, at the beginning here, when he says, but I say to you, that is emphatic. In the Greek you can you can uh emphasize things by adding the pronoun I. And he adds, you don't need the pronoun I to say that I am telling you, but he's I am telling you, you have heard it said, but now I'm telling you, I'm giving you in the fullness that you are in danger of judgment. When you have even anger in your heart, and whether it comes out in insults or ultimately goes to actually taking someone's life, you're guilty of the same sin. Now of course it comes in different Different degrees, right? It it is better for you only to insult somebody than to take away their life. But don't do either, right? It is better that you you stop with being angry than that you go further than that and say something or do something. It is good for you to stop yourself. Please don't, if you feel angry at me towards the end of the message, don't say Well, I'm guilty of it anyway, I might as well kill the pastor. Please don't do that. If for if only for my sake, not yours, right? It is good not to murder, even if you're guilty of the other things But Jesus wants you to recognize that you are on the on-ramp and you're guilty of the same thing. And the righteousness which existed the scribes and Pharisees, which is required to be admitted into heaven, is not merely that you'd stop just short of hurting somebody, whether it's with your mouth or with your hand. But that that anger be dealt with in a righteous way from the beginning. And that you never go down that path. The righteous man that God accepts. with him knows how to put an end to that before it becomes before a seed becomes a sapling and a sapling becomes an oak tree I can think of a time when I was younger, uh growing up with my youngest brother, and I called him an idiot. And I remember seeing the I had done this more than once and seeing the pain on his face and then the anger on his face. Because not only did I call him an an idiot, but I I had true malice behind my voice. I didn't just say, you're an idiot. I said, you're an idiot. And I concentrated as much malice as I could behind that word. I never touched him. I didn't get in trouble for hitting my brother Brother. But I heard it, possibly worse than if I'd just punched him in the stomach. I could see the truth of what Jesus is saying. When we have ill intent towards somebody that we want to hurt them, whether we go all the way with murder or not The Lord is grieved, and so is the person that we're that we're saying that to Now, big question that we tend to come up to is, does this mean it's sinful to be angry at all? Depending on the translation that you have in front of you, the version you have in front of you I read to you, whoever is angry without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment. But you may have a Bible that takes away that phrase that says without a cause. That was most likely added later by somebody trying to clarify and it got kind of incorporated into the manuscripts And so if you've got a translation in front of you that doesn't have that without a cause, I think that's the spirit of the idea, but it wasn't in the original, right? So does that mean it's wrong to be angry at all? Well, I would point you to Jesus. And I would ask you, did we ever see Jesus be angry? Making a whip out of out of strings and driving people out and swinging at them I think we'd probably all agree that is an act of anger. But we're also told that Jesus never sinned. It was possible for him to be angry without sinning. Now, I have talked with a pastor friend who earnestly believes it is impossible for anyone other than Jesus, who is sinless, to be angry without sinning. I don't agree with him. I think it's incredibly difficult to be angry without sinning and without letting that progress beyond, but that it is indeed possible and even right, even encouraged in certain points of scripture to be angry and yet not sin. It is right for us to be angry at injustice. It is right for us to want to stand up for the fatherless and the widow whom we see abused and taken advantage of. When I hear that an elderly member of our congregation has somebody trying to scam money out of their account, you bet that I am angry about it. And I don't believe I've sinned against the Lord when that is the case. I want to ask you now to turn with me to Mark chapter 3. Outside of the resurrection and the accounts in the book of Revelation, this is probably my favorite story about Jesus. Mark chapter 3. We look in just the first five verses here. Mark chapter 3, starting in verse 1. And he entered the synagogue again, and a man was there who had a withered hand. So they watched him closely whether he would heal him on the Sabbath, so that they might accuse him. And he said to the man who had the withered hand, Step forward. And he said to them, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil? To save life or to kill? Stop reading here for a moment. We'll get to this story later on in the book of Matthew. But it's different here in Mark. Mark adds one extra detail. There's no contradiction. He just adds a detail that Matthew leaves out. And this is what I love about Mark's telling of it. It says, but they kept silent, and when he had looked around at them with anger. Being grieved by the hardness of their hearts. Let's pause again. Jesus knows what's in the hearts of people. He sees a a man here who can't use his arm. physically whole, he can't use it properly, and he has compassion on him. And he he brings him forward. People know that he does healings like this. They're wondering if he's gonna do it, but rather than them wanting the man to be healed so that he could praise God and just just simply so that he would be healed. Rather than wanting that, the only reason that at least his opponents want to see that man healed is so they have a reason to accuse him, and that ticks Jesus off He is angry that they would have such hard hearts that they don't care a lick for this poor guy who has only one good hand. That they don't care that it should be restored, but they would love to have an opportunity to stone Jesus. And he is angry, and he looks around at all of them. You can imagine a tense silence as he looks at them after asking this question. Is it good to do evil to save life or to kill? Sorry, is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or evil, to save life or to kill? He looks at them and nobody says a word. Perhaps they're feeling conviction themselves. It says when he had looked around at them with anger, being grieved by the hardness of their hearts, you see that there's an actual hurt there to him as well. His anger is not selfishly motivated. It's not about him. He is he is hurt by the fact that they would not have compassion on somebody He said to the man, after being angry, because he's angry, he said to the man, stretch out your hand. And he stretched it out, and his hand was restored as whole as the other. When Jesus is angry, what happens? It's not destructive, it's constructive. It heals. And for you to have anger that is not Sinful, it means to be constructive anger, not destructive anger. Look to channel your anger into pleasing God. You angry at some injustice? Take that as an opportunity to love people in the name of Jesus while fully honoring his commandments And glorify him by honoring those commandments. Glorify him by taking a cup of cold water to somebody in Jesus' name. Glorify him by showing sharing a kind word with somebody who has been treated poorly. Gly Him by showing hospitality to someone who needs it and is not getting it because you're angry about that. Let your anger drive you to glorify and honor God. So here's the first main point that I haven't given you the name for yet. God's law condemns you at the heart of the and mind level. God's law condemns your heart and mind because it exposes this problem with anger, this problem with malice, that we are condemned before the Lord. So we have no choice but to run to Jesus from our own depraved selves. We what you should be doing when you're hearing this is not thinking, how many times have I gotten it right? How many times was I angry this last week or this last month, since the last time I partook of communion? What you should be doing is thinking, I know that I'm sinful. I know that I'm guilty. I cannot make this right on my own, and it should drive you to the only one who can make it And that, of course, is the Lord Jesus Christ who died under the penalty of your anger, your murder in your heart. Jesus was executed for the sin of murder as as for many, many other sins. In order that you would have the penalty taken away. He took it for you, and now you're no longer counted guilty. Run to him. Now let's look at what he says next. Because in the second point, God's law is fulfilled by Jesus in order to offer you hope of forgiveness. Verse twenty-two. Oh, I'm still in Mark, hold on. Verse twenty-three. Therefore, if you bring your gift to the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there before the altar and go your way. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift. Now, Jesus is offering hope for forgiveness with him, but it starts with reconciliation on a horizontal level between two people in the same congregation who are mad at each other. And who are perhaps violating this, breaking God's law, that you shall not commit murder, in their heart while going to worship God. Anger between two believers prevents them from worshiping God as he deserves. You see that? That these two are specifically related to worship. Now he's he's speaking in an Old Testament context where people, their their primary way, they did sing, but their primary way to worship God was to bring what he here calls a gift a sacrifice on the altar, an animal. And he's saying you're going to you're going to worship God by sacrifice. You have the animal with you. While you're in line and someone else is slaughtering a bull and you've got a goat or a pair of turtle doves. And you are ready to offer that as an act of worship to God. You've got your grain offering, you've got your drink offering, whatever it is Stop when you realize that there is a feud between you and somebody else. Now he he words it here uh i it gives us to to believe that perhaps the person he's talking about is not actually the one guilty of of anger, right? But they have Perhaps they've been misunderstood, or perhaps they've done something they shouldn't have. They've caused somebody else to be struggling with the sin of anger, the sin of roots in of murder. And he's saying, right then and there, don't come and worship me, don't come and worship God until you've dealt with this. with your believer, do all that you can on your on your end. Alright, we don't know how it how it uh works out in every case Perhaps that person goes to uh uh to to work out the misunderstanding and the other person won't hear it. You do all you can though on on your end to reconcile with your brother before you So I'm not supposing I'm not saying that I've heard of any feud between any two believers here in this this congregation. So if if this is true of you, I've uh no one's paddled on you, all right? But if you are struggling with anger towards another believer Deal with it, perhaps before we before we take partake of communion. Go tap your your brother or sister on the shoulder. and and and go go love them in the in the foyer. Yeah, other people will notice. That's okay. You might just be uh be asking them for help with something else Uh, it's okay, but go and and reconcile with your brother or sister before you continue worshiping the Lord, before you continue singing. I don't think there's a whole lot more to add here. I think they're playing, aren't they? The Lord doesn't want this anger festering between Between believers. So even if you're not the one who's angry, but your brother is angry, you help them. Help them to honor God. Help them to glorify you. You may not be at fault at all. Perhaps it's all a misunderstanding. But help your brother or sister to honor the Lord in this way. This is part of the function of the church. You know, people stop going to church because they get mad at people. Or they they feel uncomfortable by somebody. But the Lord actually even gives us the frustrations that are in church In order to make us more sanctified. Do you realize that? You coming to church, there might be uncomfortable parts of it. God designed it that way. Because you can't have a bunch of sinners worshiping together without there being some friction And God knows that it's good for you to deal with that friction with one another and be reconciled and learn to be sanctified, learn to become more like Jesus. Rather than you just avoiding it and going to another church or just being like, alright, I'll just do do church on my couch. I'll just do online church. That's not what God intends. He wants you to come and work these issues out, and thereby he makes you more holy, more like Jesus. Well then we have these last two concluding verses, twenty-five and twenty-six. He's still talking about this. issue of reconciling with your brother. Agree with your adversary quickly while you are on the way with him, lest your adversary deliver you to the judge. The judge hand you over to the officer, and you'll be thrown into prison. Assuredly, I say to you, you will by no means get out of there till you have paid the last penny. And here the message is clear. Beware the penalty of unresolved anger. The law holds out this penalty in order that we might run to God who can deal with this for us. us in us. Yours seed sin. Anger. Slander, which is character assassination, though not Actual assassination. These seed sins find you guilty before God. They find me guilty before God. The full fruit of that sin is still worse. Don't do it. But you are guilty before the Lord at the heart level and at the thought level. Your heart condemns you before the Lord. So we look at the gospel, we look at the cross, and we see God's wrath poured out. It was so intense, right? That Jesus, who is the Son of God, one with the Father, in fact, just hours before his crucifixion, do you remember he was he was praying to God for you and me and saying I desire that my my people, my my disciples, my followers would be one as you and I are one. He's referring to being Equal with the Father and one with the Father, and having nothing between him and the Father. And now he's crying out on the cross, saying, My Father, my Father, or My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? God the Father forsook God the Son for a finite period of time. Because our sin, your sin, the sin of anger, the sin of murder, Drove a wedge between Father and Son. I don't understand how that works. That he can be forsaken, that God can forsake God, as we sing about in his robes for mine. I don't understand how that works. But Jesus tells us that it did. Jesus was forsaken by his Father, so that you would not have to be if you will but believe in Jesus Christ. He has accomplished your redemption on the cross. Flee to him. You need an intrinsic righteousness. You need his righteousness to be gifted to you that you can wear it like a robe. He wore your sons like rags. Your sons, your sins. He wore your sins like rags. Now wear his righteousness. You do that by faith. But it's not merely that That righteousness of Christ that positionally Jesus says or God says, I count you as A righteous person as righteous as my son. That's certainly true. But now he urges us to fulfill the law, to fulfill the spirit of the law. By by obeying commandments like this and by feeling the the genuine conviction that comes when we read this, right? This is uncomfortable. When we heed it and we repent and we turn and we in the the strength that God gives us we start living out and and slowly you're gonna you're gonna mess up on this again yet But we slowly do better. We slowly become more like Jesus. We're still counted righteous because Jesus died for us and he rose again, cleared of all charges. But not only positionally, but experientially, you're becoming more holy. That's why Jesus wants you to fulfill the Spirit of the law. To live out the character of God, to be holy, to be counted holy. You're already counted holy, but now experientially live out that holiness. So, three applications. Number one, let this, when you read stuff like this, let this drive you in despair of your sinful state to seek mercy from Jesus. Simply preach the gospel to yourself. Perhaps you go to my favorite, 1 John, the end of chapter 1, the beginning of chapter 2, where I read that Uh if I confess my sins, he is faithful and just to forgive me of all unrighteousness, and that Jesus himself is my advocate before the Father, and his death in my place is It satisfies God's wrath, not even just for me, but for the whole world, if we would just but believe in Him. That's where I find Acceptance with the Lord, by going back to the cross, by going back to Jesus. Perhaps you have another verse that does the same thing for you. Perhaps it's somewhere in the book of Word. Romans or in Ephesians or Galatians, or perhaps it's somewhere even in the Old Testament where we read of God from the very beginning, being full of grace and slow to anger. Go to that passage. Run run to the cross. Despair of your sin and then stop despairing because you see that Jesus dealt with it for you. That's number one. Number two God will give you the grace to stop sinning in this area. Believe it. You might need help though. We need to apply biblical wisdom. To come up with strategies that would help us overcome sinful anger. And so we do that with brothers and sisters who can help us. Seek out a brother or sister who can hold you accountable and you pray about this with them. Or if you need to, come to me for biblical counseling. Let me help you. Or I can direct you to someone else who can. It's free. But deal with your sin in this seed form, or perhaps it's become a sapling, but let's deal with it before it becomes an oak tree. God will enable you to overcome it. You need to apply scripture and scriptural wisdom to get to that point where you can overcome it. He will give you the strength you need. And finally, I want to turn your thoughts back to how I opened this message: acts of violence that we see, the injustice we feel. Right, we see school shootings like that and perhaps you feel angry. Not that you want to go out and commit the same crime, but you feel angry at injustice Or maybe this is a very recent case, we don't know what'll happen, but maybe uh you see the uh The criminal getting off. And justice is not truly carried out. And you want to take justice into your own hands. Remember that God is a perfectly righteous judge of violence and of all other sins. He is a perfectly righteous judge of your own anger and of other people's. And so go to this God of justice, recognizing that justice is a good thing, and ask Him to carry out justice If it's not carried out here temporally, it will be carried out in eternity. Have you been wronged by a brother and sister in Christ? Or have you been wronged by someone who is absolutely not a brother or sister in Christ? They're not a safe person. Either way, you're hurt. Maybe you want to get back at them. Maybe not. Not a big act of vengeance. You don't plan on vandalizing their car or harming them physically. But you have thought about just saying something nasty or sowing the seeds of doubt so that people would know the real, what they're really like. I confess to having had Those temptations before. Remember that God is just. You don't need to do that. You don't need to take things into your own hands, no matter how big or small you might be thinking. Because God will give you justice. Certainly in eternity. Very likely here, temporally, perhaps not, but he is good. And it's good for you to wait on him. It's good for you to learn patience. That will help you deal with your anger as well. If you've been wronged, let God give you justice. Don't seek revenge, but use your anger. As Jesus did to heal and to love other people and to help you love Him who is good, who does avenge your sins. Let's pray