I noticed that it is is late March now. We're getting to the end of March, which means we're getting to the end of the quarter. Do you realize that the first quarter of the year is nearly up? So I'm going to say something you probably don't want me to say How are you doing with your New Year's resolutions? Can you remember back that far? Can you remember what your resolution was You know, according to Forbes, uh thirty-eight percent of Americans make New Year's resolutions. Do you know how many w how what percentage of people that make resolutions actually keep them? Got a guess? You think what What, like fifty percent? Is that optimistic? Lower? What? Close? Nine. Nine per not not even one in ten keep their their resolutions. Apparently the average The average New Year's resolution goes for a little over three months, which must mean the people that keep them really keep them. Most common New Year's resolutions are health and fitness goals and also financial goals. Are you familiar though on the topic of fitness goals? Are you familiar with the app Strava? Have you heard of Strava? Strava is an app, I know some of you probably use it It's an app that tracks your running, it tracks your bike riding, you can use it for hiking and some other things too. But as a fitness app, it knows exactly where you go. In fact, I saw a funny funny, not funny thing online uh this this week that my wife showed me, um a man was was uh running he he was in the Navy and he was on a ship. Uh I won't even say where it was. But he was he was on a ship somewhere and he tracked his his run. Now his location was supposed to be hidden, but the ship's location is hidden. And he was going for a run using the Strava app, and it appeared online in the middle of the sea, showing these squiggly red lines where he'd been running around And it reveals uh where he was. So I trust that the the DoD has taken care of that and gotten that scrubbed down now. But this is an app that tracks exactly where you go. So it knows when you're working out and knows when you don't. And they identified a specific day of the year that it that they call National Quitters Day. Or just Quitters Day. You know when it is? It it's not encouraging. It it's the second Friday of January. It was January ninth this year. People don't keep their their resolutions for very long. I had a few and I'm like I'm okay on on some of them. Others not so much. But but there's hope yet for me to to still to still follow through I think. Apparently a quarter of all goalmakers, twenty-three percent, are the ones who actually quit the resolution So we we don't do great at keeping our word. I don't think we need to look further than that. We see broken promises everywhere. Everywhere. If you've ever voted for anybody for any office, you've probably been disappointed that what they said on the campaign trail didn't quite match up with what they did once they were in office. office. Resolutions are commitments we make to ourselves. So when it comes to making promises to others It doesn't tend to get better, does it? And God has something to say about this. God has something to say when people are not reliable It was a problem in Jesus' day, just as it's a problem today. And so we're going to read out of Matthew chapter 5 and see what he said about that, starting in verse 33. Jesus is in the middle of the Sermon on the Mount. He's already addressed various other cases, which I will go into a little bit of detail in a moment. Then he says this, again, you have heard that it was said to those of old. You shall not swear falsely, but shall perform your oaths to the Lord. But I say to you, do not swear at all. Neither by heaven, for it is God's throne, nor by the earth, for it is his footstool, nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king, nor shall you swear by your head, because you cannot make one hair white or black But let your yes be yes and your no no, for whatever is more than these is from the evil one. Now it shouldn't surprise us, though, I want us to see this in context. It should not surprise us that this passage about being faithful to your word comes right after what he says about divorce. Because divorce is basically the worst case scenario of someone breaking a promise, isn't it? Someone not meaning what they said. And breaking their promise to the most important people in their lives. Their spouse and then by implication their children. So we're going to break this passage down, but there is a more universal uh truth that I want you to see that we focus on unreliability first, but we're going to see the the reverse side of that. And I trust that this will be a joyful thing to you as we work through it. So so give me some time to get to the hopeful part as we first go through the maybe not so hopeful Part, right? So first of all, God's law upholds truthfulness and dependability. I want you to see this. So Jesus, first of all, he has shown us similar in similar ways several different cases, right? So in in verses 17 to 20, let's look at verse 17 here. He has said Do not think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets. I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill. Now you are in the very beginning of what's called the New Testament. And if if you were to just turn back a couple pages from where you are, you'd get a couple blank pages that just says near Well Jesus is referring to all the stuff that came before that, called the Old Testament. And in a specific section, it's called the law. There are other parts, the prophets, the writings. We we call them by slightly different names today, but essentially, And he says, all of the Old Testament, I came to fulfill it. And it might sound to you like the things I'm about to say are going against it, but they're not. I'm actually getting at the heart of what was always intended to be And then he says, I say to you, verse 20, though unless your righteousness execu Exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees. That is, unless you are more righteous and more morally perfect than the most most moral people that you know, or think at least you think they are the most moral. people that you know. You will not enter the kingdom of heaven. You will not live forever with the Lord. And then he proves it. And so first he said, you've heard that you shouldn't murder, and he quotes God's word accurately from the sixth commandment. He says, you've heard that you shall not murder, but I'm telling you, it's not just don't shoot somebody, it's don't even be angry with them in your heart. And if you have, you've violated that same rule root sin, that same root command in your heart. You're guilty of murder in your heart, even though you haven't actually done it with your hands. He says the same thing about adultery, that you are guilty of committing adultery if even in your heart you've you've looked at someone with a lustful intent. And we all go, my goodness, how c how can anyone live up to that standard? He goes on and speaks about people breaking their marriage vows and causing one another to stumble into adultery. And now he gets here and he's talking about the uh the the commandment that tells us to to tell the Truth. And there's actually a couple commandments that are tied to this. So what he says here then, he says, you've heard that it was said to those of old, literally to the ancient people, 1500 years before Jesus. The people who first heard the Ten Commandments. You've heard it said, you shall not swear falsely, but shall perform your oaths to the Lord. Now what Jesus is quoting here is not a specific verse and it's not actually out of the Ten Commandments. It's he's summarizing several uh different commandments that amount to this. And so you do not have to turn there unless you want to. But let me read a couple of different commandments, these kind of summarizing together. Leviticus 19, verses 11 and 12 says, You shall not Steal nor deal falsely nor lie to one another. The lying is the relevant part here. And then he goes on. You shall not swear by my name falsely. God. You shall not swear by my name falsely, nor shall you profane the name of your God. I am the Lord. That is, I am Yahweh, that is his covenant name. Then Numbers 30, verse 2 says, If a man makes a vow to the Lord or swears an oath to bind himself by some argument, he shall not break his word. He shall So he's kind of taken Taking these two together and he's combining them, and there are others that that sound a lot like this. And he's speaking about two things rather than one. He's talking about swearing oaths and making vows, which to put it in our kind of our own speak, he's talking about when you promise to do something or when you just promise that you're telling the truth And what Jesus is saying here is a summary. Now there's there's another verse that bears on that that does come out of the Ten Commandments. So far, let me reread those ones again. He said, You shall not swear by thy name falsely, nor shall you profane the name of your God. I am the Lord. gives his name. He ties his name to it. Don't profane my name by swearing something to be true and then it's not. You're lying. Now we tend to go to thou shalt not bear false witness, right? Thou thou shalt not tell a lie, basically. But what he's actually tying this to is his own name. So which of the Ten Commandments would that be? Do you remember the third commandment? You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain. Now we think of that as saying, don't say, I'm not going to say it, right, but OMG. Right? Because that's using God's name as a swear word. And we absolutely shouldn't do that. He says, You shall not take the name of your lo the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord when they're they're vain looking at themselves in the mirror, right? It's stuff that doesn't really matter. When you use God's name flippantly, like when you promise that something's true but it's not, or I I swe you've heard, I swear to, and you know Who they're talking about, right? I swear to him, I will pay you back. I'll pay you all the money I owe you by the end of the month. If they don't do it, are they representing God well? No, they're actually showing that God, who is completely dependable and always keeps his word, they've just tied his name To their undependability. So when you say, I swear to him that I'm going to do this thing, and you don't, you break your word, you're saying God is as unreliable as I am. If you say, I swear to him that this is true, that what I just told you is true, and you're actually not telling the truth, either you're lying or you didn't bother to get your facts straight. Maybe you were just lazy in Or or you believe you listened to the wrong source, right? And you got something factually wrong. You're swearing up and down, by God's name That it is true, and it's not. Now you're saying that God, who is the God of truth, is not true. Do you see why that's a problem? Do you see why God hates that? That's what Jesus is talking about here. And so the law that has these various things in it is simply holding up truthfulness and dependability because God, and this is what I this is the hopeful side, God is always truthful. God is absolutely dependable. Over and over again, He calls Himself the faithful one throughout all of Scripture. You can take him at His Word. You can't always take Even the people who represent him. Unfortunately, we don't represent him the best. We need to repent of that. But if if there is somebody in your life Perhaps they're a Christian or they at least claim to be, and they have misrepresented God to you. Shame on them. But don't don't let that prevent you from You may not be able to trust that person, but don't let that prevent you from trusting the one who made you and sent his son into the world to make you right with him by his own death. sacrificed his own life in order to love you and be faithful to you. Don't doubt his faithfulness just because other people are flaky. So God is tying his name and his reputation to these laws here. God cares about his name. Well, the Pharisees, Jesus' opponents, that he's already mentioned in here, he said, you need to be more righteous than the Pharisees and the scribes. They cared about God's name too. They got a lot wrong, but they at least cared. They did not want to break that commandment. They did not want to use God's name flippantly. It didn't really matter. And so they tried to come up with ways to to get around this problem. See, they were okay with still being flaky. They just didn't want to tie it to God's name, and I guess that's good. They wanted to be able to be flaky, that to kind of have the ability to not always keep their promises to each other without fearing that they've broken the the third commandment. And so in verses thirty-four to thirty-six, we now have some kind of odd things that they appear to us to come out of nowhere. And I'm not giving you the blanks yet. I just want you to know that's where we are in the message. I'm not giving you these blanks. So he says these kind of funny things. Here's what he says. He says, verse 34, I say to you, do not swear at all. Now we tend to get hung up on that and start thinking about Quakers and Mennonites and Amish, and they don't actually swear oaths in a court of law. Let's not worry about that right now. If you really want an answer to that question, we'll talk about it on Thursday, and I invite you to come out to our house on Thursday to talk about it. I want us to get to the jugular of this passage and it's not that. The jugular is the God who is saved. I say to you, do not fa swear f swear at all. Neither, here we go. Neither by heaven, for it is God's throne, nor by the earth, for it is his footstool, nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the of the great king. Nor should you swear by your head because you cannot make one head w one hair white or black. And you might come to this and is like, this came out of nowhere. What what is he talking about? Well, it made sense to the people who heard it the first time See, these Pharisees who wanna who want to make sure they don't take God's name in vain by y doing exactly what I said, swear that they'll do something and then you know circumstances change, it's now costly for them. to to keep their word. Like have you ever, you know, you've you've made a an agreement with a contractor, right? And they s they promise you they they they sign saying that it's going to cost you this much but then the price of lumber goes up right and so you're expecting to spend thirty five hundred dollars and suddenly it jumps to five thousand dollars and they're like what can I do price of lumber went up and you're like yeah but I signed to that You sign to that. Yeah, well sorry, do you want you want me to to finish the gaping hall on your wall or you just want you want me to just leave it there? Is that okay, well then then fine, just only pay me the thirty-five five hundred. Right? And and you kinda they hold you hostage and you're lost because now it's costly to them, right? It's costly to them to keep their word. Well God doesn't like when contractors do that. And he doesn't like when you do that And the Pharisees understood, well it might be costly for me to keep my word, so what I'll do, I'm not gonna I'm not gonna swear by God's name. How about I swear by heaven? It sounds like I'm I'm I'm I'm making a promise to you. But I don't actually have to keep it. See, there's a collection of writings by the Jewish rabbis of that day called the Mishnah. And it's a it's a whole collection of of all of all of this stuff. Like these these things listed here. There's discussions on how can I how can I make an oath, which which is which is like more binding. unless binding. How can I get away? They wouldn't phrase it that way, but how can I get away with swearing an oath, not keeping it, but still not breaking the third commandment And so if you're if you're like my generation or younger, maybe you'll get this. The Mishnah is like a Reddit thread in the ancient world. And it's a collection of all of these, one person got that at least. I just saw one person got that. It's a collection of all of these rabbis giving their opinions on this stuff, like an ancient commentary. And most of them are wrong. And so frequently from we find Jesus referring to those, like the Mishnah, and there's a couple other collections where if it sounds odd to you, it probably came out of one of those commentary collections. And so these things are actually listed there. They'll say, don't swear by God's name, but you can swear by heaven and then still flake out And if if you want to be a little bit less less serious even, a lower degree, well you can swear by by the earth. There's another passage where Jesus He's quoting the same sort of stuff. He's talking about some will swear by the altar and they don't actually have to keep it. But if they swear by the gift on the altar, they do have to keep it. Now, Jesus sees through all of this. It's rubbish, right? Because what are they really doing? Well, they're being dishonest and they're being hypocrites And w so so what he does, he's he's he points out why you can't actually do this And he appeals in it in an unusual way. It might not appeal the way you'd expect him to appeal. I've already told you he's the God of truth, right? And he we'll get there in a moment. But he doesn't appeal to the fact that he loves truth. What he appeals to is something else about God. Look with me at 34. If you've got it open on your lap, look with me at verse 34. He says, don't swear by heaven. And then he says, because it's God's throne. Don't swear by earth. Because it's God's footstool. Don't swear by Jerusalem because it's God's city. I know it says it's the city of the great king. Well who's the great king? God, right? That city belongs to God. Don't swear by any of these things. What is he what is the common denominator in all of that? Don't swear by any of these things because they all belong to God. That's the common denominator. It's God's possession, it's God's sovereignty. God is sovereign over all of these things. Well then Then Jesus anticipates the aha moment that his opponents might have. And they're thinking, okay, okay, I gotcha, I gotcha, Jesus. I'll just swear by me. In fact, I will swear about by the most glorious part of me, my my head. It it contains my brain. It has my glorious good looks. Not not these good I'm gonna swear by my head, and then people will think that I'm gonna keep my word and I can still get away with it. And Jesus then calls them out and he's like, Don't eat Even swear by your own head. Because you can't even change the color on its own. He's not talking about hair dye. He's saying you don't you can't even will your hairs to change color. I'm just starting to get greys in my beard Fortunately not up here yet, but I have no control. He's saying that is under God's sovereignty as well. You don't have sovereignty over your own face, over your the the follicles on your head. Only God has sovereignty over it. that what is god appealing what is jesus appealing to here he's appealing to god's sovereignty god's sovereignty demands that all people keep the truth and keep speak the truth and keep the truth keep their promises. And so because God is sovereign over any of these things, because He owns it, He owns the earth, He owns you. Don't tie his name to whether or not you're going to tell the truth. Don't and you will tie his name if you mention anything at all, because it all belongs to him. You know, he doesn't go there and he doesn't say, don't swear by hell. I mean, why would you swear by hell, right? But even that is under his sovereignty God is even over hell. He controls who is there. And one day he says that even those in hell will bow their knee. And confess to him and worship him and say that he indeed is God. That's from Philippians 2. To his glory. His point is that you belong to him. And so Jesus here is asserting God's sovereignty over you and anything that you might That you might do or say does reflect on him when you do it in the name of him or anything that belongs to him. So the obvious conclusion then is Just don't swear. Just tell the truth. Just mean what you say. Stop being dishonest And then you won't have this problem. Don't come up with creative ways to tell a lie or to break your promise. Just don't break your promise. That's his conclusion. That's what he's saying in verse 1. 37. But let your yes be yes and your no no. Anything more than that, he says, comes from evil. What comes from the evil one he'd be referring to Satan. It could be translated either way. Literally what he says here is let your word be yes, yes, no, no. If you say yes, you mean yes. If you say you're gonna do something, you're gonna do it. If you if you say no, I I won't do that, you don't need to say, I promise I won't do that. You just say I won't do that. Now, if you say you won't do something or you will do something And you don't say I promise. What I grew up this is really silly, right? I grew up thinking that if I said that I would do something something and I don't do it, that's fine. But if I promise to do something, well now I have to do it. I I don't know why I thought that as a little kid, but that's what I thought. It's silly, isn't it You remember the things you used to do in the playground? And there's plenty of kids here. Maybe you guys do this, right? D do you ever promise something to be true or promise you'd do something? something, but behind your back, you're doing this. You're crossing your fingers. Is that do they still do that in elementary schools? They did when when I was in elementary school, but that was a little while ago. What about when you know that your friends do that and so you're looking like they say that they'll do something, you're looking behind behind their back to make sure that are you crossing what about on the other hand? Let me say Show me both of your hands, right? Show me both of your hands, and now tell me what you just said. And then they go like this again, right? Um So what do you do? You say, no, you you the sacred oath. The sacred oath, give me your pinky. Right? Now we make a pinky swear. I don't do they still do do they still do pinky swears? No? No, I'm sure you have other stuff, right? Other sacred oaths. It's silly. If you say no, you mean no. Anything more than that, and now you're flirting with this with this same You're flirting with the lack of truthfulness, untruthfulness. Now last week we looked at and you don't need to have been here to to understand this, but last week we looked to what Jesus said about divorce. Pretty it's pretty stringent. He's against divorce. And he shows us going back well into the the the beginning of Scripture and through the end of the Old Testament that God hates divorce. But what I showed you last week was that that's good news. When Jesus is against bad things, when God is against bad things, it's good that he's against bad things. Good people are against bad things. It's good that he's against divorce because the air always he always keeps his oath. Well the same thing is true here. In fact we looked at these these verses last last week. He expects husbands when they say that I will be faithful to you, my dear bride, even when you get sick, even when we have no money I will remain faithful to you. I will have you and hold you. I will love you and cherish you, even in the hardest circumstances. God expects husbands to keep that oath. He expects wives to keep that oath. Why? Because He He does that. He's a faithful husband. When God says something up that He will do something or something about Himself, or when He simply gives us a statement of fact You can trust that it is true. In fact, one of my favorite verses in the whole Bible comes from 2 Timothy 3. Many of you will know it by heart. A number of you won't, and that's fine too. Second Timothy chapter three, verses sixteen and seventeen. Here we go, sorry. All scripture is given by inspiration of God, literally says breathed out by God, like the Holy Spirit is inside the Apostle Paul in this case, in Second Timothy, or in Inside the Apostle Matthew, and as he's writing, he's just breathing through him and making sure that everything he says is perfect. There's no error in it. It says that all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. That the man of God may be complete or perfect, thoroughly equipped for every good work. That means that if something's in the Bible, you can trust it to God Now I'm not going to prove that to you now. If that's something you have an intellectual struggle with, I'm not ignoring that. That's just not our scope today, and I'd be happy to talk with you about that. Perhaps we can do a Sunday school class on that at some point in the near future. But you can take God at His Word. Why? Because he is the God of truth. Over and over again throughout Scripture, he is called the God of truth. Four times in the Old Testament, he is called the God of truth. In one case he's a God of truth. Every other case he is the God of truth. In John chapter 14, Jesus calls himself three things. He calls himself the way, and he calls himself the life, and right in the center of that he calls himself the truth. Jesus himself is the truth. He is the God of truth. In Hebrews 6, pop quiz, is there anything God can't do? There are things God can't do. He can't sin. He can't go against his own nature. And that means He can't lie. It says in Hebrews chapter 6, it is impossible for God to lie. And that ought to comfort you that God will never tell a lie to you. You need to make sure that certain promises in Scripture don't assume he's talking to you. He might not be talking to you. And you can gain that by the context. If he says something to David, that doesn't mean he's talking to Pastor Rob. If he says something to the Apostle John, that doesn't mean he's talking to you. If he says something to the nation of Israel, he's not necessarily talking to America. But many, many, many of those promises are included for all of his people, and you can take him at his word when he makes a promise. There's a beautiful expression of this that he says in Jeremiah, he says, Thus says the Lord, once again tying his own name. He says, Thus says the Lord, He gives the sun for a light by day, the ordinances of the moon and the stars for a light by night, who disturbs the sea and its waves roar. The Lord of hosts is his name. Doubling down on his name there. He says, If those ordinances depart from before me, says the Lord, then the seed of Israel shall also cease from being a nation. In other words, he's saying, I've made a covenant with the moon. I've made a covenant with the stars and with the sea. Do you remember from high school science class that the tides on our planet are tied to the moon? Right? He's referring to that And he's saying if he ever breaks that covenant, if if the tides fail or the moon blows up, okay, then you can expect expect that God won't keep his promises. But until then, of course implying that Forever. Forever he will keep his promises. There is a day coming when the moon will no longer be used as a night. It's as a light source. That's when Jesus comes to earth and brings heaven to earth, and we dwell with him, and he becomes our own light source. We don't need the moon or the sun Then his word will continue to be true. And until he brings heaven to earth, he's going to remain true. He keeps his word. He is the way and the truth and the life, and you can trust him. The Bible is true. You can trust it to be true. God hates when we break our word to each other because he never breaks his word to people. And so if you are called by Jesus' name, and you are called by his name if you're a Christian, if you call yourself a Christian, you've got the name Christ right there, right? That's the first six letters of Christian is Christ. If you bear Christ's name, Jesus' name, Christ is his title, Jesus is his personal name. If you bear his name, if you bear his title, then you will represent Him, he expects his people. To be dependable and trustworthy. In fact, his very character as the God of truth should I've used the word allure you there. It should It should make you eager that you are drawn to Jesus out of being He is so trustworthy that because He's trustworthy, you want to be trustworthy. You want people to trust you because you trust Jesus And you want them to trust Jesus because they see his reliability, his dependability in you. That's what he wants for us. I'm gonna ask if if you have your Bible with me, I want us to end on Psalm fifteen. We're nearly done. Psalm fifteen is actually uh one of those psalms that can be a little bit hard to understand if you don't have the right context. And it asks the question in Psalm 15, verse 1, Lord, who may abide in your tabernacle? Who may adwell in your holy hill? If I can just put that in New Testament terms. Lord, who is it that's in heaven? What are they like? Who do you allow into heaven? And if we're not careful, we we read this as a list of requirements to make sure you do this before God will let you into heaven. That's not what it's saying. It's saying that the people that God allows into heaven for reasons other than these are characterized by these things. I'll tell you those other reasons in a moment, but he says that these people are characterized by certain things. He says, verse 2, he who walks uprightly and works righteousness and speaks the truth. in his heart. Those who are in heaven always tell the truth. They are characterized by truth. Those who belong to God and that will dwell with him forever are, according to verse 5, sorry, verse 4 says he s he who swears to his own hurt and does not change. In other words, if you're a contractor and the rate on labor goes up and you had no clause in the contract saying that it might go up and that then you need a If you promised to do it for thirty-five hundred dollars, you'll do it for thirty-five hundred dollars even if it hurts you to do so. That if you promise to do something tomorrow morning, but then when you wake up, you're just you're tired because you stayed up too late watching Netflix. It hurts to get out of bed, but you promised so-and-so that you would meet them at Panera for breakfast, and so you're going to do it, even though it hurts. God cares that we keep our word to one another because he always keeps his word to us. That is really the main point of this map. He says, be like Jesus, who is always faithful, by honoring your word and keeping your commitments If you don't know that what you're saying is true, don't say it. Or at least say, here's my understanding of the situation. It's possible I'm wrong. I know this much, but I don't know that much. Be honest about it. If you can't if you can't promise to do something, tell them so. Just don't make the promise. I have worked for Christians, for Christians Christian companies or Christians in a high level in a company on three different occasions. Twice those employers broke their word to me. Because it just you know business changes and we didn't get what we thought, didn't quite get that contract, so we're not gonna pay you what we said we would pay you. We're not gonna keep you uh on as long as we expect you to say on. Two out of three times I had Christian employers break their word to me. The third time that employer was wise enough to make no promises. He was wise, so sometimes it just means exercising wisdom. He didn't make a promise, and then he kept his word better than any of the other ones. I'm not saying that to say that Christians don't keep their word, but I'm saying it's a problem that we need to be aware of and that we need to represent Jesus better than we do. Jesus has promised that all who come to him, I hope you're hearing me now. This is my last word. All who come to Jesus, he will not cast out. Jesus came into the world. He was mistreated by people who betrayed him and not only flaked out on their word, but actually did the exact opposite He had one of his closest friends in the world kiss him as a means of betraying him into the enemy so that he would be executed illegally. And when before he was executed illegally, do you know how they how they got him to that point? They hired people to lie in court. Jesus went through that for you because you are not truthful at your core. You are deceptive. I'm not saying that to make you feel bad. I'm that way too. That's the way I was born. We were born as unfaithful people And Jesus looked at us from heaven and said, My goodness, that guy there, Rob Lough, has no hope of ever dwelling in me because he's just characterized by deceit. So I'm going to go into the world and I'm going to suffer for him. I'm going to give up my life so so that my wrath, the Father's wrath might consume his sin. And so what he did, he saw you in your your untrustworthiness. He saw you in your deception and your lies. And when he hung on the cross, he was actually accepting responsibility for your lies. He was counted guilty of your deception and of your breaking your promises So that you wouldn't be found guilty of it. And when he was put to death, your Sin and all of the other ones too, not just your your lies, your lust, your slander and gossip. Your laziness, the times you took what was not yours, your mean-spiritedness, all of that. Jesus wore it like a cloak. And when he was pulled into the grave under God's wrath and the cruelness of people, God took all of his anger All of the anger of the the things that all the times that I said something that wasn't true. And he took all of his anger and he focused it on Jesus. And that's what killed Jesus. It was it wasn't it wasn't exactly the nails and the the spear that did it. They they played a role. But ultimately, it was God's wrath Putting him to death for your sin and the sins of the whole world. And now he promises you that it's Gone. You know how you know it's gone? Because he walked out of the tomb two days later. On the third day, Jesus got up out of death and walked around for forty days before going back to heaven So that you would know that your sin doesn't cling to him. It's been dealt with. It's gone. It was consumed by God's anger. And God's anger was satisfied when he put it. His son to death. And if you will but come to Jesus and say, Jesus, let your death count for all of the times that I have lied to my parents, lied to my boss, deceived others. Let that count for me. Forgive me. He does. If you trust him, he does. He won't take it back the next time you sin, the next time you tell a lie. He'll convict you of it because he'll His spirit comes to live inside you. He'll make you a better person because of it, but he won't hold it against you anymore. He promises that your sins are gone. He says he's cast them behind his back. He's literally forgotten them because it's been considered Consumed by the fire of his anger on Jesus. And that's why we live for Jesus now. We want to be like Jesus by honoring our word to other people. Not so that he'll forgive us, but because he already has, because we trust him. Let's pray