I'll ask you to please turn with me to Matthew 27, Matthew chapter 27. If you're someone though who You don't know your way around the Bible so well, or simply you're you're better at just yeah, you'd just like to listen and and not follow along, that's totally fine too. And and uh You do what's best for you, but I will be in Matthew chapter 27. We'll be one or two other places as well, but mostly in Matthew chapter 27. We're uh here this evening, and we're not usually here on Friday evenings, because something happened on a Friday 2,000 years ago, and it was very significant. Jesus Christ was a charismatic figure. The majority of the people in Israel seemed to love him. He did miraculous works. He was healing people from incurable diseases and deformities and casting out demons and even on more than one occasion raising people from the dead. And yet on the particular Friday that we're here to commemorate, those whole crowds that had celebrated his arrival into the city on just the previous Sunday Betrayed him and demanded that he be executed. And executed in a way that was illegal according to Jewish law He was tried by both religious and secular courts, and that's what we'll be focusing on this evening. And neither could find a charge that would stick against him. But as we'll see in a moment All those crowds found him guilty in the court of public opinion, and they became his executioners Now so far tonight we've read of his betrayal and we've led we've read of his execution, but we skipped over the trials. And so now we're stepping back to one of the three trials. Jesus was tried in a uh the we might say the local court, but it was specifically a religious court by the Jewish leaders, the Sanhedrin as that body was called He was then tried by the Roman governor because uh the the the land of Judea was ruled by the Romans and so they did not have the authority to perform executions. They had to go through the Roman law. And you probably know the name Pontius Pilate. It's just one of those known to world history. He was the the governor of that He was also tried by another Roman governor, and that is King Herod, who was of of a nearby province, the province of Galilee. Because Pilate was doing all he could to not execute this man. But he was torn between pleasing people and having their approval because he was afraid that they could put in a bad word to the emperor and take him out of his position and and doing what he genuinely believed was the right thing, which was to establish justice for the accused. And he was torn between those two. We'll see without any uncertainty which side of that one out in just a moment. So I want us to kind of walk through Pilot's motives and train train of thought. So I'm going to call your attention. If we could uh we're going to be reading, as you see the verse range on the screen here, uh chapter uh 27, verses 15 through 26. But first I want us to just read uh verse 19 It says, while he was sitting on the judgment seat, that's Pilate, Pontius Pilate, his wife said to him, or sent to him, saying, Have nothing to do with that just man, for I have suffered many things today in a dream because of him. Now there's a couple things you should know about this guy. I've told you one already. He is he is uh a a people pleaser. And he's a scaredy cat, and he's also superstitious. And though he cares about justice The other side tends to win out when you have that bad combination of factors Now let's go back to verse 15, where we read a more full account here. It says, Now at the the feast The governor, again that's Pilate, was accustomed to releasing to the multitude one prisoner whom they wished. And at that time they had a notorious prisoner called Baradas Therefore, when they had gathered together, Pilate said to them, Whom do you want me to release to you, Barabbas or Jesus, who is called Christ? For he knew that they had handed him over because of envy. Now I want us to pause here for a minute on this guy, Barabbas. This is not an arbitrary selection. Do you understand what's happening here so far? Pilate wants to release Jesus. He recognizes that it would be unjust to execute. That's what he wants to do. He wants to let him go. His wife has had this dream of some sort, and I've called it superstition. Maybe that's going too far. Because certainly there's something to it. And he is afraid that he'll have retribution from the gods. He lives in the Greek world, so they think of the pantheon of gods that you learned about in sixth grade, right? Zeus and Hermes and Poseidon and Aphrodite and all of them. And so he's afraid there could be retribution on him. He wants to do justice, but he's more afraid of the people, and that they will tell Caesar that Pilate isn't a friend of Caesar and that he'll be removed from his position. So he's trying to come up with a way that he can at least not take off the crowd. Maybe he can't please them, but if he can not take off the crowd and the and the religious leaders and be able to release Jesus. That that would be perfect. And he's a shrewd politician. There is a mechanism that he can exploit to make sure that Jesus gets off. So I want us to look at the guy that he offers up as an alternative. Let's read here. He says, Whom do you want me to release to you, Barabbas? Or Jesus who is called Christ? Now, Jesus we know, he's known for healing people. He's known for telling people to love their neighbor. Isn't that the kind of guy you'd want to be released? They have this special custom that is local apparently to Judea that once a year they they let one prisoner go around Passover. And and he's eager to take advantage of that. And so he holds up the guy that of course you'd want to free that guy. And he wants to make sure that that is the guy they hold that that they let free. So So who does he hold up next to him? Well he's gonna give the worst possible alternative choice. And he chooses Barabbas. There are f Uh each of the four gospels, there are four accounts of the life of Christ in the Bible, and so those are properly called these these kind of very specialized biographies are referred to as gospels. We talk about preaching the gospel, uh but uh and that means telling the whole saving message about what Jesus can do for you. But specifically as a literature genre, this specialized biography, this is a gospel. And there are four of them. We're reading from Matthew right now. But all four Gospels record something about this guy, Barabbas. It's really important we know about this guy. Here's what the Gospel writer Mark said. He was the second gospel writer. It says and there was one named Barabbas who was chained with his fellow rebels. They had committed murder in the rebellion. Okay? So In some cases he's called a robber, but we learn here he's actually a murderer, and he's the leader of a rebellion Luke chapter 23 says, Barabbas, who had been thrown into prison for a certain rebellion made in the city and for murder. Did you hear that? He is he was a murderer twice. And then the Gospel writer John also says now Barabbas was a robber. So not only is he a murderer, he's also a thief, and he's a rebel leader. It's probably what we call today he's a mugger. He he murders people and steals from them, and then he leads a rebellion against the governments. This is not a guy you want to release, right? So Pilate wants to let Jesus go, and he says, you can have the guy who heals people and is going to heal your children, or you can have the guy who might murder them. Who would you like released into your neighborhood? Now, should be a no-brainer, right? I mean, pretend you don't know the story. Perhaps you don't know the story. So you don't need to pretend. But if you if you don't know the the the story, cover up your Bible if you've got it open, right? Just put your phone across it Or if you're reading it on uh on on your phone, just turn it over, right? Pretend you've never read this before, pretend you don't know what's going to happen. If these are the choices, who are they gonna choose to release? Obviously Jesus, right? That's what Pilate expects. Well, let's read and see what happened. But the chief priests and elders persuaded the multitudes that they should ask for Barabbas and destroy Jesus. The governor answered and said to them, which of the two do you want me to release to you? They said, Faradas. Tella said to them, woo-woo-woo-woo. What should I do with Jesus who's called Christ? They all said to him, let him be crucified. And the governor said, Why? What evil has he done? But they cried out all the more saying, Let him be crucified. Can you hear the chant? Let him be crucified. Let him be crucified. This is a mob mentality. When Pilate saw that he could not prevail at all, but rather that a tumult was rising, he's afraid there's going to be a whole riot He took water and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this just person. You see to it. And all the people answered and said, His blood be on us and on our children. Then he released Barabbas to h to them, and when he had scourged Jesus, he delivered him to be crucified. And we have read the rest of that story earlier today, the cruel things. that these soldiers went on to do to him. Imagine if Governor Moore offered to release a prisoner back onto our local streets and it's a violent sex offender. No one's going to take him up on that offer. And as we read, that's pretty much what this mob did. I want you to imagine that you are Barabbas. He is a death row inmate. In fact, have you ever wondered how it is that they were able to get his crucifixion? done so quickly? Right? He's he goes straight from the the uh the bench, right? He goes straight from court And he's executed just hours later. How is it that they were even able to have a plot of land designated and cleared and put up the caution tape, right? How were they able to have all of that ready to go? Do you know the story? Do you know he was crucified with two others, right? Two others on either side? How is it that they were all ready to go and mobilized so quickly? Here's what Bible scholars believe most likely happened. It was very plausible. Barabbas was supposed to be crucified with those two other guys. Now Jesus is in the middle, right? It was supposed to be Barabbas. Jesus actually takes Barabbas' own cross. Barabbas in the middle and his two cronies next to him That they were co-conspirators with him in this rebellion, and that they had probably committed murder themselves, hence why they're up there Jesus actually takes the execution implement that was intended for this other guy. So here you are, you're Barabbas, and there's no hope of being set free. Pilate only offered to set him free because he figured there was absolutely no way people would go for that. They'd go for the healer, not the murderer. They'd go for the exorcist. Not the one who clearly is influenced by demons himself. He had no hope of being f set free. And yet suddenly there's this overturning of justice. Mob rule wins the day And this pilot has th this this governor has no backbone and he gives into the will of the people rather than to what is just And so Barabbas' cross gets passed to Jesus, and he is crucified right there in the middle, with robbers, probably murderers, either side of him. Now there is an ancient prophecy that was given about 850 years before the birth of Christ. If you are a skeptic and a cynic, then it's still impossible that that Scripture was written any closer to Jesus' date of birth than two to two hundred and fifty years in its Have you ever heard of the Dead Sea Scrolls? They were they were uh copies of of Scripture. Uh not all it was not like a whole Bible or anything, but but certain scrolls of Scripture that were found in the caves of Qumran by the Dead Sea, and they are certified to have been sealed up with these copies of Scripture. uh about 200 to 300 years before the birth of Christ. And then the the community like died out. It was a community of of kind of hermit-like, almost like monks called Essenes. And they have scrolls of the prophet Isaiah sealed up that match the same copies that we have in in our Bibles So at the very latest, it had to have been written like 250 years before the birth of Christ. And here's what it said. It said he was numbered with the transgressors and he bore the sin of men. Jesus was numbered with the transgressors and it was it was predicted hundreds of years in advance. If there is hope for a scumbag like Barabbas, there is hope for anybody. And though it appears to be a perversion of justice, here's what happened. See, everybody needs a substitute like Barabbascot in Jesus. You need a substitute. Why do you think that this big crowd w of of Jewish people wanted to swap Christmas, right? The Messiah is the long prophesied one. The king of Israel. We learn later on he's actually also the prophet and the priest of Israel. But we know he's the great, long prophesied king. Whenever you say Christ, Jesus Christ, whenever you call yourself a Christian if you do that, you're using the same word. That's just a Greek word for the Hebrew word, Messiah. In English, it's anointed, the anointed one. So if you see this repeated term Christ, this is Pilate saying, Don't you want your Christ? Don't you want your Messiah? And they're saying, no, give us the murderer. We want him, not our Christ, not our Messiah. And did you hear what they said? His blood be on us and our children. They're saying we accept the guilt. Except here's what happened. When Jesus died, first of all, he came into the world for this purpose. He didn't come into the world to so that he could tell us what the golden rule is, to love your neighbor as yourself, which he did do. He didn't come into the world just simply to show us what love is And he definitely did that. He came into this world with a death sentence hanging over him. He came into this world to die. He was born as a baby. He went into that humble feeding trough that we tend to call a manger With the with the intention of dying on this most shameful, ignominious death, death on the cross. And it's illegal for Jews to be killed that way. That's one reason they had to go through the Romans to get him to hang on a block of wood like this. Jesus came to be Barabbas' substitute. And also to be your substitute, because all of us have offended God. See, this whole crowd that rejected The Messiah that God had sent for them, they are rebelling against God's will just as Barabbas had rebelled against his government. They had rebel hearts. Because they they they keep hearing Jesus tell them what is good and what is right and what is bad and what is wrong. And they don't like it. And we don't like that, do we? We we like to ha have the last say. We don't want to subject our will to someone else's, even if it's the will Written down thousands of years beforehand by our Creator. We want to get to say what is good and what is right versus what is wrong. And if what what the Bible says, if what God says contradicts with what we say We say, well, I don't believe in that God, I believe in this God. And we commit idolatry when we do that. We have the same rebellious hearts that that ruled that mob and condemned Jesus to death. And yet, this is the very reason that Jesus came was to die. Because when he was on the cross, he got the Father Counted him guilty of the of even that act of murder, and all of the sins that have been committed since creation, and all of the sins that would yet be committed Now we tend to think of ourselves as pretty good people, but Jesus defines what is good and what is sin, and our church is is working our way through the Sermon on the Mount at the moment. It's the greatest sermon ever preached And it was preached by Jesus. And he actually says that, for instance, you've committed murder if you have simply harbored bitterness in your heart or been angry with somebody without a good cause. When you hang on to anger, it leads to murder. And he's saying if if you've got that going on at the thought level, at the emotion level in your heart, that you are just as guilty. You have sinned against the Holy God. If you have looked at somebody with the intent to lust after them, you are guilty, he says, of committing adultery. And so on and so forth. We are all condemned before God. But Jesus came into the world not to condemn us. We're already condemned. He came into the world to die in our place and be our substitute. What he did for Barabbas, that's what you need. He needs to die for you. And so yes, he did this objectively, but that will that redemption, that forgiveness will only be applied to you if you believe in him. So when when Jesus is on the cross and he went voluntarily and he says before his father, come in eternity, this is the plan that he will die For us, in our place. And so God takes all of the sins that you've committed. I've committed many If you're especially if you're talking about the thought level, but even if you took out the thought level and even the speech level, I've done things that I'm ashamed of and that I will not share with you. But God knows them. And he piled all of them on Jesus. And and when Jesus was killed, when Jesus died, God's wrath was vented upon him. And what happened is his wrath burned up that sin, and that sin quenched his wrath. And today is not Easter Sunday. That's two days from now. That's when we'll we'll really talk about the resurrection. But let me just say this much. We know that God accepted Jesus' death as a sacrifice for us because Jesus did rise from the dead. He couldn't stay dead. And that's why the resurrection is so important. His death is important because he atoned for your sin. And all that you must do is simply put your faith in that, that Jesus was enough. Not that I I really appreciate that Jesus did that for me, but now let me make sure that I run through my rosary beads until I die. Let me make sure that I do the right prayers facing the right city the right number of times a day until I die. Let me make sure that I wear the right attire on Saturday until I die. No. Either Jesus' death was enough for you or it wasn't. Put your faith in Jesus alone. Now, if you do, He will transform you, He will change you, He will give you new desires, and you won't be able to go on thinking and talking and doing as you do without expressing extraordinary conviction and he will change you. So what you need to do, what the what the mobs didn't do, is you need to submit your will to Jesus. And say, I'm turning from that God. I don't understand all of this, and I don't know all that you're going to demand of me, but whatever it is I need forgiveness from you, and I understand that you've got my best interest in heart because you you gave your son to die for me. Jesus, you died for me I submit to you, you're king of my life now. Please save me. And and though you don't necessarily understand all of what's going on You understand enough to know that Jesus died in your place, he satisfied God's wrath on your behalf, and that's enough. And he saves you. And he puts his spirit in you and he will lead you from then on. And he he adopts you into a f into his own family on earth and and a church can help you with that as well. So I I I beg with you, please would you would you see your own culpability before the Lord? I get that there's there's stuff you're wrestling with. Emotional things, deep-seated things, where you don't want to sit, you're willing to give all of this but not that. Give your will to God and let Him let Him change you over time. If you would have Jesus though, you have to submit to him. You turn from your way to his way. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. If you will let him be the way and not you dis determine your own way, he will And it comes through his truth. We can't atone for our own sin. We can't make ourselves right with God. We need a substitute. And Jesus Christ died to be the substitute of everyone deserving death by j God's justice. Can we pray?