Turn with me to uh Esther chapter four. Esther chapter four. Oh yes, we're gonna uh pause our uh broadcast for a second and we'll we'll start it right back up. Helps us uh make sure we're not censored during the message by Facebook. That that happens. So are we good, Hannah? So we'll be in Esther chapter four. I'm gonna start with a word of prayer. It is good to see you this morning. I'm glad to see a number of you that we haven't seen in a little bit. There's been a lot of illness, there's been some travel. It's just good to see you today. I'm eager to worship with you this morning. Uh let's go to the Lord uh in a word of prayer. Uh actually before I do that, I do want to say and I want to apologize, um I uh that was my fault on the um on the announcement page we have The old times for the um for the the ladies' tea. Jim got it right. I got it wrong, so go with what he said, not what's written there. That was I had that that was an old announcement that I'd copied in and uh had not changed it. I apologize. That was my fault. So sorry about that, Bev. Um but Yeah, don't show up at eleven or you'll be three hours early. That is next next Saturday. The Lord's done wonderful things uh through that in the past and and we trust he's gonna do wonderful things. things do and do encourage you to invite your friends, your neighbors, your loved ones, uh family members. Uh it's it's a good event. All right, let's uh let's go to the Lord in prayer. Dearest Heavenly Father, You are the God of heaven and earth. You are the God that went before Moses and the Israelites, went before Joshua, they chased their enemies. The place called Ebenezer. We are gathered here first and foremost to worship you because you are worthy of praise. That is why we're Here. We come with much needs. We come with heavy burdens. I myself too come with burdens, and I need your help. I need your grace. We need your mercy. We need to be assured that you forgive us our sins From the past week, from the past hours, perhaps. But we come first because you created us to worship you. You are fully worthy of all praise and glory and honor. We don't deserve to get to give you that praise, but you, by your son, you have declared yourself and you have made yourself known to us. And those of us who have placed Our trust in Christ and Christ alone, you have given us that privilege to be able to worship you rightly. And Lord, we pray even for those who perhaps don't worship you rightly, but but are coming into your presence today here or other congregations, those who need to be reconciled to Christ. Christ coming to worship you. We ask that you would sanctify their praises by your Spirit and let it be pleasing to you. Ask now that you'd help us. We have worshiped through singing, we have worshiped through giving, and now we desire to worship through listening with open hearts, attentive minds. Please help us. to receive the message that you have for us. Lord, we may have other things on our minds. We may be grappling with certain things, frustrated with certain things. But I pray that none of that would uh would distract from the message this morning, but you would speak to us. Help us to enjoy reading your word, to enjoy hearing it expire. Help me, Lord, to enjoy. I always do enjoy preaching your word. Please would you give me strength and stamina? Would you give me grace? I pray that the words that come out of my mouth Would be pleasing to you, would be right, that I would not say anything that is is inconsistent with who you are, that I would not make mistakes. And if I do, Lord, I just pray you'd let us all forget that they were ever said. Please speak to us from your word. Help us to understand Esther chapter 4 and help us To see its relevance to us, help us to go away from here, admiring what a great, wonderful, wise God that we serve. Let us go away loving you more. and more committed to you than we were and than we did when we arrived this morning. Lord, I pray that you would use this time to f enhance our worship and when we sing the last We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Again, I ask you to turn to Esther chapter four. We've been working our way gradually through this. And we're just going to dive in because there is much happening. I can't give you a more exciting, interesting anecdote to open with than the actual text that we have. So let's let's read it. We're going to be reading it in stages as we've been doing, not quite the normal way that I tend to preach to you. We just work our way through what's going on in the text narratively. I'll explain it and then we'll have our application afterwards. Ready? So first in the first four verses we see Jews all across the Persian Empire mourning. I'll remind you before we read this what has happened so far. Esther was made queen through many sinful choices of her own. She has uh violated his uh his law that sets the Jewish people apart as his own people many, many different ways consistently for at least well she's been she's been queen for five years at this point and she was uh she was in the harem for another year or more before that as well so at least six years. Uh she has been consistently dishonoring her God. And yet God has made her queen, and five years after becoming queen, there is an edict there There is uh an announcement that all of the Jews in the Empire are to be eradicated in all one hundred twenty-seven provinces. There are to be armies raised up for the sole purpose of killing Jewish people. Uh and they are not allowed to defend themselves. No one is allowed to sell them weapons to defend themselves. themselves and they are in an they are in a state of panic and emergency and mourning and that's where we pick up. You ready? Dark times for the Empire So Esther chapter 4, verse 1. When Mordecai learned all that had happened, he tore his clothes and put on sackcloth and ashes. And in every province where the king's command and decree arrived there was Now, if you're familiar with the Old Testament, and perhaps you're not, but if you are, you know, this is actually a very, very normal thing in the Old Testament. Testament. This was how uh the Jewish people, for sure, expressed their own mourning. Uh they would clothe themselves, they would tear their clothes first, and then And in instead of their nice clothes or their normal clothes, they would put on scratchy sackcloth, they'd sprinkle ashes on their heads. If you're familiar with the the story of Job, who was not Jewish, uh he uh he he He did this. He um went out in the dirt, put put ash on his face, probably had sackcloth on, and um lamented all of the the hardships that he had gone. gone through. We see several times throughout the the Old Testament God's people doing this. But this was normal outside of the Jewish uh population as well. In fact the the Persians, these very people where this is taking taking place just a few years before these events, they did this. I've told you a few times now that the the king Ahasuerus had a military campaign in Greece and they got they they did well to begin with but they got extraordinarily defeated by the Greeks Greeks. When they were defeated at Salamis, the Persians mourned by tearing their clothes and putting on sackcloth and ash. This is something that is very familiar to them. It's so familiar that there's even a law about it. Don't bring your mourning into the kingdom. King. Don't don't bring down the mood in the palace. You're not allowed to go in there when you're when you're in mourning clothes. So this is a very normal way of expressing often repentance When Ezra um confronted uh sinful people in uh in Jerusalem, they repented in dust and ashes. But it's also a way of Expressing mourning. And Esther becomes aware of this, and she's distressed. So it says verse 4. So Esther's maids and eunuchs came and told her, and the queen was deeply distressed, and she said sent garments to clothe Mordecai and take his sackcloth away from him, but he would not accept them. That's how strong his grief was. It makes sense to mourn. uh for these evil things happening. Does doesn't it doesn't that make sense? And really what we need to see and what this this uh passage helps us see is We we need to see the appropriate response to evil. We need to see how should we respond when evil is going on. It's certainly a uh an issue we see left, right, and center today. And instead of just taking to Facebook to vent our opinions, we need to have appropriate morning and we need to cry out to our Lord. Well, Mordecai uh hears from Esther, and instead of taking the clothes, instead he he has a response for her. Let's read verse five. Then Esther called Hathach, one of the king's eunuchs, whom he had appointed to attend her, and she gave him a command concerning Mordecai to learn what and why this was. And what we're going to see is Hafak really is a trusted advisor. There are going to be important details here about the fact that she's Jewish. And that means that she could be killed, right? That that's that's what this this whole thing is about. She could be killed um if she's if it's found out that she is a Jew, even though she's queen. And so the fact that she sends this guy HAITHAC to to uh convey messages between her and Mordecai shows that he's a trust advisor. We we don't know how trustworthy he is, but but she trusts him, right? So Hathaq went out to Mordecai in the city square that was in front of the king's gate, and Mordecai told him all that had happened to him and the sum of money that Haman had promised to pay into the king's treasuries to destroy the Jews. He also gave him a copy of the written decree for their destruction, which was given at Shushan, that he might show it to Esther and explain it to her. and that he might command her to go into the king to make supplication to him and plead before him for her people. So Hafak returned and told Esther the words of Mor Mordecai. So in other words, um Mordecai tells this eunuch, deliver this message to Esther. She has got to do something about this. She has to plead plead with the king. There's going to be mass genre. My people are going to be annihilated. And he has a copy of the written decree with him, which suggests that maybe he expected he might have this opportunity. He wanted to share this with Esther. Now, what we're going to see next, we have verified by secular ancient historians. So let's see how Esther responds. In verse 10, then Estra spoke to Hathach and gave him a command for Mordecai, but just having these messages go back and forth. The king's servants and the people of the king's provinces no meaning, Mordecai, you already know this, right? I can't go into the king. She says, Any man or woman that goes into the inner court, to the king and who has not been called, he has but one law put all to death, except the one to whom the king holds out the the golden scepter that he may So they told Mordecai Esther's words. There is a great uh ancient historian, Herodotus, perhaps you've heard that name, or it's spelled Herodotus, if that sounds familiar. Um he verifies this really to to the to the detail. Um it was a law not only for a Hazuerus but for the person That uh people could not just go unannounced or without without having an appointment with the king, without being summoned. They couldn't just go in. And it there were seven people who could do that. Clearly Que Queen Esther is not one of them. But he could, of course, overturn that by saying, yes, come on over. And he'd take the symbol of his royal authority of the scepter and he would ext That's the only hope that Esther would have if she goes and appeals to him. Now, if the Persian king's in a bad mood, he's not going to s You remember right at the beginning, the the uh inspired narrator showing us his character that the This is the kind of guy that when he asks his queen he his queen, his wife, to come and appear before him and she doesn't come, she's not queen anymore And it became a whole empire wide fiasco. You remember that? They were sending out decrees to the whole empire saying how wives are supposed to treat their husbands. Just because she didn't go when he called. Well, imagine if the opposite happens that his wife comes, his queen comes when she's not been called. Esther has a legitimate fear here and she's not seen him for a month. Probably his bed's not been empty. He has not he has not been seeing Esther regularly that time. He is Has been indulging his passions with other women, which is, of course, shameful. So Esther now is Not thinking much about the Jews. She's just thinking about herself. Now maybe she's thinking I can't do them much good, but she's largely thinking about this is dangerous to me. Well, Mordecai's going to give a second plea. And he's going to respond to her. He says, let's read in verse verse 13. Mordecai I told them to answer Esther, do not think in your heart that you will escape the k the in the king's palace any more than all the other Jews. And we'll pause there for a moment. Some commentators, some people What we know of Mordecai so far, right? Not an exemplary guy by any means, but he loves his daughter, right? We have seen that. He cares about his daughter. He's going and Pacing in front of the gate every day. He's trying to he's keeping in contact with his daughter. He wants what's best for her. He wants to know that she's safe. This is not the kind of man who is likely to issue a death threat on his daughter I think that when we take that uh that opinion of the text, we're really not being honest with the other things it tells us about Mordecai. It's shown us the king character is shown us Mordecai's character. He's not going to do that. He's simply saying that, hey, the truth's going to get out. Already already too many people know about their relationship. Her her uh maidservants, right, they recognized Mordecai out there mourning and they reported it to Esther. They may or may not not have known their family, but they knew he was important to her. Hafak, it's carrying these messages, right? It's gonna get out, he's saying. And just because you live in the palace, just because you're the queen Don't suppose that you're any safer hunkering down and not approaching the king. That's what he's saying. You have a chance to do something if you go talk to him. Yes, you may die, but you'll certainly die if you don't. That's what he's saying. There's almost a whole year before this massacre is scheduled to happen, right? Remember that? It's 11 months. And likely the news is going to get out that the Queen herself is Jewish and her office as queen will not protect her. Now we'll read verse Verse 14. This is the one that everyone quotes. This is the verse you know from the book of Esther, right? For if you remain completely silent at this time, relief and deliverance will arise for the Jews from another place. But you and your father's house will perish. Yet who knows whether you have come to the kingdom for such a time as this. For such a time as this is the thing we tend to quote, but let's build up to that, right? Look at his expression of faith in his God. He's not been showing his faith so far, right? But finally he's hit that line. He will not cross. He hasn't he hasn't bowed down to Haman. Whether it was right or wrong for him to do that, apparently in his conscience, mingled with all sorts of other wrong motives, perhaps. He has come to a point where now he is starting to remember his God. And he says, if you remain completely silent at this time, relief and deliverance will arise for the Jews from another I can see no other way to understand this verse except for Mordecai saying, God will protect us. He's promised to curse those who curse us. He will make war with our enemies, just like he did with King Agag. And Haman is the the one the authoring this this genocide. He is a descendant of Agag, we are told God will protect us. And it looks like he intends to use you. Now, if if you don't step up, he will still be faithful. That's what he's saying. Now, of course It doesn't say God, does it? It doesn't say the Lord. It doesn't say Yahweh. But if you've been if you've been uh attending these these serm this sermon series prior, you n you know uh that that is kind of the point of the book, that that God is hiding here in plain sight. That Here would make s it would make sense to say God will raise up a deliverer, God will protect us, right? And doesn't. And it's like God is made even more real, even more near by his absence. Because we can see that's obviously what he is saying. Right? And so though we don't see God's name here, that is the point here. He's saying God will protect us. If you're unfaithful, you'll perish. But God will raise up another an another deliverer. But who knows whether you have come to the kingdom for such a time as as this? You hear the question, perhaps perhaps it's not as well to use you as the deliverer. But you have a responsibility. God's placed you here. Take that responsibility And her apparently she is moved by that. It's pretty tight logic. Then Esther told them to reply to Omordecai, Go, gather all the Jews who are present in Shushan and fall. Fast for me, neither eat nor drink for three days, night and night or day. My maids and I will fast likewise, and so I will go to the king which is against the law. And if I perish, I perish. If I die, I die, she says. So Mordecai, he's happy with that apparently, went his way and did according to all that Esther commanded him. She's saying, Go and fast for me. She doesn't say pray, does she? We can understand that. That's what she's saying. This again seems to be a way of conspicuously removing the mention of God so that we can we're we're seeing all the more that they are depending on God through their fasting I don't know about you if you if you've ever fasted before. When I have fasted, I've I've always drank water. I've drank a lot of water. In fact, I might have even drank Gatorade certain times. They're not even drinking. That that it for three whole days. Um you can you can imagine the intensity of their prayers and the the depths of their uh how scared they are and how much they're morning. She's saying, all right, I'm gonna do this, but I need to be upheld by prayer. Now What is all of this pointing to? What it what is the point of this passage? What is the message then? What is this saying? And and as I explain as I explain this, I think this this theme This message will come clear. So let me give you the message statement first because I know you're itching to fill it out on your outline, right? God redeems his people's sins and circumcisions. Whatever circumstance you are in, whatever sin you have in your past, God redeems that. God redeems you if you are a child of God, if you've come to Christ to use them for his purposes. Now let me explain what I mean. Esther is queen and God intends to use her where she is despite the sin that got her there. Doesn't make it right that she sinned to become queen. Her repeated breaking of so many of her God's laws is very serious. All of it displeases God. All of it required the death of Christ in in her place for her to be forgiven. It's yet in the future, and yet God can forgive her sins Because he can look at the cross and outside of time and take out his wrath on Esther on his own son. All of that was necessary for her to be pardoned, and yet because of the cross, because of his his son dying, even if In Esther's place. God will use this sinful fallen young lady to deliver his people. None of her sins okay in the sight of Christ, but God has not written her off. He is eager to deliver his people Especially because they're crying out to him, right? They're fasting in sackcloth and ashes. They're not eating anything. They are appealing to their God to save them. And he hears it. And he will use Esther in this position that she's currently in, despite how she got there, so that he can save his people. He won't let Esther's sin prevent him from using her. She doesn't deserve the honor of getting to be used by God. None of us do. Paul said that, didn't he say that? Paul said, I'm I'm the chief of sinners. I used to try to murder Christians And yet God has ordained me to preach the gospel. I don't know how many churches he planted across practically the entire Mediterranean world. God used him God in his kindness has called me to be a preacher. I don't deserve that. Because I'm sinful. Now, how does this play out in 21st century America? I have known people who have who have taught the gospel. These are real people, men and women, at least one woman. Who've been taught the gospel earlier in life, but they don't submit to it. They might belong to Christ at least for a season, but they're not walking with him, or they've they've taught been taught the gospel, but they haven't yet trusted Christ But they have this knowledge of him. So either they're they're saved not walking with him or they're unsaved people, right? And while they're not walking with him, they commit a crime. In in in some cases. Case is very serious crimes. And they're sentenced to multiple years in prison, perhaps even life without parole. In one case, that is the case. They feel like their life is over. But as they're being punished by the state for their crimes, they return to Christ. And And they repent of their sins and they start walking with him. They enjoy reading their Bibles. They read other good Christian books while they're in prison. And And they start walking with him closely, and we might be tempted to say, well, I'm glad they got saved and they won't go to hell, but too little, too late. God can't use them. They can't be of any use to God if they're behind bars. But I think you know that I don't think that's true. I don't think you Because I've known men, I've known at least one woman who've been in circumstances like this who they see the prison as their in home. home mission field. I know one man who actually has become a pastor in basically a church there in the prison and they have their own their own church community there in the prison. And these these These believers have their their missionaries in the prison. How they got there was wrong. Their sin is not excusable. But Christ has forgiven them. God has forgiven them. And he He uses them there to save many people who otherwise would never have heard the gospel, but he uses fellow broken vessels, inmates, prisoners, convicts to reach those very broken convicts. And these people are starting churches and praying with them and having gospel communities and God is using them despite their past. And what about you? Do you feel like God can no longer use And you'll come and you'll hear the gospel and you'll be grateful for it, but you won't minister to others. Because you can't see yourself as really being very useful to the Lord. Now it's it's true, let's just get this out of the way, it's true that there are certain certain That might disqualify you from certain things, but certainly not from serving God as a whole. Right? Certain things might might uh mean that you won't be called to be a deacon if you're a man. Uh if you've committed committed certain very specific crimes, then we might say, yeah, let's let's not get you involved in the children's ministry of the church. But that doesn't make you useless to God. That doesn't make you you useless to his people. And God intends to use you despite your sin, despite your brokenness. Perhaps even because of your brokenness. He intends to use you. What area of life are you seeing As a failure that you think God can't redeem it, God can't use it. He won't use you. saved spouse and do you feel like I I'm really not able to f serve Christ freely. I try I really can't serve him freely like I wish I could and I've squandered it Let me tell you, you absolutely are of use to the Lord. First of all, you can serve your spouse by being a good representative of Jesus Christ. Uh in the home, your spouse, your husband or your wife, because men and women both make make this mistake, they see you in ways that no one else does. They see you at your lowest. you at your best. You get to practice what you preach up close and personal. When you fail and you will, you can model repentance. And you can model asking forgiveness that they don't see in the world, but they see it in their godly husband, their godly wife. You can point them to Jesus that way. You can serve Christ by warning others, other young ladies, other young men who are perhaps dating someone they shouldn't really consider cementing that unequal yoking and making that same decision that that you've come to regret, you can warn them, you can help them to avoid that You can by by by loving your husband or your wife who's unsaved and and especially ladies if you're if you have an unsaved Saved uh husband who is unfair and and Christ tells you to submit to him, right? By submitting to him, you have a good testimony to the world. You encourage the church. And you you you serve as a rebuke to the world who don't understand the authority structure that God's put in place with with Christ being the head and and the the father and husband being being the head of them family and and then you coming in under his headship. You are able to preach the gospel through your godly submission to him Men, if you have an unsaved wife, you don't submit to your wife, but you you it's going to be harder for you to show her the love and and kindness the sacrificial love that that Ephesians 5 tells us we as husbands are to have, right? That we we are to love our wives as Christ loves the church, that he laid Down his life for her. And your love for your wife, when it is a Christ-like love, will preach the gospel in ways that just nothing else will In that case, you can serve the Lord. The Lord will use you. He intends to use you for much good due to your difficulty. Circumstance. You have a responsibility to serve him in that circumstance. Don't let don't write yourself off because of your sin. Now, perhaps you're a parent and you have a major sin in your past and you feel like a hypocrite every time you try to talk to your teenage son or daughter who's who's rebellious. Now, do you realize they actually have a better reason to listen to you Because of your past sin, than if you didn't have it in there. That when you say, I did those things that you want to do, and they don't satisfy, only Christ satisfies. Don't be afraid to tell them the truth. The Lord will use you as a godly parent despite the sin in your life. Christ has covered that sin by his death and blood. He will use you Don't believe the lie that, well, I really can't tell them not to do that because I did that. No, tell them the truth. Tell them only Christ satisfies. Tell them that doesn't work the way they think it's going to work. Help preserve them from similar foolish decisions and show them how much better than all of that gunk that sin offers in its deceptive pleasure. How much greater than all of that Christ is. Christ is better. Now perhaps you've been known in your workplace for some sin, some lifestyle sin. Perhaps you you're the office gossip. Or you're known for losing your temper in meetings You can model humility and repentance. The Lord can use you in special ways by you actually stating your sin. your coworkers and apologizing and telling them I didn't model Jesus Christ well. I hope that you'll forgive me and I hope you'll hear me about Jesus. There was a time that I Um I embarrassed myself. I I shamed myself by um I many a number of years ago now. I I uh tried to order a sandwich at Burger King and I was trying to I was supposed to get a free whopper uh uh from from uh a deal that I had, but I had to order it in the app. And I don't know if you ever used Bur Burger King's app. I have not used it I don't know, seven years or something. Because it didn't work. And I'm supposed to have a free whopper and I my my uh lunch break is is fast coming to an end. And they would not honor the free whopper. And I got angry. Uh I mean I didn't I didn't curse, I didn't throw things, but I didn't represent Christ very well. And when I went back and I apologized, the lady's eyes kind of popped out of her head because she didn't expect that she wasn't used to seeing that. Now I'm not saying that I'm I'm a hero there. I was wrong for losing my temper, but when I apologized and And that that gave me an open door for the gospel, right? If you're in a situation like that at work, you're known for having a poor testimony. Repent, become like Christ and tell them that. I was a poor representative of my God to you, and I hope that you'll forgive me. And then go and sin no more and let them see that. They'll listen to that. They might not look like they're listening, they might not tell you that they're listening. They might laugh at you or scoff at you. You just preach the gospel and you continue to preach the gospel every time you honor your boss, every time you keep your mouth shut shut about a juicy piece of gossip, every time you refrain from laughing about This is j this is the same tr same is true for students. Kids, if you got a bad repetition. in school, tell them I didn't treat you well, I haven't honored the teacher well, and then I I have not modeled Jesus Christ for you. Would you forgive me? And then go and sin no more. Let them see the difference. In all of these situations, God can yet use you. There are more that I haven't said. You are in that specific position as a as an unequally yoked wife or husband, as a burdened parent, as a disgraced employee or student. You are in that position for such a time as this. God intends to use you. Be faithful to him there. Don't suppose you're of no use to him. That's a lie from the demonic angel. God intends to use you to save sinners right where you are, right in the station of life, regardless of how you got to this circumstance. He's giving you responsibility, and that responsibility is itself a privilege that you get to speak for Christ there. He has a purpose for you. And the best way that you can honor him and that you can be used by God is to acknowledge your faults to the people that you want to win for Christ. Now I encourage you, make yourself available to the church, to this church. Tell us that you want to be plugged into a ministry and be useful. Perhaps you've held back because you feel like you really can't. You can't be of use to God. God's glad to use sinners like us. Not sinners like you, sinners like us. Me too. To grow his kingdom and glorify the name of Christ. There are many ways that you specifically can can bless this church. Right now, we need musicians. Please talk to George. We need musicians. We could use some extra help with online support for YouTube and Facebook and our online services. If you're good at that, God will use you. And you'll reach many people for Christ simply by giving that time to the Lord. If you have a vehicle, you can provide rides to people who can't get to our services. You can help us clean the building. You can watch children in the nursery. You can be intentional about extending a listening ear to your brothers and sisters who have just had a lot on their plates. I when when you come to church, do you make sure maybe that that you get to be used by the Lord before going home? I I had a teacher that that was his rule. He didn't get to go home from church until he had benefited at least one the Lord. Not necessarily through through being a listening ear, but but whatever talent you have. But you can You can love your brothers and sisters and and then you learn of more needs that you can fill just by being you and by being helpful Now we could especially use your help with an open-air preaching ministry that we're intending to launch in July. You don't have to preach, but maybe you'd like to share your testimony. So that we take the gospel where people aren't coming to church. We go to them. Share your testimony. If you don't want to speak publicly, you can talk with the people who come to listen. If you don't want to talk at all, you you don't have to have a speaking roll. You can hand out bottled water. You can hand out gospel tracts. You can have a setup and cleanup. But my point is that there are so many words you c so many ways that you can serve God right here at Grace Baptist Church. that actually impact our community for for Christ. Don't let your sin prevent you from serving your great King Jesus is King Jesus, right? He said over and over again, he's he's seeking out profitable servants. He died in order to redeem He wants to work in you, he wants to use you and make you that kind of useful Servant. Don't let past sin prevent you from being useful to God in the present. Instead, confess that sin to Him. Believe that by Taken a long time to explain the message there. We're going to go quickly through these last applications that I have for you on your on your notes sheet. But you don't have to fill in, but if you want to, right? First of all, all of us. I'm not saying Christians here, I'm saying all of us. We must all see every hard circumstance as a call to flee to God. Now this whole episode, right, we get to the end and And we have we get to the beginning and we have the Jews all in the capital city, right, and then throughout the empire crying out to God in mourning. End of the chapter, they're fasting, they're crying out to God, less in mourning and more in supplication, asking God to save them. God seems to be waking up his people to their need for deliverance and and just to their need to have him present in their lives. Do you see that? They've been living as secular Jews. They've they've not been honoring God's law. They've been living as they they know he's there, they know they're Jewish, but it really doesn't matter that they honor him. Now they're seeing they need him present in their lives. They need him This is why God brings in even horrific circumstances. Do you realize that? If you have a hard burden in your life, financial pressures and you are scared. You or a loved one has some major health crisis and you are worried and it's keeping you on your knees. Well that's the point. God's using this to drive you to Him, to keep you on your knees. You have a relationship in trouble, or is there someone with power to greatly harm you? You were scared of. God brings these things into our lives not because he's mean, but because we have a greater need. Our great need is to have God present in our lives, to be in relationship with him This temporal life is not all there is, and he wants to save you now and bring you into relationship with him now and preserve you from you'll have hardship now, but not in eternity. He intends to meet your greater need, and so he will bring major crises in order that we would turn to him. If you go on, right? If if God just leaves you alone and brings no hardship into your life, for many people that means they never turn their thoughts to God. And they go merrily on their way to hell. And God in his kindness will bring in hard, hard things in order to turn us away from hell and to Christ. See that Christ came into the world to save you. He lived a perfect life, and he died under the curse of your own sin. He died under your punishment so that you would not be punished. In eternity in hell, but he took it all on himself in a finite amount of time. He dealt with it there on the cross, and God vented his whole wrath on Jesus Christ. It would take you an eternity to pay it. But for the God man on the cross he could atone for it in three hours. And then he said it is finished. And two days later he walked out of the Grave without any sin clinging to him. It had all God's wrath had been satisfied. Your sin had been satisfied. And he brings in these hard circumstances so that you can learn this so that you would flee to him and access that relationship with him through Christ who died for you. And I plead with you, if you're under heart You're you're in dire straits and you don't understand why and you're mad at God, perhaps it's that you have not yet turned to him. And if you have turned to him, he still uses these things in our lives, right? It's not just to get you saved, but it's to keep you in dependence on him. It's to teach you new things. I've gone through far harder things as a Christian than before I was a Christian. God doesn't Christ doesn't promise you, He doesn't say, if anyone will be my disciple, he's gonna have it easy, right? He says, take Take up your cross, die to yourself, deny yourself, and follow me. There's gonna be self-denial on that road. And each time he brings it He drives us to the throne of grace. He drives us to our knees. He gets us depending on God and knowing Him in ways we didn't before. It's all out of His kindness. circumstances, a call to flee to God. Not just a quick flare prayer, but run to Him and cast yourself down at His feet, like these people fasting for days, not even drinking water, because they recognize they need God presently. That's what your sort of response needs to be. Secondly, Christians must whoops. Christians must seek to benefit others as They make decisions and navigate hard circumstances. Right? Esther was in dire straits. All of the Jews in the empire were, but she's thinking, I've got to appear before him and he could strike me dead on the spot. She's scared of her husband who wields this absolute power. And Mordecai helped her to see that she has a responsibility to attempt to preserve the lives of all of her people. And that's how we need to see it. You may be in dire straits over something. Think about how you can benefit other Christians or non-Christians that they might see Christ. In you as you suffer unjustly. Christians must seek to benefit others. We're making hard decisions. That's what Esther was doing We're navigating hard circumstances. Make sure you're running to Christ and praying so that you can walk in wisdom, so that others will be saved, so that others would be benefited. Esther's trial did not end with her. She had the opportunity to bless every Jew in existence. She actually served the world by ensuring that Christ came into the world. So when we're in dire straits, let's think not only of ourselves, but how we can benefit others through our distress And then finally, and this is really an outflow of B. Christians must pray for fellow Christians when they're in great distress. Let's be like Mordecai and the rest of the Jews in Shushin. When we know of a believer who's in distress, let's pray like crazy for them. Not, okay, let me pray for you right now and then you forget about it. Right. But that we keep going back to the Lord. We keep lifting them up in prayer. We keep sending them texts of encouragement. We gift them a book We just we give them words of encouragement to let them know they're not alone. We remind them of the truth and we pray for them The church prayer bulletin is a good source for you to know who to be praying for with this stuff and how you can support your brothers and sisters in Christ. And if you want to pray for Christians around the globe, the Voice of the Martyrs magazine will tell you about Christians who are who are in prison and separated from their children right now. Because uh They have they have stood up for Christ. They'll let you know about people who have lost loved ones and are in in are are afraid for their own lives because of Because of their love for Jesus Christ. Pray for these believers. And I I'm I'm not good about keeping up with Voice of the Martyrs. I'm not good about praying for too many Christians that I don't know. But I encourage you, when you learn of a Christian in crisis, they're your they're your spiritual family member, whether you know them or not. Pray for them. God wants us to run to Him in prayer. So let's pray now. Heavenly Father We praise you for this story of your providence. We thank you that you delight to use sinners. You delight to use broken people in order to accomplish your purposes for the world. And we thank you for that, Lord. Lord help us to look at how we could be more useful to you. That we would not let our Sin or simply what we perceive as an inability in ourselves. I'm just not good at talking about that stuff. Zealous witnesses for you. Let that not prevent us from doing kind acts to people who really may not deserve it and may never reciprocate or receive Lord help us to be Men and women of prayer, boys and girls of prayer, that when we hear of those who are in need, that we throw ourselves at your feet and plead for mercy And plead for grace and plead for help and strength and for your intervention in those circumstances. Lord, we love you and we praise you, and help us to sing now In a way that brings glory to you. Help us to sing with joyful hearts. In Jesus' name, Amen