Please turn with me to Matthew chapter twenty. Matthew chapter twenty. I'm excited to preach this message because This is kinda weird, but in ten years of full time ministry I've never once preached a uh Palm Sunday message. This is my first time. I've just always kind of kept on going with what we're preaching through until uh we we hit Easter Sunday and I've I uh felt the Lord redirecting this week, so I've been excited to preach this to you because I've never actually preached this passage or this event at all. We have been working our way. If you're if you're new with us today, I see we have a number of visitors. We're so glad you're here today. If you're new with us, then you wouldn't know that we've been working our way slowly through the Gospel of Matthew, and we're back in chapter 5 in the Sermon on the Mount, the greatest sermon ever preached. So we are going to jump forward a little bit in this happy week of ups and downs, where we have a very triumphant day of worship today, a triumphant day of worship a week from today on Easter Sunday, celebrating the resurrection. And then a very somber day evening of worship on Good Friday. And we invite you to join us at seven PM on Good Friday. With all of that going on, I thought we would take things at a lot much faster pace than we have been taking them. And so in the spirit of today's joyful occasion, Siddha covering about four verses in Matthew chapter five, we're here in Matthew chapter 20 in the middle, going to the middle of chapter 21, covering about a full chapter, and I am excited to do this with you. One last thing that I will say, and if if you are uh do not have a bulletin that you want to follow along with, I believe we do still have a few bulletins. on the back, the music stand by the the table where you enter if you would like one of those to help me take notes. Otherwise you can just listen, follow along. But don't let the headings here. I've got quite a few headings because we're going a long way today Don't let the headings dazzle you that you're trying to copy down every word and you actually miss what I'm saying. That's going to be the more important stuff. The headings may or may not help. Can jot them down, but don't let that prevent you from hearing the message. If you learn better just by listening, you just listen. You don't have to fill in blanks or anything. So let's dive in. Let's read Matthew chapter 20. Starting in verse 20, we're going to read the first four verses here, 20 through 23. Then the mother of Zebedee's sons came to him with her sons, kneeling down and asking something from him. And he said to her, What do you wish? She said to him, Grant that these two sons of mine may sit, one on your right hand and the other on your left, in your kingdom. But Jesus answered and said, You don't know what you ask. Are you able to drink the cup that I'm about to drink? And be baptized with the baptism that I'm a bapt that I am baptized with? They said to him, We're able. So he said to them, You will indeed drink my cup and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with, but to sit on my right hand and on my left is not mine to give, but is for those for whom it is prepared by me. Now we're we're coming uh to a new point in Matthew's gospel in the life of Jesus. He has been preaching and teaching and doing miracles for three years. And now he is about to head towards Jerusalem where he knows that he is going to die. He knows he's going to rise from the dead as well, but he's going there with the purpose of dying. Now he has just told them in the verses right before, adjacent to the ones we just read That this is going to happen, that he's going to be betrayed and crucified and then rise on the third day. And Perhaps there's some supernatural block going over their brains that they're not able to understand this because they don't seem to understand it. They seem to have forgotten. He's just talked about this crucifixion and this betrayal. And what are James and John doing? Two of the most honored apostles, by the way. What are they doing? They're jockeying for power. And so they put mommy up to it to ask him, hey, uh, can my little boys uh have the greatest power in the the greatest kingdom that's ever going to be And as you saw, he said, you have no idea what you're asking, because that's going to mean going through great sorrow. And then he's going to give them an opportunity to understand the way to the exaltation that they want. Now, the request isn't all bad. It's mostly bad, but it's not all bad. Why not? Because what we see in James and John here is that they they understand one really important thing that most others do not understand in that day and still most do not understand. And that is that clearly they believe that Jesus is The Messiah. Now we we know this word, don't we? But we don't always know what we mean what we mean when we use that word. The Messiah was the one who Messiah is a Greek word that means anointed one. I'm sorry, Hebrew word that means anointed one. When you hear the word Christ, that is a Greek word, which means So Jesus Christ or Jesus Messiah means the same thing. He is the one who has been prophesied, promised in Scripture for hundreds of years that he's going to have a special anointing by God's own spirit that will empower him And what we learn as we look through those verses, though they couldn't understand them all at the time until Jesus had come, was that this anointed one and it is is Jesus. This is anointed, one would be anointed to fulfill three offices, the three major offices of Israel's uh really their their their kingdom rested on these offices. That's prophet and priest. And king. And though James and John may not understand all that goes into that, they understand he is the promised king. He is the heir to the great king David, who had received this promise. Directly from God. And so they they they get that He has a kingdom He He will receive. They think it's going to come sooner and easier. And they have forgotten or they've not understood the things that he has been teaching from the beginning about what it means to be citizens of that kingdom. The first thing he says in his greatest sermon ever is, Blessed are the poor in spirit. He's saying you're gonna have to feel your spiritual poverty if you're going to be a a citizen in this kingdom, let alone a ruler in it. He says, blessed are the humble or the lowly or the meek. You could use any of those three words. Blessed are the ones who are persecuted, who are pursued evilly. For being loyal to Jesus. They don't get that. They've also not understood that his execution is coming. in just a few days, and that it's going to be the most shameful of executions. He will feel ashamed for being executed that way, even though he just told them for a third time. Instead, they're thinking about the power and the prestige that they're going to enjoy just getting in on the ground floor of this great thing. So then Jesus turns them aside and starts to lovingly confront them and teach them. Let's read verse 24. When he does that, something happens. When the ten heard it, they were greatly displeased with the two brothers So they're they've now got their undies in a bunch because they wanted the same thing that those two did, just they didn't have a mommy to go before them and ask before before they catch, right? So they they're all upset Because everyone is thinking about themselves and exalting themselves and how great they're going to be, rather than the one who ought to be exalted and and will exalt them to these great positions So Jesus will talk to them and explain. Here's what he says. He says, Jesus called them to himself and said, when verse 25 You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and those who are great exercise authority over them. Yet it shall not be so among you, but whoever desires to become great among you, let him become your servant And whoever desires to be first among you, let him be your slave. Just as the Son of Man, that's him. Did not come to be served, but to serve. And to give his life a ransom for many. And he's about to model that in the very next episode. So he's saying if you want to be exalted like you're saying you do, you're going to have to lower yourself. You're going to have to put others first. You're going to have to sacrifice. You are going to be last if you would be first. The way to be exalted. Is to lower yourself, not raise yourself. And the wonderful thing about this is that is the type of king that Jesus is. He does those things. He's about to have that opportunity right now, starting in verse 29. And here we see him, this true king, responding as a king does when he is given a request. The king responds to supplication with compassion and generosity. Let's read verse 29. Now, as they went out of Jericho, a great multitude followed him. Behold, two blind men sitting by the road, when they heard that Jesus was passing by, cried out, saying, Have mercy on us, O Lord Son of David. This is such a sweet episode in Jesus' final days. He knows exactly when, why, and how he's going to die. He knows how painful it's going to be on a physical level and on a spiritual level. He knows the shame he's about to bear, he's going to be counted guilty for things that he wouldn't even dream of, think of doing in his worst nightmares. But he's not preoccupied with the thing ahead. He's passing through Jericho on his way to Jerusalem. By the way, that means he's coming from the east. close to the Jordan River and he's going from from the east to the west to the city of Jerusalem with maybe three days walk, maybe only two, but probably three days walk to go. Now, before we go any further into this episode, one thing you may not remember is that Jericho was a cursed city. Perhaps you're not familiar with the story of Jericho at all. Some of us are, some of us perhaps not. God called his people to settle the land of Israel. They came through the wilderness out of out of uh Egypt, and as they're getting ready to to go into their land and conquer the enemies there that But God had said they're they're too wicked. I want you to take their land and live there and worship me right righteously. The first city that they were to conquer was Jericho. Now do you do you know the story of Jericho? How did they conquer the city? They walked around it. That's it. That's done. They walked around it. Once a day for seven days. On the last day, they walked around it seven times and then the walls just fell over. Now, why would they do something so silly? Well God had told them to do that, and then when he saw their obedience He knocked the walls over himself. If you've ever heard that story, you probably remember it. It's a very iconic story. But what you maybe don't remember is what comes next. Joshua said something after they had won. Actually what we're going to read here, he says before they win about when they when once once they have won. Here's what he says Now the day the city shall be doomed by the Lord to destruction, it and all who are in it. We jump forward to verse twenty-six, he says, Then Joshua charged them at that time, saying Cursed be the man before the Lord who rises up and builds this city, Jericho. He shall lay its foundation with his firstborn, and with his youngest he shall set up a gate. So it was supposed to stay a ruin forever. It's not a ruin. He's passing through the city. People live there. Crowds are following him. There are beggars there. What happened? Well, first of all, let's consider why he would want it to stay a ruin. This is so that others could see what happened and remember two things. First of all, God gives victory to his people. But secondly, God punished his sin, and the very sins that were being committed in Jericho He wanted done away with. And so it was this two-fold testimony. And he says, You will not build up what the Lord has destroyed. But somebody did. Under the reign of the m of one of the most wicked kings in all of Israel's history, Ahab, you might know that name, not from Moby Dick. A man named Hyle built it up, and here's what's said about him, ready? In Ahab's days, Hil of Bethel built Jericho. He laid its foundation with a virement. Now what does that mean? It means probably there were bad construction accidents when they were building that city. And the man who was the foreman, the man in charge of the project, lost two of his children. That's not that God is mean and spiteful. That's that he put up guardrails all around it, and they still chose to disregard him. You were under the curse of your own sin, and he came into the world to remove it. And so the fact that Jesus is passing through this city There's this huge crowd following him because they're shocked that he would come through here. They've heard about this great prophet. Maybe some of them have even hiked out to other towns and cities so they can hear him. They didn't expect him to come through Jericho. And so if you're living in this day, this is amazing news. You're certainly not expecting him to stop in your cursed hometown But Jesus came here to remove the curse on Jericho. And behold, two blind men sitting by the road, when they heard that Jesus was passing by, cried out, saying And these two blind men can see what the seeing people can see that that not only is he a great prophet, but he is the the heir to David, the one who received those promises He is the Messiah. They can see that. The disciples sort of see it. And these blind guys see it, and so they cry out and they ask for mercy by his messianic title. And what does everyone else do? Shut up! He's here! Don't go! We don't want him to see you! You're an embarrassment! It says then the multitude warned them that they should be quiet, but they cried out all the more, saying, Have mercy on us, O Lord Son of David. Why would they cry out? Because he's the messianic king. They see that, they believe it And so Jesus stops and he stands still. And he it says so Jesus stood still and called them and said, What do you want me to do for you? And what I want you to see here as they're addressing him as king is this is exactly what kings do. Now usually it's in the throne room. If you're familiar with the Bible, maybe you're familiar with the story of of Solomon with the two women and the baby. Do you know that story? We looked at it as a church last year. There's these two ladies with a baby disputing the identity of the baby Who who's his mom? And they come to the the king on his throne and he makes a judgment. This is what kings are are used to doing, not only giving their wisdom, but but granting things out of their generosity And showing their glory by how generous they can be. They are supplicating before this king. Supplication is a word really only applied to kings. It's when we have a request. When we pray in our prayer meetings, we try to follow, we try not to be too put put too many rules about it, but but we try To follow a template where we either confess our sins to the Lord first or we adore Him first. There's this acronym that says ACT, A-C-T-S, Adoration, Confession, Thanksgiving, Suppation. Sometimes it's cats. We confess our sin first. Confession, then adoration. Then we thank him for what he's given us. And then we ask him for stuff. Supplication. We are supplicating the great king of all the universe. When we pray. That's what's happening here. They recognize who he is. And he is happy because he is generous. He takes compassion on them. They say, Have mercy on us. And it says, So Jesus had compassion. And touched their eyes, and immediately their eyes received sight. And what I love is the very next line, and they followed him. They didn't go get jobs. So they can finally because they can't work because they're blind people. There's no social security in those days. All they can do is beg. They don't get jobs. They don't go around seeing all they can, enjoying their newfound vision. They follow the one who gave them sight. Jesus honors their persistence. He sees how lowly they are, and he approaches them. He humbles himself to love them and then he lifts them up. But not only by yes, he's restored their vision, but it's the messianic king touching them. That exalts them to more than they have ever been before. And so, of course, they will follow him. They will follow him to where he will die. But you wouldn't know he's about to die by the way that he's received in the next city where he's going to die. During scripture reading a few minutes ago, we we read all of the rest that we're going to cover, so I'm not going to keep On reading through. I'll pick out certain verses, but so that we don't slow down too much, I'm not going to read those again. Let's discuss that exciting true story now. Now we have the king entering his kingdom. at the capital city. He's left Jericho now. He walks another couple days, probably three days. Probably the blind men are still with him these three days later. He's about to enter the capital city of Jerusalem, but he does something he doesn't normally do. He stops and makes special preparations He doesn't usually do this, but he knows this is going to be the last time before he dies that he will enter the city of Jerusalem. He'll be there a few days, but it is his last final entrance. into that city before he dies. He'll be back. But first but that's after he rises from the dead. So he knows he needs to make sure that he fulfills a certain prophecy that hasn't been fulfilled yet. A lot of the prophecies about Jesus, we would say, humanly speaking, that he had no control over. The only reason he has control over them is that he actually is God. That's kind of the whole point of the prophecies. It's to prove prove that they are given by God and that he fulfills them as God But this is one that he is acting in his authority as God, and even in his humanity, he's able to make sure he fulfills it. And that is the prophecy that we read in verse 5, given some five hundred sixty or so years earlier. Sorry, probably more like 590. Tell the daughter of Zion, Behold, your king is coming to you, lowly and sitting on a donkey, a colt the full of a donkey. And so he has this, there's this funny little scene where he sends out to disciples and says, Go and get me a donkey. But the most important thing to this little episode before he actually an enters the city is that is how he refers to himself in the third person here. Do you catch it in verse three? If you got a Bible in front of you. If anyone says anything to you, you shall say, The Lord has need of them. And immediately he will send them. He is openly calling himself Lord. He doesn't always do this Now he may not be asserting himself as God, it's a possibility he is, because that is the same name used for God in translating the Old Testament from Hebrew into Greek. And this your Bible is just a translation of what was written in Greek. But he is certainly, by saying, Lord, asserting his authority over this city, and it is the capital city. He is saying he has authority over the owners of the donkey. He has authority over the donkey. He has authority over the whole city. This Lord is king. When we combine it with the things that they say and this very prophecy. He is saying, I am Lord, I am master, I am king. And so verse five quotes that prophecy from the book of Zechariah, chapter 9, verse 9. It comes in the middle of several promises that God is going to defend enemy from his sorry, defend Israel from their enemies and then convert them so that they worship him and they're on the same side. And he is doing that. He has done that by dying in our place. So I'm gonna I am gonna read from verse seven. It says, They brought the donkey and the colt. laid their clothes on them and set him on them, and a very great multitude spread their clothes on the road. Others cut down branches from the trees and spread them on the road. Then the multitudes who went before and those who followed cried out, saying, Hosanna to the son of David, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, Hosanna in the highest. Now, we don't really see a reason, humanly speaking, for why these people suddenly spontaneously do all of this. This huge crowd. And what we understand is we've actually got a crowd behind him and a crowd in front of him going ahead of him. Today we'd call that a parade. This is a this is a victory parade. You know, this is during the Roman Empire and the Romans would would conquer a city and then go enter it. And they might be entered uh by uh or they they might be greeted as enemies. But very often they would they would come in and they had such fame before them and they were known for bringing such benefits to their their empire that So sometimes when a city was taken, they would actually welcome the guy who beat their army. And they'd throw him the parade and he'd ride through on usually on a chariot or on top of a horse And they would they would greet this new king. That's what's going on here. Except it's really out of place. I think what makes this whole episode so remarkable is that you have These contradictions standing next to each other. Because he doesn't ride in on a mighty stallion and he's not on a chariot. He's on a donkey. Probably a pretty dusty, dirty donkey, and he himself is dusty and dirty from the road, right? And he's on this low-down donkey, not high up on this great, glorious white sh white stallion. Makes me think of, you know, in Shrek 2 when uh Shrek gets turned into a human and and uh donkey gets turned into that that great uh Regal stallion, right? And then And then they get changed back, and they're the lowly ones that they are. Right? It makes me think of that. You have this lowliness and this humility. That's who Jesus is, and yet who he is also this great exalted king And there's nothing we can point at that says like there's no one running ahead and giving everyone a giving everyone hacksaws so they can get these these uh branches off. There's no one ex instructing them what to do. They just spontaneously do it. Because the Holy Spirit is doing something in their hearts And in their minds, maybe it's a mob mentality, but they all just seem to understand this is the right moment and this is the one. That they should take their own clothes off and let him tread on them in the street. It's like rolling out a red carpet for the King of England. And they do it without understanding what they're what they're doing. And they they know the right words. They know this from one of the Psalms, Psalm 1911. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, but they add to it. They add Hosanna to the Son of David. Hosanna is both times a prayer, sorry, a praise and a prayer. It's a prayer of supplication. It means save us, Lord. But then it's also this this this like song of exaltation. Hosanna to the son of David. They're acknowledging his right to rule. He is the Messiah Messianic king. And then they add again Hosanna in the highest. They're exalting them as exalting him as high as they can. And yet by the end of the week, what are they going to be yelling? as a crowd. Crucify him. They're going to be lobbying the governor. Kill this man. They're capricious. They don't know what they're doing. This is a work of the Spirit of God right now, here, this good thing. That's God making sure his son is recognized as who he is. And even the prophecy calls him lowly. Lowly and and riding on a co uh on a donkey. The second time it says donkey, depending on your translation you have this, if you have an ESV It says a colt, the the the foal of a a beast of burden or a a pack animal. The whole point being this is not a glorious horse. This is just some lowly burden bearer for your field And yet all of this contradiction is totally consistent, isn't it, with what Jesus was saying to his disciples when they're like, hey, put me on the left hand, put me on the right, and he said, No, we we need to sound sacrifice for others. That's the way up. The way up is down. If you exalt yourself, you'll be brought low. But if you lower yourself and you put others first, specifically with regard to their deepest needs. Then then I will exalt you. He lived it out in Jericho by going to those lowest of the low, those blind beggars. And now he's being exalted before he's brought even lower on Friday. Lower as low as he can possibly go in death for you and me. Now, Jesus is coming to this city for the purpose of dying, and I want you to understand Why he's dying. And I encourage you to come and worship with us on this Friday evening so that you can hear in detail about that death. But why did Jesus die? He came to to bear our shame. He came to make himself low because we are we have shamed ourselves. By the things that we do, and even the things that we think that are not in line with what Jesus thinks. There's this verse in uh the prophet Isaiah, the Old Testament. Where God is saying, let the unrighteous man forsake not only the things he does, but the things he thinks. Let him forsake his thoughts, he says. He says, Your thoughts are not my thoughts. We do bad things because first we think bad things. We were born separated from God because we've inherited that from our first parents. They rebelled against God. Shortly after he created them. He gave them one commandment and they broke that. And since then we have not had a right relationship with God. But he came into the world to remove curses. He came into the world to make sure you could have a relationship with him. He didn't come to condemn you. We were condemned. We're already condemned. He came into the world to restore you. So his death, he died counted guilty for your sin. So that you who should be Feeling the shame for eternity, perhaps you've got you you're starting to understand it. You have this sense of your shame that things are not as they ought to be. I want to please God, but I don't know how And and if I'm honest, maybe you even joked about it. Yeah, I'm going to hell. Have you ever said something like that? I imagine when you joke about it, you don't feel the same way when as when you think about it several hours later on your own Yeah, that's not a pleasant thought, is it? He came to rescue us from hell. He came to exalt us, take us out of hell, and put us in heaven. So he lowered himself and he was treated as we ought to be treated. He's counted guilty for the things we've done. And that means that all you need to do is believe that to be true and ask it. Now it's not me merely, yeah, I believe that happened. I believe this is historical fact. Good, I'm glad you do. I'm glad I don't have to argue you into believing it. Too many people we have to argue into believing it, but that doesn't mean you put faith in it. Will you come to Jesus as he is, lowly, and say, You ought to be exalted, but you lowered yourself for my sake. You died for my sin. You were ashamed for me. So that I don't have to be ashamed. Lord, would you forgive me? Would you just I don't understand all of it, but that death that you died in my place. I hope you understand that. He died in your place. You were supposed to be on the cross Except if you were to die on the cross because you've offended this infinite God, you'd hang there for forever. He's an infinite God you've offended, you would hang there for an infinite amount of time. Do you understand that? But Jesus being God can can hang there for a finite amount of time. And His His sin is your sin is atoned for in that finite amount of time. And you say, I don't understand all of this, Jesus, but I get that you died for me. Would you forgive me? And he does. At that moment, he'll actually take his Holy Spirit and he comes into you. He was a person of God, and I can explain that at another time. He comes and lives you and he exalts you. Jesus lowers himself, he raises you up. And then he teaches you how to live in a way that pleases him. You're already counted good because he died in your place. But then he helps you live that out. And if if if this is starting to resonate in your heart a little bit, this is what you want, please come talk to me afterwards. I want to help you understand it better. So that you might cry out and ask him to save you, that you might put your faith, put your trust in him Having come into the place where he's going to die, he carries out a couple more kingly responsibilities before finishing. We're nearly done, I promise. What all of this is saying is all stacking up together. So when I recognize how much my king lowered himself and why he did that, I will overturn my pride to exalt him. All of this should should make you want to do what these people are doing, even though they don't understand it. We were made to worship him. Do you realize that? When God made you, he made you with a purpose. And there are several layers to that purpose, but it's that you would bring glory to him and that you might cry out to him and praise him if he deserves it. Us singing as a group like this today is what we were made to do. And so he continues to receive that worship the next day. Now what the Gospel of Matthew doesn't do Which the other gospels do. Matthew arranges materials sometimes thematically rather than the order that they happen. And so he kind of condenses and skips over the fact that this is a new day. The next day, we find out from the other uh the other gospels, is not a contradiction. They're there to help us understand. The next day Jesus goes into the temple and he acts as the king ought to act, because one of the main responsibilities, not of just any king, but of the king of Israel. the the the kingdom that belongs to the one true God who made everything, not not to the idols, not to fake gods, but to the one true God. One of his great responsibilities was to make sure that the people are are honoring the command Commitments that they made to God fifteen hundred years earlier, uh as God has made promises to them. And so He He has to make sure that the worship is right. He goes to the place of worship, he goes to the temple It was always the king of Israel's role to do that, and he is to work with the priests to make sure that the temple is is suitable for God. And here he acts upon that kingly authority. And it says, I am just going to read these because it's it's easier to Jesus went into the temple of God and drove out all those who bought and sold in the temple and overturned the tables of the money changers. And he said to them, It is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer, but you've made it a den of thieves. You see the first person there? Third person, the Lord needs these donkeys. Right now he's saying, This is my house. It's supposed to be a house of prayer. Actually what's left out there that the full quotation is a house of prayer for all nations. He's not focusing on the other nations yet, but But I see people in this room from all over the world, at least our ancestors all over the world, not from Israel And Jesus purifies that place of worship so that all of the nations, people from every ethnicity, can come and worship him. He wants the whole world saved. And so he cleans them out and purifies proper worship. He doesn't just say the temple of the Lord your God, no, he says my temple. This lowly donkey riding c prophet king, what an unusual king, has not run to the palace to take Herod's throne. You remember King Herod from from the the the Christmas story. He hasn't run over there and knocked his son knocked Herod's son off his throne. He's in the temple claiming it for his own because he's not merely king, he's God as well. And when the people worship God, they're worshiping Jesus. They just don't realize it yet. And then we see we see him do the next thing that a king does, just as he did in Jericho. He starts extending mercy to his people. Having cleansed the temple, he goes back to serving and healing and sacrificing. Yet it's right for him to receive worship. Then he goes and humbles himself in love of the worshipers. It says that he was healing them, and that's what got his enemies in a tizzy. And the blind and lame came to him in the temple, right after he's cleaned it out. Now they're able to come in. And he healed them This is what kings do. They receive supplication, and then the good ones anyway, they respond with compassion and generosity. And then finally we see this king standing up to his enemies and affirming that what is going on is right. Not he's not defending his actions. In fact they're not even talking about the fact that he drove out the money changers. there. They say, hey, do you hear what these children are saying? They're they're implying that is shame. The the the children apparently they were there at the the parade the day before and the song Hosanna to the Lord, Hosanna in the highest, it's got stuck in their head and they're still singing it while they're in the temple I see that man. He was the man on the donkey yesterday. And these little children are singing to him. And and the the priests and the scribes, they're his enemies, and they're like, you ought to be ashamed, right? And he's like, whoa whoa whoa guys, do you never read the Bible? That's that's what he's doing. He's a hav haven't you ever read? Jesus said to them, Yes, have you never read? And and the word there for read, right? These are the priests. They teach the Bible for a living. I'm not a priest, by the way, I'm just a pastor. But I I teach the Bible for a living too. And and he uh what what I do a lot of the time is I read it to you, right? We do scripture readings, I'm reading it to you now And and the word there for re for read there, have you never read, can also be translated, have you never read aloud? In other words, you teach this stuff, you should know. You know Psalm 8. And he quotes Psalm 8, out of the mouth of babes and nursing and You have perfected praise. And he just stonewalls them. And he says, this is ordained. These children were ordained to be here by God. from eternity to be here this very day, this very moment, affirming that I I indeed have come to remove the curse from you and you don't want it to be done And these very people actually, the the these enemies who are challenging him, they're going to kill him and in so doing they are actually going to fulfill his purpose. They're going to remove the curse. Him dying under the full wrath of God, it no longer goes at you when you trust in him. That curse is removed. All of God's wrath is taken out on Jesus. And so they actually fulfill the purpose that Jesus has come here. He shows us in Scripture, this is right and good, that Jesus should be worshipped like this. Now, in just a couple moments, how ought we to apply this? First of all, exalt Jesus as the King of your life. He gets to call the shots. If you will turn to him, you want him to save you, you don't want to go to hell, you you want to have your can your conscience cleaned. Wonderful, that's what he wants for you. That's what I want for you. But you can't have him as savior unless uh when you say be my savior, you're saying be my lord, be my king. That's the whole point of his entering the temple in this way and entering the city in this way. Will you let him call the shots in your life? Let him be king. And if you call yourself a Christian, he is your king. He will be your king one day. If you don't turn to him, you'll return to him out of force Worship him eagerly. Do the things he commands you to do. We need to spend more time. This is a separate application. We need to spend more time in passages of scripture that show us the glory of Jesus and the glory of God. The ones like these ones that show us how unique Jesus is I mean, he's unusual, isn't he? He's a very odd figure. I don't say that irreverently at all. It ought to drive us to praise him for how different he is than anything we know. And when we see him as he is, it should drive us to look at our own sinfulness. It should humble us. You may need to hear this message, not because you haven't been appreciating how cool this story is and how true it is, but you may habitually think too highly of yourself. So I want to call your attention back to that theme statement. When I recognize how high my God is and how low he made himself. That ought to got me to invert things. That I overturned my pride, I lift him up, and I lower myself. And once I've lowered myself to worship him, then I can serve others, as Jesus told his disciples to do It starts with worship. Perhaps you are more like the chief priests and scribes than you realize. You're offended when other people get in the spotlight. You're offended when people go outside of you for counsel. You think you ought to get some praise for how great you are. Are you offended, Alison? Do you feel like people ought to speak better of you? I mean, we all want that. But that might be, not necessarily, but that might be a a hint that you have an issue with pride. And I know that our culture makes much of pride and calls it a good thing. Especially during the Olympics, right? All those profiles of how great these athletes are. But God is the one who is great. made us and we ought to humble ourselves. Pride is a problem. Does God receive glory from you each day? Or are you trying to hoard glory for yourself and just just think of him on special occasions like Easter and Christmas? Christmas or on Sundays. Maybe you just need to see that you're not worshiping Jesus Christ as often as you ought to, or as highly as you ought to Have you developed the the habit of reading your Bible and praying daily or most day mostly daily, weekly anyway? That's wonderful, but let me ask you this. How often do you sing. When you're in your quiet times with God, do you sing each time? I have to admit I don't do it every day. I I should. But you were made to worship. Worship him not only here on Sundays in a group, and it's wonderful when we're singing with other voices, but worship him on your own, even if your voice is nearly as bad as mine. It can't possibly be as bad as mine Even if it's nearly as bad as mine, you can sing and you can derive joy from it, even if you don't have a singing voice, because God made you to do that. And I think that you'll find that when you worship him as well as reading the Bible, that that will and that will open you to fulfill the purpose that he that he's made made you for. That will enable you to obey him and to love others. So I encourage you to worship Jesus Christ more intentionally each day. Because when we do that, we can overturn our pride, put us below him, and put him above us. Let's pray.