In our community we invest energy and time and effort and money into promoting some of these things or just just into to sharing our church's testimony. We don't see immediate results, but we see them later. So it's all an investment in our community community and so uh uh that was a big help with that but all of you that have that have played a part in uh uh sharing the gospel uh with your neighbors with your friends with your family um promoting our events thank you for doing that please keep keep doing that because it does have a cumul a cumulative effect on our uh our our church. We had um someone uh show up yesterday who said uh notice you guys have been doing a bit a bit more at at the the church. I've wanted to check it out and and it So we were encouraged. So it was a it was a blessing. It was a chance to love our community in the name of Christ. Christ. So um anyway, uh I want to thank you for that. Let's go to the Lord in a word of prayer. Um have we uh have we cut the feed and re reestablished it or okay, so if you're following online we will just be cutting the feed while we pray and just hit hit refresh and and we'll be right back on uh for the message. Dearest Heavenly Father Thank you that we can gather together as your people, as your son's body, your son's bride, brothers and sisters of one another, members of one another. Thank you that we can gather together as what we are, the church, the people of God. We are sinners, but we're redeemed sinners. We are waiting for the consummation when your son returns and gives us our new bodies so that we have complete power over sin. We enjoy complete wholeness with you. And we don't have that this moment, but we look forward to it and we gather together today. Seeking a foretaste of what it'll be like with you. And we know it's imperfect and veiled because we are still sinners. Some of us here perhaps even sinned against one another. this morning or in the last week. We ask your forgiveness for that. We ask that you'd help us to make peace with one another, to to apologize and to be kind and to forgive. But Lord, when your people are gathered together, your son promises us that he is here in the midst of us. He's with us right now through the Holy Spirit. We thank you for that. Thank you that uh we know you are present with us. Would you give us a sense of your presence this morning? Uh help us to worship in response to the truths. that we have even read on the screen in our lyrics this morning and heard read to us, even read aloud ourselves Those of us who are in Sunday school, Lord, soaking in truth for an hour before coming into worship, help us to respond to that truth joyfully and even somberly as is necessary. Lord, would you give me grace to preach from the message before us, Lord, from Matthew chapter 2? Help me to draw out all of the themes in a cohesive manner, all of the truth that is right there in your word, ready to be mined and dug out. And would you apply it to our hearts, help me to do so. And help us to receive your word as a meal that would build us up and strengthen us, keep us going, but more than that, Lord, that we wouldn't just limp out of here. But that we would go out with full spiritual bellies, that we'd still be smacking our lips from the meal we just had. that we'd be rejoicing and that we take that that with us into work tomorrow and back home and to the places where we have conflict and challenge. Lord, help us to go away ready for battle, ready to represent Christ as ambassadors and even as soldiers in his army. Lord, would you bless this time? I pray that if there are people here who are hurting, but surely there are there are in a a a group this size. Would you be with those who are hurting? Assure them that Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever, even when he was a baby He was savior of the world and was and is able to deliver everyone who comes to him. And would you give us confidence in Christ this morning? of us who have been sinning against you during the week, help us to confess those sins to you. Lord, I ask we might feel eager and led to do that now if we've not Not already, before even that the preaching starts. That we would have clear consciences and that just your your flow of truth and our our praying to you would just be unhindered by By any sin, by any awkwardness, we pray that we'd see in Christ all that we need. Lord, we love you. Would you please bless this uh time spent together in your word and in in worship together and bless the fellowship that goes on afterwards, Lord. The Lift Up Youth Group that will be taking place just after this as well at twelve forty-five. Would you please bless our uh time uh together studying your word there as well. In Jesus' name, amen Please turn with me if you're not there already to Matthew chapter 2. Matthew chapter 2. We'll be starting in verse 1. One of my favorite movies from the golden age of cinema has Humphrey Bogart in it, and any movie that has Humphrey Bogart in, in my experience, has been worth watching. It's the African Queen, a 1951 thriller with Katherine Hepburn. And uh perhaps you're familiar with this exciting film during World War One. Catherine Hepburn's character is in an is an English missionary in eastern Africa, which is occupied by the German army. When the Germans invade their little village, and as a result of the German soldier's actions, her brother ends up dead. It's time for her to escape. It's time for her to go home. Well, she hops onto a rundown riverboat called the African Queen. That's where the title of the movie comes from. It's operated by a Canadian mechanic, and he is played by uh Humphrey Bogart. Their only goal in this movie is to escape German-occupied territory and for Catherine Hepburn to return home to England. All they want to do is escape German-occupied territory. They're on a boat, so they are confined to the river, and that means that they're going to go through certain obstacles and enemies. They have to deal with rapids and crocodiles and the African heat, all of the elements that you would expect to deal with in Africa. But more dangerous than all of that is their final obstacle, a huge German gunboat which is blocking off the river for their escape at the end. And of course that that happens right at the end of the film as all of the the pressure has built up Their daring journey, everything they went through on the way getting there, including their interpersonal drama, will amount to nothing if they cannot overcome their enemy at the end. And I won't tell you how it turns out. I encourage you to watch it. This morning's Bible passage, we're introduced to a group of travelers whose long, arduous journey will amount to nothing. If they are hoodwinked at the end by a silver-tongued king whom they may or may not recognize is indeed their enemy. The wise men, as they're called in our Bibles, or the Magi is the Greek word, they've come from the east to seek the great king, not the king who becomes an enemy and obstacle to their quest. But the great king, he's so great that his birth has literally been written in the stars. And so we pick up In verse 1, with God calling pagan worshipers. There, if you want to follow along in your bulletin and fill in those blanks, you certainly don't have to, but there they are. God is calling pagan worshipers. From distant nations to himself in order to find salvation and freedom in Christ Say that one more time. God calls pagan worshipers from distant nations. He did it then, he does it now. To salvation and freedom in Christ. And it's important for us to realize something that we tend to to miss when we read this story and when we're decorating for Christmas. If you've ever put up again, I recognize this is a Christmas message. We're going to go with it anyway, right? When you're putting up your nativity scene in your house, you tend to have the animals and the shepherds and Mary and Joseph and of course a little manger with a baby in it representing the Lord Jesus But often you also have the wise men there as well, don't you? And you tend to have three. Uh the reason that there's three we'll get to th though we assume there's three we get to in a moment, we don't know that there were only three or that there were as many as three. We just know there were at least two. But they actually weren't there when Jesus was born in that stable that night. Look with me in verse 1, chapter 2, verse 1. Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea. You hear that? Now after he was born, right? This is a number of months later, and we have several clues in here uh that that show us that Jesus has been born and he's probably not quite a baby anymore. He may even be a toddler. He's certainly not a newborn. We might still say he's a baby, but he's he's not a newborn anymore. He's been born for a while. One reason that we know that is because if we were to be reading through Luke chapter two right now, which we're not, we're in Matthew If we were in Luke chapter 2, we see there that Mary and Joseph go uh when he's eight days old, which is what they were supposed to do, that was the law, they go to the temple and they offer a sacrifice uh for for uh Jesus. They offer a sacrifice at the end of uh of Mary's ritual purification as well. And when they do that, we're told that it is uh that that she offers two turtle doves And if you're familiar with the Old Testament law, they were supposed to offer a lamb. You offered two turtle doves if you were poor, if you couldn't afford a lamb. then the the law God intended to bring all people, rich and poor, to himself, and he made a provision there for a really cheap sacrifice they could bring two turtle doves Well, at the end of the story, spoiler alert if you don't know it already, Jesus is going to get a lot of very wealthy gifts. He's going to have gold. And they're going to be able to afford a lamb if if he uh if he had had that treasure at the time that they were offering him. The treasure comes later. We have more clues than that. We find that uh Herod is uh attempting to exterminate the Lord Jesus, and when he does so, he he says, let's go ahead and kill all children who are ages two years old and under. So He's probably playing it safe, so to speak, by saying two years old, but he's not just targeting newborns. This is sometime after Jesus Finally we we see right here it it appears as though the the the way that that things are written here that the the wise men have seen They saw the star appear when he was born, and then they have made a journey. So we're looking at probably several months later. So there's a gap. Between the end of chapter 1, where Joseph goes and marries Mary, but they're not she's still accept it's still expecting the baby. She's not yet gone to Bethlehem and had Jesus. All of the stuff about her having the baby and the shepherds and the angels, that's all told to us in Luke, not here. There's just this jump, this time jump here, where these Gentiles These these foreigners come seeking the Lord. So now let's read it together. Came to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we've seen his star in the East and have come to worship him. So let's talk about a bit about who these wise men are. The Greek word, as I said, is magi. If you have an NASB translation in front of you, that's the word you see, magi, instead of wise men. Most others say wise men. Now the Magi would have been understand by Matthew's original readers to be a it's a proper noun. They're an actual class of priests from a specific nationality. It would be like referring to Brahmins. And you're talking about uh people who practice Hinduism, right? These are a particular type of people. Now, if if you know the book of Acts, there's a couple times we see other magi mentioned They don't appear to be these same kind of magi because we know their their background. They're Samaritans, for instance, in Acts chapter 8. There is a Samaritan sorcerer named Simon, and he tends to be known as Simon Magis. The Magis is the plural of Magi. Sorry, Magis is singular. Magi is plural. And it's that's the word we get our word magic from and magician. It could be translated that way, magicians from the east But in this case, it's a proper noun. It's referring to these people somewhere east of Israel, possibly as far east as Ur. That's the city that uh in modern day Iraq that um Abraham was called from. They've come from some distance east. Daniel, in the the book of Daniel, served alongside when he was working for the government. He had Magi in that administration. He knew Magi. He worked alongside Magi. They were monotheists, which is unusual. They believed in only one God, not multiple gods. The normal in in those cultures was to believe in many, many gods. Of course, some people still believe in that today. They were unusual in that they believed in only one God, and so they were sympathetic to the Jewish religion, the the God of the the Old Testament. They didn't follow him, although it's possible that some of them did convert to him But they they were at least friendly to Judaism. They were interested in in the Jewish scriptures because This was another unusual religion where they only believed in a single God. Now these guys came Perhaps from Babylon, perhaps further than Babylon, perhaps a bit nearer. We don't know exactly where they came from. But the original readers would have understood it's those people coming from. Now these guys were skilled astronomers, but they were astrologers too, so they kind of mingled religion and superstition with scientific astronomy. They were priests, they had a sacrificial system, and though they were sympathetic to Judaism, they were indeed pagans. They worshipped another God. They were of a foreign religion, a false religion. It's possible they were influenced by Daniel, that they have that they had access to the Jewish, the Old Testament scriptures. But it's important that we realize that these people are not Jesus's people. In chapter 1, it says that you shall name him Jesus because he will save his people from their sins. These aren't his people And yet he will save them, because God has promised that he would set his son not only to save Israel, but to be salvation and light to the Gentiles. Just trying to give you uh the the layout here of of where we're going. God saw fit to place a sign before them that while they're practicing their pagan rituals, and this might bother you a little bit, right? As they're practicing their pagan rituals of observing the skies God puts a sign in the heavens, a sign in the skies for them to see to draw those specific people, those specific magi to himself. And so they they undertake this quest, this long journey. God, we don't know exactly what he did, how he did it. There's a lot of speculation on, oh, it was it was a comet Or it was Jupiter, or it was an intersection of Jupiter and Venus. There's a lot of different ideas of what they may have seen, and the truth is we don't know. I think there are clues in the text. Can't be dogmatic about this. I think there are enough clues in the text that suggest that this is no ordinary celestial body that we could observe today. that this is God specifically putting something there, perhaps even his own glory, his own radiant glory, or a star that he is placing just for them. That is going to move differently from the rest of the objects in the sky because he has a purpose to call them to himself. So we're not going to speculate further about the star and God's methods and how he did that today. If you want to do that, I encourage you to come to Life Group on Thursday. We love to speculate and talk about that sort of stuff there. I encourage you, we will probably do that. But right here and now, the important thing is to recognize what God's doing through very special means. He's calling non-Jewish people far from Israel to himself And so it's at this point, this very point in the story, he's starting to fulfill that prophecy that Jesus would be a light to the Gentiles. Now there's one more thing we need to understand is we throw that word around, don't we? Gentiles, Jew and Gentile. What is a Gentile? And let me just define that so we can So we can be sure on that. Gentile refers to anyone who's not Jewish, who is not ethnically Jewish and ethnically related to Jesus or to Abraham. If you are not Jewish, you are a Gentile. And it was always God's intention, although the Jewish people are special people He says that when he first makes a covenant with his people well, not the first covenant, but when he first speaks to the nation as a whole, the nation of Israel. Right before he gives them the Ten Commandments, that's in Exodus 20. In Exodus 19, you've heard me say this before because it's so important. God says to the Israelites, he says, now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, that's a special relationship they have. And then he says this. He says, For all the earth is mine, and you shall be to me a kingdom and pr of priests and a holy nation. So he's saying All of the earth is mine. I intend to save the whole earth. You guys are going to be special, though, because I'm going to use you as a kingdom of priests. What do priests do? Priests bring the people to God. You are going to bring the rest of the world to me. Now, Israel, if you've ever read the Old Testament, you know they did a lousy job. Of bringing the nations to the Lord. There was there's a bright spike during a bright spot during the reign of Solomon where the nations were coming to Israel and hearing about this unique God. But other than that, we see very little. Jonah goes to the Gentiles, but he goes kicking and screaming when he goes and preaches the gospel in Nineveh. Nahum preached to the Gentiles, and we have some different prophecies directed at them from Obadiah and from Isaiah, but but for the most part, we don't see the Gentiles coming to the Lord. It had to come through Jesus. He is the one who will set it right. And it starts now with these wise men, these magi God has a love for the whole world, and that's why we saying across the landscape. That means he has a love for you. Are you distant from him? Perhaps. You know what? Don't worry about geography and how far or how close they were to Israel. Are you far off from God? Because God, if He calls to you, if He calls you to Himself, draws you near to Himself, if you feel Him tugging at your heart right now, don't put Him off. He loves you and he intends to save you. And will you will you turn to him because that you cannot be too far gone? If you still draw breath, you are not too far gone. He intends to draw all the earth to himself This is a big deal. If we're not Jewish, then this is a big deal to us that he would call non-Jewish people. Because, think about this, you maybe haven't thought through this In those days, every country, and even within a country, every tribe, we'd say every nationality, every people group. Even even locally, they had their own God. Usually they had more than one, but they had gods that were specific to them. And so the names of the the pagan gods that you know, and you know a lot of them, you just might not even realize it, but you know you know a lot of mythological gods that maybe you were introduced to in school. I had a whole unit on on uh Greek mythology and then another one on Egyptian mythology when I was in middle school. You know Zeus and Athena, right? They belonged to the Greeks. Athena specifically belonged to the Athenians, to Athens That's where her name comes from, or where Athens name comes from. Not sure which order happened there. If you know Odin and Thor, Marvel didn't come up with those names. Those were pagan gods that belonged to the Norse people Ra is the Egyptian god. Fairies and leprechauns, they come from the Celtics in Ireland. But this God, Yahweh, or Jehovah, depending which name you know him by, it can be pronounced both ways. This God belongs to the Israeli people. even though they had been defeated by Assyrians and Babylonians and carried off into captivity and exile And then brought back decades later, even though they'd been defeated, they continued, their God stuck around, and they continued to, in some way, trust in him. Now that's unusual because what happened was when one army would defeat another army, the way they thought was: well, our God was stronger than your God And that's why so much of the Old Testament prophets, if you've ever spent much time reading the like maybe you've tried reading Isaiah and you struggle and it's hard, or reading Jeremiah or Ezekiel. And God's constantly talking about I'm going to take my people away into captivity. I just finished reading Hosea. There's a lot of that. What he's doing is saying, look, you're going to be defeated, but I'm not going to be defeated It's not that the Babylonian gods are going to beat me. This is my sovereign plan to you. I'm going to use the Babylonian armies and the Assyrian armies. They are just tools in my hand So that I can discipline you and bring you back to me because I'm tired of you rebelling against me. I don't want you to be estranged from me. I don't want you to go to hell. I want to bring you to myself And so he is a very unusual God. Of course he is, because he's the only real one. Compared to all of these very capricious godlings that people believe in, that either are just they're just worshiping demons pretending to be gods, or they're total works of fiction. And so here's this God, Yahweh, who belongs to the Israeli people, reaching out to these people out near Babylon, the enemies of the Jewish people, and calling them to himself He's reaching out to foreigners. He's giving them the supernatural sign so they come and seek it out. Now it's in part because he has something for them to do that we'll see in a moment, but it's also because he cares about them He wants to save these pagans. Are you a pagan in your heart? He wants to save you Don't let your sin, don't let some inclination in you, you say, oh, I was just born that way, and I just I'm never going to be able to be a Christian. Not true. He sent his son into the world just as he sent him for the magi, he sent him for you. Turn to Christ Now these people make a long journey in order to find him. It may be hard for you to find him, but whatever the obstacles are in the way of you Don't let them prevent you from coming to him, because he doesn't intend for those obstacles to prevent you from coming to him. They make a long journey, but we find out in verse Verse 1, we're told that Jesus was born in Bethlehem. You see that? After Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, right? Wise men from the east came to Jerusalem. Do you see the dissonance there? They went to the wrong place. Now how why why might that happen? Think about it. They're following a star, they're looking up in the skies, they're in the east, and it's it's taking them west, maybe northwest a little bit. We'd probably say west-northwest. just just slightly north of west, right? And as they're approaching closer to Israel, they see this this star, and it's sorry, I'm West for me. That's west for you. Okay, so they're coming towards the they're going this way towards towards the city of Bethlehem, but do you know what's just barely north of Beth Bethlehem, just barely north? It was It took a while to to to walk there, but it doesn't take long now to drive there in your car. Just north of of Bethlehem is is Jerusalem, right? And so they're following the star and they can't they're far enough out that they can't tell which town it's over, the capital city or the little town of Bethlehem that we sing about. Which one would you go to? Because what appears to happen, right? Look with me at verses 9 and 10. They're in Jerusalem for a little while. Then they leave Jerusalem to go to Bethlehem. And it says in verse 9, when they heard the king, they departed, and behold, the star which they had seen in the east went before them till it came and stood over where the young child was. See this supernatural, it's right over his house. When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceedingly great joy. Why are they rejoicing? Because they hadn't been seeing it for a little while. For some reason it was taken out of view. Maybe it's just that you know the sun came up and they they couldn't see it anymore and so they went into town. But they're probably still off a ways when when that would happen. They they would they would have gotten closer and they would have seen where it was and then the sun would rise. What it appears has happened is this this star for some reason has been removed from sight from them. The Lord wants them to go to Jerusalem first. And so what would you do? You know the capital city where kings are, right? Kings rule from the capital city, and the last time you saw that star, it was over Jerusalem, not Or Bethlehem, either one, but you would go to the capital city. Because that's where the palace is. That's where the king is. And they arrive in Jerusalem and they're saying that the the Greek here suggests that they go on saying. They continue saying. They get to Jerusalem and hey, uh just arrived. Um I flat my plane just landed, uh, and I'm trying to figure out uh where's the king No no no no the king that was just born. What king that was just born? And they're shocked. It doesn't make sense to them that They've heard from far off that this great king, his birth it written in the skies. You know, they're not doing this every time a local king's born They've come all this way because this great king, his birth's been written in the stars, and none of the locals seem to know about it. And somehow This gets to Herod, or perhaps they decide, you know, let's just go to the palace, surely they'll know. And they get to the palace, and it says, When Herod the King heard this, he was troubled in all Jerusalem with him. It it is bad news to Herod. Because what Matthew's been doing in chapter one is showing us that Jesus Christ is the rightful king, and now it refers he refers to Herod the king. See what he's doing? Herod's not the real king. He's a pretender. He's a usurper. He's not the legitimate king. And Herod knows that. That's why he's troubled so much. He doesn't want there to be a rival claimant to the throne. All of Jerusalem was troubled. And I know I've taken a while to cover verses 1 and 2 because it's so crucial. I'm going to try and move faster. Don't worry. And so what he does, he hears about this, and the the wise men are saying, uh we we understand that there's a great king has just been born. It's been written in the skies, and he's like, Oh, okay, they're talking about the Messiah. You see what he says here? You know that name Messiah, right? We for some reason we just we know it as our culture. It's the long-promised king of the Jews. Christ is the same word, Messiah, translated into Greek. And we've not translated it into English. If we translated Christ into English or or Messiah into English, it would say anointed. But we understand Messiah or Christ. That's what he's saying. He's he inquired of them where's the Messiah to be born? He he knows, okay, perhaps my time's come. There's going to be a rival to my throne, and it's not just any any rival, it's it's The one that Jewish prophecies been talking about for 800 years. Uh-oh. For 700 years. And so he gathers together the top people who know the scriptures, the scribes and the chief priests. Now think about it, these uh some of these will be the same people, perhaps they're young in their career with with Herod, but thirty years in 30 years time, they're going to be dueling with Jesus. They're going to be the ones persecuting him and testing him and accusing him of having demons. It's the same guys. And for some of them, it'll be their kids, their sons will be doing battle with Jesus. And he he gathers them together and says, where's the Messiah going to be born? Well, the scribes know the answer easily, but they seem uninterested. So he said to him, Oh, uh that's easy, that's Bethlehem of Judea, for it's written by the prophet. But you, Bethlehem, and maybe they sound a little a little bored. You, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, um are not least among the rulers of Judah, for out of you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people. Israel, right? And it's like a sixth grader reading Shakespeare. And they're disinterested. There's the Herod is saying to them, the current placeholder of the throne says to them, It probably takes several days to gather all of these rulers to himself, uh sorry, all of these scribes, all of these priests Gathers them together and says, all right guys, I have a really important question for you. Where's the Messiah to be born? And no one goes, why? Have you heard something? They just down the road. It's like like nine miles. That's it Beware of disinterest. Beware of your own heart of responding this way. Like are you are you tired of coming to church and always hearing the same stuff and and you kind of zone out? Beware of that attitude. Because we think of we think of two attitudes to Jesus, right? Either, yes, I'm a Christian or I hate him. But the more common one is not the atheists that are just trying to say they hate God and he doesn't exist. It's everyone who's like, oh Christian. Yeah, did that when I was uh like six. Yeah I got baptized. Yeah. But do you know Jesus? Are you interested in him? Are you disinterested in him? You might not be an antagonist. You might not be persecuting his people. You might not be posting YouTube videos saying that all Christians are idiots But do you love Christ? Are you loyal to him? Do you take seriously what he says in his word? Are you studying his word to know what he says that you may honor him Beware of disinterest. Now after this, he finds out where he's going to be born, and he's more interested than they are, but not for the right reasons. He wants to kill him. He wants to make sure no one else can take his throne from him. Actually, I didn't know this before this week. Apparently Herod killed multiple family members. Even days before he died, he he killed one of his own sons because he was constantly afraid that he was going to uh lose his his throne because he knew it was illegitimate. And so Herod, do you catch what he says or how how Matthew says it in the next verse? Then Herod, when he had secretly called the wise men, right, said, okay, thank you, scribes and chief priests. Go back to your knitting. They leave. And then secretly, it was a public thing before. Now very secretly, he's he's probably been lodging the the wise men in in very nice palace accommodations. He wants to keep them in his good graces. He's going to wine and dine them and try and cajole them into helping him, right? And uh I found out the answer to your question. He's in Bethlehem. So can you do me a favor? You go to Bethlehem and then tell tell me when you found him. If you could write down his his address to, or just text it to me, share it in Google Maps, but let me know where he is so I can come and worship him, right? Let's read it. Then Herod, when he secretly called the wise men, determined from them what time the star appeared, and he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search search And when you found him, bring him back to me that I may come and uh worship him. Am I right? Um he's planning to kill him. Herod's trying to manipulate them. He's trying to use them so that he can can murder a baby. But actually, God is using Herod to bring the Magi whom he loves to Jesus He's they they don't know where where the king is, right? That's how they ended up at Herod in the first place and they've been they've been waiting. Well he gathers the scribes to find out, and now he gives them the crucial information they need. And so they figure they've just got to go to Bethlehem and do the same thing all over again and ask people, where's the king? But then they're surprised, aren't they? God's going to guide them directly to where he is. God guides pagans to his son, and his son will free them to worship him and to serve him. God guides these pagans to his son, who then frees them to worship and serve him. Let's look in verses 9 and 10. When they heard the king, they departed, and behold, the star which they had seen in the east went before them. So the star has come back. Till it came and stood over where the young child was. We're told in verse eleven he's in a house So he's no longer in the stable. He's not stayed there for months and months. You remember what happened when Jesus was born, right? Everyone goes to the census locations, and there's a lot of people going to the census in Jerusalem. So many, there's probably people camped out alongside the road. Uh all of the the the spare rooms are taken, and that's why they ended up in that stable. And that's why they put baby Jesus in a feeding trough Well, as soon as those people registered, they didn't stick around. They left. And they've been able to rent a house. Now, why would they be doing this? Why wouldn't they go back to Nazareth? You know why? Probably, probably because Mary and Joseph understood the prophecy. They understood that this this Prophecy about Bethlehem related to their to Joseph's adoptive child, to Mary's actual child. But when the angel came to them and didn't tell them everything, they were able to put pieces Did you ever think it was weird that Mary decided to go with Joseph to Bethlehem? Like, why wouldn't she stay home and he just go and register the three of them? That's That that would be the logical thing to do. She probably undertook that journey because she recognized that that prophecy is about her son, and he needs to be born in Bethlehem. It's out so uh humanly speaking, it's out of his control, but it's in his mother's control. And so she makes sure she gets to Bethlehem. And when when they hear the decree from Caesar Augustus that everyone has to get registered by census Joseph, who may be saying, uh-uh, honey, you're eight months pregnant, you are not coming with me on that donkey. She's saying, Joseph is of Nazareth, you know what Micah says. But she wants to make sure that she's in Bethlehem for her son to be born. Well, once he's born, they want him to grow up in the city of David. They want him to be to come out of Let's read that prophecy again that the the scribes and Pharisees read for us. It's in verse 6, right? But you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah Judah, are not least among the rulers of Judah. For out of you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. This is the birthplace of David. It's also where the the great king j David's great great great great great great great great great great grandson would be born And they're figuring he should he should grow up here just like King David did. That's not gonna happen. They're gonna have to leave. The Lord's gonna redirect them. But that's that's why they're still in Bethlehem. And this is why The wise men find him in Bethlehem, even though it's several months after he was born. Joseph has apparently gone back to Nazareth. We find that in in Luke. He's gone back. He's maybe taken care of some some housekeeping things, probably to move all their stuff. But now they're dwelling in Jerusalem. And so the wise men find him. They're rejoicing because they see this star and they know that God is guiding them right to where they've been trying to go. And finally, in verse 11, when they'd come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary's mother. and fell down and worshipped him. And this is why God called these men from out of the east, distant from the Lord. That they might find him and worship him. Now, it's fulfilling more than one thing, right? More than one purpose. On the one hand, they get to worship the true God. They get to be made whole and be brought to the knowledge of this God, and they would have gone away changed. But secondly, his son deserves to be recognized. And so they bring gifts worthy of a king. The the shepherds went the night he was born, so that there was someone to bear witness to what had happened, and God called the lowliest of people. Because God intends for those who who have no money and are socioeconomically down and out to be saved by his sons, but he cares about the rich as well, and everyone in between. This is not a a a gospel that's restricted by by socioeconomic status or by demographic. It's not just a gospel for white people, or a gospel for Jewish people, or a gospel for For Babylonians. It's for all. And so he brings these people, and and they are people of means And now he's he's had poor people who are who are from just outside town repr uh come and see him on well when he was born. Now he wants to recognize him for the king that he rightfully is by birth And so he sends these men, these rich men, these foreigners, everyone is recognizing, and it's the whole world God intends to save. And they bring gifts to him. Gold. An incense, a frankincense, and myrrh. These are kingly gifts, but but there's there's something going on here as well that you might remember if you were here a few months ago when we were studying the life of Solomon. Do you remember that? The queen of Sheba and other other kings, other uh Gentiles, the nations were flocking. to see Solomon and hear his wisdom because he had wisdom that came from from heaven, that came from the one true God who's different from all of the others. And the Queen of Sheba comes and she seems to have more respect and more understanding and more than anything else, more wealth than anybody else. And she brings an astounding amount of treasure to give to Solomon. And these are echoes here, these gifts are echoes of Queen Sheba's visit to Solomon, the great king. Jesus will later call himself one greater than Solomon And these kings have come to recognize the one who is greater than Solomon. So I want to put together everything that's happened so far. We have these men making a journey, but they come against a great obstacle at the end. They come against a disinterest and a lack of knowledge on the people's part of uh that this king has even been born, let alone where to find him. And they find this king who is trying to use them and manipulate them so that he can eliminate this king. They have an enemy And we might be tempted to say, well, how is that even possible? There are such obstacles in the way And yet God makes sure that they overcome all of those obstacles. In fact, in verse 12, he protects them again. It says then being divinely warned in a dream that they should not return to Herod, they departed for their own country another way. Now what is it that God is protecting them from? I'm saying here, if you're following along, that God protects both his people and and by his people, I mean these magi And by the way, we assume people have assumed that there's three Magi because there's three gifts, and each one brought one gift, but it could easily be more In fact, if they're bringing it in large quantities, you might need two or three to transport that for each gift. So we don't know it's only three. But but these men God is protecting them to make sure that they are not used as pawns to betray their newfound Savior. Isn't that kind? That they should not be implicated, though they would be they'd be doing it Accidentally, he doesn't want them to have that guilt on their conscience. More importantly, he's protecting his son, the Messiah himself, but he won't let his own people be hoodwinked any further by this wicked pretend king. So we put all of this together. And there's a problem that I've listed for you in your notes. There are all sorts of things we could say would prevent us from coming to Christ, that would prevent these Magi from coming to Jesus. They have totally different worldviews. Perhaps you grew up in a household or even in another country where there was a dominating worldview that is not the Christian worldview. Or perhaps you grew up in a a home that call your parents called themselves Christians, your grandparents called themselves Christians, but it wasn't the gospel we find in the Bible. It was more of God helps those who help themselves. Oh yeah, and we believe in Jesus too, type of gospel, right? The gospel of self self-reliance. Believe in yourself and all that nonsense. And with a little bit of Jesus sprinkled in. Whatever that competing worldview is, it's not the gospel. The gospel says Stop despair of yourself. Stop trying to make yourself right with God. It cannot happen. You are separated from Him. He needs to do it for you. And so he sends his son into the world. We've seen him as a baby here, but I'm going to flash forward to when he's a man. He's going to live from infancy, never sinning through adulthood. He's going to fulfill that law perfectly. He's going to fulfill the law for us in our place. And then he's going to die in our place as though he had broken it. Well, that's us, right? And so if he died, though he fulfilled the law as though he'd broken it, that means that you and I who trust in him. We say, God, I don't deserve to be saved, but but would you apply Jesus' obedience to my account? He will, and he will save you. And he'll count, he'll count You as having fulfilled God's law and Jesus as having broken it, so that you're saved from all judgment that he would have against you because you've sinned against him and broken his law and offended him and rebelled against him all your life. Stop trying to do it your your own way. Trust in Jesus, who died in your place. And we know that he satisfied God's wrath because There was no sin left against him to hold him in the tomb. He walked out because all of your sin and my sin got burned up. God's wrath was satisfied And so he was able to walk out. No sin could hold him in the grave. All we need to do then is trust in him, and God applies his obedience and his His righteousness, his perfection to you, if you will trust in him and not in yourself. We have competing worldviews. We have counterfeit kings and messiahs and champions. We have foreign backgrounds, alien backgrounds. All of those threaten to keep us from Christ. Perhaps you say, I was born a certain way, and I am tempted in that way. You don't even say I'm tempted in that way, but just There is a certain thing that's just the way I am, and I'm not going to turn from it. I'm proud of that. I'm proud of who I am. That will keep you from Christ. But none of this needs to keep you from Christ. They all threaten to keep us from Christ. We might believe that they can, but homosexuality cannot keep you from Christ. Jesus is bigger than that. Do you have you have same-sex tendency or same-sex attraction that you're struggling with? Jesus can give you power over that. No problem. He walked out of the tomb, man. He can help you overcome that. He promises you that the same spirit that raised him from the dead Promises to come and live in you if you trust him. He'll give you power over that. You struggle with gender dysphoria? That doesn't have to define who you are, that doesn't have to keep you from Christ. Now you just say, look I I am who I am. Yeah, but Jesus came to change you He accepts you as you are, but he didn't keep you there. He says, Come to me as you are, and then he changes you, he transforms you. Now I'm focusing on the big battleground sins of our day, but it's just as true of addiction It's just as true as you just can't stop running your mouth. You either you curse or you say crude jokes or you're constantly gossiping or you just can't can't tell the truth to save your life Jesus does and can give you power over those things if you will trust him. All of these things threaten to keep us from Christ. We might even believe that they can, but the truth is, if the Magi can come to Christ, so can you. Despite all obstacles, that's the message here that we see in the wise men. Despite all obstacles in your past, any enemies that you will yet face in your future. None of those things can prevent you from finding full salvation and freedom in Christ. When God calls you to Christ, He will ensure that He saves you. All you need to do is to believe this truth. Now, we can talk about the other themes in this passage, the counterfeit king. We can talk about Who these these wise men really were, and what kind of star was that. And they're not illegitimate questions, they're questions worth pondering. But this is the message I want you to hear today. That whatever obstacles you might say are preventing you from coming to Christ, or perhaps it's just your own happiness and contentment, and you don't need more than that. Yes, you do. You need Jesus. Whatever those things are When God calls you to Christ, he will ensure that Christ is enough. Will you trust in him? I want to encourage you, seek me out. If you have a question here or if you are ready to give your life to Christ, you don't have to seek me out. You can do business with him in your chair right now. Pray to him and you ask him that that the thing that the pastor was talking about, Lord, please would you forgive me? I don't understand how all it works, but I do believe that Jesus can save me from this and that he died in order to set me free from my sin. If you will cry out to him, he will give you all you need, he will help you grow in understanding, he will save you instantly, and then he will change you and he will bring you along. And he'll use a church like this to help you along Cry out to him, ask him to save you, and then please let me know if I can help you, or let me know if you trusted Christ. But let's let's pray right now. You don't have to walk an aisle, you don't have to raise a hand, you just cry out to him. Dearest Heavenly Father, thank you for this truth. Thank you for this reminder that though we have enemies who would seek to keep us from you. Even Satan himself and however many millions of demons he has at his disposal, he and they cannot prevent you from saving us And Lord, I pray that if there is someone here who recognizes all of these things they've believed about themselves are lies, that these these Temptations and these sins they feel drawn to, they're real, they're there, but they are not powerful enough to prevent them from being freed by Jesus. Would you unlock whatever is blocking their brain from understanding that and their their heart from hoping in that, that they would turn to Jesus to be saved. And so Lord, I pray that they might just cry out and say, Jesus, save me. I know that you are righteous and that I'm not and that you died in me so that I could be counted righteous like you. God, would you save me in Jesus? Lord, would you help them to say something like that, to confess their sins to you? And to trust you. And Lord, for those of us who trusted your son perhaps a long time ago or perhaps a a few months ago. Help us to just find fresh encouragement that we are we are safe in Christ. You will bring our salvation to completion. And that the people that we love who are yet distant from you, you can save them too. And we ask that you would. In Jesus' name, amen.