Well Well that was my red. Thank you, thank you. Before I uh start the message and perhaps incorporate it a little bit in it. Um you know, I'd I just give thanks um uh as I think about the uh the song that Glenn sang And um hold me? I'm trying to locate you. Um You know one of the one of the words that will that's in this passage. Uh we'll and we'll be looking at um Romans chapter twelve verses one and two. So you can turn this Paul starts out with say he's saying, I beseech you. That word is the the word used there is the same word that's used Describe the Holy Spirit, pericle means to come alongside. And I think when Uh Glenn is uh saying that hold me as we're looking for God to come alongside us uh in the person of the Holy Spirit is is how he does that very often through his word. But one of the other things, uh the book of Hebrews tells us, again, this is not his message, so this is extra. It tells us that the Bible doesn't want us to stop just with being consoled, but also to get up and move on. So the console is so that not so that we'll feel sorry for or even just feel better about ourselves, but we'll get up and we'll move on, move forward in in life. George, I don't know whether the songs that you picked were after you I gave you the verses. Uh uh those of you who know me that I'm I'm late doing a lot of things, and so I was late giving George a lot of things But they were so right in a number of ways. And one of those was uh, you know, any time that you don't do this often There's some nerves and everything else. You're trying to make sure you remember the things that you you studied and all those different things. And one of the things that that last song is just to remember that is um He is our cornerstone. The weak are made strong in him. And so when we when I get up to do this, I think any a a pastor who gets up to do this is Because we're trying to do this, we're trying to present his word. And we're trying to make known the Lord Jesus, and it's not about us, it's about him. And then not only is it about that, but it's about how that impacts your life and my life. How it is that we ought to live. So that's again that's all that's all extra. Uh When I was thinking about this, this passage, uh Romans twelve, verses one and two You know, there have been a number of things in in our lives and just things that we see around where you see so many people struggling and you see even believers struggling Uh we've talked different ways, this idea pastors mentioned about deconstruction. People who at one time say that they were saved and then all of a sudden, well I don't say all of a sudden, over a period of time Quote unquote, they lose their faith. And the truth about it is that life is hard, and there are a lot of things that we have to deal with. And so um This passage is a powerful, powerful passage. And it helps us and I I George asked me for a title and it I struggle with that as well. And he then finally I came up with w I think what was it? Foundations for a lasting change. Yeah, there we go Foundation for lasting change, for continuing change. Because again, what it is is that God Wants us to keep on going, but he wants us to keep on going in the midst of a life that's not in many senses for us and with us. And so as we look at this passage in here, again, it is so, it's always pertinent. It is always powerful. And I hope that as we look at some of the things that are that are in here that we can touch on why even in our day and age is so critical and so important for for us. So along with that, so one of the things that that that that we'll do is I'm I want to give you a little bit of a a history of uh the d when I say the history uh of the book of Romans uh perhaps a little bit of purpose in some of the things that are said because these verses right here are kind of a uh uh a turning point there a hinge point. In in chapters one through eleven, Paul has given what a lot of people will say a lot of doctrine And when we get to chapter 12, verse 1, one of the things that he'll say is, therefore, so what is it therefore? It's based on all the things that the doctrine, the teaching that he's given us, that he's going to present again a a a thought that is going to be So important for the the people of Rome. Now don't get me wrong, when chapters one through eleven, there really are a lot of practical things when you think about it, when you read it and you go through and think about it that are very helpful and critical for in our life. And I I'm gonna I I'm gonna try to speak for those. You can pray for me that I don't I don't get stuck in just going back and giving you a little bit of of what's in Romans Glenn knows this because we've as we've our men's Bible studies gone through the book of Romans, uh sometimes we're lucky to do two verses, right? So now I'm trying to do two verses in an hour and so we we're lucky to do that sometimes. So and I'll be reviewing some things and and it's like oh okay where do I leave out But again, it's a hinge point because there are some things that that in particular that Paul is going to tell them how to apply this this This passage, as you leave from verses verses 2, from 12, 3 on through the middle of uh chapter 15, he's going to pick out some particular things of what why that's applicable and why the this this verse is going to be helpful for them. kind of first dealing with this uh idea of their even their attitude. Uh uh let me just uh just add in this a little bit. Um For I say in verse 3, for I say through the grace given to me for everyone to everyone who is among you, not to think more highly than you ought to think. And so Paul has laid a foundation for them, and one of those things is right thinking about who they are and how they fit in and what God has done. in their lives. And so he's going to talk to them again about the things of how it is that we function as a body of believers with the gifts that God has given us. And so if we you know most people say that if you are a believer in Jesus Christ That God has given you a gift. And so how is it that you use that in the midst of the church and the life of the church? He's going to go on and then talk about how it is that their character in the in the rest of uh uh uh chapter twelve, you know, what is going to be your character? Before people. And at the end of it, he's going to say, even when there are people who are against you. In verse 13, he's going to tell us how to deal with authority. Uh y you know in in our uh you know we're we're not quite removed from it, but uh And what it five years ago now, you know, the the election and all those different things and the change of that and every four years we perhaps change the people who are in authority. But it's not simply governmental authority, although that's the one that's important because important how we deal with all authority in one sense. And so there's there's kind of a pattern there. Children, how do you deal with your parents' authority? One of the things that's interesting about that, of course, is that they're only a few years away from when Nero is going to take power in Rome. And he's going to martyr many Christians. So how do you deal with those things? Now Paul may not may not know that. We don't have any indication that he does But then he's also going to talk about that one of the primary things is love. Love is how we ought to be living. And then in he's going to take a chapter and a and a half just to deal with this idea of how do you and I deal with one another when we have we're we're we're all s we're saved but then we have different convictions. And how is it that we relate to to one another? And so this will provide again a kind of foundation for them in all those different things. So That's just kind of a little bit about where where he's going with it. But what I'd like to do again, I'd like to give a little bit of background about the the the Paul and his his relationship with the Church of Rome, then go through some things in the book in the in the book of Romans. And then we'll get to those verses and we'll pick out some things in there that I hope will will bring out again the power and the uh the applicability of it. So let's look to the Lord in a moment of prayer, shall we? Father, again, we are thankful because again, this is your word. Your word is truth. Your word is powerful, it's sharper than any two-edged sword. And so we look to you that that you might bless your word. Not Father, I I I asked as as as as I do this that it's only bringing out what it is that that you've said. And so that in the lives of your people who are here Father, I ask that they might be encouraged in a lot of different ways in how they think of themselves, how they Uh think about how it is that they're they will live and how they'll deal with all the things that this life shows them Again, because of what you've done, and particularly what you've done to your son, the cornerstone, the Lord Jesus Christ. So I ask now that you will be with us as we uh look at your word. Help us to be help me to be faithful to it. Help uh your people to be Responsive to it. To hear, to have open ears to what it is, not just or necessarily to what I say, but to what your truth and what your words say. So I thank you for this and I ask this in the name of the Lord Jesus. Amen. So one of the things about the book of Romans is that uh we don't know who started the church of Rome. In Acts chapter 2, it uh talks about that at at the day of Pentecost there were a number of people who were who were there present from the city of Rome Many of them perhaps came to trust in the Lord Jesus, and perhaps a number of them went back to the city of Rome. So that that's one possibility. And Acts, I believe it's chapter 18, Paul goes to Uh uh I believe it's Corinth, he meets a uh couple there, uh Aquila and Priscilla, who have been in Rome uh when the Emperor Claudius chased all the Jews out of Rome, they came to Corinth They were uh uh entrepreneurs, if you will. They they were self-employed, they were tent makers like like Paul And so Paul spent a lot of time there with them. And so he It's probably a mutual thing. They listened to Paul's teaching. We don't know whether they knew anything about Christianity, but certainly they became followers of Paul. They became intimately involved with him. And perhaps in some ways they influenced Paul so that uh Paul had this desire to go to Rome. And uh we don't know when But sometime between between that time, uh Paul had developed this and believed that God was calling him to go to Rome. And he thought he would go there under his own strength and own his own power, but God had other things in mind. He spent two years in jail, uh, if you will, uh, before he was taken as a prisoner to Rome But in the interim, sometime in the interim, probably Aquila and Priscilla may have gone back to Rome. In chapter 15 of Romans it says to greet them, or or rather to greet the church that is their in their house. Because they were self-employed, perhaps they they had kept a house in Rome. I I you know it's hard to know specifically how all those things did. But perhaps they had bought gone back to Rome and a church, a cell church, had developed in their house. And so there they were to do that So many think that when Paul wrote the letter to the to the church of Rome, again he had never been there. And so when we look at the book of Romans, it's one of the longest letters if not the the longest letter in the New Testament. But perhaps Pr Priscilla Aquila and Priscilla, a number of other people that who had known Paul Uh it's funny that Brenda asked me this morning, she was reading in the in the Book of Mark. I'm not sure because of the lady's Bible study or whatnot, and she asked me about fellow by the name of Rufus. Um Rufus may have been the son of Simon who carried the cross of Christ, also the same Simon who may have been present at uh Antioch. We we again we don't know for sure. But nevertheless, there were a number of people who knew Paul there at the church in Rome when he was writing to them. And so there were people that were familiar there. Most people say that it was largely a Gentile church, but because of some of these people, Aquila and Facilla were Jews Uh they had teaching. And one of the things that's going to be important with this when you look at the book of Romans is that even if it is a largely Gentile church, is that This church is has been fairly well taught because Paul makes a lot of allusions, a lot of things that are based upon the Old Testament. We'll look at that. in in just a moment. And so that's critical to to to remember that they're based the coming of the Lord Jesus and the the uh his his his uh death and his resurrection were all based upon things that were in the old testament. Jim was uh teaching us today um uh the uh some of the things that in the old testament that spoke of the Messiah Uh so that so that that's again one of those things that that's foundational. So again, all these so when Paul writes this letter to them, perhaps one of the reasons why he's so expansive is because He spent a year and a half with Aquila and Facilla, I think it was, in Corinth. He spent another y three years in Ephesus. So he hadn't seen this people and so while he may have trusted in all the things that you know, the fact that they have gone back and others have gone back with some of the teaching This in one sense is both a primer for the Christian faith because it's so many foundational truths that are in here that it was important for them to know and to understand. And so perhaps that's part of the reason why this is so expansive. And as we said, after he gives that you get to twelve and he says, therefore And so based on that. So let me go back though, and I want to look at a couple of things. You can I again I'll try not to get stuck here. In in Romans chapter one, as Paul addressed them uh i it becomes evident so Paul says he's a bond servant separated gospel of Christ of God which he promised before his through his prophets in the in the Holy Scriptures Again, that reference to the Old Testament concerning his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ our Lord, who was born of the seed of David according to the flesh, and declared to be the Son of God with power. According to the spirit of holiness by the resurrection from the dead. So everything that that's here is important to remember when we start to look At this verse in chapter twelve and all the other things that we're talking about is based on the fact that Jesus Christ According to the scriptures, that he lived, that he died, and that he rose again from the dead. That's the thing that is going to make all of these things not only important but but but necessary See, that's critical to when we understand this and when we understand all the other things that Paul has to say. Because Paul is going to say some hard things in here. And you can you you know you can easily say Paul that's your opinion, but he said no, it's based on the fact that you can depend on this because Christ rose from the dead So that's going to be the foundation. book. Well let me just go here. So in in verse 16 Paul says, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ for this power of God. to salvation to everyone who believes the Jew first, also for the Greek. So remember, who's he speaking to? He's speaking to a mixed church that has both of them. And that this salvation is offered to both of them. So one of the things that tells us as well is that Paul is going to tell us something that deals with multiple cultures. Do we have a problem with that today? It may not be Jew and Gentile, but do we have a problem with that today and culture, even within the church? And so he's gonna say that uh that it's for for both. But notice oh and let me let me go back and say that because the the one of the big themes is that Even though the Jews had the Old Testament scriptures and it was given to them, they didn't have What's the word that I'm looking for? It wasn't exclusively theirs, and the coming of Christ wasn't exclusively for them. Matter of fact was that the Gentiles were included in that. And so that how people came into a right relationship with God was not going to be by keeping the law But through faith in Jesus Christ who died according to the scriptures and rose again. So what he goes into then in chapters 1 through 3, he starts with in verse 18. He starts to say about who we are as a people. And he says this, he says, for the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all unrighteousness ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth and unrighteousness. So Paul says that we as people, our default manner is to Deny God. Our default manner is to deny God and to put things in the place of God. So you talk when you talk about a foundation, the fact that that's the way we are, we you can y in a lot of different ways, right? When you and I go out among people and you start to talk to people who have not been in church and all those different things, any type of thing, it's like they just Who's God? What is God? Why should I, you know, why should this make a difference to me? Their conduct, our conduct before we were saved, showed the same thing. And so that's the that's the default manner. In chapter two he says that he starts to deal with the Jews and say, Well you you know you've got you've got the truth, but the pro the problem part of the problem is that even though you've got the truth. And you know, I I look at this sometimes uh with You know, our kids that we raise and and and and our home we we try to teach them what's right, but the the thing about it is that until just as we were, until they come to Christ, they're just little sinners Um but they have an idea what the truth is And so sometimes we can get this idea of how we ought to, because we've got some measure of truth in how it is that we ought to operate, and then how we look at ourselves in comparison to other people. And Paul says the the the the problem is that even though you have that, he says Whatever you judge another, you condemn yourself, for you who judge, practice the same things. And so we find that, right? That we might be thinking that we're right about something or this is what's right. But if not right, we we uh it's people would say holier than all. Find the same thing. And so the conclusion that Paul gets to in chapter chapter 3 Is that, you know, whether you are Jew or Gentile, there's none righteous, no, not one. That all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Which makes for what? The necessity of what Christ did. See, because if you didn't have any sin, you wouldn't have any need for Christ's coming, right? But we remember back in Ro in chapter one he said, But the wrath of God is revealed. Then that wrath is simply that God will allow his allow people to go on in their sin. That's a part of wrath. But God shows mercy when He reveals to you Christ, you and me Christ, so that we don't continue down that same path. And ultimately there's a wrath that God, this holy God, will reveal against people. But he says that all are under that condemnation. There is none righteous, no, not one, for all have sinned. and fall short of the glory of God. And the only way that we can be saved, again, is through faith. A righteousness of faith, that is an alien faith, one that's assigned to us from what Christ did on our behalf And so he does that in chapter 4, verse chapter 4, when he talks about both David, what David said, blessed is the man. To whom the Lord doesn't impute sin. And then he talks about Abraham. Abraham believed God and was counted to him to righteousness. That we believe what God says and we trust in him. And so five, he builds upon that and he talks about, said he goes back to the beginning, says, by one man, again the Old Testament scriptures Sin came in the world, that's Adam, but it's by one man that justification vibes, and that again, by the person of Jesus Christ. So let me say again that I know that many of you know these things. And so I'm it's nothing new to you. When chapter six comes Paul's got two big questions on there. Well actually starts in verse five at the end when he talks about the the the law because they're again they they received the law. And he said that the law was given so that the the the uh he calls them offensive sins uh might be uh abound even more, but grace is more abounding. The grace that is in Jesus Christ has favor of God abounds more in Christ. And so because of that, one of the things, because of Paul's experience, because perhaps of some of the people who have gone and written back to him He has these two questions. In verse 1 of chapter 6, he says, what shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace be abound? In verse 15, he says, What then shall we sin because we are not under law, but under grace? So again, kind of dealing with these ideas that you have a Jewish and a Gentile church and you've got these things. One is, oh, you say you you d you know you can go and do whatever you want. No, Paul says that that's not true And one of the things that Paul says in that is because and he talks about baptism, I think he don't think he's talking about water baptism particularly. But it's the idea that when Christ died on the cross, he actually accomplished something for those who trusted in him. So it's not just a mind game. And it's not just uh and even when we get here to to chapter twelve It's not just something that we we we philosophize about, but that when Christ died, we were placed in him. When he died, we die with him. And the fact that when he rose, we rose with him. And we rose to new life. That's foundational. See, because you're you're not on your own, and if you have trusted in Christ, there's something in you that is new, and there's a life in you that wasn't there before. So in that second question, he talks about the fact that he gives an illustration about slavery and he says that That's how they're doing. That's why I said there's some practical things. He says that the uh the the idea of is two people in a slave market, one slave one being sold from one to another. And he says, you were the slaves of sin. He said, but now you become slaves of righteousness. So that the idea the idea that, again, before we were saved, We were slaves to our natural inclination, to that which was of natural in us, which was sin. He says, but now having you've been saved, he says, you're to present yourselves, the same word that he's going to say in chapter 12, verse 1. He says, to another master, to Christ, to righteousness. So that your life and my life ought to be directed not to, again, To sin, but to serving God. In chapter seven, he talks about the struggle that that the the the the man who saved uh has with sin in their lives. And at the end of uh I don't again I'm trying not to spend a whole too much time there This thing has been so much in Paul that Paul says in verse 24 of chapter 7, Oh wretched man that I am. Who will deliver me from this body of death? And he says, I thank God through Jesus Christ, our Lord. And so as a result of that, he says that God has given us his spirit, and in chapter 8, verse 1, again, one of those great verses, he says, There is therefore now no condemnation. To those who are in Christ Jesus, who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. So he says that he's given his spirit to help us And um what a great thing, right? Because um You think about it, if if God has simply just saved us and not given us the help of the Holy Spirit, where would you and I be? So again, uh an important one in verse thirteen, he says, For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with sh w with the glory which shall be revealed. And us. Paul wants them to know that there's more to come. And so the fact that that is true, he says, is what helps in verse 28 that says, now we know that all things work together for good to them who love God to those who are the called according to his purpose. Because now we have a perspective that stretches beyond this life into the life that comes. And because of that, we can endure a lot of things that we encounter. And not only that, but we know that God is at work in doing those things. And He's Even some of the things that that are that are bad, he's orchestrating those things for our good Chapter 9, he starts to talk on some hard things. And hard things that when he talks about election and what that means And again, unless you go back to what he said in those previous chapters, you know, you and I are going to struggle, and people still struggle with them. People turn away because they can't believe, you know, how did God allow sin? That's one of the most common questions that people have, right? And then when when when Paul says that God uses sin even for his glory, see that that's we we may not understand that completely, but that's foundational. And dealing with life and dealing with the things that that come come about with it. So he goes on and he talks about some uh uh uh uh a number of other things. Again, some tough things there. But part that chapter 9 is also the part part of this whole thing where God where Paul is saying that God has a plan, that He's dealt with the nation of Israel. At the present time, and part of what my ministry is, that is Paul, is I'm an apostle to the Gentiles. And so God has given me that, and so your time is now. But he said, remember that this will there's going to come a time when God is going to deal with the nation of Israel again. And so those verses that we read at the end of chapter eleven are almost to that that end is that even with Israel Turning their back on the Lord Jesus Christ, it was for our benefit, that is, for the Gentiles. But in showing mercy to us That in the future that's going to be a benefit to the Gentiles. See, God has it all worked out You know, we we don't know when and we don't know how, but he's got it all worked out. And so at the end of verse at the end of chapter eleven Then he says he says this, which we read O the debt of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. See God does things In ways that we don't always completely understand, and ways that we wouldn't do. I I I told somebody, I said, uh, you know, I thank God that I'm not God, because I walk by and I see I see I see a spider in my house, that spider's not gonna live. You know, he's offended he's offended my my house. He's crossed the wrong threshold But he said, Who for who has known the mind of the Lord and who has become his counselor For who first has given to him and it shall be repaid to him? For of him, through him, and to him are all things to whom be glory forever. So our lives and all that we are and all that God has done is to his own glory. That's foundational. And so we get to chapter 12, and he says, I beseech you there, I beg you. I implore you. This is a this is important. You need to pay attention to it. Again, therefore, because of all these foundational truths All these things that he's given them, which we've only had a small taste, I've given you a small taste. Those of you who read the book of Romans, you know that. Only giving you a small taste because of all these foundational truths. Therefore, and he calls them, he says, brethren. It's important to remember, who is he talking to? He's talking to people who are already saved, both Jew and Gentile. I beseech you, therefore, brethren. We have a relationship one with another. This is important. And he said, by the mercies of God. There are several different words that that the the the New Testament scriptures use for the word mercies. Uh one is one is uh uh a word that simply means the the act of probably the act of mercy, how it is actually carried out. I think this this one is the the idea of the the compassions of God. Back in chapter 9, when he said when when Paul quoted one of the Old Testament scriptures, Deuteronomy, I think it was. When he said uh when God said one of those hard sayings, he said, I will have compassion, I mean I will have mercy on whom I have mercy. One word. Then he goes on to say, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion. Different word. That's the word that's used here. So I think one is the fact that God will actually carry out, be merciful in his actions. But I think the other one, I'm not entirely positive, but I think it's the idea that he pities us. That he's for us. You know, perhaps the idea you remember in in what is it in Lamentations, right? In the midst of the trial, what does Jeremiah say? His mercies, his compassions are new what? Every morning. You know, Jeremiah understood that. And if you look at Jeremiah, I mean Lamentation is depressing. But in the middle of that book, Jeremiah said, this is what helped carry me through Because his mercies, his compassions are new every morning. And so they would help Jeremiah to continue on, which is one of the things that God is calling you and me to do And said that, plus it by the mercies of God, by the fact that he is for us, hold Hold me, right? Do you mind, Glenn? I'm looking at you. I'm not seeing the eyes closed. Hold hold me because he's for us. I mean he said that back in in it was the end of uh chapter eight. For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor principalities, nor powers, no Anything to come can separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. So if you are a believer in Christ, God is for you. In sending his son to the cross, he's demonstrated that other word, mercy on you, because he's for you. You know, uh how many how many kids can deal with tough times because they know that their parents are for them? So it said by the mercy of God Again, this Old Testament illusion. Paul is putting a word picture in his mind. He said that you present your bodies A living sacrifice, holy, acceptable God, which is your reasonable service. Now this again what I say, George, I don't know whether you were thinking about that when when you chose the verses To introduce the song from Peter. Peter said that we are priesthood. Because in one sense, that's what this is a picture of. You're both the offerer and the offering. You're coming and you're presenting this thing, but this thing that you're presenting is your very life And when he says bodies, I think the idea that he's talking about with our bodies is all that we are, that is the life that we live in the flesh on this earth We're putting whole on the altar I lay, right? And so What is he talking about? He's talking about the life that you and I live that we'll continue to live for Christ. And he's going to give some things in in a minute that that that that just kind of does this. Well let me let me go back for for just a moment too. When he says that you present your bodies, a living sacrifice, remember he's talking to a groove. a people. Now individually that's applicable for each one. But he's also going to talk about that that this is your reasonable service. The idea that your service of worship. Again, the picture that he says is in the Old Testament worship was settled around you're coming to the tent or you're coming to the temple And at the gate, whatever the gate that was, you're bringing your offering, recognizing that you are a sinner and that you need some Help, some offering, some propitiation, something to cover what you've done and who you are And so that's that's the picture of that. And he said in that that in in their mind that this is this is the picture of that, that you're doing that, this is your worship. But that worship is not going to be animals laid on the thing. It's going to be your life laid on there, a life that's changed, and a life that will continue on, a living sacrifice. One is going to be to his service and to his glory. And so when so he sa he says this that That that picture. He he he again gets away from it a little bit because it's not a dead sacrifice, it's a living one. But it's going to be holy. All the animals that were supposed to be brought were to be without blemish. Now you know None of us are without blemish, right? If there's one of you without blemish, I want I want you to let me know. I want to know what that profession looks like So it says without blemish. But no, I'm sorry, that said without blemish, but this says holy, set apart for his use. Acceptable. Well pleasing to him. That's what he wanted that sacrifice to be. Well pleasing. In a moment, he's going to say the same thing about what our our our lives ought to be. They ought to be well pleasing to him. And so this is what he's in in bringing this Old Testament picture to them, and yet changing it just enough is so that they have might have the picture that I'm offering my life to God, and my life now belongs to Him. Other scriptures say that we're bought with a price. And our life is not our own. It belongs to him. Now you know, I I say that, but you know, that can roll off my tongue or off your tongue. But the the reality of that is a whole lot harder than what it is what the saying of it is. What what what was the what what can I can I call and then how did you say how did you say Glenn? You get that? Easy preaching, hard living. Because the truth of it is because of Some of the things that we'll we'll talk about in a minute is that that's in the past death hasn't been our default manner of operating. We're now new creatures. And we live in a world that that's not their default of how they live All those things that he talked about back in chapter 1, about the wrath of God coming on people. That's the world in which we live. And the truth of it is, is that because we have remainders and we have all those things in us, you know, how often have you had a high moment of walking with God, the next moment somebody says something and all of a sudden he's like, where did that go? How did that disappear? Right? Somebody says the wrong thing to you and me. And we've been how do how did um J. Bernard McGee says that, oh, to be saints above with or to be with those we love, oh that would be glory. No, oh to be saints above Glory and glory above, that would be glory. But to be below and with saints we know, that's a different story How many times have you been in the midst of a church? And how many times a church church is split because one can't get along with the other? Easy preaching, hard liv hard living. And so I don't want us to pass over that again because Paul understands that. And Paul is dealing with that so when he's saying that we're to present our bodies a living sacrifice, he's not necessarily saying something. That's easy. The concept is simple, but the living of it is a whole different matter You turn on the TV and all of a sudden something comes up. It doesn't even have to go far, right? That far. You pull out your phone, which all of us do these days. Maybe you're looking at some meme. I heard one guy who said he doesn't even look at his phone. Because you look at some meme and all of a sudden something pops up and say, I didn't woo. Well, if the church saw this, he didn't intend to do it, but it pops up. It's right there in your face And so all all these different things. Now Paul didn't necessarily know about about uh uh Apple and what's what's the what's the other one Android and all of these things, but still. So He said, but this is your worship. Your worship is the life that you live This is this is your service. This is your reasonable worship, the life that you live. You live a life of worship every day. You and I ought to be walking in a way. Again, we're demonstrating the Lord Jesus that that shows that we have trusted in the living God and that He's important to us, that He's critical to us. So he says, and do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. That you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God, or that you may prove what is good and acceptable and perfect to God So let's stop for a moment. I only have a little bit, so we will do not be conformed to this world You know, the conforming to this world starts before you and I are ever born. Understand that. Know that. Your parents and my parents have lived in a world Where they were sinners and they've encountered different things. They've lived in cultures that was not always about promoting God. When they raise you, if they were Christian parents, hope by the grace of God, perhaps they they they changed, and there's a number of good things that are in them. But the truth is, just like you and me They carry things into their Christian life that they've not completely gotten rid of, right? And you know, they they some people say something that a lot of things are are caught rather than taught. And people will look at kids and they'll say, Oh, I can tell you such and such child. You just hope it's not a bad habit and it's a good one. But the truth is that the our kids see us in both of them. And so they see the bad things and the good things that are in our lives. Why? Because we've been living in a culture, and before we were saved, we were influenced by that culture, and that culture is all around us. And every day, the things that you want out of life, the way that you deal, you and I deal with things, is informed by the culture in which we live. You know, um I I I was uh I was a supervisor of WSSE and uh I had a uh a guy from uh who come from Somalia and uh he is he was one of quote unquote my my employees and doing a perform performance eva evaluation And you you talk you're talking to him and he just wouldn't look you look me in the eye Now for those of us who've grown up in American culture, you know the first thing you do, you know, what's good what's this guy trying to hide? You know, what what what's that me? Now well the truth about it was he was showing me great respect Because in their culture in their culture, to look quote-unquote a superior in the eye was an insult And so he was doing something actually showing respect. But our culture informs us about how we operate and how we live. And you and I as Americans it's the same way. Sometimes what they call it the other Americans, ugly Americans, because we go in a culture, something that's different from where they they live. And you know, because it influences the way we live And so before you're ever born, those things are at work in your parents and my parents. And everybody around them. And so as we grow up, you know, uh sometimes you you homeschool your kids, but you you just can't get away with you. Turn the TV on. You gotta go out, you gotta go to the grocery store. And not only that, but then you got your own own human nature to deal with, right? Because God gave us a new nature, but it's not the only one that's there. I mean, unless some of you have gotten to perfection, I don't know. I'm I'm not there, so um you know and how we deal with things So I can't stay I'm I'm already over time folks. But remember that. And so he says, but be transformed. Don't walk according to the schematic, that's kind of almost a transliteration of that word, the schematic of this world. The way that it's going to program you and direct you to live. Don't walk. Don't be that way. He says, but be transformed. That is, um be the the word is the same word is used for the transfiguration of the Lord Jesus. If uh to to show you that again we're we're influenced by culture. In the uh new Superman, there's gonna be a character called Metamorpho. That's kind of this word, metamorphosis. Be transformed. That is from the inside out in the renewing of by the renewing of your mind. And so what's that based on? Again, all those things that Paul has taught up to this point. Therefore, by the mercy of God. Therefore. The foundations. And so Paul says that one of the things that you and I need to do is to be transformed. And how? By the renewing of our mind. So maybe you're a person who doesn't like to think. Paul don't doesn't want you to get away with that. Everything that you and I do, we ought to be taking it back to the Word of God and saying, How is it that I ought to think? How is it that I ought to feel? See, that's not normal for us, is it? I am who I am. No, you're a redeemed creature. And Paul is saying, based on what God has said, who you were, who you are, what Christ has done for you. All these things. You're supposed to take those things. You're supposed to you and I are supposed to think about that. And every aspect of our lives, we're to place it before the Word of God and say, This is important. This is how I ought to live because it shows my worship for God. And what? So then doing that, I might demonstrate what is the good, what is well pleasing to God, and what's pleasing Perfect. And we all got a long way to go to get there. But again, he's going to have some things that particularly they need to deal with, but it this in one sense this applies to a lot of Christian life. You know the struggles that the people having, Christians are having with their marriages. The struggles that we have in the church and how we relate to one another The struggles that we have with our own character. Paul says by the transformation You've been transformed by Christ. Now take those things. Remember the foundations that they are. And he said, the lasting change, the sanctification, if you will. comes from taking this and applying it to your life and to my life. It's hard work, folks That's hard work. But Paul is saying again, this is this this is in so many words, this is this is the foundation for both transformational And lasting change in your life and my life. That when I say the Word of God, I think about it and what it means and what I need to do with it. And how deflies mean how I to live it out. And we can do it all because there was one who came and died. And when he rose, we rose with him. what he done. Father, we are so thankful for your word, for the truth of it. Again, uh you directed your servant Paul. Even in, I suppose I guess this is the first century A. D. , things that are so applicable to our lives and how we live our lives A life that's pleasing to you even in this day. Thank you for your truth. Your word is truth. Father, help us now by the power of your Spirit that as we go out, that we might consider these things, that we might put them to work in our lives. Thank you again for this time. And again, I ask that you will bless your church. That we would do this all together. We ask this in the name of the Lord Jesus. Amen.