About 15 years ago, I worked for a Chamber of Commerce in central Pennsylvania. We used to bring in guest speakers a lot of the time for lunches, dinners, awards ceremonies throughout the year. And one of them I remember fairly vividly because I thought that the story she told was pretty far-fetched, but I'm going to share it with you anyway. This was a lady, I believe, that the uh occasion was Administrative Professionals Day, if you know it was uh National Secretary's Day. trying to instill inspiration in enjoying your job. And so this lady told this story of a friend she had who absolutely hated her job. And this lady had planned to quit, but while she was still looking for other work in that job, she decided, alright, I'm going to turn over a new week. I'm going to find something that I can be grateful for. at my job. And I think it tells you how dissatisfied she was with her work. When the only thing she could find to be thankful for, to be grateful for, was the color of paint on the wall. I'm just repeating the story. I this sounds perfect to me too, but the only thing she could be grateful for was the color of paint on the w on the wall. And I'm not told that she was necessarily grateful to God. I don't know if she was a Christian or not But she decided she was going to start each day being glad that the color on the wall of her office was the color that it was. And uh so the first day she expressed her thankfulness for the the the the paint color went about her day. And apparently because she started on that that that positive note She was able to find other things that she was thankful for. And each time she acknowledged to herself she was grateful for this and for that thing too, it would end up in more things that were She was thankful for. And she ended up having a very positive outlook. She soon decided that she loved her job. She didn't want to give it up. She became the most successful employee in the company. And Broad world piece, I don't know. It sounded very far-fetched to me. Um but I'm pretty sure that the speaker is exaggerating a lot, but it does demonstrate truth that even the unbelieving world that doesn't know God, that doesn't recognize that they they belong to a creator who has created them with a purpose. Even the unbelieving world has understood that thankfulness will change your outlook and that it will make you more joyful and enable you to be more effective in that thing. If you were to go to a modern uh psychologist or psychotherapist, which we offer biblical counseling at this church, and I encourage That form of therapy instead. But even so, if you go to a secular psychologist, they will focus on positive thinking and being grateful and things like that. Now, if that is true for unregenerate people. Would you not have the Spirit of God living in it? Shouldn't we expect Christians to be the most joyful most thankful, most harmonious people on the planet. Isn't that what we should expect for those who who know the truth about Jesus Christ? who has come into the world and died in their place so that they who were eternally separated from God are now eternally united to God. Shouldn't that make a difference? Yeah, I think that that you agree with me, that truth, but also that unfortunately most of the time that's not quite the way things are, right? We tend to be more negative and more pessimistic. And it seems that we've still got work to do with setting our minds on the right things. I know that that's true for me I think the problem the trouble is we often don't see much to be thankful to that that when especially when things aren't going well, we struggle to come up with things to be thankful for and we recognize it's kind of pretty to just be thankful for the pink color on our office wall. Well the Apostle Paul though manages to take this right tact, the tactic, and in one of the sunniest Letters of his in the New Testament, we find him starting with a baggage at the beginning of 1 Thessalonians. Really being grateful and thankful. Now, this is a man who has had some really rough weeks and has been driven out of more than one city in a rough Consecutively, he has been driven out of cities by those who hate him and the gospel that he is preaching. And yet this is one of the most joyful uh and uh and and praiseworthy of the his his letters in the New Testament. And he finds himself overflowing with thanksgiving, specifically For the people in the church that he's writing to. And he lapses onto that very first thing in the letter. He's thankful to a very high degree For the Christians that he's writing to. And there's a very good reason why he finds himself thankful for other Christians Because a Christian is someone who's been raised up to spiritual life, where before he or she was spiritually dead. And that is the grand message, the grand theme this morning. If you're following along in your bulletin, I encourage you to fill in the blanks. We have some bulletins in the back if you would like to get one of those. Because God grants spiritual life where there once was only death We should be encouraged and grateful every time we see another Christian. We should be encouraged and grateful every time we see another Christian. And so as we open 1 Thessalonians, now this is just a one-sign message, we'll be returning to the Gospel of Matthew. next week. But we're going to read these opening verses in 1 Thessalonians chapter 1. It says Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy to the Church of the Thessalonians and God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers, remembering without ceasing your work of faith, labor of love. The patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ in the sight of our God and Father. First of all, Paul opens up saying that we should give thanks to God for giving his people grace. And the grave is what produces peace. So let's look at who's writing here. We have obviously Paul, the great apostle, who is known for his missionary journeys throughout the Mediterranean world. He's uh really responsible for the the spread of Christianity human speech humanly speaking in those early decades. But he's traveling with Silas called Sylvanus here Uh sometimes they have multiple names, especially in this this Romanized world. This is Silas. He's one of Paul's traveling companions. He has been uh going through on this this missionary journey. He was in Philippi with Paul and he was also in Thessalonica with him. He preached in Thessalonica alongside Paul Timothy is Paul's protege, and you may know we have two letters to a man named Timothy, same Timothy, and he has traveled with them. Now Paul sends Timothy to Thessalonica, he's bringing the letter with him, a couple months after he and Silas were kicked out of the city for preaching the gospel. It's easier to send Timothy rather than one of the two of them to go. Now Thessalonica is in what's now modern-day Macedonia, just north of Greece. It's one of the most important cities in that Roman province of that day. Well after identifying them as followers of press, right? He says uh uh he he he uh addresses the church in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. And then he says, Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace is the starting point of being a Christian. It's one of those words that we kind of get used to Christianese and we just kind of gloss right over it. It's the name of our church, Grace Baptist Church. And grace is simply undesired undeserved kindness. It's something that we do not deserve, it is a good thing. We tend to think about mercy, and mercy is where we're not getting something negative that we do deserve. Grace is the opposite of that. It's getting something we don't deserve, but it's a very positive thing. So God has shown kindness to people who don't deserve it. So when he says to the Church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, and he's saying, Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, he's saying God has made you something new. He's made you a people. He's made you a people group where before you were not. And He's done that out of unmerited kindness that He's shown you. He showed us that kindness first. He continues to show up. He showed it first when he sent the Son into the world to proclaim God's word, to call us to repentance, to call us to believe in him. And then die in our die in our place. Rose from the dead. And now he gives life to those who died with him. God continues to extend grace to Christians in all sorts of ways. We still don't deserve The love that He's shown us. Apart from us being in Christ, we don't deserve grace for who we are, right? We don't deserve God's love or kindness. But once we've turned to the Lord Jesus Christ We become loved in Him. And God continues then because He loves us, because He loves Jesus, He loves us, right? And then He channels more and more grace into you if you're in Christ. He keeps on channeling your undeserved kindness from him. He keeps channeling that into you. The first time the grace saves you You trust in Jesus and you recognize that he bore the curse of God's wrath, but when he died on the cross, that was God venting his full anger at your sin, but on him instead, you. You can be saved because God has exhausted all of his wrath against your sin, which otherwise you would have to endure in hell. For for eternity. You would have to endure that rack. He's channeled all of it in a finite amount of time upon his thumb. Now imagine how excruciating that was And now you're free to live with him because sin kills you, but it's gone. It's been burned up on Jesus. Well, the first time that you trusted him, that's when you received grace. It takes you from spiritual death to spiritual life. The Holy Spirit came and lived inside of you, if that's true of you. Then God continues to show you grace. One point the New Testament talks about grace upon grace, and that's the idea here. And that grace then makes the believer more like Jesus. First, he puts you in Jesus Now he keeps making you outwardly more like Jesus. And so that you think inwardly more like Jesus, more about Jesus And he continues to shake you so that you're more like his son. He continues to give you encouragement So you can persevere. He enables you to deny temptation. All that is the result of grace that he continues channeling into you. You received it all at this point of salvation, but he continues to minister to us graciously. And so here, Paul is writing to people who are already saved, saying, God continues to extend grace to you. And this is something that's easy for us to gloss past. I mean it's it's the opening line of a letter, right? You you get past it to the get to the content. But it's an amazing message But God continues to work in us. He he didn't just save you, okay, say you'll be in heaven one day check, right? Who's next on the list? And then just move on and kind of forget about it. I mean then what hope would you have for joy when when difficult things arise in your life No, God loves you with a special love. It's a relational love. He's brought you into a relationship with him if you're trusting in him. He doesn't have that love for just anybody. Only for his people. He has such a strong love for the world, he sent his son into the world to die. But then those who trust in him There's a special love beyond that general love, which is already so so large that we can't put it into words, right? It's already such a great love we cannot fully understand it. But then once you become his child, that love grows and that love specializes. He has a special love for Christians that he doesn't have for the rest of the world. He has a love for the world, but he has a special love for his people. And that's what Paul is seeking to communicate to this group of believers in a place that hates them. And once their faith and possibly their lives exterminated, he wants them to know that they are not forgotten, they are loved by God, and God continues to have a relationship with them. It is special. He continues to treat you as his child. He gives you grace to help you to live and act more worthy of that special status as a child of God. Let me add then peace, as if we needed anything else. But this grace leads to peace. Now, the the Greek word here is Irene. If you know uh if you know the name Irene, you know someone named Irene, that that's where that that name comes from. It's really just the Greek equivalent or Greek translation of the Hebrew word shalom, which most of us have at least heard. Maybe we have some idea of the concept of shalom. Shalom, the Hebrew word means peace, but it means more that Jerusalem, right? It comes from the word uh that that that that last part, the Salem or Salem, uh, is derived from the word shalom as well. Uh there's a I believe there's a Salem Maryland. Well it's That's the idea of peace. Jerusalem is the city of peace. Melchizedek is the king of Jerusalem. You're the king of peace. And shalom, though it means peace, it means more than just we I think we think of peace as a negative, right? We think of Peace just being the negative of war, right? When people stopped fighting, now there's peace. When people stopped arguing at the Thanksgiving table, oh if I'm gonna have a peaceful Thanksgiving meeting. And all of peace is is just kind of negatives But in Hebrew and and in the Greek New Testament, it's understanding positive term understood in positive terms Peace is wholeness. It's completeness. It's an enjoying of all that is in God and all that He intends for us to enjoy. There's a sense of almost like a perfection, that you are complete when you have Shalom. And Paul has to be writing about more than just this personal sense of inner peace, this personal wholeness. Because he's writing to the whole church. And it's a new church, it's a very young church, maybe only a few weeks old, because he's he's likely been gone from this church just a few weeks a couple months So he's not just writing the individuals, he's writing the whole church and and saying that this That the grace that God gives to you will produce wholeness within your congregation. Yeah, okay, you won't be fighting with each other, but more than that, you're you're becoming a body of people together You are whole together in Christ. Only in Christ. But in Christ you are whole. You have all that you need. And God has given every church. We have different people from different backgrounds with different talents. Different faults too, right? But we are able to to love one another and work together. And and when when sometimes we have a different of a difference of opinion Sometimes no one's wrong. It's just that the Lord is revealing this side of truth in this person and this side of truth in that group of people. And together their whole, and they're able to serve God together as a body of people. And this is true of any any community in Christ, any church. Every genuine local church, the Zim Christ has all it needs to demonstrate God's very special, unique, life-changing, community-changing love to each other. We want to grow, we want to see more people join this wonderful community that God's given us, and we pray for that. We pray that He will. But we have all that we need in the people He has given us. We are one. We're a family. We're one body in Christ. And God has given us wholeness together in Christ. The grace of God, which leads to peace, provides us ample reason to be encouraged and give thanks to God. And when you're at the Thanksgiving table this Thursday, I encourage you to think of your church and theologically what that means, that God, when He adopted you He didn't just adopt you and say you're you're my child now, but he gave you brothers and sisters. He adopted you into a family. Think of that when you're seeking to give thanks to God at the Thanksgiving table on Thursday. But now, right, we're going to move past verse 1. Now more specifically, more than just finding encouragement, we have good reasons, specific reasons to be Thankful to God. And here's what it is. Give thanks because God is visible in other Christians by three specific things: faith, love. and hope. And I know you probably want to put those in different order. Feel free to do that in your bulletin if you want. Faith, note, love. But specifically he goes out of order and goes faith, then love, then hope He says, remembering without ceasing your work of faith, labor of love, and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ in the sight of our God and Father. I think this is a pretty simple concept, but I don't think we've mastered it. Paul thinks about the Christians of Thessalonica. And he finds himself thankful because he loves his people and he can picture their faces and and he remembers the good meal he had at so-and-so's house. And it fills him with warm, fuzzy thoughts, you know. So then he prays and he thanks God for those individuals and he thanks for them as as a body, as a group, as a church. And he's he's asking God to give them grace. And why does thinking of the Thessalonians give him joy then? Because think about this: every time you see another Christian, right? Every time someone has become a Christian God has done a work of spiritual regeneration, of making them making them new, bringing raising them to life. He's created life where there wasn't life before. And so now every Christian is, in Paul's view, a walking, talking, living, green testament to the resurrection. With Jesus Christ. As much as He He loves those people as individuals and has those warm fuzzies, he sees Christ when he sees another Christian. He sees the power of the resurrection when he sees another Christian. Every Christian is an example of new life. A Christian is a miracle. It's a work of new creation, right? When God said, Let there be light in Genesis 1 It's like he does that in your soul. The moment that you put your faith in Jesus to save you, it's like God is saying in the darkness of your soul, let there be light and let there be light. And you were raised to new life. You were dead spiritually speaking beforehand. Satan was your master. Now you're alive. Satan is no longer your master. Jesus Christ is So, if I were to do an cheaty thing and say, look around this room, you don't have to turn your head unless you want to, feel free to do that, right? If you were to look around this room, every Christian that you see is a reason to give thanks and praise to God. Now I recognize, right, that it's inevitable that sometimes you see another Christian and something they said or did recently gets under your skin. Or maybe more than just things they did recently. And and we get frustrated with certain ones, but even so when you're frustrated with somebody, if they're a Christian That person who frustrates you from time to time is a miracle. Because God has brought forth life where there was death. And you can think about Jesus walking out of the tomb when you see that person. Because God has done that in their life. That person is proof that God loves the human race. He's still at work in that person, he's still at work in the world. And that let that comfort you, let that encourage you. God has not given up on Susie. If he's not given up on Susie, he's not given up on the world. There's still work to do, and he is working in Susie. He's working in my heart too. And I encourage you, the next time that you feel frustrated with another, another Christian, another believer, This this won't necessarily work with someone who who isn't in Christ, right? But the next time you're frustrated with a Christian Force yourself to take take your mind off of their faults and think about the fact that the Holy Spirit lives inside that person who's The same Holy Spirit that happens to live inside you lives inside that person. The third person of the Trinity is uniting that person who's annoying you at the moment Uniting that person to Jesus. And that same Holy Spirit in you is uniting you to Jesus. And you guys are one in Christ. Next time you're discouraged, think thank God for all the Christians you know. If you're struggling to come up with anything to be thankful about, sometimes Thanksgiving is next, and same with Christmas, right? It's a hard time for people if you've just lost somebody. Or you've lost your job. Or there's heaviness, there's darkness in your life. It's hard at the holidays, some use And if if that describes you this time here, that describes you this year anyway, then Just go through, make a list of all of the Christians you know, even if you don't know them that well. Even the Christians you know of, you know some some well-known prominent Christian, a pastor or even a politician, if there's if there are genuine there's gotta be some genuine Christian politicians, right? Um if if you know a prominent Christian, if you know a a Christian who lives on your street Write their name down and thank God for doing a work of resurrection in their life. Be thankful for the fact that you live in a world where people have been brought from death and darkness to life and light. Do it one by one, name by name, thank God for and if you can for some quality that God has revived in that Christian. Lord, thank you that. I'm trying to pick pick the name that's not that that we would all know that that wouldn't be um that wouldn't be uh uh devices. Uh we thank God for Sinclair Ferguson, the great Christian writer. Lord, thank you for the work of grace you've done in Sinclair's heart so that he is able to write books that encourage me. Thank you, Lord, for the work of grace that you have done in my pastor. Thank you for the work of grace you've done in my my neighbor's life. Where I used to see him lose his temper with his his children and I I really don't see that much anymore. Thank you, Lord, for the work of grace that you are working out in this person's life And this person's life, and this person's life. And do that until you start to feel better. And when we get into verse three, Paul gets more specific. He identified these three things then that make him thankful for for them. And again, that is faith, love, and hope. And all of them You see in verse it in verse 2, right, he says, We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers. When he thinks of these things, it drives him to prayer. When he thinks of a Christian that he's seen a change in worldview from, right? They used to think this way, now they're thinking that way. They're changing their priorities. It drives him to pray for them. It drives him to thank God in prayer for them. But it also drives him to pray for them to continue in that and to keep growing. And but then he is he is praising the Lord for these three virtues themselves. I'm sorry, not the three virtues themselves, right? But for the the actions that he sees in these people that are characterized by those things. So he says, not I'm not praising God for your faith, I'm praising God for your work of faith. Faith is what saves you, but if you have saving faith, there will be evidence of that faith. Works, when we talk about works, they flow out of a genuine believer. I'm going to ask you to turn with me to Ephesians chapter 2. Right? This is one of those those verses that that is drilled into us when we're children if you're raised in a church and we think we know what it says. And we some in some ways think of it as a manual for getting saved. And it's not not that, but it's more than that, right? So Ephesians 2, starting in verse 8. I memorized verses 8 and 9 in 1 as a kid. For by grace you have been saved through faith. And that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast. And that was drilled into me God saves me. I don't save myself. I don't perform works. God sees them and says, oh good, I guess I'll save them. It's God's kindness to me, his unmerited kindness from him to me that saves me. But one it didn't have at least I don't remember doing this, it didn't have me memorize verse 10 and it should have, because we tend to put Works are bad and faith is good, and we say you shouldn't aim at many works in your life, and that's not true, right? That's a caricature because verse 10 makes it clear. The works don't save you, but they're good That's why they're called good works. For we are his workmanship. You see in verse 10? It's got work in it, right? He has done work in us. We are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus. What's the next work? For. You're created in Christ Jesus for good works. He wants you to do good works. He created you. He raised you to spiritual life so that you do good works. Not so you'd be saved, he's already raised you, right? He didn't make you do good works you couldn't do, because you weren't alive yet. He raised you to do life, he saved you. So you could do good works. We are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. There are certain things he intends for you to do. He has a purpose for you, and he saved you so you could do those things. And so you can turn back to First Thessalonians now. Paul says, I give thanks. Whenever I remember without ceasing, your work of faith. That the things that flow out of you believing in Jesus, you're a different person now. You do different things. And when I see those different things, I praise God for them. I thank God for them. And I pray for you if you'd do more on it. Then he says they're labor of love. Now we think of work and we think of labor and they mean basically the same thing, right? But I think we also recognize that labor if we if I say I went to work today or I say I labor today There's a difference of degree in there, right? Like I worked hard. And the word here, kapos is the Greek word, in secular, the secular world, secular Greek Uh it it didn't use didn't use the word ergon, which just means work. But Kapos could actually mean a beating. Like people would use it as a figure of speech. To say they took a beating. Meaning, man, I work so hard. Let my work beat me up today. I am exhausted. And he's saying that they are loving in a way that exhausts them. He's saying that there was a love in the Thessalonian Christian Church that motivated them to labor excruciatingly hard on behalf of the to show them the kindness of Christ, to share the truth with them about how they could erase new life as well. The love itself is one of the works of faith, right? Your work of faith, your labor of love. The labor is one of those works of faith. Because that kind of love is a selfless, sacrificial love. It's not a natural love. Like Perhaps you know people then they say they they they tell you that they love somebody, but you don't see evidence of it. Like you said, okay, I believe you have you have some sort of affection in your heart. You feel some feeling towards me, but I don't see evidence of that. That's not the love that he's talking about. He's talking about the love where you can say, love is a bird. Like, I get it. I see that person's love for me. I feel it tangibly that that person loves me. It's a supernaturally given type of love. And that labor, they work hard to show it to you, to bestow it upon you. It's a proof of that love Underneath this, right? It's a proof that God has done a work in their hearts. It's a proof of that faith. And so ultimately, the God, the Thessalonian people have put their faith in That God put that love in their hearts. This love comes from the outside into you and then transforms you, right? It's not just something that is already there and has to be called God has to put it in from outside. This is why we say we're not born Christians. We must trust in Jesus. He comes in from the outside of you. Specifically, the Holy Spirit comes in from the outside and unites you to Jesus Christ. And he supernaturally kindles that love inside of you for other people. And if you say, I can see that love in myself, well then Cry out to God, ask him to stoke that and you perhaps perhaps you've not been reconciled to him. Perhaps you need to turn out. I would love to talk with you about that. afterwards, please come to me. Or or to say, you know, I really am confident that I that I'm trusting the Lord, but I want to see more evidence of that of that level. But let's talk about that. Let's let's uh pray together for that and let's let's see if we can come up with some biblical strategy for how how we can help you and you can help me too. Because I need growing that love. Because their work of faith, their labor of love, and finally their patience, their patience or their endurance of hope. Patience of hope. Their faith here has produced this love, but it also produces a special hope in their hearts. Their hope is in not a what but a who, right? Patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ in the sight of our God and Father. Uh the because they've become followers of Christ, they're now children of God the Father, these Christians have in their minds A certainty. That's what biblical hope is. That's the definition of biblical hope. It's this idea that something is certain. It is sure. They have this certainty that they belong to Jesus. I know we struggle sometimes with waffle when we feel like, I see these things in me, or I feel these things in me. Maybe I'm not really safe. And we lose we lose that look, we lose that certainty. We lose the s we lose the sense of that certainty, I should say. But this is something that we can expect God to put in us if you're not if you don't feel absolutely certain don't I'm I'm not saying you're not a Christian, I'm not saying you're not actually saved. But that this is something that you can lay before. He puts the hope there, but but you can label to feel it, right? They understand that they belong to Jesus. They understand he would continue to guard them Sometimes he uses means to do that with he uses the church, he uses pastors, he uses certain people he puts in their their life. And because of this, they're trusting that he will bring them into his kingdom, resurrect them to whole, not just spiritual life, but bodily life now, resurrect their bodies. And because of this, they are waiting patiently for when Christ will put all things right, the things that are robbing us of our hope and our joy. There will be a time that comes where God does away with those things that will rob us of our joy and hope. Right now things may be hard. It certainly was for the Thessalonians. They're being persecuted for turning to Christ. If we were to read, and we don't have time, if we were to read an act about how Paul came to the Thessalonians, he'd been kicked out of He he he he gets kicked out of of uh Thessalonia and he gets kicked out of Philippi. What happens is after he's kicked out of Thessal Thessalonica The people who kicked him out, they find out that he's in another city, like three days' journey or left. And so these people Take up work, they they they leave their family behind, they they put things on hold, have a three-day journey there. That's that's not a round for it that's just one way So that they can beat him up and kick him out of the next city and then they go home. So they take like a week off of work and a week off of their lives so they can go boot these guys out of the city that is that far away from. And the Thessalonians are living amongst those people that are kicking and beating up Christians, kicking them out of cities, right? This is a hard life that they've been resurrected into And yet Paul's saying, I can see evidence, I can see this hope that you have. Because Jesus Christ, when we fix our mind on him instead of the circumstances. When we take time to thank God for what He's done, we're not looking at the negatives, we're looking at the positives. He births in us a special kind of certainty, a special kind of hope, a special kind of joy. that will undergird you in all of these these hardships. And they are able to remain a loyal to Christ through that hardship because they're certain that they belong to him The word here for patience, I think a better word for it would be endurance. And if you have a different translation, you perhaps have that in front of you. The the Greek word is hoopa male, and we have hoopa in there is is where we get hyper from in in our English language, is the idea of being under something. He's saying that That endurance enables him to remain under. They're remaining under the yoke of Christ even while they're remaining under these hard things. And they're able to endure doer these hard things because they're in Christ. Now Paul's writing in the context of prayer. Right? And he's saying that I keep on praying for you when I think of these things. I give thanks to you for these things, I pray for you because I see these things I want to end with one one last encouragement to you to pray. But I want to start with an illustration from a movie I saw a few years ago. Do you remember Mr. Rogers movie? There there's a movie uh about Mr. Rogers uh a few years ago, uh you know the the based on the TV show Mr. Rogers Neighborhood Tom Hanks plays the main character. Mr. Rogers obviously is a real real person. And the movie made a point. Of saying several times that he prayed for specific people by name. Several times of saying that, and the movie closes with him praying for one of the last scenes He is praying for specific characters in the movie. Now he was a Quaker. We we don't know if he gen had a genuine relationship with the Lord Jesus or not. Quakers are kind of a a different brand of it you can call it Christianity or not. We don't know whether he knew the Lord personally or not. But he certainly was a man of prayer And near the end of the movie, shows him praying for uh the specific characters and he says, Dear Lord, I pray for Lord. He says, I pray for Gavin. For Andrea. These are characters in the movie. And you could then he keeps on going with his other names we don't recognize. I pray for George, Jane, Judy, Elroy, and he just lists off these names. He says, I pray, I pray, I pray. Now I don't want to be hard on him, and I don't want to be hard on the filmmakers. I won't say this is not praying. And there are times when all we have in a hard purpose is a list of names or even just a location to pray for, right? When there's an actual disaster, we pray for people in an area that we don't know But I will say though that this simply, I pray for George and then move on, I pray for Judy. That's not the true prayer. Right, Mr. Rogers wasn't actually asking God for anything regarding these people. He's remembering them before Before the God of the universe. I mean that's that's pretty important, that's pretty special. It's good for us to remember people by name before our king. But it's better to more than just remember them to actually ask God to do something for them. He is pleased when we ask him to do things for us And Paul did that. There's certain things that you can pray for people, even people you don't know. You can thank God for the evidence of their relationship with Christ. You can thank God for the kindness he's poured, not only in that person, but through that person. If you know they're doing something kind to someone else, you can praise God for that. And you can ask God to keep comforting that person by his spirit. Even if you don't know Fred, you can pray that God would comfort Fred when he is afflicted by certain things. You can pray that God would help that person to love Christ more. You can ask God to bless Jane's time of Bible reading and prayer. You can ask him to use Paul's marriage to demonstrate Christ for the world. And the bottom line then in all of this is that God has worked supernaturally to make anyone, man, woman, child, regardless of of race or or age or gender, socioeconomic status. He's made them into a follower of Christ. He's made them into a temple of the Holy Spirit. He's baptized them into a church family. So let's give thanks for our brothers and sisters in Christ. And as we go into Thanksgiving this Thursday, let's make the Battle with them just a meal. We really are praising God for the specific people, but we now, the specific Christians in our lives, that we see a work of resurrection that He has done in them. Let's try to look at each other as as objects of God's love and and people who also deserve our love. And it's a loving, kind thing for you to pray for them to grow in the graces that God transforms us into. So let's let's pray now.