Well please pray uh sorry please turn with me to Esther chapter six. Turn with me in your Bible, please to Esther chapter six. Are we back online? Okay, welcome those who are online When I was in middle school I had a bully. Actually I have several bullies. I had a lot of bullies. Um I want to tell you about a specific one though. I'm not going to tell you his real name. I'm going to call him Kirk. Kirk was relentless. He was mean. He mocked me. He would get physical. There's a particular time in the locker room, I'm talking about the gym locker room, um, where he uh he got physical, he pushed me against the lockers, and he spat in my face and it dripped down my neck I I didn't have a shirt on at the time because it was a locker room. We were we were changing our clothes and the lockers had those vent uh any of you had those those like vents in your gym lockers so it doesn't get super smelly in your locker. And so of course it cut my backup. A gym teacher came in and he pulled Kirk off of me. Um and uh before he could do any real damage I had a scratch back and my I was certainly humiliated, especially getting spit on, but I was fine. But man, that punk, he went and complained against the gym teacher for being too rough. And and so the gym teacher got in trouble, which means that then I got I got flacked from the gym teacher. And rather than Kirk being disciplined, um, I was the one who had his gym locker moved. In fact, I didn't get my j my locker moved, I just got it removed. I was no longer allowed to change at the lockers, I had to change in the showers And um that meant that I had guys come in and and and uh tormenting me in the showers and and pushing pushing on the doors. And it was a real fun time. Now I'm not trying to make you feel sorry for okay. I I'm I'm just trying to trying to paint a picture. That's what Kirk was doing. Turns out that Kirk had struggles of his own. His father had died a year or two before that. And he was what he was doing to me, he was he was taking out on me his own hurt that he had from the loss of his his dad. Uh that doesn't make it okay. Um I legitimately got hurt physically and and I was I was hurt emo emotionally as well, but I should have been more loving and understanding to him. I became aware uh kind of of during the middle of his his bullying of me, became aware of of his his particular situation and I was not particularly forgiving. Kirk wanted to lift himself up, and he did that by pushing others down, specifically pushing me down. He I was humiliated so that he could be exalted. I don't want you to feel sorry for me. I'm over it, okay? This was like 30 years ago. I'm okay. This morning we're seeing a story, though, like a a silly locker room bully playing out in a much more extreme scale. This is a life and death story that we're looking at between Haman, the second most powerful man in an entire empire, one of the greatest empires the world's ever seen. Who wants to exalt himself, and Mordecai, the one that he's seeking to humiliate. Earlier in the story, to catch you up, if you've if you've not been here the last couple months or the last couple weeks or longer. Mordecai is the is a government official who would not bow down to Haman. Haman again is is essentially the prime minister. He's just below the king. He's the second most powerful man in the entire empire. He's the one who does the all the work. There's a sense in which he's the most powerful man. Mordecai wouldn't bow down to him. And so Haman passed a law that is set in about 11 months' time from the events of this story that we're reading in Esther chapter 6. That will annihilate all of the Jewish people across most of the known world at that time. And that wasn't enough for him. Before the days of the genocide can come to pass, Haman sees Mordecai again, and Mordecai's kind of doubled down on his refusal to bow to I mean, why would you bow to him when he's the man that's trying to literally commit genocide against your entire race? And he is not honoring him. And so now Haman has gotten angry. He's gone home. He's gotten counsel from his wife and from his friends. And he has decided, after whining to them, that he is going to impale Mordecai on a 75-foot-high spike. It's called a gallows in chapter five, but the gallows I have learned uh in in my study, gallows at that time in Persia was not as as we tend to think of uh where someone would be hanged, but they would actually be impaled. It's a large spike, 75 feet high. And uh the the goal of course is not simply to execute He's already the second most powerful man in the world. But he still feels he needs an ego boost. And so that is what he intends to do humiliate this man to death in front of the entire city. The palace was only forty-some feet tall. He wants to put him way above the palace. Seventy-five feet in the air. My original title for this message was The Pride Before the Seventy-Five Foot Fall. I thought that was clever. My wife told me it's too cute. The title you have in front of you is much better, The God of Reversals, because that's really what this is about. We're going to see God's hands behind the scenes, reversing the situation. Now Haman is about to go to a banquet. At the end of chapter 5, we see him at one banquet with throne by Queen Esther. He doesn't realize that Queen Esther is throwing this in order to put an end to his reign of terror. She's invited him to a second banquet, just her and the king and Haman himself. And Haman doesn't want to be troubled by any thought of Mordecai. He wants to kill him in the morning and then go merrily on his way to the banquet. There's only one thing he needs to do first. He has to get the king's permission to execute Mordecai. That's about the the only check on his power. He has to get permission to execute this government officially. And that is where the story picks up. Okay? So if you're not already at Esther chapter 6, I encourage you to turn there. One last thing I'll say, because I realize we have a number of guests here within the last couple weeks If you've not read the story of Esther before, I apologize, I'll be probably giving some spoilers, but it is a good, exciting story. If you've not read it yet. Take this afternoon and just read it from chapter 1 through chapter 10. It probably won't take you much more than an hour. It is, if nothing else, and it's far more than this, okay, because it's the word of God, but it is spectacular entertainment. And it's far more than entertainment because it is the Word of God and it will bless you. And I encourage you on the Lord's Day, as part of your continued worship of the Lord today. Spend some time, read the book of Esther if you haven't read it before. And if you have read it before, you can do it again. It's okay. We're allowed to read read books of the Bible more than once. I encourage you to do that. Okay, so we're going to walk together through the plot points of this story. I'll give you the main message, the main theme at the end. First of all, we have a sleepless king who has a realization. Let me read verses 1 through 3 to you. We're in Esther 6, verse 1. That night the king could not sleep, so he was commanded to bring the book of the records of the chronicles, and they were read before the king. And it was found written that Mordecai had told of Bigthana and Teresh, two of the king's eunuchs, the doorkeepers who had sought to lay hands on King Ahasherus. And the king said, What honor or dignity has been bestowed upon Mordecai for this? And the king's servants who attended him said, Nothing has been done for him. We'll get to verses four in a moment, four and five in a moment. I just want us to look at the events as they're going here. First of all, the king can't sleep, and that in itself is pretty miraculous. You know why? What was the king doing a few hours before? He was eating, and what else? He was doing a lot of drinking, of wine, a lot of alcohol, and it's it's astounding, is it not, that he can't sleep? Because alcohol tends to put you to sleep. And it just so happens that when he can't sleep, he's trying to think of something that will cure his insomnia, and he figures the records of his own life are boring enough. And so he says, bring bring the they would record the the the uh events of a king's reign. And so he says, br bring the bring the chronicles of the kingdom, bring them to me. Give me some recent history. Give me current events. And he hopes that that'll help put him to sleep. And so that's what happened. They just happened to turn to, maybe they didn't turn right to it, they probably were reading for a little while. But they happened to get to this event, and this is an event that was recorded earlier in the book, if you remember, I believe it's chapter three It's told that uh after ha after Esther becomes queen, um her adoptive father, Mordecai, is is her cousin, but he's raised her like his daughter, her adoptive father discovers there's an assassination tent attempt on the king. And he thwarts it. And that's what's going on here. And he reads about it. He remembers this. He remembers those guys were hanged for trying to or impaled just as as uh Mordecai, uh there's an attempt to get him impaled. They were executed. And he remembers this and he's like, but I don't remember Anything being done to thank Mordecai, to honor him, right? So he says, what honor or dignity has been bestowed on Mordecai for this? Ahasuerus or Hesheris, however you pronounce it. He was known for rewarding people who helped him. Well, he he rewarded them very well. And in another case, his um His brother's life was saved by the intervention of somebody else. He made that person a governor of an entire province. He's known for his generosity of those who please him. And it troubles him that he's not rewarded someone who saved his own life. And they say nothing has been done for him. Well, apparently there's there's a sound out in the court. Maybe he's a hears a door, uh, a door creaking or something like that, or or perhaps he's just wondering, is there anybody out here? But he he says in verse 4, it says, So the king said Who's in the court? Now Haman had just entered the outer court of the king's palace to suggest. Why is he there again? To suggest that the king hang Mordecai on the gallows that he had prepared for him. Alright, so think about this, right? It just so happens that even after a an afternoon full of drinking, the king can't sleep. And it just so happens that the the remedy is to read about a man whose apparently on death's door, right? He's supposed to be executed. Haman wants to execute him. And right before Haman gets there He just happens to ha to read about or or to have read to him the fact that this man deserves to be honored. And then it just so happens that Haman, who wants to have him killed, walks in at that very moment. And then it just so happens that there, we're going to read, that there is a misunderstanding. Verse 5. The king's servant said to him, Haman's there, standing in the court. just as Esther is working to prevent the annihilation of her people that Haman is trying to accomplish, that though that may work out, we're still we're worried about Mordecai, are we not? Now he's one of the one of the protagonists of the story. We're not calling him a hero. Alright, God's the real hero of the story. But we care about Mordecai. And though the the race may be saved, it appears that Mordecai is not going to make it And that's if the race can be saved at all. I hope you can see that God is in the little details here. There are no coincidences. And Mordecai, who should have been rewarded like five or more years ago, he would have been certainly frustrated and hurt that he wasn't honored at the time and that this terrible man Haman was promoted instead. But God has a purpose that that it's gotten delayed as it has, so that his life would be saved, and not just his life, but the life of an an entire people. God is in the little details. There are no circle, no coincidences. I read an adage this week that said a coincidence is just God trying to remain anonymous. That's a pretty good saying. So uh let's move on. So Heyman's here. We have a prideful official. That's Heyman. Mistakenly advising to exalt his enemy rather than to destroy him. So starting verse 6. So Haman came in, and the king asked him, Haman, glad you're here. What should be done? For the man whom the king delights to honor. Now Haman thought in his heart, who would the king want to honor besides me? Obviously he's talking about me. And so it's it's a divinely appointed mix-up. Verse 7, and Haman answered the king. For the man whom the king delights to honor wink wink nudge nudge I know you're talking about let a royal robe be brought which the king has worn, and a horse on which the king has ridden, which is a royal crest placed on its head Then let this robe and horse be delivered to the hand of one of the king's most noble princes, that he may array the man whom the king delights to honor. Then parade him on horseback throughout the city square, and proclaim before him, Thus shall it be done to the man whom the king delights to honor. Now of course Haman is talking about himself. This is how he wants to be honored. If he was talking about someone else, he'd probably say, Give the guy a promotion. But instead he talks as though the king is going to honor him. Now it may even be that the Hasuaris actually realizes that Haman has he knows that he's honored Haman. Haman, you like it when I honor you. What's your favorite way to be honored? That might be what he's saying. And it makes sense that he would consult with Haman. I've honored you before. What did you like about it? What should I do for some other guy? But he is misunderstanding. And we're certainly grateful for that. And now look at verses 7 and 8. This might seem weird to you. Maybe it doesn't. But you're gonna wear the the king's robe. And you're going to ride the king's horse. The king's horse has some special crest or crown put on its head to show the dignity even. And you're going to be up on the horse. And then someone's going to parade you around, not just anybody, the highest official. Heyman doesn't realize he's talking about himself. He's got to be he's the highest official. He's gonna he's gonna parade his arc nemesis around the city. If that seems like an odd way, if you're like, hey, I'd rather just get the promotion, or I'd rather have a monetary reward. If you could buy me an Xbox, that would be great. Maybe think of it in these terms. And I realize not everybody is a sports fan, but but I think we get it. If your favorite athlete or a very prestigious athlete We just had uh uh Alexander Ovechkin, just like a couple months ago, right? He just broke Wayne Gretzky's record. Do you remember that? Even if you're not a hockey fan, you probably heard about it. Did you pass by on 198, that house that had the big Ovechkin sign in the front yard and and all red, right? Uh cheering for Ovechkin, right? He got the the He broke the record. He he's scored the most regular season goals than any other player ever to play in the NHL, more than Wayne Degretsky. who himself is called the w the great one. Now imagine if Alexander Ovechkin, especially imagine you're a hockey fan, I am, right? And if if Alexander Ovechkin were to come to me and say, I want you on the ice with me for the season opening game uh in the fall. And uh I'm gonna let you wear my skates. You're gonna wear the jersey that I wore when I when I scored that record setting goal, and you're going to come out on the ice with me and the whole team, and I'm going to tell everybody how awesome you are. I mean, that'd be pretty cool. Not going to happen, right? That's the idea. And this is the emperor of the greatest empire on earth, at least at that time, that he's expecting to get honor from the king. He's also he's being shrewd if if you think about it, because Haman's trying to cement his relationship with the king, and he's gonna have He's going to have a uh a banquet with him and his wife just just uh in a few hours, and he's he's trying to like firm up his grip on power. And so he is attempting to exalt himself here But what is actually going to happen we're gonna we're gonna fast forward here for a moment. Then the king said to Haman, Hurry, take the robe and the horse, as you have suggested, and do so for Mordecai the Jew, who sits within the king's gates. Leave nothing undone of all that you have spoken And so that's what Haman does. So Haman took the robe and the horse, arrayed Mordecai, and led him on horseback through the city square. And proclaimed before him, Thus shall it be done to the man whom the king delights to honor. Can you imagine the look on his face when he realized that he just signed himself up to exalt the very man that he was He arrived so that he could get him executed. He hates this guy's guts to death. And now, I mean, I would have loved to have been Mordecai. I mean, would Mordecai was probably better than I would have been. I would be so smug. I might have even been been saying stuff to him that he that only he could hear, you know. Oh, it must have felt so good to to Mordecai. Um And so there's this divine mix-up. Now let's connect all of this stuff and all this stuff from the last few chapters, right, to ourselves. Because what we see going on here is God is raising back up those who have humbled themselves, right? King Hajiwaris has a desire to honor Mordecai. I don't know if you caught it, but four times here. It says that the king wishes to honor, or some form of that. Verse 6, what shall it be done for the man whom the king delights to honor? You hear that he really wants to do it. There's a delight about it. Uh verse seven, uh who whom would the king delight to honor more than me? Verse nine The man whom the king delights to honor, down towards the end of the verse there. And then verse 11, he is to proclaim, thus shall it be done to the man whom delights to honor. That's the king's heart. He delights in honoring people. Well, you know what? So does God. God wanted to honor Mordecai. Humanly speaking, it should have happened those five years earlier when he thwarted that assassination attempt, but God withheld it from him. Now, there is wisdom. He's waiting for the perfect time to save his life and the lives of the Jews. But what I want don't want you to miss, look back at chapter 4. Right? Last time we see Mordecai, he's in mourning. He's wearing sackcloth and ashes. Ver chapter 4, verse 1, when Mordecai learned all that had happened, that is, he's learned that his people are going to be slaughtered. He tore his clothes and put on sackcloth and ashes and went out in the midst of the city. He cried out with a loud and bitter cry. Later on, Esther learns she tries to bring him clothes. He refuses them. He's clothed in sackcloth. He's covered himself in ashes. He's wailing. He's bent over. He refuses to get up. What but what's happening now? Now he is honored by the king. He's clothed with royal robes. He is exalted up on a horse before he wouldn't get off the ground. Now he's not, his feet aren't even on it God used Mordecai's circumstances to humble him, and it's only after Mordecai then responds by humbling himself, it's only after that that the Lord exalts him again. Then God brings it to the king's mind to honor him. There is no chance at all that his insomnia was just Happenstance. God was behind the insomnia. He was behind them choosing that particular passage. He was behind the timing of Haman. It says that the king can't can't uh sleep in the middle of the night. Haman sa it says he's gonna go in the morning, so he must have been up for a while. It's still wee hours. Time's wearing on, and then Haman shows up just at the moment, right after this passage has been read. So this is where it comes to us then. You may be going through a time of humbling. You may be asking, God, what are you doing here? What are you doing in my life? What I just feel like I keep getting hit over and over by a truck. I get up, Lord, and then something else pummels me. What is going on? You're bringing me lower and lower, Lord. Maybe you've even prayed like that. And it's it's okay. It's good to be candid with the Lord. Be reverent in how you do it, but it's good to be candid candid. He knows what you're feeling. It may be God's desire to raise you up, but he won't do that. He won't honor you and exalt you until he has humbled you. He doesn't like it when people exalt themselves. How often did Jesus over and over say this very truth, where he talks about the people at the feast? Uh at the wedding feast. And he says, Don't go and give yourself a great seat up front. Sit in the back. Take the most humble seating. And then they'll come to you and say, Hey, come on up here. Don't be back there. Let us let us honor you He says, if you go to the front, they might say, hey, can you move? Because there's someone more honorable than you who deserves your seat. Whoever humbles himself will be exalted. Whoever exalts himself will be humbled. God may be humbling you with the purpose of bringing you right where he intends for you to be. But he doesn't like lifting up cocky people. What might be going on? I'm not saying that you're arrogant But what may be going on is that if you find yourself in a time of humbling and hardship, is that God is seeking to empty you of yourself. Because that's how you can be most dependent on him. It's how you can be the most useful to him. It's how he makes you more and more like Jesus, like his son. And so I encourage you, if if that's what's what your situation is, if you're going through something like this, a time of humbling, now or sometime in the future. Try to see the humbling as a good thing because it will cause you to rely on God and run to God. Cast yourself at God's feet. But embrace the time of humbling as a good thing. Embrace it as God's goodwill for you. Don't try to fight it. Let Him do His work in you. And you'll find it'll be less painful that way. It might last a shorter amount of time because of that. And then let him, when he humbles, he does lift us back up again. He binds up those wounds that he inflicts. Well let's move on then to Mordecai's side. We read verses 10 and 11, but we want to look at uh at it from the other side two. So Mordecai is honored while Haman is humiliated. The very act of having to honor his rival is humiliating to him. Now, I do want you to see a difficulty here, right? Look at how the king addresses, talks about Haman, or talks, talks about Mordecai to Haman. He says, hurry, take the robe and the horse as you have suggested, and do so for Mordecai the Jew. The king knows he's a Jew. Haman's exterminating the Jews. Now, if if if we were to look back at when and go ahead with me. When we look back at chapter three, and we see, and I told you uh wrongly that it's chapter three, is the end of chapter two where Mordecai um prevents that assassination attempt. And right after that, chapter 3, Haman says, There's this people group. And I want to destroy them. He never actually calls them Jews. Look with me at verse 8, chapter 3, verse 8. It says, Then Haman said to King of Hazueras, There's a certain people scattered and dispersed among the kingdom in all the provinces of your kingdom. Their laws are different from all other peoples, and they do not keep the king's laws, therefore which is not true, therefore it is not fitting for the law for for the king to let them remain. If it let f if it pleases the king, let a decree be written that they be dead. Destroyed, and I will pay ten thousand talents of silver into hands of those who do the work to bring it into the king's treasuries. It appears that the king, who himself is a rather callous, self absorbed man Never actually asked uh who is it you want to kill? Either that or he he didn't care that Mordecai's a Jew he wants to honor him anyway. What seems to make the most sense is that he never did ask Who is this people group you want to destroy? Because if he had, and he he he already knows that Mordecai's a Jew Perhaps that wouldn't have all gone on. This is not a good guy, the king, right? He's not a good guy. He has some some good qualities. He wants to honor those who who are good to him. But he's he's very self-absorbed. And he says, I want you to honor this Jewish man. Well that's it, that's significant because the fact that he's a Jew is going to pop up again in just a moment. Haman is forced to honor someone that he hates. The rest of the palace knows that Mordecai is a Jew They know what Haman's doing. They know that Mordecai won't honor him, because that's how Haman learned in the first place. They reported it to him. They know what's going on. The king seems to be oblivious that these two are rivals. Everyone else gets it, and that's what's humiliating. Now, over and over throughout Israel's history, we have statements like in Hannah's prayer. Do you remember Hannah, who wants to have a child, praying to the Lord and asking him to give her a child, and he gives her a child. And then here's what she says in 1 Samuel 2, verse 8. This is what she says about God. He raises the poor from the dust and lifts the beggar from the ash heap to set them among princes and make them inherit the throne of glory. Is that not what just happened with Mordecai? Literally covered in ash And now he's on, not on a throne, but he's on the king's horse, a movable throne, if you will. Psalm 75, verse 7, a very, very familiar psalm to many of us. Or at least a very familiar verse. Psalm 75, verse 7. But God is the judge, he puts down one and exalts another. That is what's happening. I think you're more likely to know this one, though, from a very prominent person in the New Testament. My soul magnifies the Lord, my spirit has rejoiced in God my Savior, for he has regarded the lowly state of his maidservant. For behold, henceforth all generations will call me blessed. For he who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name, and his mercy is on those who fear him from generation to generation He has shown strength with his arm. Look at this next part, okay? He has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. That's Haman. He's imagining things that are not true for him. He is not the one to be honored. He is not as great as he thinks. He does not have the power over death that he thinks he deserves. Look at this. He has put down the mighty from their thrones and exalted the lowly. He has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he has sent away empty. He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham, and his seed forever. If you don't know where that's from, you probably recognize it. That is Mary, the mother of Jesus, praising her God. Now I ask you, is there an area of life in which you are low? Maybe you too feel like you're on the brink of death. Maybe it's depression. You're struggling with depression? It's brought you low. Your emotions and your feelings are tormenting you. It's like They won't leave you alone, you can't figure out why you feel the way you do but you do. And that makes it worse, right? You perhaps thinking dark thoughts from time to time. The darkest thoughts perhaps that someone can have. towards themselves. You realize that God can grant you a great reversal? Do you believe that? That he can bring you back from the brink of death out of the ash heap, as Hannah puts it. He can raise you to a seat of honor. So I would say if you're in that situation struggling with depression, whether it's from circumstances or just your emotions. Don't give up hope. Ask God to deliver you. Believe that He can do that. Believe that He will do that doesn't mean that you'll cease to struggle. That doesn't mean it's just all gonna go away. It might. That doesn't mean it will. But he he delights in helping us, especially those of us who are humble and who are are low, lowly, as it puts it. And the New King James. Act on what you believe to be true about God. Seek counseling, not from the world, not from secular counselors, but from someone who can point you to the to your savior and point you you to the word and remind you of these truths and actually help you formulate strategies based on those truths, I would love to help you in that way. I need to rely on the Lord for wisdom and help in that. It's not easy, but I love to help people with biblical counseling. But it doesn't have to be your pastor. It can be another just person who's spirit-filled and led by the Lord. They can help you. The Lord Himself wants to be your counselor. It's one of the titles for Jesus. Long before he was born, right? His name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, Almighty God. Now maybe it's a different type of reversal that you need In a different area of life. But your anguish is just as real. Your need's still great. Maybe you have a relationship in jeopardy. Someone very near and dear to you is going down a destructive path, far from the Lord. Far from safety. God can work a reversal. God can work a reversal in that situation. Maybe your job is on the line And you were wondering how you're going to survive financially. You feel like your career is at the brink of death. God cares about those problems. Don't believe the lies that He doesn't. In Sunday school, just just uh an hour or so ago, we were talking about God being intimately involved. He he created us with an act of intimacy, put his put his mouth to Adam's nose He cares about you. He cares about these problems. Ask him for help. Trust that he can work a reversal. Now he can work a spectacular dramatic reversal and suddenly you find your position reversed with somebody, just like Mordecai and Haman. Haman becoming low and leading his ark nemesis on a horse like that, him and then Mordecai being lifted up. It might be dramatic like that. God still does stuff like that Or it might be gradual. It might just be what he tends to do more often: that he gives you grace so that moment by moment you walk with him. And he leads you and he he brings you slowly out of that slough of desponde to use John Bunyan's uh old English for it, the uh the swamp of despair. And he slowly leads you up the mountainside. Let's get into something heavier though. Perhaps you've been losing battle after battle with a besetting sin. A mighty besetting sin. You are struggling. Maybe you got several besetting sins. And you feel like there's no hope for you. Yeah, you you trust in Jesus, but you're about to become just another casualty to substance abuse. Or some other form of addiction, perhaps things that you're looking at on the internet, and you're just resigned to letting it run its course. You just can't see hope for yourself Listen to me. This doesn't have to be the end. God intends to work a reversal in your sin situation. Jesus came into the world to set the prisoner free. If you're a prisoner of addiction, you're a prisoner of gossip, of pride. of whatever whatever besetting sin it is, he's eager to deliver you. It's why Jesus came into the world. Now, don't misunderstand me. I'm not saying that God will just zap you and break you of addiction in an instant. I've heard stories of that, never seen it firsthand, but I've heard stories of that. Perhaps He will do that But don't assume that. It'll take ongoing submission to Jesus. It will take ongoing submission to Jesus Christ as Lord of your life, as King in your heart. Because that's what it means to have him as Savior. That's how he delivers us, so we believe him, we trust him, and therefore we obey. And as we obey, he gives grace for us to obey. As we believe in him, he gives us grace to obey. And slowly and steadily, and yes, we have setbacks, and we we go three steps forward and two steps back, but we go forward. He will give you the power to obey him where right now you feel totally powerless. Trust him to work that grueling reversal in you. Don't give in the battle to sin. Don't decide that your identity belongs with sin, and you choose a label that is ungodly and worldly and anti-Christ rather than trusting and obeying him. One more. Perhaps you are literally dying physically, or somebody close to you is literally dying physically. You have a consuming illness. And you're wondering if you'll survive it much longer. Before I go any further into this, I am not promising that God will definitely prevent the death of your body. He might. He might heal you, but he might not. But I can promise you that if your hope, if your faith, if your trust is in Jesus Christ then the very moment of death that becomes your reversal. Right? You go to be be in his presence. You are liberated from that dying body. And At some point in the future, he will return and he will give life to that body. He'll bring your soul back into that body, and it will be completely healed of disease and healed of age. And you'll be at your prime once again. I am promising you that if you're in Christ. And it's not me who promises that, but Jesus Christ Himself. He says that any who trusts in him, though he die, he shall live. He is the resurrection and the life. Now God is sovereign over kidneys and livers and hearts and brains and and pancreases. Pancreii. He's sovereign over gout, he's sovereign over cancer, he's sovereign over sepsis, and really, really bad cases of flu and COVID He's sovereign over all of it. He may reverse your situation in this life, but he will definitely reverse it in the next life if you're in Christ. If you're in Christ, you will work a reversal in your body. Is that not the ultimate reversal, resurrection? Anyone who turns to Christ for salvation has hope in resurrection. You can expect a reversal of the death in your body. Are you old? Is your mind struggling? Is your body struggling? Are you sick? I don't like being 40. Too old. I'm getting sore shoulders and backs and and hips, right? God's going to solve that. He's going to reverse that. Because God is God of resurrection. He's a God of reversal. And that is the ultimate reversal. Jesus Christ worked the ultimate reversal when he gave himself up to an illegal, unjust execution. It was a murder. He was convicted on the testimony of those who were lying, breaking the Ten Commandments. But two days later, what did he do? He walked out of his tomb. Mordecai's exaltation humiliated his enemy Haman. Well, Jesus' exaltation to life humiliated both death and Satan. Him who has the power of death was humiliated. With his own death, Jesus satisfied the Father's wrath against your son. And so I I urge you, if you would if you want to partake in a resurrection, you have to partake in Jesus' death. You have to say, Jesus, so so Jesus, when he died, he died with your sin piled on him, right? And he was counted guilty for it. And you need to say, Jesus, I uh count me as having died with you. And at that point, Jesus, or God, the Father, who's looking at his His son, with all of the sin piled on him, he's angry at the sin and he he he he bends his full wrath out on that sin until it's until it's just he's satisfied. He got it all out. And that sin's done. It's burned up. It's gone. You need to identify with Jesus' death if you will partake in his resurrection. And you say, Lord, count my sin as hell. Having been dealt with on the cross, count me with your son who died. You die to sin. And then you walk with him in life until he brings you that resurrection. Well finally, we're very nearly done, I promise. Finally, people start to see the Jews differently. As Haman's fall begins. People start to see the Jews differently as Haman fall Haman's fall begins. Let's read the last three verses of Esther chapter six. Afterward, Mordecai went back to the king's gate, but Haman hurried to his house, mourning, and with his head covered. This is a sign of mourning. He would cover his his head just like Mordecai was was c clothing himself in sackcloth, covering himself in ashes. This is how how Haman shows that he is mourning. And isn't it interesting Right? Just a few days ago the it was the the Jews who were mourning. And and br the commentator Brian Gregory says Fittingly, three days of fasting by the Jews in Susa are just finishing. It's as if the great grief has shifted from the head of the Jews to the head of Haman. And it's significant then that Haman, who started to see that he miscalculated with Mordecai, doesn't even have a chance to pull down the gallas before going to the feast. Let's read to the end here Well, let's read verse 14. While they were still talking with him, the king's eunuchs came and hastened to bring Haman to the banquet which Esther had prepared. He used to have all the power. Just just like an hour ago, right? He was coming in wielding the power of death over his enemy. Now he now he can't even pause to catch his breath before he's taken away to a feast that's It's supposed to be fun, but that's actually going to be his final downfall there at the feast. God has removed the power from this fearsome enemy He's ushered along against his will, really, to his own death. But look with me now at verse thirteen. It says When Haman told his wife Zurash and all his friends everything that had happened to him, his wise men and his wife Zerash said to him If Mordecai, before whom you've begun to fall, is of Jewish descent, you will not prevail against him, but will surely fall before him. See, they seem to recognize God's hand behind the scenes as well. They're his enemies. They probably know something of of the Jewish history, of how they were delivered from Egypt. Or of what's going on at the same time, that there were a number of Jews that did leave uh Susa and went all the way to Jerusalem and they built up the city and they're under the leadership of Nehemiah And they're starting to flourish again. They were building the temples. You know the story of Ezra? They're building the temple to God, and the enemies tell them you have to stop. And then it's an imperial decree by Ahashuaras' dad who says, no, no, no, no. I want you enemies of the temple to fund it with your tax dollars. It's construction. They they recognize that there is there is someone behind the Jewish people. There is a God who cares for them and phew if your enemy is a Jew, I didn't know that. You're not gonna win this one. People see the Jews Differently as Haman's fall begins. Imagine one last reversal. Imagine what God can do through this church. We're not a big church And I know that we we we lost a few people a couple years ago. But imagine what what God can do in this church, the reversal he can bring about. Why don't you choose us to do a dramatic growth in a number of months or or just through slow, steady obedience. If we will obey, carry out the Great Commission, share the gospel with you people who don't know Jesus, not just try to get our Christian friends to come here, but we share the gospel, as as Jesus has told us, with our neighbors who don't know the Lord. In the houses around here, right? Especially over there. And we start inviting our unsafe co-workers and the people next door and and our family members And some of you are already doing this, right? Keep being obedient and trust that the Lord can work a work of reversal. Not that we're we're not in the dust or anything like that, but he can give us the growth that we would we desire. Jesus said, and I conclude with this. Jesus said, I will build my church, and the gates of Hades or hell shall not prevail against it. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for this message of life out of death. We praise you for the truth that Jesus died and came out of the grave. We thank you that you take men like Mordecai who do not deserve a reversal. He was a sinful man. But when when sinful men and women humble themselves, you lift them up. And we praise you for that. We thank you, Lord. Lord, I pray that for those who are struggling and going through hard things that they would see your goodness in working to humble them so that they may be exalted, so that they may lean on you, so that they may become more dependent on you and more like Jesus And it's hard in the meantime, and would you please comfort them, be their comforter to them, be their counselor Come alongside them, give them wisdom and guidance through these hardships and the best way to walk through them to honor you and fulfill all of the responsibilities you've put on them. But accompany them, be present for them, assure them of your nearness and your love for them, and then please bring them out the other side. Lord, we look forward to the ultimate deliverance of resurrection. And we trust in Jesus. And if there's anyone here who has not trusted in Jesus, please I pray today would be the day they submit to you. They submit to Jesus They they identify not only with his life and his resurrection, but with his death. Because it's only then that we can partake in the everlasting life. Please, Lord, would you call such a person to you to be Be saved. In Jesus' name, Amen.