We start with me to extra chapter nine. Extra chapter nine. We turn it off our uh our uh We will be back momentarily. This is just to make sure that um that Facebook doesn't cut us off. So go ahead. Go ahead. It has been a crazy week. I've been very busy here. Getting ready for VBS is a big part of that. And then just getting to interact with a lot of you guys. It's been a good week. It's been crazy, but it's been good. Um I I don't know if you've had an opportunity to peek into the side classroom, um, but uh the the one right next to the the cafe, we have a ton of decorations of the church in Baltimore actually. donated to us. And I had a really sweet time praying with them when I when I was able to pick some of those up. And so we we are going to have decoration time after the service. And we encourage you to say, the hard work's done. Like that stuff's been made. So it's just a matter of putting it up. So please consider um helping afterwards. If you need to run out and grab lunch, maybe and then and then come back so you don't pass out, that's fine. But if if If you could help, that would be wonderful. And I do want to just second what Jim was saying as well. We have a bunch of VBS postcards on the back table there by the tracks. Please do consider taking a handful of those. Give them to your neighbors if they have kids or your grandkids or take them to the local playground near your house and just see if you can find a couple families, let them know it's local. Uh Bev joined us on Tuesday. We went to there Laurel had a a touch a truck, which is exactly what it sounds like. Kids get to go and climb into trucks and touch them and and and see all these cool trucks. And uh between us we were able to hand out a lot of uh a lot of postcards to locals. So um we're excited for hopeful a fru hopefully a fruitful VBS, but we need your help. And so please do we we still have some volunteers that we need. Um please, unless you're truly unable, would you consider you know you might have to Make some little bit of changes to your schedule for a week. We would really appreciate it. That's not this this week that's just starting today. It's not it's not the week starting tomorrow, but starting a week from tomorrow, then um VBS runs Monday to Friday. Please consider helping us because we want to be fruitful for the Lord, do we not? We want to be able to say to the Lord, here's what I took with your Mina, with the talent that you gave me. And I've done all I can to multiply it. We trust the Lord to multiply it, but we we have to be faithful. So ask we ask for your faithfulness in the coming week. Anyway, let's go to the Lord in prayer, and then we will launch right into our message. Dearest Heavenly Father, we thank you that you are, your Son is our hope in life and death. And we have life in him. We have life in Christ and in Christ alone. We pray for those who have not turned to Christ. Repentantly and believingly to have life in him. Lord, I think of those who are not able to be here today to hear that message. We know that that there are people struggling with various various burdens, various illnesses, or different things can keeping them from hearing the gospel, whether they are people who trust you and love you and belong to Christ or or people who don't, but have been putting themselves under the preaching of your word. Lord, we pray we would see them again. We pray they would come back. We ask that you would help those who are sick to to uh to heal and to uh surmount those obstacles uh so that we would uh be able to worship alongside them and that they would be able to hear your message preached. We pray that uh the the live stream would have would would make it possible for people Father, I ask for your help, for your anointing on my preaching today. Please would you Speak to every heart and make us more fruitful to you. Help us to trust more in your promises. Father, we thank you for the gift of the truth. Church, you have given us one another as a gift that when you adopted us into your family as your children, you adopted us among many siblings. And so, Lord, would you bless the church ministry that goes on today as we seek to decorate for VBS as we As we talk with each other after this after the message, help us to reinforce those truths. Help us to show the love of Christ to one another. Help us to assure one another that God is near, He is present, He is listening, He is aware of what you're going through. Help us to be Jesus Christ's hands and feet to one another. another and to our community. Lord, please would you burden us for souls? There are people that we see at the grocery store and at the coffee shop and at the mechanic and at the gas station. and at work and at school and at our practices who need to know Jesus Christ. They need to be saved. And we have this life-transforming message that they need to receive so that they would not spend an eternity in hell. And so, Lord, we ask that you would help us to overcome fear and timidity, to perhaps we can't share the full gospel message. We don't have that opportunity with the people that we see and have compassion on, but help us to seek to open that door. And then Lord, would you surprise us at how wide it swings? that we could just get started and then take the full message to them. Help us to open our homes as well as our hearts to people who need the gospel, to invite them in, so that over a meal we can talk about Jesus. Lord, make us fruitful for you. And I pray, Lord, that you would use your message to convict us of those things we We need to be convicted of, to be encouraged where we need to be encouraged. And Lord, let us see the glory of God in all things, and to worship you as you deserve. We pray that today would truly be your day, and that we would give it to you, and that we would delight in you and and Sing accordingly. We pray you'd be pleased with our worship today. Please, Lord, help me to preach only your word, your message. morning and help us all to receive it, not just as the word of man, but as as the word coming out of the guy, out of the Bible, out of out of Scripture and applied to hearts. This is not me. Lord, I pray that it would be your message. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, if you're not there already, please turn with me to Esther chapter 9, where we're right in the home stretch. There's ten chapters. The tenth chapter is three verses long. We'll have kind of a recap message next week. And that will be the end of our series through the book of Esther. I've enjoyed it, and I trust that you have too. I think a lot of you have from what you've said. In my sophomore year of college, uh I had a roommate who was a few years older than me. He transferred from another school, actually a Christian school, and I was at a secular school. finishing up there. He was more mature than me spiritually and pretty much every other other way. I was pretty immature at the time. I was 19. Brian was his name, and we would often get into spiritual conversations, especially in the evenings. And the Lord used Brian and our conversations together to mature me and to continue maturing me. And more than twenty years later, and I've not seen him in probably fifteen, fourteen. years, but more than twenty years after uh one of those conversations, I still remember it uh pretty pretty well. We were talking about God being sovereign over everything in the universe. And we both agreed to this fact that God is indeed sovereign. But then Brian rebuked me. He said that I should stop using the phrase good luck. Because if God really is sovereign over anything, and certainly if he's sovereign over everything, then we shouldn't We shouldn't be talking in terms of luck as though things are chaotic and God doesn't control them. Now, I didn't like being wrong. And so I argued with him. Uh and I told him truthfully that I agree with him that there's no such thing as luck. But it's still okay to say good luck because, well In something, let's say you're playing a board game, and Brian and I used to play board games together. If you're playing a board game and that relies on something uh that relies on something that that like insignificant random chance, right? You roll the dice and you see what number you get. It's okay to talk about luck in those those terms, I was saying. And God will just let the laws of physics take over. He's not interested in what my dice roll is. And that board game. I hadn't read the book of Esther yet. And so we're going to see that God cares about things as seemingly insignificant as dice rolls. God cares about the really, really big things. He's sovereign over things like genocide. Here in the book of Esther, and empires and armies and war. He cares about preventing those things And he cares about using those things to his end. But he also cares about tiny little things like dice rolls. And that's what Esther chapter 9 is showing us today. Who put the clicker on the left side? No, no, no. That's got to be on the right side. Couldn't find it. Alright, ready? Here's the theme of Esther chapter 9. God, who is sovereign over all, God, who is sovereign over all, works through the biggest and littlest things to care for his people. people. That's underlined on purpose. That's a blank for you to fill in on purpose. He cares about his people, and he works through the really massive things and the tiny little things, all of it, in order to care for you if you are his child. And I say here, if the Bible will show us and state clearly to us, Are you listening? If if if the Bible will prove to us that God is indeed that God, that He's sovereign over all things, He used the biggest and the littlest out of care and out of love. for people, then he can't that that he counts no person as insignificant to him. And that he will spare, he will not spare the greatest cost to love people that others think of as a waste of space. If that's really who God is, Then don't you want him to be your father? Wouldn't you like him to adopt you? Look at the screen Wouldn't you like that God to be your father? Wouldn't you like him to adopt you? And we're going to see how the book of Esther communicates at least a considerable chunk of that message. Here's how we're going to work through the chapter, okay? The chapter breaks really well into two halves. You have the first 16 verses and the second 16 verses. One through 16, we see God intervening in the biggest of things in our world. And he takes the right side. on those big things. And then in the second verses, this divinely guided author calls our attention to the little things. And that's why this message is called God of Big and Little. We're going to go pretty quickly through the details of the story. There'll be one exception there where there's a problematic part that we struggle with. Or at least some of us some of us struggle greatly with that. Other than that though, I'm going to narrate the story in each half pretty quickly, and then we will go to application at the end. When we understand what the story is and what what the the author is saying. Are you ready to jump in? Alright. Let's look at the first sixteen verses. God, who is sovereign over the destinies of entire nations. This is a big God over big things, the destinies of entire countries, people groups, nationalities. This God who's sovereign over the destinies of entire nations defends his people. And he delivers them and he gives them justice. I'll give you a minute to write that as we just go through write in those fill-in-the-blanks. If you don't have a notes page, there's some in the back. I encourage you to fill them in. In the first five verses here, it says in the twelfth month, that is the month of Adar. This will be a little bit of a recap if you were here last week It says that the time came for the king's command and his decree to be executed. You see, on a specific day, it says the 13th day of the month of Adar That's on the Jewish calendar. There had been decreed that would be the day when all of the Jews will be will be annihilated. They will be legalized genocide. Well, in the previous chapter, we saw that the bad guy Haman has met he's met his end. He's been executed for doing this because he's trying to execute the people of Queen Esther. And now Queen Esther and her adoptive father, actually her cousin, genetically, uh have been given authority to issue legislation that lets them issue a counter-decree. So on one day and only on that specific day allowed by law, not only, they couldn't repeal it, not only could people attack the Jews, but the Jews are now allowed to defend themselves. They're actually even allowed to go beyond defending themselves according to the counter-decree that they issue, and they're able to take vengeance on the families of those who attack them and they're allowed to plunder their goods. That might sound harsh and so don't check out. Don't run down that train of thought. I'll get you there. I'll meet you at at the train station. But go with me for now, alright? That's what they're allowed to do. And it says, the day came where it says, on the day that the enemies of the Jews had hoped to overpower them. The opposite occurred. And that the Jews themselves overpowered those who hated them. And it goes on to summarize here in these first five verses that the Jews won. They butchered their enemies. They defended themselves. And that they were actually helped along because all of those in positions of power now feared the Jews. They feared Mordecai, that is Esther's adopted father. He is now the number two most powerful person in the empire. He's right below the the emperor or the king. They fear him, they feared the Jewish people, and they by implication feared the Jewish. God. Many of them became Jews, it says at the end of chapter 8. And so now in chapter chapter 9, it says in verse 5, thus the Jews defeated all their enemies with the stroke of the sword, with slaughter and destruction. And did what they pleased with those who hated them. That doesn't mean that they tormented them, that they took nasty spoils when it says they did what they pleased. But what it means was there was no one hindering them. from defending themselves anymore. They w they were freely allowed legally to defend themselves. They did what they pleased and they had help in doing it Now though, he gets into the nitty-gritty. He goes into more of the details. And we have a list of ten names here, starting in verse 7. So it says in verse 6, In Shushan the citadel, that's the capital city, in Shushin, or Susa, depending on your translation, the Jews killed and destroyed 500 men. And then it gives us ten names, also Parshandatha, Dalphon, Aspatha, Paratha, Adalya, Aradatha, Parmashtha, Arasai, Aradai, and Vajasatha. I nearly got through without any mispronunciations. The ten sons of Haman, that is their Ark Nemesis who tried to kill them. He's called the enemy of the Jews here. You see it, verse 10? You looking at that? Chapter 9, verse 10. The ten sons of Haman, the son of Hamadatha, the enemy of the Jews. They killed. But they did not lay a hand on the plunder. Now, why is this done? Why are these ten men singled out? A couple of reasons. First of all There there's there's ten sons of one of the most powerful men in the emp empire. He was the second most powerful man in the empire right before he got killed. Right before he got executed They probably wield power themselves, and it was normal in those days to seek revenge on on the for for their father's death and and for their own for their own advancement. And so these ten sons are executed to prevent them from from seeking revenge. It seems to be implied here that they were actually even ringleaders of the people in the city. Five hundred people knowing that The power of the law is now on the side of the Jews to defend themselves. They're still taking advantage of an opportunity to try and annihilate them. It is implied here that these men were behind it. Why are they singled out like this? Well, if we were to go back, and I don't encourage you to turn, but you certainly can, uh, when when Haman was Really mulling over his hatred of Mordecai and determined that I'm not even going to wait 11 more months for him to meet his end. I'm just going to execute him right now He was first bragging about himself, and Mordecai won't acknowledge how great he is. And when he's bragging about himself at the end of chapter 5, here's what he says. He says Queen Esther invited no one but me to come in with the king to the banquet that she prepared, and tomorrow I am again invited by her along with the king, bragging about how great he is. and the the interesting people that he rubs elbows with. Yet all this avails me nothing so long as I see Mordecai the Jew sitting But before he was complaining about that, he gave a long list of the other things, the reasons why Mordecai should bow down to him. It says in verse 11. Haman told them of his of his great riches. the multitude of his children, everything in which the king had promoted him, and how he had advanced himself above the officials and servants of the king. Do you see now every one of those things are gone from God's enemy He's taken away his political position. He's taken away his his running in circles with the king and queen. That's what killed him He's taken away his great riches. They've been handed over to Mordecai. He is now the executor of the guy's will. And now his children, his sons, who wield considerable influence. They are executed too. This is showing us that God has made war on Haman. God has made war on the one who is the descendant of King Agag, who was supposed to be executed by King Saul. So many hundreds of years earlier, that God has not forgotten the promises that he made to defend his people and fight against their enemies, the Midianites. Haman is a descendant of the king of the Midianites, and then so are his ten sons. And he is promising, he said in Exodus, that he would make war with that people group. Forever. Because they were attempting to exterminate his people who bore his name, who would bring in his son, the Messiah, to redeem the world, and he is continuing to fulfill that promise. That might make you feel a little queasy that there is death going on here. But God does judge his enemies. And he does so not only here on earth, but in eternal And we call that the lake of fire. And for some reason, Christians, we sometimes it's like we're okay with the concept of hell, but we get squeamish when it happens on this earth. If you're okay with the concept of hell, or you at least believe it to be true because God says so, it's in the Bible, then this is not as bad as hell. Haman's son's being killed. I know it's hard, and we're going we're going to address that in just a moment. Now there's a second request and in verses 11 through 15 we have Esther asking something. She asks that could we put those bodies of those ten sons up on the gallows and then could we also get to do one more time, not any not across the whole empire, but just right here in the capital city. 500 of our enemies were killed, but I think there's some more. Would you let us do this one more day? And the king agrees. And then we find out that 300 more are killed the next day as a result. Now what is going on here? Together, these two acts are sending a message throughout the city. I think that we need to understand these two things together if we want to understand Esther's modus. Because People have accused her of becoming bloodthirsty at this point. Is that really what's going on? Well she says, Look, the ten sons of of Haman have already been killed. Now can we put their bodies up on the gallows, the the spike on which He had tried to kill Mordecai. What would that do if they're already dead? Well, it would show everybody. It's a statement to this is what happens to Well to who? To the enemies of the Jews. And they're giving one extra day to protect the Jews that they can exterminate any last People who would choose to attack them. So these are people that choose to attack them, and in self-defense, they then execute another 300. So these people are committed to their hatred, that they are going to try again. And so what this is sending together, this message, is that this place here in the capital The center of power for Persia, this is a place that's safe for the Jewish people. The king and his administration are friends of the Jewish people. The Jews are especially safe in Shushan, the capital city, and therefore across the whole empire. And it's really God saying, don't mess with my people. I am their protector. Now here's the hard part then. Let's deal with all this. Let's look at verse 16. It says, The remainder of the Jews in the king's provinces gathered together and protected their lives. Had rest from their enemies and killed 75,000 of their enemies. And we struggle here, right? And all of this that we've been seeing, it's hard seeing this bloodshed. We know that God's a God of love. Jesus Christ declares him to be, and then we see stuff like this, and we're like, well then how how is this okay? Why why would God allow this to happen? Why why are his people executing so many people? And so we need to look at that counter-legislation. That counter-legislation takes us back to the original legislation. What was the original legislation meant to do? It says the Across the empire, everyone is encouraged to three words, kill, destroy, and annihilate all of the Jews. We looked at this as in chapter three, if you want to read that for yourself. We looked at this again last week. And I'm not taking you there because I'm trying to keep us moving. And then in chapter 8, they were also told they could they could plunder their goods in that original decree. In chapter 8, here's what is said starting in verse 11 By these letters, the king permitted the Jews to do exactly the same thing. It says the Jews who were in every city to gather together. Before they were not allowed to gather together, they were to be picked off. as individuals. Now they can gather together and form a fighting force and protect their lives to destroy, kill, and annihilate. See the same three words. All the forces of any people or province that would assault them, both little children and women. That's exactly what was said in the previous one. Annihilate all of them, men, women, and children. And to plunder their possessions, just like the others are allowed to do. What's happening here is it's simply from a legislative standpoint, it's putting them both on equal footing. They are allowed Yes, they're allowed to kill the women and children, the wives and children of their attackers. And that seems grotesque to us, right? They're allowed to do that, but do they do it? First of all, consider this is this is intended, and this is the third time I'm saying this now, right? This is intended as a deterrent. If you know that doing something to somebody else could have repercussions in your family, on your family whom you love, you're far less likely to do it. First, it's a deterrent, and it's putting them on an equal legal standing, right? But did they do that? Did they do all that the law allowed them to do? No, they did not. Let's just look. Verse let's do the plunder first, to plunder their possessions. Let's do that first because that helps set the context. Look at verse 10. They killed the ten the ten sons of Haman, the son of Hamadatha, the enemy of the Jews they killed, but they did not lay a hand on the plunder. Verse 15, did they lay a hand on the plunder? No, the last line says they did not lay a hand on the plunder. Nope. Nope. Verse 16: double note. Killed 75,000 of their enemies, but they did not lay a hand on the plunder. This is not about accumulating wealth or power, it's simply doing Defending their lives. This is about defending their lives and continuing to exist as the people of God I'm not preaching about the conflict right now between Israel and Hamas and the nations around them. But it does tell us something about that conflict, doesn't it? I don't want to be political, but I s we can all we all see it there, right? It's it's it's hanging over us Now they did not plunder, they did not take, they did not profit from any of this, they defended themselves. Now what about that other question? Because that's what makes us uncomfortable. Did they kill the women and children? Well, let's look at verse 12. Well, start in verse 11. On that day, the number of those who were killed in Shushim, the citadel, was brought to the king. And the king said to Queen Esther, the Jews have killed and destroyed five hundred. Can you say that next word for me, five hundred what? Five hundred men in Shushan, the citadel, and the ten sons of Haman. There's not a single woman, there's not a single child. That word is very clear in the Hebrew. They've killed five hundred men. And then when Esther asks that they do it again and we get the numbers of who were killed the next time, it's listed just the same way. Verse 15, the Jews who were in Shushan gathered together again on the fourteenth day of the month of Adar and killed 300 men. There's no mention of women and children here. Now I admit the next one is a little ambiguous, but I think if we take it in the context It suggests that they are not going beyond self-defense. Verse 16, the remainder of the Jews in the king's provinces gathered together and protected their lives. Had rest from their enemies. Literally in the Hebrew it says, those who hated them, those who were attacking them, and killed 75,000 of their enemies. But they did not lay a hand on the plunder. And the context here at least suggests, it's not stating pretty clearly, that they are not being bloodthirsty. They are they are defending themselves from the people who will at or who do attack them And I know that sometimes that makes us uncomfortable, but when a nasty act has been done to you, or perhaps Well let let's assume not that someone in your family has been murdered or or beaten, harmed, and maybe that's happened in your family, and I'm very sorry for that Well in that case you want justice, don't you? But even if it's something less than that, if if your reputation has been slandered, you want your God to give you some justice, don't you? And a loving God does that. And that's what we see going on here. He's keeping his promises to protect his people. He's keeping his promises to fight against their a his enemies. And he told The father of the Jewish nation, Abraham, I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse those who curse you. And in this in this episode, we have people blessing the Jews and helping them, and we have people cursing the Jews and trying to kill them. And God proves his promise to be true in every which way. That's what he does. So the conclusion here is though they were permitted to do much worse that make us uncomfortable. They were permitted to do that to match that initial evil decree by Haman. They did not behave like their enemies. That's what's highlighted here. What does this tell us? Can we sum this all up in one sentence? Although the world appears to be chaotic, God's guiding all things to a good and glorious conclusion according to his unchanging plan. Think about the world we live in right now. There is war going on in numerous locations. In the Eastern Hemisphere. We're worried about war. There are some pretty deranged politicians running a number of countries with nuclear capabilities, and we're worried about that There's dangerous technology. Everyone's paranoid about AI, right? Things seem to be chaotic and just a recipe for everything to explode or implode. But God's sovereign all over all of these really big things that you and I have no power over. God is sovereign over all of that, and He's guiding all things to a good and glorious conclusion. He's had a plan from the beginning and he's continuing to keep to that plan. Nothing's surprising him. That's the big stuff that he's sovereign over. What about the little stuff? Point two. God who is sovereign over things so small as Dice rolls. That's what goes in that blank. God who is sovereign over dice rolls. Got national destinies on the one hand, dice rolls on the other. This God deserves to be worshipped for saving and caring for his people. And he does that. Let's look at in the second half here. So if we pick up in verse 17, It names again this 13th day of the month of Adar. That's when all of the fighting goes down. It says that it this is in the in the the all of the empire except the capital city. They fight on the thirteenth, and it says, and on the fourteenth day of the month, they rested and made it a day of feasting and gladness. And Now the writer is trying to explain in this context why it is that Purim is celebrated over two days, and maybe maybe if you have a cousin out in the provinces you've heard one date that's different than the other. And there's there's actually two days for purim, not one. And he's settling this. He's saying, look, because there's a second day of fighting in just one location. Right, in the s the capital city there. And so then he goes on to say, look, they they made they they made it a day of feasting and gladness. It says in verse seventeen. And then on on ver on verse eighteen he says, Well look, they they were fighting on both the thirteenth and fourteenth days, and on the fifteenth of the month they rested and made it a day of feast. And this is a theme that carries through the end of the chapter, and it's really a theme we see throughout the book of Esther. There's a lot of feasting. That's how Esther is able to defeat her enemy Haman is at it at two days of feasting. The book starts at six months of feasting, followed by another week of feasting just for good measure. And it goes from six months of feasting for the entire uh uh empire to celebrate and then one week just for the capital city, just like we have here, fighting across the whole empire, and then one day just for the capital city. And we see these themes kind of echoed. Well then in verses 20 through 22, and again at the end of the chapter, we have God's agents, Esther and Mordecai, consecrating this holiday officially. Legislating it so, at least with for the Jews. It says in verse twenty, Mordecai wrote these things and sent to all the Jews near and far who were in all the provinces of King Ahazueras, to establish among them that they should celebrate yearly the fourteenth and fifteenth days of the month of Adar, as the days on which the Jews had rest from their enemies, as the month which was turned from sorrow to joy for them. And from mourning to a holiday. They should make them days of feasting and joy, of sending presents to one another and gifts to the poor. What does that sound like to you? To me it sounds like Christmas. Sounds like the way we celebrate Christmas. We are to celebrate God's victories. We're to celebrate when He's good to us. How often when you see an answered prayer, do you sometimes mutter Maybe even call it a silly prayer. I call it a silly prayer when I do this. You can't find your wallet. That happens for me like, well, probably about 363 days out of 365 in a year, right? Um I'm always losing my wallet I try to, there are probably days I'm I or there are probably times that I forget. I try to, when I find that wallet, thank my God for but Not even for finding the wallet, but the fact that he's a God who cares enough to help me find my wallet and that he answered my prayer How often do we do we rejoice when we see an answered prayer? You were praying that you'd get to work on time and and once the death settles and you really did get to work on time and you didn't get a s a speeding ticket on the way, do you take your time At your desk, and especially when you get home and the day's over and you're talking to your spouse or your family about your day, do you pause and do you do you just praise God that He answered your prayer? And then the bigger things, do we celebrate God's victory? That's what is important to them. Let's look at the last few verses. It's it's affirmed. That's Mordecai Esther's doing the same thing. And it's beautifully stated. It says verse twenty-nine, then Queen Esther, the daughter of Abbael with with Mordecai the Jew, wrote with full authority to confirm the second letter about Prim. And Mordecai sent letters to all the Jews to the one hundred and twenty-seven provinces of The kingdom of Hazuerus with words of pre peace and truth to confirm these days of Purim at their appointed time, as Mordecai the Jew and Queen Esther had prescribed for them, and as they had decreed for themselves and their descendants concerning. So the decree of Esther confirmed these matters of Purim, and it was written in the book. Purim, Purim, Purim, over and over again. Do you see how important it is? They w they don't want to make they don't want any Jew in the in the whole empire to miss that they need to they need to worship God. They need to do a special Feasting day to celebrate God's victory every year. It's important to them. Actually, two days of feasting. It's important that they remember God's victory there. Well then that brings up the intervening verses 23 to 26. It summarizes why they're having this day of feasting. It says, so the Jews accepted the custom which they had begun. This is verse 23. twenty three, as Mordecai had written to them. Verse twenty four Because Haman, the son of Hamadatha the Agagite, the enemy of all the Jews, had plotted against the Jews to annihilate them, had cast pure, that is the lot to consume them and destroy them. But when Esther came before the king, he commanded by letter that this wicked plot which Haman had devised against the Jews should return on his own head, and that he had his that he and his sons should be hanged on the gala So they call these days Purem after the name Pure. Now pure is the word for lot. And just for our sake. When you hear pure or you hear lot, just think of die or multiple dice, right? They're small. Does God have control over the dice roll. As I was arguing with my friend Brian twenty-some years ago. Or does he just kind of leave it up to chance? No, God is sovereign over the dice. And that's the emphasis here. We're going to worship God because he is sovereign over such a tiny little thing as For us, it's a six-sided die, depending on what lot they were using. We usually have a six-sided die, or if you if you play certain games, you might have a twenty-sided die or an eight-sided die or a twelve-sided die, but does it really matter? It's a tiny piece of plastic And God is sovereign over that. Now can I tell you one more story about me and Brian? Because it relates to that conversation. I told him it doesn't really matter. God Yet, sure, God's sovereign over all things and he can be sovereign over the dice rolls, but surely he just puts that like an autopilot. He doesn't care Well, I was really into playing risk. Anyone play risk? Right? Where you have the little plastic armies and you gotta conquer the the world. Now i if if you don't know what I'm talking about, let me explain it really quick. The game of risk, you have a world map And at the beginning, everyone um gets to choose which territories they're going to settle. And if I want to uh attack Eastern Australia from Western Australia, which if you're a a risk aficionado, you know that is absolutely crucial. It's the first thing you have to do. If you have any intention of winning the game, you have to secure Australia Right? If all I want I'm not kidding. And don't ever play against me and use that against me. That's mine, all right. Now uh If Australia is attacking New Zealand, then I I roll my dice and you roll your dice and we see how many how many little plastic men lose their lives in the the fight for New Zealand And then the winner either moves in or or or retreats. Alright. Got Now, God is sovereign over dice rolls. And when I was playing risk at the same time I'm having this conversation with Brian, we weren't playing risk while we had the conversation, but we were playing a lot of risk at that time. We were having risk tournaments with our friends And I'm gonna be vulnerable with you, okay? I showed myself to have a real anger problem. And my friends enjoyed recounting for me again and again, regaling with the tale of when I took those dice that just wouldn't obey me and I threw them across the common room. Because those ain't and God used God used his sovereignty over those st Stupid plastic dice that just wouldn't I had the laws of probability on my side, I'd have a super far superior army and I would lose And God used the fact that I just kept on losing to expose my anger, to expose my pride, and to ultimately to make me more like Jesus, to convict me of my sin. And humble me, because I embarrassed myself in front of people. Years later, they were still telling that story. Fortunately, it hasn't followed me after after college until now, and it's on the internet for posterity. God's sovereign over this stuff. It matters to him. Now if God cares about the littlest details, like stupid insignificant pieces of plastic or wood. Doesn't that tell you that that he cares about the details, the little insignificant details of your life? They're important to him because they're important to you. They're important to him when they're not important to you. Now I asked you earlier, wouldn't you like that kind of God to be your father? He promises to adopt anyone who will flee to him. Is he your father? Has he gone through the adoption process with you? Or do you do you just you're nod along to this stuff? You're not along when it's being said. But do you belong to him? Do you worship him? Have you turned from doing things your way Turn, we call the it's a big, big theological word. It's called repentance, but have you just turned, that's all it means? Have you turned away from going your own way? It's going God's way. That's what biblical belief is. Aha, Jesus, let me go let me go your way now. And now I'm going his way. Or do we just say, yeah, I believe that. That's true, that's true, that's true. But is it a belief that changes your life? Is it a belief that turns your posture of heart? I want to take us to the application now. Number one, and you're not going to have slides for this. This is just for you to follow along. You can take whatever notes you want. We need to understand That when God speaks in the Old Testament of making war against his enemies, that we have a greater fulfillment in the New Testament, that war now takes place in human hearts. Because that's where his greatest enemies reside. Who are his two greatest enemies? Sin and evil. And of course we say that's personified in Satan. And he will take care of Satan, he will cast him into the lake of fire. But in the meantime, this war that we're involved with, he calls us to make war with him, it's in human hearts. And that's why we can easily say Look, you can read the book of Esther. That doesn't mean that God is calling you to go and blow up an abortion clinic. It doesn't mean that He's calling you to attack Muslims in the streets when they're celebrating at their local mosque. On some holy day. We don't do those things because God calls us to fight against evil in the heart He doesn't call us to make physical war. That doesn't mean that he doesn't ordain war between nations. He doesn't call the church, the people of God. He doesn't call us to fight with physical weapons. He says in the Apostle Paul says that our weapons are not carnal But they're mighty for bringing down spiritual haunt strongholds in heavenly places. So we, instead of blowing up abortion clinics We look for opportunities to speak to those people and tell them that they're sinning against their Creator by destroying life, inviting them into our homes, though they're our enemies. And explaining to them who their creator is, and that his son came into the world, creator himself, and died so they could be reconciled to him. Have you been reconciled to Christ? We build rapport with our Muslim neighbors, and we lovingly inform them that no amount of rule following, whether it's the Ten Commandments from Moses or the five pillars from Muhammad. No amount of rule following will make you right with God. Jesus Christ has to, you have to be united to Christ, who died under God's wrath. For your sin and yet rose from the dead. Because he's clothed you now with his righteousness. You need to be clothed with the righteousness of Christ. You're not going to be able to follow those rules and make it up, or just write a big check at church every once in a while. We tell both of those hell ground hellbound groups and all other unsafe people That Jesus Christ is the only way for them to be made right with God. This is our call to war. God calls us to join His war against sin and evil. And he calls it the Great Commission. Or we we call it that anyway. He calls us to go and share the gospel with those still enslaved by it. That's one way that we make war with his enemies, with sin and evil. But do you know there's another way that we need to make war with his enemies sin and evil? Sin and evil is still in your heart. You've been forgiven it if you're in Christ if you're in Christ. If you've trusted Christ, you've repented. You were counted as righteous as Jesus Christ is, and he was counted as guilty as you But in actuality, do you still have sin in your life? Yes, you do. I know you do. Don't worry, I'm not I'm not keeping tabs, but I know the human I know human nature, I know the human heart, I still have sin in my life. And so we are called to make war with that daily. And to put this all another way, we must understand That when we read of enemies being destroyed in the Old Testament, we need to remember God has destroyed his two greatest enemies. He's destroyed them in Christ, and that's sin and death. Death, and now we're just fighting out the last skirmishes in our own flesh and by sharing the gospel with others that they may fight it too. We are to make war daily against our own sin. We yield each area of our lives slowly, progressively. We lose a battle here, but then we win a skirmish there. We obey him because he has already atoned for that specific sin and he will give us victory just as he gave victory to the Jews of Purim. The second application is that God, who we see throughout the Book of Esther, he is a God of reversals. And we may feel like the best days for the church are behind us, whether you're thinking this local church or the church in America, the church in North America, the church in the world. You might feel like the best days for the Christian church are behind us, but God can work a reversal. He can work a revival. He's done it. throughout history. And so I would encourage you, do you want there to be revival? Do you want to see the people in your life that you've maybe been too timid to share the gospel with? Do you want to see them Turn to Jesus because you love Jesus and because you love them and you want them to know each other. Do you want that? First of all, pray for them specifically, but also pray that God would send a spirit of revival. And when we look at history, when there have been great revivals or even lesser revivals, most times, I don't know if I can say without qualification, every time, certainly most times. The vast majority of times, those revivals have been preceded by a movement of prayer. And sometimes it's a great movement among many people. Sometimes, though, it's a great movement among very, very few people But they're zealous in their prayers. What if we as a church determined, and I mean this, this isn't just because it sounds good when I preach it. What if we determine that we're going to set a specific time Or times, because some people can make that time and some people can only make that time. But that we as a church, we're going to gather together at the local Panera. Or at the church or in some parking lot somewhere before we go to work. And we're going to pray three days a week, five days a week, seven days a week, that God would send revival for The four county area that that Laurel resides in. Montgomery County, Prince George's County, Queen uh Anarundal County, Montgomery County. Are we are we gonna pray for our counties? Are we gonna pray for Laurel? Are we gonna pray for Maryland? Are we gonna pray for our country? Not not that we I'm not talking about politics. I'm talking about are we going to pray for a revival of genuine religion? Of people turning to Jesus Christ in mass numbers. Are we going to do that? That's the first thing we need to do, but we need to couple our prayer with action as well. We need to take the gospel to our neighbors. You're praying for a successful VBS. Thank you. Are you going to participate in VBS? Are you going to do something to contribute to VBS? What are you doing to help it make it successful within your own limitations? The third application is a little bit different. I want to remind you what we said, all about Purim, all about the celebrating, all about the rejoicing. Two days every year. They set aside. They still do it now. From what I've read of modern celebrations of Kurem, Jewish people love it. It's a lot of fun. And they they they often they certainly read the book of Esther, sometimes they reenact it. It's an exciting book, right? You've you've you've gone through it with me these last multiple months. It's a fun story, and they act it out, and they have good food and and they they have fun. Mordecai says, go ahead and send gifts to each other. Like imagine imagine Christmas, all right? They do it two days every year. Because God had delivered his people in a miraculous way, he prevented genocide. Do you realize, though, that God has given an even greater deliverance in the resurrection of Jesus Christ? He's defeated death. He's he's delivered it s killing blow. People still die. For now. For now people are still dying. But But anyone who dies in Christ, actually anyone who dies at all, is yet going to be resurrected again, and anyone who dies in Christ is resurrected to eternal life. The rest are resurrected to eternal death. But it's soon gone. It's soon done. It says at the very end of your Bible that God casts death itself into the lake of fire. Death will die so that all else will live. So what we celebrate, that triumph over death with life, that the resurrection of Christ, we don't celebrate it once a year. We don't celebrate it two days a year, like Pureen. We celebrate it 52 times a year. We celebrate it every Sunday because Sunday was the day that he rose from the dead. We don't celebrate an anniversary of that. We celebrate a Anyone know the Latin? The equivalent of every week, a week anniversary, that sounds silly. We celebrate the resurrection of Christ. Every seven days. We give a seventh of our days to him Why like the seventh day of creation, the sixth days of creation, the seventh day wasn't creation, it was rest Ordained from the beginning, we give a seventh of our time to worshiping this amazing God and celebrating joyfully that we have victory over death in Christ. Do you love Jesus? Has He made you whole? Are you free from your sin and temptation? Not that you're you never sin or you never give into temptation or never feel tempted. But has he given you freedom? Has he given you victory to conquer those? Then let's celebrate over we let's celebrate his victory over death together every second. Let's commit to that doing that. Let's have the joy we ought to have every seven days. It doesn't mean we deny the sorrows in our lives, but we rejoice that Jesus Christ has overcome all of that sorrow caused by sin. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we praise you for the victory in Christ. Jesus has died. And there's remission for our sins. He rose from the dead with no sin left cling to him. It had all been atoned for. We have freedom in Christ. Lord, give them that. Help us to be serious about killing the sin in our own lives. Help us to be serious about taking that message of freedom and life and victory to our unsaved neighbors and families and family members, co-workers, friends. Teammates, and the people we see at the grocery store. Lord, help us to do that. Help us to be zealous for your kingdom. see it grow, to see other people delivered from death, and you getting more of that praise you deserve. Father, I pray if there's anyone here who needs to turn to Christ, It's not merely a scent with their mind, but in their heart. Turn to Christ, believe in him, and be saved. And we ask that you would save that person or those people tonight. this morning. Lord, we ask all of these things in Jesus' name. Bless our worship in this last song. We pray you'd be pleased with it, because we are joyful that you've given us victory. Amen.