Morning. Here we're just going to be um closing the uh we're ending the Live feed for just a moment. We can use the word momentarily that's just uh let us have uh make sure we don't get silent by Facebook. Can you hear me now? Okay. Yeah, I'll say that again. We're going to be cutting off the live feed just momentarily. It'll be restored even while I'm praying, uh just so that uh um so that we're not cut off by Facebook. Facebook uh if we're playing music it sometimes cuts us off and then they won't cut us off during the music, but then they'll cut us off during the message and we definitely don't want the message to get cut off. So um if you're watching, just hit refresh in like two seconds. Let's go to the Lord in a word of prayer. Dearest Heavenly Father, it's a privilege to be here with your people. Thank you that we can call one another brother and sister. Because we've been adopted into the same family in Christ, that Jesus Christ becomes our older brother. You, Heavenly Father, we can call you Father because of Christ sharing his sonship, his status as son with us who've believed in him He has he has life to give us because he's risen from the dead and he's atoned for our sins prior to that. And you adopt us by your Spirit coming into our hearts, enabling us to cry out to you. And recognize you as our Father, to cry almost as though we're saying, Daddy. And so we ask reverently, Lord, that you would draw near to us this morning Help us to love you in ways we are unable to do unless you enable us. Help us to listen to the word you have for us. Please, would you Give us attentive hearts and help us to receive the message worshipfully. Lord, you are so much. You are holy and righteous. You are just. You are transcendent, and yet you draw near to us. You are kind and gentle, lowly, humble And yet powerful and glorious and beautiful, yet you veil that glory so often Because of our sin, but not only because of our sin. Because you you are a God who humbles himself. You are gracious and merciful and full of compassion. And we also praise you that you have wrath against sin, against wrongdoing, against people hurting people. We thank you for that, as well as for your grace and your mercy. And and all of these things are true of you, Lord, but but we can't we can't fully comprehend them, and we we Rarely do we see all of it all at once. I'm not sure if we ever see all of that all at once in Scripture. And the passage before us today, Lord, I ask for help in preaching it. We ask for help in receiving it. Because you do show us some of your manifold perfections Help us to appreciate your beauty and your glory and to see you as worthy of our praise as we as we see and Lord help us to comprehend these things. These truths about you kind of held in intention as we see some of your attributes, not all of them. Help us to keep in mind who you are as a whole. Would we not just dissect you on a table and pull out a piece of this and a piece of that but see you as the the whole powerful, awesome, glorious God that you are, and yet compassionate compassionate and drawing near to us. Help us to love you more. And for those of us, Lord, who are hurting, and this m this passage is for people who are discouraged, for people who are hurting, for people who For people who are depressed, for people who are struggling with immense burdens and perhaps feeling disillusioned by life. Draw near to us, help us to receive that message. Wipe our tears. But help us to hear the whole message, Lord. Help us to be discouraged by the right things and not by the wrong things. To be angry at the right things and not the wrong things Help us to be zealous for your glory. And would you bless this time we spend in your word together? Preach to our hearts by your Spirit, Lord. We love you. In Jesus' name, amen. Please turn with me to first Kings nineteen. First Kings nineteen I've been excited to preach this to you since Vacation Bible School a few weeks ago. I think I mentioned to you that we had two kind of two rounds of teaching uh with some of the older girls we were going through um 1 John and we We did a message from 1 John last week. We were also going through with the whole group, and especially the younger kids, through the life of Elijah, or a portion of the life of Elijah. And so I've chosen this particular episode from BDS and from his life to preach to you this morning before we move on to the Gospel of Matthew. One of the great figures of church history, especially among Baptists, which we are, is the English preacher Charles Haddon Spurgeon. I don't know if there's anyone here who has not heard of him, perhaps perhaps some, but many of you I know are familiar with him. The Lord saved him at the age of fifteen. He began pastoring his first church out in the country about age seventy, uh and then he moved to London to pastor uh a prominent church there, or at least it would certainly become a prominent church, uh, before he turned He was a rather unique, brilliant, we might say genius person, one of the kind that only come around once a generation or so. Chances are you've heard of him. You may have one or more books by him or about him on your bookshelves. And if you haven't heard of him, that's okay too. But he is reckoned by some to be, and and it appears to be accurate, the most published man in the English language. He was constantly every week having his sermons published in pamphlet form. They have since been released in volumes. He has more than 60 volumes of his sermons in print. Today. They're still in print today. He died 130 years plus ago. And they're still in print today. I have sixty They're all digital. I don't have them on my bookshelf, so if you want to go in and gape at them, sorry, they're not there. But uh Uh he is highly published. He was very well known in his day. In fact, uh going to hear a sermon in his church uh was was something you did if you were on vacation to London. It was a an actual tourist attraction to go and see him preach. On top of his preaching and the reputation he had there, he also ran a pastor's training college. He founded an orphanage. And he funded these both of these ministries, especially orphanage, largely by the sales of his printed sermons. In fact, his his widow when he died was practically destitute because they poured so much of their money, not quite destitute, but practically, uh, poured so much of their money into these ministries caring for other people. People. Charles Spurgeon is a hero of the Christian faith and the the Christian church. But what's less commonly known about him, you may or may not know about him, is that he suffered crippling. depression. And I find it encouraging, not in a not in a morbid way, I hope, but encouraging that such heroes uh were afflicted as we are. In the last five years of his ma ministry, he was out of the pulpit frequently, sometimes multiple weeks at a time, because of the depression. Now that wasn't the only thing that's the first time, keeping him uh from the pulpit. He had bad gout. But uh that further incr uh further contributed to his discouragement. and his depression. Now he was prone to depression early in life and early in his ministry. But late in his ministry he had a season of cr controversy is known as the downgrade controversy. I'm not gonna But he was absolutely positively on the right side of that controversy. And during that controversy, many of his students and former students and friends not only opposed him, but seems to take some sort of delight in gladly opposing him publicly. And it broke his heart. And he took a trip to the coast of France. I believe he took multiple trip trips there, but to Mont Menton, France, to try and heal up both from his gout and from this severe broken heart. His depression and the controversy that influenced it is largely thought to be his cause of death because he never left France. He died there at the age of 57. Sorrow and discouragement and depression are normal, painful parts of the Christian life. And Add to that that as Christians, we sometimes, maybe even often, guilt trip ourselves for feeling these normal things that all people feel. Don't we? Sometimes we suppose that I'm a Christian, I have Christ, I have everything in him, I shouldn't feel this way. And and then that actually comes Our depression. Now there's truth to that in that you have Christ, the source of all strength and joy. But he himself was called the man of sorrows. He himself felt discouragement and sorrow, perhaps despair, we might say in the garden. We'll tell ourselves we have no right to feel this way, that Jesus should be enough, and I think on a logical level there's some truth to that, but there's also the plain truth that while we live on a sin-cursed earth, we will feel sorrows Sometimes so strongly they seem to get into our bones. Elijah was perhaps the second or third greatest of all the Old Testament prophets. We know he wasn't the first greatest. That was John the Baptist. You can argue whether it was the second or third with where Moses fits in there. One of the greats, one of the great figures of history. And yet he suffered a period of such great sorrow and frustration and discouragement. It's probably fair to call it depression. It's more of a modern term. And we're going to look into that this morning. So if you're not already there, please turn with me to 1 Kings chapter 19. I wanted to preach this episode specifically because this is something that many of us decide we we struggle with at least at times. Whether you'd say that, you know, I I I I'm not I'm not I don't struggle with clinical depression, but I definitely get the blues. I get definitely get down. I get low I'm not on antidepressants. I haven't seen a psychiatrist, and I don't intend to, but man, I get what you're saying. This is hard. Sometimes life wears us down. And so I think that it is in helpful and encouraging to us to consider Elijah's case. And I think that is especially relatable. So I hope that this will be both a challenge to you because I think that you will see that there are there are things about his case that is not in common with us. But there's much that is, and I hope that it'll be an encouragement for you and a step away forward. So as we start into that, I'm just going to show you that how this passage breaks down. Uh we're going to look at the first eighteen verses of the chapter, not the whole chapter but most of it. The first eight verses, I think we can divide this geographically. First eight verses, he's on the move. He's changing locations a few times But then in he's he's on the run from Queen Jezebel. Um he's leaving uh the northern kingdom of Israel, going to the southern kingdom, and then going even further from there. But verses 9 through 18, he's all in the same place. He's on Mount Horeb And what we learn in this first section is that when God's people are despairing, he provides for them specifically in his judgment. If you're following along in your notes page, that is what goes in those blanks. When his people are despairing, God provides for them in gentleness. We'll see how this answers that fact that discouragement and depression and sorrow and disillusionment are normal parts of the Christian life that are painful. So starting in verse 1, and Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, also how he had executed all the prophets with the sword. So let's recap for a minute, shall we? The people of God at this point are living in not one but two kingdoms. The nation of Israel, and we tend to think of it as one unified land, right? Although today there there certainly are pockets that like Gaza, West Bank, uh that are not fully under Israeli control, but we think of that as one single country, and it ought to have been in Elijah's day, but it wasn't Due to Solomon's sin, you may remember the country has been split into two kingdoms. Not two halves either. You got the northern kingdom, which is huge, it's ten out of twelve tribes. The southern kingdom is the last two tribes. It's much smaller. Northern kingdom is called Israel. Southern country is called Judah. And most of Elijah's ministry takes place in the northern kingdom. Sometimes it takes place outside of that in a foreign place, like Sidon. And uh right now, Israel is a terrible place to be because the people are following false gods instead of the one true God. Yahweh or the Lord. When you see the Lord in all caps in your Old Testament, it's it's actually replacing the the the the covenant name for the Lord Yahweh there. That's that was an attempt of the the translators to observe the third commandment, to not take his name in vain. But his name is Yahweh. And I think that we can say that reverently without breaking the third commandment. He is the covenant God. He's the only true God, but he's also made this special covenant, this special relationship and agreement with the people of Israel. And they're not keeping that covenant. A major reason, not the only reason, but a major reason for them not keeping that covenant is because King Ahab, he's the king of the northern kingdom. Has broken God's law by illegally marrying a princess from a foreign nation, a nation full of idolatry, called Sidon. You may remember I just said Elijah spent some of his time inside and ministering there as well, or at least staying there That princess, that Sidonian princess, who now becomes the illegitimate queen of Israel, is Jezebel, and chances are you've heard of her and you've heard of Ahab because they're two of the biggest villains in all of the Bible She's even mentioned in uh the New Testament. She's mentioned in the book of Revelation. Jezebel sponsors the worship of two false gods in particular. Now the the people are going after more than just two, but two in particular she is sponsoring. She's literally feeding the prophets to Asherah and the prophets to Baal. There's 450 prophets to Baal. And then another 400 prophets to Asherah that she is funding. 850 priests. to these false gods on our payroll. Well in chapter 18, maybe a familiar story to you, God working through Elijah proved that Baal is fake. He's not even real. It's not not even perhaps a demon posing as him, but just doesn't even exist at all. He's a work of fiction, at least the Baal there in Israel. God proves himself to be true. There's a great miraculous display by him consuming a sacrifice on an altar to God. Baal wouldn't do that for the Baal worshippers, but Elijah's sacrifice was consumed with spontaneous fire while the sacrifice was sopping wet. He had f Covered it in water, filled a trench with water. There was so much water. And God consumed that wet sacrifice and all of the water in the trench with fire, spontaneously, no light or fluid, no spark from Elijah. He he prayed that God would do it, and he did. And as a result, all of the people realized this And they, at Elijah's command, execute those four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal. So there's a large number of people there to be able to carry out that execution. They they go down to the bottom of the mountain and they execute And they come back up and they worship God. Ahab goes back to his wife, who apparently wasn't there. She totally, by the way, wears the pants in their marriage, which means that she's essentially functioning as the ruler of Israel, even though she's an illegitimate queen to begin with. She doesn't care that is that Yahweh proved himself. She doesn't care that the Lord, Yahweh, is the covenant God of Israel, and that her imported gods are foreign and illegitimate, and that they've been proved impotent. She doesn't care about that. All she cares about is that Elijah killed the prophets, and now she's going to kill him. And so we come to verse 2. Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah saying So let the gods do to me and more also if I do not make your life as the life of one of them by tomorrow about this time. So it's not not even enough for her to to go and arrest him. She's gonna she's gonna warn him and and and try and get him to despair ahead of time. Well, Elijah sees this. It says, When he saw that, he arose and ran for his life and went to Beersheba, which belongs to Judah, and left his servant there. Now we could accuse Elijah here of a number of things that people have. He usually doesn't change locations when you look at his life. He usually doesn't change locations of where he's staying unless the Lord tells him to. He could perhaps prepare to face his arrest and face her down. He stood up to her husband plenty. But running from a death threat, I want to remind you, because we we some for some reason we we we're reading the Bible and then we start judging the characters. And We think, well, you just he just shouldn't have ran. But if your life was threatened, I think you'd probably run. There's a an arrest due to religious persecution. I think you might flee to Canada. Actually, maybe Canada wouldn't be the best place to go, but you might try to flee that. Today missionaries leave country. For these reasons. Churches go underground when governments make it illegal to worship Christ. By the way, that happened in Canada during COVID. But in Islamic countries, in China, there are underground churches where people are seeking to worship Christ and also stay out of prison. And I think that's fair. It's a natural impulse the Lord gives us So whether or not he was fearful and sinfully so, we can argue about that, but I let's just not let's just not take the time to do so, okay? Elijah leaves the country and he goes to the far end of the next country. So he leaves Israel up in the north, he goes down to Judah, and he goes to the far southern end. He goes to Beersheba. which is down at the bottom, and he leaves his servant there, which, judging by the the Hebrew word, probably a young kid who's serving him And out of kindness, he doesn't want to take this poor kid with him when he goes because he's intending to go further into the desert, into the wilderness. He doesn't want to leave this poor take this poor kid with him. So he leaves in Bersheba, and then he goes further on into the desert. Let's keep reading. When he saw that he arose and ran for his life, went to Beersheba, which belongs to Judah, and left his servant there. But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness and came And sat down under a broom tree, and he prayed that he might die, and said, It is enough. Now, Lord, take my life, for I know better than my father's. Now, if you've struggled to keep up, that's okay. But dial in here, okay, because I think this is where it becomes real for us. Exhausted and discouraged, Elijah ventures alone into the desert. And he says he wants to die. And this is where we come to this verse and we start applying labels to Elijah, right? He's discouraged, he's depressed, he's suicidal. And I want to dispute that last one. Obviously he's discouraged. It's probably fair to say depressed. I think there are different different labels, different qualifications depending on which definition you use for depression, clinical versus non-clinical. But in in general terms of speaking, the way we use the word, yeah, he's probably depressed. If he's not quite depressed, he certainly appears to be later. Suicidal? Now, if I were praying with one of you or a group of you and somebody prayed like Elijah that says, take my life. I would be very concerned as your pastor and just as a human being, and I think anyone else would be too. But I want you to see in this whole story, there's no attempt to harm himself unless you count himself as what he's going to do later. If you count viewing God's glory the way he does, is putting himself in harm's way. Okay, fair. Uh but the Lord the Lord does that for him. Um but I but this appears to be the only time he expresses this desire that the Lord would take his life. life. And there's a lot more I could say about that. And I'm not going to because we have a church meeting after this. And I know you don't want me to preach for an hour and a half and then go into a church business. So I want to encourage you to come out on Thursday because there's more to say about this. Okay? I've already skipped over things that I had in my outline. I had in my manuscripts, and I took them out, and I really want to share them with you, but I don't have time to do it now, okay? And I want to keep the flow going. Does Elijah want to die? Yes, he says so. But I think what's going on here, and I think the text supports this, and I think you'll see it as we go on, is that rather than attempting it for himself, he is asking God. It is a prayer that the Lord will answer in his own time in a beautiful and glorious way that we wouldn't even call death. If he was really suicidal, all that Elijah would have needed to do, which is very consistent with depression, is just stay put when Jezebel says, I'm going to kill you. And he just waited for her to do it. He didn't need to exhaust himself and go out into the wilderness and then ask God to do it. So why flee to the farthest reaches of Judah? Well, it seems that he has a bigger concern, doesn't it? He cares about something bigger than his own discomfort here. Clearly he doesn't want Jezebel to win. He doesn't want her to get the credit for ending his life, which she has done so many other prophets to the Lord. Perhaps his discouragement comes not from losing But from seeing that though he won, though God won, though he clearly put his glory on display, and I realized we didn't look at that chapter, I encourage you to read The chapter before this, 1 Kings 18. Read that this afternoon. It's some of the most entertaining reading you'll do. It's a very exciting chapter. After this irrefutable proof that both Baal is fake and Yahweh is real and that Yahweh cares about his people. Jezebel and all of the rest of the people who are going to follow suit, minus 7,000 out of like millions, the vast majority of people are just going to still go on worshiping their made-up gods. Because A, they're perverse people with hardened, wicked hearts. Unbelief reigns. Belief in the true God. And because idolatry, quite frankly, is apparently more fun than worshiping a God who can judge you. And I think that brings it right home to today. We like to create God in our own image and wear t-shirts that say, only God can judge me, which is people People who do so are just bringing judgment on themselves, supposing that God won't judge them, rather than worship the God of the Bible who has the right. To discipline us and to punish our sin. And Elijah then is discouraged and frustrated because despite a long and arduous ministry, he was living by a creek. uh having to eat torn food that that scavenger birds brought him. I mean we think of how glorious and amazing that was that daily these these ravens were delivering him food. They weren't Amazon drones, okay They this stuff is torn food, torn dead meat. I hope he was cooking it. Um kind of disgusting, amazing, miraculous that the Lord took care of him, and I'm not belittling that But it's not an easy way to live. I don't think you would choose to live that way off of roadkill that is then delivered to you from the beak of an unclean unclean bird. He's done that. He's lived among love lived in poverty. He has challenged kings and been persecuted for it. He's seen his friends ex Executed for their loyalty to the Lord. And he's tired and he's done. And he says, God, I've done all I can for you. Would you just take me home now? Right? That's not exactly what we think of when we think of it when we're like, man, he just he just refuses to see the truth. And he's uh he's egotistical. He supposes he's the only guy serving God. Those are the charges that get levied against him, especially when we get to the next section, where he says, I've been very jealous for the Lord God of hosts. For the children of Israel have forsaken your covenant, torn down your altars, and killed your prophets with the sword. I alone am left, and they seek to take my life. Right, no su no suicidal faults there, no even plea for the Lord to do so That's his complaint. We'll get there in a moment. We tend to charge him with being egotistical and supposing uh have have this this like messiah complex, right? That's not what's going on. He's saying, God, I've done all I can for you. Would you take me home? I'm finished with all of this. I'm just done. Stick a fork in me. And we don't see him ask that again. So how does God respond to that? Well He cares for him and he draws near to him in gentleness. Look at this in verse 5. He's having done this, having ran out into the wilderness, fleeing for his life, he collapses from exhaustion. It says verse five Then as he lay and slept under a broom tree, suddenly an angel touched him, and said to him, Arise and eat. And he looked, and there by his head was a cake baked on coals and a jar of water, so he ate and drank, and lay down again. And I hope I can say this reverently, but when I read this, I can't help but think about my mom a little bit. Like when I was sick, and she would she would wake me up as a little child and say, honey, you need to eat something something. Please have this chicken noodle soup. We see parental love here. God sending his angel. This angel may be actually an appearance of God himself. Coming and saying, son, I know you need to sleep, but you also need to keep up your strength. Have something to eat. And he's made him He he's made him a cake and he's given him a jug of water. And do you remember the the the old widow, or maybe not old, but the the widow that uh Elijah was staying for a while with? He asked her to bake him a cake and to give him a drink from her jug of water. And the Lord is doing the same thing. He's baked him a cake and giving him a drink from a jug of water Let's keep reading. So he ate and drank and lay down again. He's exhausted. And the angel of the Lord came back a second time. Do you see the kindness, the care of God here? And I'm going to pause before we read what he says. I want you to see the kindness, the gentleness of God. in taking care of him. And just a few minutes ago, we all as a church read what Jesus said. Right? We read it in first person that Jesus said, right? Come unto me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. And then again, I am gentle and lowly in heart, he identifies himself. And you will find rest for your souls. That's the kind of God that we see here approaching Elijah. We see someone an awful lot like Jesus, because Jesus Himself is God. And this is the kind of kindness we can expect from our God when we are low and at our bottom. And I've seen, and myself, I've been guilty of this. I come to this text, and I just want to judge him. But that's not what God's doing. He's not rebuking him. He's nourishing him. He's caring for him. And that's what he wants to do for you when you're struggling. And so I say, come to Jesus. When you are struggling, see the one who says, Come to me, are you tired? Are you working too hard to try and make yourself right with God, with me, with my father? Just come to me and rest and let me do that for you. You'll find rest for your soul. This is an invitation to you right now. If you're feeling in any way like Elijah did, come to the Lord Jesus and let him take your burdens from you and give you rest. And you know what? When the Lord came to Elijah like this, His pain didn't go away immediately. It went on for another 40 days, at least. And so I'm not saying come to Jesus and he'll snap his fingers and you'll just feel good. And if you don't, well then shame on you for feeling depressed still. That's not what God does, and that's not what I'm doing. But I'm saying that you will find a sympathetic Savior. He was called the man of sorrows. He went through the depths of being forsaken by his own father, being forsaken by his friends for us. Constantly he was spat upon. When he is doing good in the name of God, when he's casting out demons, what are they saying? That's because you're the raw demons. You serve Fields Above, you serve Satan. The better he does, the worse accusations they get. And Jesus knows what Elijah feels like. And whatever it is you might feel, you may not be dealing with stuff like this now, but but chances are you will at some point or you have in the past. Well again. Come to Jesus. He will give you rest for your souls. Doesn't mean it'll all go away immediately, but he'll give you rest. Let him take your burdens from you. Now let's let's continue with what the angel is saying because he says something I think kind of weird. I think it's a real hint to what's going on, right? The angel of the Lord came back the second time and touched him and said, Arise and eat. Okay, he's done that before. But look at this, because the journey is too great for you He seems to know the journey that Elijah's about to take. And if you're thinking, well, yeah, he just took a big journey. No, verse 8 tells us he's going to go on a 40-day and 40-night journey. And he's saying, you need to get your strength up because I know where you're going next. Do you see this? Elijah apparently has a purpose in his mind. He's not this is not your typical case of depression where he just wants to stay in bed all day. He has a purpose in mind. There's no command, hey, I want you to go to Mount Horeb and then I'll meet with you there. This is Elijah deciding, I'm going to go and I'm going to go to the Lord's home. So to speak, not to heaven, but I'm going to go meet with God at his doorstep, and I'm going to bring my complaint to him. And the Lord knows this, and he enables him to do it. And so this is why I say, let's not be so hard on him because the Lord isn't here. He has got a purpose in mind that he wants to carry out. I still think he's depressed in in a manner of speaking, but he's also determined. And I say that because of where he's headed. Because it tells us in the next verse, verse 8. But he's going to Mount Horeb. Look at this. So he arose and ate and drank and went in the strength of that food forty days and forty nights as far as Horeb, the mountain of God. Do you know what Mount Horeb is, or where Mount Horeb is? You know this by another name, probably better than Horeb. It's Mount Sinai. It's where where Moses gave the Ten Commandments. Actually, Moses didn't give them, did he? It was uh that's a common misconception. God gave them The Ten Commandments at Sinai literally spoke from the sky to the people. After that, Moses would have to go onto the mountain, get revelation from God, and come and tell it to the people. Because they were so scared when they heard the Lord speak from the sky and give them the Ten Commandments that they said, please, Moses, don't ever let God do that again. You be our mediator. And God said, they get it. They're scared. They fear me. That's right and good. And yes, that's what we'll do. This is where Elijah wants to go. He wants to go to where God initiated that special covenant, that special relationship with his people. He wants to go to Mount Sinai. And just in case you're you're doubting me, if you were to read through Exodus, if you were to read through Deuteronomy, We tend to see those two words, those two names used interchangeably. Horeb and cyanai. You can ask me why uh it could be for language reasons, but uh it's frequent Frequently throughout the Old Testament and even in the New, people have multiple names. They often have two or more names. Often it's that they have a Hebrew name and then they have a name in another language And these could be just two different languages. Moses was living in Midian for a long time, for 40 years, and that's when he first came to Sinai. And it was called Mount Horeb in Exodus chapter. 3. But when God says, you will serve me on the same mountain, it's when they get there, and it's called Mount Sinai. And over and over again we see these two names, Horeb and Sinai, used interchangeably. So this is where Elijah's headed. He's going to seek an audience with the Lord just as Moses did. And I really want to go into into how that goes, right? But first we need to pause because there's an im Important application here as we get to the end of the section. It means we backtrack a little bit and think about Jezebel, right? Only God can change hearts. This is why Elijah is despairing, right? Because he sees that the queen, and he knows that following their lead, all the other people are going to do the same thing. They're not going to turn back to the Lord. Yeah, okay, in euphoria, for a moment, the people who saw that miracle did execute the prophets of Baal. But as soon as the miracle's gone, as soon as it's the new day They go back to their idolatry and Elijah sees this and he gets discouraged Because he knows that okay, there's a there is an exception he doesn't know about. There's 7,000 people out of the millions who do commit idolatry, there will be 7,000 that won't. But he doesn't see that, he doesn't know that. Even though they had clear proof that the Lord Yahweh is God of Israel, even though they have clear proof that these other ones are either impostors or sheer works of fiction. They don't seem to care. It doesn't break through their hard hearts. This is how hard human hearts are. This is your heart. This is the heart of people who don't know Christ. Hearts are impenetrable unless the Spirit of God moves in them. So there's a couple of implications for you Has God broken through the shell of your heart? Have you turned to God? Or have you just supposed, no, I was born a Christian. I've always been this good. Because that would be a hint that perhaps you have a more hardened heart than you realize. We must turn to God, and that means He needs to break through it. And perhaps even hearing this The Lord is starting to crack that shell. And that you yet need to turn to Christ to be made whole. But it means something else for us, right? For those of us who have Where God has started to penetrate that heart, and we have turned to him. You've still got sin and hardness that that needs to be dealt with. Bring it under under the Lord's sovereignty there. But have you tried to share the gospel with someone you love, someone you work with, a neighbor, a dear friend, family member, teammates? And they just won't turn and you feel like I there's something wrong. I I I'm trying the best I can, but I I'm just no good. As an evangelist, I just can't explain the gospel. Yeah, I didn't go to seminary like the pastor did. It's up to him. I can't do it. And maybe you start to despair and you get upset with yourself. And you start to feel like Elijah did, right? Because we see the hardness of hearts and the Lord hasn't hasn't cracked that shell yet, and we we're trying we're putting on ourselves to do what only God can do. Do you hear do you get me? If you are trying, you're supposing that if I just had the right argument, I I could make them see I could get them to turn if I could just appeal in the right way to the right emotion with the right sentiment They would see as I do and they'd be saved. And sadly it just doesn't work that way. We are that hardened, that bad. I don't mean you as an evangelist. I mean them as the evangelie And what we need to do is pray for our family members and co-workers, neighbors, and teammates. And we need to be content to leave the results in God's hands. That doesn't mean you stop. Alright, I prayed for them. God will you save them? I'm done. Right? It doesn't mean that. Keep on evangelizing. And keep on praying and ask for wisdom as that sometimes it's better to remain silent for a season. I have beaten myself up a lot because so and so hasn't gotten saved. You know what? I should have given a full-blown gospel presentation there. I've only done it three times and I should have done it that night as well, right? Or other times, I gave that full-blown gospel presentation and I was I was probably too too bullheaded and oh man, I've blown it, right? And I and I can be so hard on myself. And probably there are times that's justified. But ultimately God calls you to be faithful. He doesn't call you to save someone because you can't save anybody, only He can. Point them to Him and you let Him save them and you pray and you plead with God to do that. So I just I want to hopefully relieve that burden for you that if you feel like Why won't my great uncle? Why won't my dear friend trust Christ? What is wrong with me? Don't go feeling like Elijah. Trust it to the Lord. Let him be sovereign here. And we're going to see the sovereign God show show up and show himself once again. to this weary, discouraged, disillusioned prophet in verses 9 to 18. Because what we see here is that when his people are struggling, God reveals himself to them. First we saw when his people are despairing, God provides for them in gentleness. We could use that same word, despairing, struggling, depressed, discouraged, whatever you want to put in there. But when we are struggling in this way, God reveals himself. To us. If we would seek him, will you seek him? This is the part where we especially get hard on Elijah. I've said some of it already, so I'm going to try not to repeat myself too much. But he's been charged with a number of things I don't think he's guilty of, especially of of being egotistical and supposing he's the only selfish person or sorry, the the only righteous person uh zealous for the Lord. So let's look at verse 9. There he went into a cave and spent the night in that place. And behold, the word of the Lord came to him, and he said to him, What are you doing here, Elijah? I'm going to pause real briefly to say, do you remember when this happened with Moses? And Moses said, God, would you show Show me your glory. I want to see your glory. And God said yes, right? And he said, I'm going to put you in the cleft of the rock. I'm going to cup you with my hand and pass by you. I won't let you see me because it'll just kill you. But as I pass past you and you can see my back, I'll let you see my back. And it would have been a glorious sight. Well, they put him there in a cleft of the rock. And we don't know this and we can't prove this, but it is possible that this cave that Elijah's going into is the very cleft. that Moses was in. This is a a repeating of a historical event. He knows what he's doing. He's going where Moses was. It may be a different cave. It may not be that craft. But he's going to the same mountain for a similar purpose. And God questions Elijah for the first time. So far he's he's just reached his hand out and provided for him and loved him and encouraged him. And now he asked him a question for the first time. What are you doing here, Elijah? And historically, Christians have seen this as a as an accusation. What are you doing here, Elijah? Right? Let me tell you a story. When I was in college, uh I the the the end of the school year came and everyone was supposed to go home and I got special permission to stay one extra night. Uh s to to stay into graduation day. I had zero intention of going to graduation, but I was able to to appeal to stay because they let people stay until graduation day if you had special permission. Because I uh one of my jobs uh when I was in college was as a soccer referee. Don't ever ask me to reference a soccer soccer game for any church event or anything. I will not do it. It was the worst job ever. Constantly getting yelled at. It was horrible. But uh I I was supposed to referee a soccer game. But the weather was horrible. And it was pretty clear that that with with how heavy the the rain was, it was going to get canceled. And as I was staying there, I had one roommate staying there as well, and he and I just never really knew each other that well. It wasn't that we didn't get along or anything. We just didn't know each other that well. He had a girlfriend and And I didn't see him a whole lot uh because of that and and I had my own life going on. We didn't really know each other. And he was he was saying that night as well, and I don't know why. But he was in some bad mood. And I was trying to sleep because I had an early soccer game to ref, and it was gonna be a drive if I remember right. It was a long time ago. And uh I was gonna have to get up early and um and and go and and and referee this game. And my roommate decided he was going to blare the TV, which was right behind my head, by the way. And and the the TV itself Y you know when it when it's dark and the TV's on, it's flickering? Well we had those if you've ever l lived in a a college dorm, uh the white um cinder block walls and and the the flashing TV just f just reflects right off of those walls, even with the the lights off. I could not sleep. And I I think it may have gotten to like two in the morning or something. I couldn't sleep. And I I was angry. And I and I knew that I had to be up early. And how on earth am I going to rest this soccer game? And hold on a second. It's it's raining. Forget this. I'm just gonna go home now. And he and I had a confrontation which I did not handle the best, and I just decided I'm just gonna put my stuff into a bag and I'm just I'm I'm gonna load up the rest of my my uh my car and I'm just gonna leave and I'm not just gonna I'm not gonna stay till seven in the morning. And I went home and I got home It was an hour and twenty minute drive home from college, and I got home really late. And my mom opened the door and she goes, What are you doing here, Robert? No, she didn't. But she did want to know why I was home. And I think that my point is we can ask that question in more than one way. Elijah, what are you doing here? My mom was glad that I was home. And actually, truth be told, I may have I I don't remember. I I called her, she couldn't remember either. She remembered the event but the uh vaguely but couldn't remember. I probably would have called. I wouldn't have wanted to wake her up in in the middle of the night, but I also uh I wouldn't want to surprise her when I got there and I remember wrestling with that decision. I don't remember exactly how it went. But I can tell you that had my mom asked, and if sh sh If she did ask, What are you doing here, Robert? It wouldn't have been the way we tend to charge God with this. What are you doing here? She was glad to see her son. And she was a little puzzled and a little worried that I was driving so late at night or early in the morning or whatever the the right term is for it at that that hour. It was like three in the morning when I got home Wondering why the door is opening. And she was kind and she was glad to see me and she took care of me. Um I do remember that she she She made sure my my room was ready for me and gave me a snack. And we don't need to assume that the Lord has a charge against his prophet here, his son. His servant here. He asks, What are you doing here, Elijah? And so Elijah, we've read it already, so let me sum it up. He brings the charge against God's people He says, I've been very zealous for the Lord. Is that not true? You bet it's true And then he says, but for all of my seal, the children of Israel have forsaken your covenant. They have forsaken this covenant They've torn down your altars. They have torn down his altars. They've killed your prophets with the sword. They've done all these things. I alone am left. And he probably earnestly believes it. It's not that he's saying, I'm more zealous than all of those people. It's not that he's forgotten kind Obadiah who has housed a hundred prophets in two caves just outside of the palace. He's probably supposing that they all got caught, and all hundred prophets and kind Obadiah have all been executed. He is despairing And so what he said before still applies. He's done. And the Lord hasn't taken his life. And so he brings this charge against God's people. And the Lord doesn't smite him, he doesn't rebuke him. We mentioned Job in Sunday school. You remember all the charges that Job brings against God, and God appears in a whirlwind And speaks out of the whirlwind, not in a still small voice, but it appears he's maybe kind of yelling at him, and and he rebukes Job. And Job says, I'll put my hand over my mouth. I'm going to shut up now. I spoke without knowledge. But God doesn't do any of that here with Elijah. Instead, he says, All right, go out to the mouth of the cave. Stand there. And God does for Elijah what he did for Moses, which he has done for very, very few people in history. And he passes by. Do you see this? And behold the Lord passed by, and he sees his glory. And we tend to make a big deal about this, because here's what it says it says, And a great and strong wind tore into the mountains and broke the rocks in pieces. pieces before the Lord, but the Lord was not in the wind. And as said the wind an earthquake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake. And after the earthquake a fire But the Lord was not in the fire. And after the fire, a still small voice. And we make a lot about the fact that God was not in the wind or the earthquake or the fire. And this is where I want to tell the joke, you know, what was Elijah's favorite pop band, Earth, Wind, and Fire. Dumb joke. We want to make a lot about the fact that he wasn't in those things, but he is in this Bill Small Voice. But I don't know exactly what all that means. But what I do see here is that God is revealing himself to this prophet. And it's a privilege that few have ever had this side of eternity. And he does show him his glory. And his glory, and this is consistent with what we see in the Psalms. Consistent with what we see in other appearings of the Lord, especially Ezekiel 1, that when the Lord passes by, the elements of the earth can't take it, and the earthquakes and the wind cries out. And there's fire coming down. If you read Ezekiel 1, this phenomena is going on. And the Lord is showing his glory, and then he speaks to him. And he doesn't speak to him by yelling, he speaks gently to him. And I think that there's an element here that we sometimes miss. Is God's gentleness when he draws near to us and his love for us and his tenderness? And that he displays all of his glory and then he meets with his servant gently. And after doing all of that says after the earthquake of fire, the Lord was not on the fire, after the fire, still small voice. So it was when Elijah heard it that he wrapped his face in his mantle. It's like a cloak. And went out and stood in the entrance of the cave. Suddenly a voice came to him, probably the same vo still small voice. And said, again, the same thing. What are you doing here, Elijah? And notice that Elijah, unlike Job, who says, I'm going to shut up now. I said things without knowing what I was saying. Elijah, who has seen God's glory and endured this these such strong winds that it is clawing rocks out of the side of the mountain Job saw him in a whirlwind too and feared. Elijah doesn't change what he says one word. It's as though he's brought his charge against Israel once. And then the Lord says, okay, let me come close, and then says, okay, say that again. And Elijah says the exact same thing. I've been zealous for you, Lord. He's not saying I deserve something from you, but I've been zealous for you, and then look at what your people are doing. He is indicting God's people who have broken this covenant. That's what he says, right? Well let's see how God responds to his charges. Does he tell him he's wrong? Well, in response to Elijah's accusation, Elijah first, sorry, God first gives Elijah three tasks. And I don't want to get too psychoanalytical here, but if you are struggling with depression, one of our great tendencies is to want to just sit and walla, right? And we don't feel like doing anything. Been there. We call in sick to work. And we call in sick to church. And we when we don't go up for days. And and how do you feel at the end of that day when all of the things that you needed to do you didn't do? Does that get you out of your depression? No, the next day's even worse, right? I took uh counseling classes in in uh in seminary, and they called it the recipe for depression. You have someone who's already prone to discouragement. They go through a setback. That's not depression, that's discouragement. But then when they allow themselves in action when you decide I'm I I can't deal with this, I'm not gonna do anything, I'm gonna quit, that that's what gets you into your depression because then you get you get stuck and you you feel even worse because God had given you responsibilities, whether you recognize them as coming from God or not. There are certain responsibilities you have, you didn't fulfill them and then you feel worse. And tomorrow you go and do the same thing and then you feel even worse. And it's this awful downward spiral, isn't it? And so God kindly, graciously, mercifully, God gives him stuff to do. And he does do them. Let's see how he answers. Alright, got three things for you to do, Elijah. One I want you to go and anoint. Yeah, I'll just read it. Go, return on your way to the wilderness of Damascus. So he's going to have to get up, climb down the mountain, and then take a long journey to Damascus. This is modern-day Syria. And when you arrive, anoint Hazel as king of Syria. Also you shall anoint Jehu the son of Nimshe as king over Israel. And Elisha the son of Shaphat of Abel Mahola you shall anoint as prophet in your pro place Let me just just dumb it down. He's got f he's got a journey to take, well a few journeys, and then three people to anoint. And we could re really just say a point, because when he would anoint, that means pour oil on somebody. You're you're anointing them as king. Well, you're saying this is the next king. So he's appointing two new kings and a new prophet. He's appointing a king over Israel's enemy, Syria. And he's appointing a king over Israel itself, who's going to replace Tarah, Ahab, and Jezebel. And then he's going to anoint his own replacement. Which makes me wonder, is God actually starting to answer Elijah's prayer when he said, Take my life, is this God saying, not yet, but let's go ahead and get a replacement for you, see? And so he gives them three tasks, and then God explains in verse seventeen the purpose of these three men. Together these three men are to enact Judgment on the unfaithful rulers and people of Israel. And this sounds like a not so fun verse to read and kind of bloody But this is God receiving Elijah's complaint against the people, this formal charge against the people of God And agreeing with him and saying, yes, okay, I'm going to act on that charge. Look, it shall be whoever escapes the sword of Hazael, Jehu will kill. Whoever escapes the sword of Jehu, Elisha will kill. And these three men, you're going to prepare these men to enact my punishment, my judgment on the people. God appears to his servants. Yes, in glory, and all of those manifestations of his power at the mouth of the cave. But now he shows himself to be just, that he receives these charges and he will punish sin. God reveals himself to his prophet as a just God And then he reveals himself to the prophet as a gracious God, because in verse eighteen he says, Yet I have reserved seven thousand in Israel, all whose knees have not bowed to Baal, every mouth that has not kissed it. And that's not God saying, tisk, tisk Elijah, you think you're the only one who's been faithful to me. I've got 7,000. We make a big deal about how big a number number that is There are millions of people in Israel here, and only 7,000, that's not a big number. In comparison to just one, yeah, that's a huge number. And he should take encouragement by that. And the Lord is giving him encouragement, right? But it's a small number. That's less than a fraction of a percent. And if you're a math nerd, you're like, well any fraction is a fract is a fraction of a percent. Okay, whatever. But it's it's less than a tenth of a percent. Loyal to the Lord. And what he's saying is, you read here, I have reserved 7,000 in Israel. If you have Nasvi or ESV, you'll see it says, I will reserve, or I will leave. And the the imperfect form of the verb there can be interpreted either way. Tense in in Hebrew is is a little bit uh shaky, but by English standard. This could just as easily be God saying, I am going to make sure that 7,000 people never defect from me. I'm going to hold them still. I will preserve a remnant of people who will be faithful to me. And that is God revealing himself to Elijah in grace. Grace that he's saying, look, you're not alone, my son. But also I have not lost. You have not lost. We are going to overcome. I am going to discipline Jezebel. I'm going to, well, not just discipline her, destroy her. Punish her. Judge her for her sin, and Ahab for his, and the unfaithful people have broken my covenant and torn down my altars and worshipped other gods. I am going to judge them. from going the same way. God reveals Himself to Elijah in His justice and His grace. And he does all the that Elijah asks him to do This is God showing himself who he is. So when you are struggling, here's the theme for this passage, which I've intentionally left to the end, right? When you are struggling like Elijah has, or even just a fraction, go to God. Look at who He is. Find out what the Bible tells you he is, and let God's perfections, because he is perfectly just and perfectly gracious and perfectly gentle and compassionate and humble. Let God's perfections give you the encouragement you need. Am I good to advance the slide yet? Let God's perfections give you the encouragement you need as you struggle through the deep sorrows of life. God shows himself to Elijah in both justice and grace. And do you know where we see those two attributes of God meet? It's at the cross of Christ. We love to emphasize his mercy and grace, that God punishes Christ out of love for us so that he doesn't punish us. Jesus took your place on the cross. He also did that though out of justice. If God was not just, you could not be forgiven by means of the crucifixion. By means of Christ's atonement. It's God's justice as well as his love that put Jesus Christ on the cross, and we would rightly say in our sin, too. At the cross, God took the punishment that you deserve and put it on his son. And out of grace and love, he freely gives you the righteousness of Christ and forgives you and counts you righteous though you're not. Experientially. Counts you as righteous when you believe on Christ and only when you turn to him from your bitterness and hardness of heart and your own way and you submit yourself to him and say God save me. I'm a sinner. And he applies all that belongs to Christ to you. But Christ didn't stay dead. He is yet forgiven, or not forgiven, but yet cleared from all charges. God has been satisfied with the payment that Jesus paid on the cross. He still has the nail prints. His hands and his feet, he still has that pierced side, and yet he is alive, and he can give life to you. See this perfect, beautiful God. And let his perfections give you the encouragement you need as you struggle through the deep sorrows of life. I encourage you to go to the Bible and look at God's attributes. Look at how he draws near to us. people. Look at his gentleness when you're hurting. Jesus Christ, it was said of him in the Old Testament and the New that if there is a a read bent and and and and bruised and about to snap, he wouldn't snap that reed. He would not break that bruised reed. If there was a wick, a naturally occurring wick of flax that was smoking, smoldering, but not quite out. He wouldn't do this. He wouldn't put it out. He would blow on it and give it life and reignite that flame. This is the God, this is the Savior that you can come to. We pray. Father, we love you and we praise you, and we thank you for your gentleness and yet your power. And that you bear with us in your weaknesses better than better than any of our friends can. Thank you for loving us. If there is anyone here who needs to experience the gentleness of Christ today, whether for the first time or for the thousandth, draw near to them. Saved, who needs to be saved, I pray they would cry out to you and that they would come and talk to me about it. And that they can experience your healing touch in Jesus' name, amen