We're gonna for the pastor of prayer. Um we're gonna go ahead and uh cut the feet for a little bit and I think we can uh just to explain to anyone watching, uh we're gonna be uh So I promise you we'll be right back online for the end. Okay. Um go ahead and turn to uh Esther uh chapter uh eight, we'll be there shortly. Um but uh first I just wanted to say first time and then we'll give an answer, but I just wanted to say Thank you for being patient with me. The last several weeks I have since uh since Memorial Day, I've been I've been in town for a week and I've left for a week. I've been in town for a week. Sorry, I'm bringing up my uh microphone like the brain. There you go, John. Um I've been out of town and then in town and out of town and in town literally every other week for I think uh like seven weeks or something like that. So thanks for being patient with me. We've had a little less uh uh equilibrium and uh especially with with life group we had a really good life group on on uh on Thursday. Uh it was mostly just just guys. Uh Jamie and Barbara were there too, but uh um the ladies were you guys were away for your uh your trip to Lancaster. I hope you had a great time. But uh anyway, um it's uh it's been a summer rhythm and I appreciate you guys bearing with me. I'm back now. So uh and and no plans to to go to to really go out of town for for a good good while. I just wanted to thank you for all of you who've been patient with me and also just you've you've uh wished us uh uh uh happy time away, happy anniversary. There's Jamie's birthday in there and you guys were all very very uh uh kind and generous and patient there and just want to thank you guys for that. Um so uh anyway with that we're gonna go to prayer. Um wanted to let you know and this is why we turned the the the live feed off uh Alberta was here just just a few minutes ago, but decided not to stay for the service. Apparently many of you know that she was uh dating uh Nick uh who used to attend here And he passed away about a month ago. So she just shared that with us. So we're going to pray for her and for him, and we'll pray for other things as well. We'll be praying for Aiden as he heads up to his uh his program today. So um but uh yeah so that that's what we'll be praying for. We'll have a sh much shorter prayer time at the end of the service, just a a very short prayer. But so the the The main bulk of our personal prayer time will be now. So let's go ahead and bow our bow our heads and pray. Dearest Heavenly Father, Our hearts are heavy to hear this, that someone who has been attending our church for so long is so heavy hearted, Alberta. And I never met Nick, but uh I I know that that it he was dear to a number of people here and uh and so our hearts are heavy knowing uh knowing that he died as well. Um So we lift them up to you, Laura. We li we lift Alberta up to you and um ask that you would please uh show her the truth that as she ponders mortality and eternity um that she could f come to know Jesus Christ as her savior and And trust in him and find comfort from him, that you would be the God of all comfort to her, and that you would show her that she finds all of that in Christ. And as for all of the things that follow, and there's some bureaucratic issues, we ask that you would be present in that and help. And we Pray that uh um that there can be peace uh following from all of this. Um please come alongside, dear Albert. Alberta. Lord, we uh we also uh we we mourn with those who mourn as we do with with uh Alberta. We rejoice with those who rejoice. But we know that there's another uh very limited form of m mourning going on today, and that is that Janelle, whom we love dearly, is taking uh Aiden to his uh his boarding school program and that she's gonna miss him, so it's uh in a very different sense, but it it's hard on her. Um and we just ask that you would go before them as they they'll be driving up shortly, uh probably probably before the service finishes. And we ask that you would um be present with them in the car. Bless their conversation. I know that uh um Aidan's uh gr uh grandmother, not not uh not Janelle's mom, but his other grandmother will be with them and we we just pray that the conversations would be full of love, that the last words they all say to each other would be tender and sweet. And we ask that you'd come alongside Aidan. I understand. It's a kind of a military-oriented uh program, so it's probably going to be pretty brutal at the start. And we just ask that you would uh when he feels his weakness Maybe he won't, Lord, but uh we pray that you would be right there present with him, that he would know what it is to have Christ as his friend. And we we just pray for his spiritual spiritual health, spiritual needs, spiritual prosperity over the course of all this. And I pray that he will uh use the Bible uh given to him. And that he would uh make it a priority to walk with you and to let you talk to him and and guide him and inform him. him each day that he's away at this program. Would you give him encouragement and give him hope and give him help and grace um and be with with Janelle help her as she is uh not only separated from from Aidan But separated from c any contact with him for the first at least the first couple of weeks. Um so please encourage her during that time. It's gotta be very hard. Uh help us to love our sister and come alongside of her and and uh encourage her during this time, as also we seek to encourage Alberta in her time of grief. Um Lord we uh we thank you for Sundays. We thank you that it is a special day, it's your day, and yet by being called by your son's name and as Christian Christians. And by uh by by trusting you and coming here on your day, that that day that belongs to you, there's a privilege that extends to us. It's your day, not our day. But it's a day full of truth because you are the God of truth. And we ask that you take that truth that's shed to our hearts and and for those of us who are who are feeling feeling perhaps off today. Would you, our feelings, they matter, Lord, but they don't need to prevent us from receiving receiving your message. They don't have to matter more than they matter. Lord, we pray that regardless of feelings, that you would take your truth and and infuse it into our hearts and into our souls that we could respond joyfully. This is your day and it's about worshiping the God who is above all things and And created all things for his glory, that you are love and you are justice, and you are near, and yet you are transcendent. You do not change, and yet you meet with us where we are as we change, and you are changing us to make us like your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And we ask that you would help us to give you the praise, the worship, the adoration, to ascribe to you the glory and strength and power and honor that you deserve. Would you please bless this time, help us to respond to the truth that we've already absorbed from the Sunday school Bible study time? For those of us who are here from the truth in the songs that we've sung, and now especially from this message preached from your word, please would you Give us what we're lacking. Infuse grace into us. Encourage us, Lord. Help us to obey you. Help us to see how the gospel of Jesus Christ permeates every area of our lives, perhaps in ways that we had not yet realized or thought about. And please, Lord, would you help us to continue persevering, walking with Christ as a result of all of the truth that uh that comes comes to us from your word right now. Lord, would you help me? Help me to not not rely on my preparation or anything else. for this message. I pray that your spirit would do the preaching and that your spirit would would work in our hearts and minds to do the receiving of this message as well. Please, Lord, communicate your truth to us and help us to respond in a way that is pleasing and honoring to you. We ask these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen and amen. Well please do turn with me in your Bible to Esther chapter eight. Esther chapter eight. I wonder, have you ever watched the spy movie? Probably most of us have. Maybe one or two have not. Actually, the the littlest here have not. But uh I went through a phase in my teens where I really got into the 007, you know, James Bond films. Um I have not I've not seen all of them by any means, but I started with the earliest ones. I started with Dr. No. with the Sha Sean Connery as Bond. He he was in a lot of those. I think I saw all of the Sean Connery uh James Bond films. I watched the really loony ones with Roger Moore where he's in space. If you haven't seen any 007 movies, and the the more recent ones are pretty good, I'm not giving a full endorsement, but If you've never seen a 007 movie, you've probably seen at least something in that genre. Mission Impossible or Jason Bourne or Jack Ryan or some spy thriller, something like that. Uh movies those movies are fun, right? But they're a little overdone or a lot overdone. Um like there's some evil genius with a death ray on the moon pointed at Earth Right? And uh or there's some terrorist seems over and over, right? There's always a terrorist trying to get w uh the US and Russia to get into a war. Um even long l l even twenty years ago when when the the Cold War tensions were long long uh diminished. Um Well anyway, there's always I promise I'm going somewhere with this, okay? There's usually a point towards the end where the evil genius meets his match in the hero or in the hero's accomplice. Right? And um James Bond defeats all the thugs on his way to the big bad guy, right? He points his gun at him and he says something like, Give up now, it's all over, you'll never get away with this, right? But what does the bad guy always do? He'll either get shot or he'll chew its cyanide castle, right? And and he'll say, you're We're already too late, or something like that, right? He'll say, It's already started. Now the world will be be born anew in nuclear flames. Right? He'll say something silly like that And then he dies, and the hero is left to clean up the mess because he started a missile and there is no abort sequence on it, right? So, you know 007 will have to jump onto the missile and dismantle it in the air or something. And of course you'll fall off and be fine, right? Or whatever, right? You you you you you've seen these movies, I think. Well, that is where we find ourselves in the political thriller that's in front of us, right? Not a spy thriller, but this political thriller we call the Book of Esther. The bad guy has been defeated, but he's set the death ray in motion already. The the The enemy of the Jews, as Haman is called, has been executed for attempted genocide on Queen Esther's race, but the decree that started that attempted genocide, it's already gone out. And Mordecai and Esther, really the king, Ahazuerus, though he won't, they still need to do something about that decree of destruction. They've got to find a way to dismantle the nuclear missile or the death ray, or in this case, the political legislation that encourages and even commands people to attack and slaughter the Jewish people. And I could re-tread a lot of things and I could say a lot of the things that we've already said here about Satan's influence. And this is why we see constant attempts on the Jews like this. But I'm not going to go into that, right? if you want to hear more on that. Um they're they're all available on Facebook. What we're gonna look at right now, we're gonna look at the the decree of destruction, then we're gonna look at the attempts to overturn that And really it ver chapters eight and nine are really a single unit. They really belong together. But it is so much material to cover that I'm going to get us just into the very beginning of chapter 9, but we'll cover 8 and 9 across two weeks. So we'll finish this up tomorrow. So if you feel as though there's some objection you have in your mind or some I'm not I'm not sure that the question about this has been answered Trust that it'll be answered next week, but let me know what your concern is. Pastor, you didn't you didn't answer that. Can you make sure that you answer that next week? I I really want to do that for you. So please tell me if you feel that there's there's something has is is kind of hanging. To make sure that hopefully I've already I already intend to cover that, but it doesn't hurt for you to let me know so that I can make sure that we do answer those objections for you. We will take at least two weeks, possibly a third, to finish this particular stage of the story So with all of that said, first we'll turn to I I asked you to come to chapter 8. We're actually going to look at chapter 3 just briefly. You do not have to turn there unless you want to. And I'm going to read to you what that original decree of destruction was. In verses 12 through 14, it says, Esther chapter 3, verse 12, then the king's scribes were called on the thirteenth day of the first month. And a decree was written according to all that Haman commanded to the king's satraps, to the governors who were over each province, to the officials of all people, to every province according to its script, and to every people in their language In the name of King Ahris it was written and sealed with the king's signatory. And the letters were sent by couriers into all the king's provinces. Can you see how comprehensive this is? They're trying in every language In in every corner of the empire, they want, or Haman wants, the Jews destroyed, right? And the letters were sent by couriers into all the king's provinces to destroy, to kill, and to annihilate all the Jews, both young and old, little children and women, in one day, on the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month of of Adar and to plunder their possessions. A copy of the document was to be issued as law in every province being published for all people that they should be ready for that day. That's the decree. That's the contents. The Jews cannot defend themselves. They are to be annihilated. At the end of chapter 7, we're about to do chapter 8, verse 1. Chapter 7, in the final verse, verse 10. We're told, so they hanged Haman on the gallows that he had prepared for Mordecai. Then the king's wrath subsided. He's gone. But now Esther and her adoptive father Mordecai must prevent that evil legislation from harming their people. So naturally, the queen appeals to her husband, the king. And the clicker's not working. There we go. All right. And so we're we're going to narrate, if you're if you're looking at your your uh Notes page, if you've got that in front of you, we're going to narrate what's what's going on. There'll be less to say. There's fewer points to say on point Points Roman numeral one, Roman numeral two. When we get to number three, though, you're going to be writing a lot, and on the reverse of your sheet, you're going to see that there are subpoints. So just letting you know. In verses 8-1 through 8, an all-powerful king learns that he is in fact powerless where it matters. Let's read the first two verses here of Esther chapter 8. On that day, King Ahazuerus gave Queen Esther, the house of Haman, the enemy of the Jews. And Mordecai came before the king, for Esther had told her how he was related to her. So the king took off his signet ring. Which he had taken from Haman and gave it to Mordecai. And Esther appointed Mordecai over the house of Haman. So the king here gives two gifts to his queen, and really they both end up going to Mordecai. First, he gives Haman's house, and with that all of his possessions, we're going to learn later on, actually even power over his family and his servants. He gives all of his possessions, all of his house over to Queen Esther as a gift. He gives the signet ring not to Esther but directly to Mordecai. It was in Haman's possession. The signet ring was is what would steal that legislation. That's how he was able to pass that decree of annihilation against the Jews. He took it away from Haman before he died. It would be very awkward to have to climb back up on that stake to take it off of his finger after he was executed. So he took it first, and now he's handing it over to Haman. This is kind of like a footnote, emphasizing just how total Haman's fall has been. He tried to execute Mordecai and to annihilate his people, but now he's he himself has been executed on the very gallows. the spike that he intended to execute Mordecaion. Now his house and his possession uh possessions have been turned over to that man he was trying to execute. And the tool that he used to dis to try to destroy Mordecai's people is now being used to do the opposite. We keep seeing the Lord here as the God of reversals, and that has been a continuing theme Really, since chapter one, or certainly chapter two of this book, the God reverses people's circumstances, fortunes, states, whichever word you prefer there He is the God who reverses fortunes. Verses three through six We see that Queen Esther is not satisfied with the gift of Haman's house. Here's what she asks for. Now Esther spoke again to the king, fell down at his feet, and implored him with tears. to counteract the evil of Haman the Agegites and the scheme which he had devised against the Jews. This title for Haman had the fact that He's an Agagite is reminding us that he is the uh he he is descended from the Jews' mortal enemies, sworn enemies. God has made a promise to make war against the Agagites. And the Midianites. So we are we are reminded subtly of God's promise here. And the king held out the golden scepter toward Esther. So Esther arose and stood before the king and said, If it pleases the king, And if I have found favor in his sight, and the thing seems right to the king, and I am pleasing in his eyes, let it be written to revoke the letters devised by Haman the son of Hamadaphath the Agogite There it is again, which he wrote to annihilate the Jews who are in all the king's provinces. For how can I endure to see the evil that will come to my people, or how can I endure to see the destruction of my countrymen? And so we have, once again, if you remember when Esther first came to the king to beg for her people's protection. And and for their life. She never actually asked for that, did she? She f he he extended his scepter the first time and she and she said, just come to my party. And then he didn't extend the the scepter after that. Uh he came to the party and he said he asked a second time what's your request And she said, come to my second party, right? And then he asked her a third time at the second party, what's your request? And she simply accuses Haman. He's been executed and now the king kind of goes back to the formality, right? And he's he's flexed his royal authority by executing the the number two in the entire empire, right? The the the Grand Vizier or the the Prime Minister, whichever term you prefer. I kind of like Grand Vizier because that's the title that was given to Ja Jafar in Aladdin, you know, the bad guy But when we when we look at Mordecai, we might want to call in the prime minister. Anyway. Now he goes back to that formality and he he holds out that scepter once again, and we see him acting as king. But all he's going to do as king, and which we've already seen him do in verse 2, is pass the buck, because he will not get his hands dirty. He's a lazy king. We've seen he barely has an original thought in his mind. He always is acting according to what people suggest to him. He he decided of his own accord to give to give Haman's possessions to Esther, but again all it was was handing something over. That's all he ever does. And so here we have Esther with tears saying Here's what my my real request has been all along is to preserve my people, give life back to my people. It's being taken away from them. And do you see the way he answers? He he doesn't outright say, look, I got no power to do that, but he communicates that by saying What essentially look, I've I've given you his house. I've executed your enemy. I've given you his house. If you want to deal with the legislation that needs to follow after that, you do that. Here, I'm giving your adoptive father, I'm giving your cousin my ring You guys go ahead and and do whatever you want. And he put he he states it. Do you see how how he states it? It's as though he's flexing his power. Look, he says Anything you write in my name will stand because you see what he says? Let's look down at verse 8. He says, Um, you yourselves write a decree concerning the Jews. And he's giving it his blessing, but he's actually l acknowledging his limitation. Look at this For whatever is written in the king's name and sealed with the king's signet ring, no one can revoke. Well, what else has been written in the king's name and sealed with the king's signet ring? The decree of destruction against the Jews. And so he's subtly saying, I can't repeal it. I have no power to reverse the consequences. Now whether he is actually saying I can't overturn a law. He might be saying that there's no mechanism in the law to do that. He might be saying that, but but we see that they they do do all they can to overturn that, right? It's perhaps a better way to understand it, and this is coming from a good commentator, his name is Brian Gregory, but I'm going to put it in my own words here. is essentially imagine that you spill a glass of of wine or uh or if you prefer grape juice, non-alcoholic, on your nice rug, right? And You you've spilled it on the rug and you do all you can to to clean it up, but you can't get all of it out, right? You can't quite reverse all of the effects of that that glass of of grape juice that was spilled. built. That's sort of what is going on here. This decree of destruction has gone out and it has Stirred the hearts of those who hate the Jews. And Satan is working in that to stir their hearts to make war with the Jews. And so it's possible he's simply saying that The damage has been done already, the rugs are already already messed, and you do do what you can to to rub it out. But there's there are enemies out there and they're probably, even if we put out legislation, they're still going to try and destroy the Jews And so really what we have going on here is simply an acknowledgement that this emperor, right, he is literally Hear me here, right? He is literally, we use this title, we apply it to Christ, and rightly so, but King Ahazuerus, too, is a king of kings. That's what an emperor is. There's all of these client kings under him, and he is over them. He is a king of kings, and he is powerless when it comes to giving life out of death. But there is a true King of Kings. And he can give life out of death. And his name is Jesus Christ. He's not been born yet at this point in the story. In fact, he's going to preserve life for the Jews so that Jesus Christ can come into the world, can be born, and one day rule over the nations. It's not happened yet, but we look forward to that day. And we see here a powerless king who points us to the one true king who is sovereign over heaven and earth and everything it contains. Who can give you life where you are facing death or you're facing destruction in your life? Run to Jesus Christ, the k the King of Kings, the true King of Kings. In fact, in in Revelation where that's written on his robe, the way that the Greek reads He's not merely the king of kings. It actually says he is the king of those kinging. Almost as though all of those people who have worn crowns or have been elected as president And have wielded any power, are just pretending. They're just filling the role. They are kinging, but they are not true kings, but Jesus is. Ahazuerus, he's been kinging, he's been emperoring, but he's not very good at it. And he's powerless where it matters, and that is to give life out of death. Where human power fails and disappoints, God exceeds all expectations for good. He does, he brings good out of it. So in the verses that follow, we see God's agents. That is Mordecai and Esther working within their limitations, but faithfully, fulfilling their responsibility to God's people, their responsibility given to them by God, but also hanging on his promises. And so when I say here, God's agents work faithfully within their limitations. Those are your blanks for a point. What I'm saying is they are not only acknowledging that they can only do so much, but they're also working within the limitation where God says, You trust me here and I will do this. And we'll see what those promises are in a moment. Let's look at verses uh nine and ten. So we're still in chapter chapter eight. It says, so the the king's scribes were called at that time in the third month, which is the month of Sidon. On the twenty-third day, and it was written according to all that Mordecai commanded to the Jews, the satraps, the governors, and the princes of the provinces from India to Ethiopia, one hundred and twenty-seven provinces in all. to every province in its own script, to every people in their own language, and to the Jews in their own language. And he wrote, that's a really long verse, isn't it? Verse ten. And he wrote in the name of King Ahazueras, sealed it with the king's signet ring, and sent letters by courier on horseback, riding on royal horses, bred from s bred from swift steeds. There's this decree written it's going to every people group across the entire Persian Empire, just like the first one did. I want you to see how global it is. It's not the whole world, right? Because the Persian Empire did not cover all of the continents. But it it covered a huge swath out to India, out to Greece, down towards the edge of Africa. And a huge swath of the known world of that time is seeing that the Jewish people whose slaughter was announced just Just a few days earlier, and actually there's a couple months now passed as they're crafting legislation and sending it out, so two months they've been able to soak in the fact that The people of Yahweh are under attack and they are to be annihilated. But only two months go by and suddenly they see that this tiny little people that's been scattered across the world has a protector. And he is not limited to just one location or one nation, one country. He is defending his people throughout the empire. They are seeing that Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews that he exists and that he's powerful and that he fights on behalf of his people. That's what they're seeing. And so what we have here is really a foretaste, it's a foreshadowing of the gospel that'll go out to the whole world. This is just a swath of the world, a large swath. But one day, and it's happening now, right, the the message about this God, not only that he protects his people, but that he will save those who are not his people and make them his people, that that's going to go across the entire globe. That's what we see happening here. So let's read the contents of that decree now. It says in verse 11, by these letters the king permitted the Jews who were in every city to gather together. and protect their lives. And now look at the the same words that we read in chapter three. To destroy, kill, and annihilate those three words. All the forces of any people or province that would assault them, both little children and women. and to plunder their possessions on one day in all the provinces of King Ahazuerus on the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month of Adar. Now, there are things here that might trouble you, and I'm going to address that in about 30 seconds. But what I don't want you to miss is that God is protecting his people. He's using it through the means of ordinary legislation, but he has brought about tremendous reversals with Haman getting executed and being replaced by the man that he had attempted to destroy. So the right people are in place. One queen has been replaced by another a few years earlier. And God has his agents in place and now they are working faithfully to protect his people. But it's God doing it. It's God enabling it. God will they they're they're providing the the legislation, but that doesn't actually mean that they'll be successful and that they'll be protected on the final day of the decree, right? And so God must yet work. So see that he is actively working to protect his people here. Now do you have, are you troubled by what's written there? That they are allowed to to annihilate even women and children here? Well, think about what's being said, right? There has been one piece of legislation that's not getting repealed But they're matching it with another piece of legislation. And so they are they are taking the same language and the same parameters and they're saying everything that the Jews weren't allowed to do, but these people were, well now the Jews are allowed to do it too Right? So first of all, it's simply imitating what is there. Well we might we might want to say, yeah, but that's enough. That's not enough. It's not we we need to we need to be bigger than that, better than that. Okay, remember this though too This is to act as as a deterrent that someone is going to be far less likely to attack a people group if they know that that means in retaliation their own family could be harmed. So there is that there's wisdom in this human legislation. There's justice in this human legislation. It's similar to what we find in the law of Moses. They say if someone takes an eye, then up to an eye is able to be taken. If someone takes a tooth, up to a tooth is able to be taken in exchange. But what I'll point out to you, and then we will elaborate on it next week, is that though they are granted to do these things, that doesn't mean they actually do that. And there is only mention of the people being killed. First of all, this is only in self-defense. Hope you see that. It's on a specific day that is allowed to them. It is only in self-defense, but once they are attacked, they are allowed to use any means necessary to destroy their attackers. Not only to block the punch, but to punch back and make sure that they are not punched again. That's the idea. And though they are allowed to go beyond that, that doesn't mean that they do every mention of those killed. only mentions men. And in fact, at least when it comes to those killed in the capital city, Shushan, the citadel. It specifically says not women and children, just men were harmed, and it seems to be implied as far as the rest of the empire is implied. Now there are other things they're allowed to do. We'll look at those next week, because they also don't do those things. But we do have God fulfilling his promises. Now, what promises is he fulfilling? There's a few. I want to remind you what God said to Abraham, that I will bless those who bless you and curse those who curse you. But there's more than that. Here's what he said when his people, he delivered them from Egypt, he sends them out. They cross the Red Sea. They're in the wilderness. They've been attacked by Midianites. Here's what he says. Just a moment He says in Exodus 23, verse 27, I will send my fear before you. I will cause confusion among all the people to whom you come, and will make your enemies turn their backs to you. He promises to use fear on behalf of his people to protect them and to prosper them, bless them. And then throughout the Old Testament, we see his promise in action. In Deuteronomy 2, he says, This day I will begin to put the dread and fear of you upon the nations under the whole heaven, who shall hear the report of you and shall tremble and be in anguish because of you. Just a few moments ago for a scripture reading, we we saw that in action in Deuteronomy chapter seven. In chapter eleven, he says, No man shall be able to stand against you. The Lord your God will put the dread of you and the fear of Fear of you upon all the land where you tread, just as he has said to you, people don't fight so well when they're afraid. And he's going to use fear of them upon their enemies to cause them to have victory and to protect them. You may be familiar with the story of Rahab the the harlot, that when God's people he just sends a Two spies, right, into the the city of Jericho. And they are to scope out the land so that they can bring in their army and wipe out their enemies as God has commanded them to do. And they they spend the night in in this inn that uh ran by by Rahab, and the the bad guys are looking for them, they talk to her, she lies to protect them, and then she goes and talks to them Do you remember what she says? When she confronts them about them being there to destroy the people is not what we would expect her to say. She says, I know that the Lord has given you the land, that the terror of you has fallen on us, and that all the inhabitants of the land are faint-hearted because of you. See, God had promised to strike his fear in the hearts of their enemies, and he's done it. For we have heard how the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea for you when you came out of Egypt, and what you did to the two kings of the Amorites, who are on the other side of the Jordan, Sion and Og, whom you utterly destroyed. And as soon as we heard these things, listen to this, our hearts melted. Neither did there remain any more courage in anyone because of you, for the Lord your God, he is God in heaven above and on earth beneath. And then she goes on, now therefore I beg of you swear to me by the Lord. She says, protect me, protect my family. She recognizes by God's power and the way that he fights for his people. That he is God in heaven above and on earth beneath. And that is an astounding theological conclusion for someone living in that day and age where they think that Every every l street corner has its own God. Every body of water has its own God and that God's not power that God is powerless over that God if he's there, but he'll but it'll win a fight over there I mean it's silly. She is saying, no, no, no. I understand. There is one God who made everything, who's sovereign over all of it, and he's your God. And I want to join him. And over and over again, we see that there is fear falling upon people, fear of God, and fear of his people, because he is fighting on behalf of his people. When we come to the end of of verse fourteen here Let me catch up. When we come to the end of verse fourteen here, we have two edicts out across the whole empire basically legalizing a one-day war between Israel and their enemies. Esther and Mordecai have done everything in their power to create a level playing field for their people. But they don't have the power to guarantee victory for their people. But God does, and He's promised to use this fear. He's done it before with the people in the land of Canaan and Jericho. Will he do it again? And that power only lies in God's hands, does it not? We don't know yet at at the end of verse 14 how things will turn out for God's people. Haman's wife gives us a clue. Remember, she said that, oh, if you've been trying to execute a Jew, that's going to fail. That's not going to work. Mordecai and Esther are writing this new decree, knowing that God has promised these sort of things to protect his people and to strike fear into his enemies. And the nations shall fear Israel. So let's look at how that plays out. Here we see, by God's intervention, enemies become allies and sufferers become allies And if you want to turn to the other side, you'll have plenty of room to write notes and also to look at each of the individual sub-points there. Because what we have running through this then is that unifying theme of fear. Let's look at verse 8, sorry, chapter 8, verse 15. So Mordecai went out from the presence of the king in royal apparel of blue and white. with a great crown of gold and a garment of fine linen linen and purple, and the city of Shushan rejoiced and was glad. He has now been fully exalted. He's all it's already started. He was he was proclaimed as the man that the the king Loves to honor, delights to honor, but now he's risen even higher. Actually, this is as high as he can go without usurping the king. He's taken him his position, he's taken his house, he's wearing his crown, he has great wealth Royal clothing. I I noticed and and I couldn't find anything to to affirm this, but he's wearing blue and white, the like the colors of the Israeli flag today, and I don't know if that comes from this or not. I couldn't find anything on that, but We are seeing him looking like a king. He's actually wearing a crown on his head. He is the top dog. And the people are rejoicing for it, not just the Jewish people, but everyone in the capital city. It's as though they recognize that when when the Jews, the Lord's people, are in power, all of society benefits for from it. Well look down with me now in verse 5 and I will give you the next slide then But read verse 5 uh I'm sorry uh chapter 9 verse 4 with me for Mordecai was great in the king's palace And his his fame spread throughout all the provinces, for this man Mordecai became increasingly prominent. And if we were to go up just one more, in verse three, it says, All the officials of the provinces The satraps, that's a position higher than a governor. They're over the governors for multiple provinces at once The officials of the provinces, the satraps, the governors, and all those doing the king's work helped the Jews. Why? Because these powerful people, it says the fear of Mordecai fell upon them And in godly fear, Mordecai is promoted to rule. Fear follows with him And then by that godly fear, here's the next slide for you, God's people turn from mourning to rejoicing. Look with me at verses 16 and 17. The Jews had light and gladness, joy and honor in every province and every city, wherever the king's command and decree came, the Jews had joy and gladness. A feast and a holiday. But look at this last line. This is the Jericho stuff, the Rahab stuff, all of the promises that God had given before. This is what's coming up, right? This is coming into play. Then many of the people of the land became Jews because fear of the Jews fell upon them. They're afraid of the Jews. They're afraid of their God. And instead of running from them, instead of trying to fight against them, instead of arguing with God, what do they do? They capitulate. They actually run to God. And they run to these people and they say, tell us about your God. Let us convert. Let us become Jews too. Now they're still the underdog, right? Humanly speaking, they're still the underdog. It's all of these other nations arrayed against them, even though they've got this legislation on their side, but they're saying we can see who the winner is going to be, and we want to be on the winning side So can I plead with you? If you have yet to turn to God, recognize that you're on the losing side of history. And we hear a lot about being on the wrong side of history right now. That's why you see so many churches turning, right, and and going the wrong way against Scripture on social issues today, right? Like Like with the LGBTQ stuff. Right? And and and they're they they don't want to be on the wrong side of history because they can see the time the the the turning tide and they don't want to say that we're we're unkind or we're un we're bigoted and so they capitulate and they say you know what what what Jesus really wants is is just for us to to to uh endorse and affirm uh sinful lifestyles. They don't say it that way, but that's what they say You want to talk about the wrong side of history? The wrong side of history is what happens after this a af after this world is no longer left to itself and the real king returns, just as he kept on saying while he was here that he was When he returns, he'll be just and he'll put things right. And he will punish his enemies, those who do not plea for forgiveness, those who do not turn to him. And that's why we plea with the LGBTQ community. It doesn't mean we don't love them. We're saying, look, you're on the wrong side. You have to turn from your sin if you want God's forgiveness. They expect forgiveness without any turning. And so I would say to you, turn to God. He's going to win. Turn to Christ. He is the King of Kings greater than Ahasuaris, and he is going to win. But he gives you time now to join the right side, to join the winning side. That'll be the right side of history. Turn to Christ, turn from your sin to Jesus Christ. He's coming to reign and to rule and to subdue. And that's what these people can see. And they become Jews because of this fear put on them. Fear is a good thing, it comes from the Lord. Now it wasn't only with Rahab's people. Do you remember when when the people actually left Egypt before forty years before they got to Jericho? They left Egypt. And do you remember it says a mixed multitude went out with them? There are a whole bunch of Egyptians and other people groups who were living there, immigrants. Went out with the Jews because they could see as as as terrible as all of all of the judgments were, they recognized that this God, the God of the Jews, wields that power. And they went with the Jews. They essentially became Jews just as these people are doing in a very different time, a very different context, in a legal context, and yet they are tur they are turning from their old life to the new life to follow the God of the Hebrews. Well, they become Jews too, and then they, along with those who are already Jews, by godly fear, God's enemies join his people and defeat their adversaries By godly fear, God's enemies join his people and defeat their adversaries. So we've read the end of chapter 8. Let's read the first Uh five verses here. I'm going to skip over the ones I've already read, but read from chapter 9, verse 1 down to verse 5. Now in the twelfth month, that is, in the month of Adar. We're going to see how it all pans out. We've been hearing about the the the thirteenth day of the month of Adar since the beginning of the book, right? Or since since chapter three. This is the day of destruction. What's going to happen? What's the final score going to be? The time came for the king's command and his decree to be executed. On the day that the enemies of the Jews had hoped to overpower them, the opposite occurred. That's The result. In that the Jews themselves overpowered those who hated them. The Jews gathered together in their cities throughout all the provinces of King Ahazueras. They weren't allowed to assemble before. Now they can team up. They gathered together in all of the provinces to lay hands on those who sought their harm, and no one could withstand them because you see this fear of them fell upon all peoples. And all the officials of the provinces, the satraps, the governors, and all those doing the king's work, I know we read this before, helped the Jews. Jews, because the fear of Mordecai fell upon them. We're going to jump down to verse five. Thus the Jews defeated all their enemies with the stroke of the sword, with slaughter and destruction, and did what they pleased with those who hated them. We're going to stop there. We're going to see the rest of the story next week. Can you see the fear of God going before and winning the day for his people? That's the theme of this message. I would call you, I would plead with you, fear the God who reverses fortunes. He has worked this great reversal for the Jews. He's worked it for Haman. He's worked it for Esther. He reverses us when we're when we're bowed down and everything's he to be as low as they can go. Do you feel like that right now in your life? That things are falling apart Fear the God who reverses fortunes so that you might become one of his people And if you are one of his people, recognize this is the God you serve. He will turn things around for you. Perhaps in this temporal moment, perhaps not. But there is a day coming when you will reign with Christ if you are one of his people. Fear the God who reverses fortunes that you might become one of his people. Now, that all this stuff about fear might not sound like what you've been expecting We tend to think of faith as a sorry as fear of as a bad thing, and I keep hearing recently, and this is not a bad thing, but I keep hearing the mantra Faith over fear, right? We overcome fear by faith in God, right? Well, it depends what fear you're talking about, because remember what we see throughout Scripture, and I want to just limit myself to the book of Proverbs, written by the second m wisest person in in history, right? King Solomon. Here's what we have over and over and over again about the Fear, not just any fear, but the fear of the Lord. There are different types of fear, and even when it comes to the Lord, there are slavish fears, as John Bunyan would put it, and then there is the fear that saves you. And here's that fear, ready Proverbs 1. 7, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Proverbs 8. 13, the fear of the Lord is to hate evil. Proverbs 9, verse 10: The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the Holy One is understanding. Proverbs 10:27: The fear of the Lord prolongs days, but the years of the wicked will be shortened. We see See that right here in Esther. Haman's days have been shortened, the the days of the Jews have has been lengthened. Proverbs fourteen twenty seven The fear of the Lord is a fountain of life to turn one away from the snares of death And Proverbs 16, verse 6, which I like to call the gospel according to Solomon, in mercy and truth, atonement is provided for iniquity. And by the fear of the Lord one departs from evil. Fear God. And Run to the one who can atone for your sins. That one, the only one, is Jesus Christ. And just so happens to be called the one greater than Solomon. Run to Jesus Christ. When he died on the cross, he died guilty as though he had sinned. God the Father saw him as guilty, though he knew he wasn't. He actually took Took your sin and the sin of Haman and the sin of Adolf Hitler and the sin of genocide, and he counted his son guilty of it. Now that doesn't mean that Hitler or Heyman have been forgiven, but if they had turned to Christ, they would have been. If you will turn to Christ and you will say, I'm guilty. I'm guilty of my lust and my addiction and my my laziness. I'm guilty of my slander. I'm guilty of my Ungratefulness in my coveting. But Lord, count me as righteous as the one who's dying for my sin. And God takes your sin and puts it on him. He takes Christ's righteousness. He puts it on you. He atones for you. So let me read that again from Proverbs 16. In mercy and truth, there's no lying about it. In mercy and truth, atonement is provided for iniquity. That is sin, that's guilt specifically. And by the fear of the Lord, one departs from evil. You depart from evil by fearing God and running not from him but to him, not arguing with him, but agreeing with him. And say, Lord, apply that atonement to me. And we know He can grant it because Jesus Christ rose from the dead. He can share eternal life with you, just as he can share forgiveness with you. Today, becoming a Jew, you know what we call becoming a Jew? We call it becoming a Christian. Because Christians are are are true Jews at heart. We've accepted the Jewish Messiah, as have many Jews. But not all. Be converted, turn from your own way, ask God to make you one of his own people. He's been doing it regularly since Calvary, nearly 2,000 years ago. That's how he makes you one of his people. Let godly fear drive you to Jesus Christ, and he will give you victory over your greatest enemies, just as he gave the Jews over their enemies, just as he thwarts any death ray. Pointed at them. He will give you victory over your greatest enemies. And you know what those are? Sin and death. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I pray if there's anybody hearing this message here in person or over the web that they would that they would hear the truth here and recognize that these things that maybe they have known For many years, and they've understood it that there is such a thing as hell, that there is such a thing as judgment, that there is a God who defends his people. And his provided atonement, help them to recognize that this is personal, that they themselves need that atonement. That until anyone turns to you, they're not born a Christian, they're not born right with you, we're born sinners. And you've given us your son so that we can turn from our sin and have it forgiven. Only in Jesus, not from anything we do, but because Jesus has died for us. Thank you, Lord, that you are in the business of working reversals. And I pray for s if there is somebody here who is struggling with a besetting sin and can't see how they can get over it, help them to believe that you are the God of reversals, that you will give them help. You will give them grace is the word you call it, so that they can overcome it if they will trust in Jesus Christ. I pray for salvation today, Lord. In Jesus' name, amen. In closing, let us stand together and sing one more song. How great is our God. And there are king Clothed in majesty, let all the earth rejoice, all the earth rejoice He wraps himself in light, and darkness tries to hide And trembles at his voice, and trembles at his voice. How great is our God Sing with me, how great is our God. Oh, we'll see how great. How great is our God H to age he stands, and time is in his hands. Beginning and the end, beginning and the ends, the God had three in one