Turn with me if you're not there already to Matthew chapter 5. Matthew chapter 5. Do you ever find yourself wishing that you lived in a different time? Now, I This is not the time travel question, okay? It's not do you wish you lived in a different time period? Uh by the way, my answer to that as I was growing up was always I wanted to grow up in the Middle Ages so I could become a knight and spend all my time sword fighting, right? But that is not what I'm asking you, right? I'm asking you, do you ever find yourself looking at our current culture and thinking Oh man, I wish things weren't like this. I wish things were more like when I was growing up, or when my parents were growing up, or when my grandparents were growing up. If only they'd stayed more like things were when I was in high school. I knew the threats then. I knew the sins, I could I could stay away from them. If only I'd been born twenty or thirty or forty years earlier. Do you ever find yourself thinking that way, talking that way? Maybe it's the other way around. Maybe you're looking right now at our current era and the culture wars that we're in the middle of, and you think, I'm ready for this to be over. I never know who I'm gonna offend. I never know which way the the the social or political w wind is blowing. Uh I'm afraid I'm gonna offend somebody or it'll be used against me in a few years time and posted on the internet for all to see I wish I was just born out the other side of it. Maybe you're wishing you were born later so you could avoid some of these things. Maybe you think about how certain values have changed over time, right? And uh over the course of your life. For instance, you see you see young people more and more disregarding God's design for marriage and moving in together without getting married. And you you long for the days when b prior to the social revolutions of the nineteen sixties and when uh God's Uh God's design for for marital intimacy was upheld and and treasured better, and not cheapened the way it is Or maybe you see our over dependence on technology, right? And everyone's on a screen and you and you you go to the local coffee shop and you would love to have a conversation with a stranger, maybe share share the truth about Jesus with somebody as you wait in line at the grocery store. Or as you w just w go for a walk down the street, they've got their they're glued to their phones or they've got their airpods in, right? And and you're like, Man, I I it's so much harder than it used to be to make friends or to s to start a friendly conversation with a a stranger or a casual acquaintance. Even at work, right? You lament that social media has has made relationships more shallow and uh When you were growing up or when your parents were growing up, and and you lament these things. Do you think this way sometimes? At least sometimes, right? My guess is that most people who have who've lived long enough to see change have felt this way probably more than once, probably from time to time, or maybe even constantly. Maybe you feel like this all the time, but I want to ask you this then, alright, considering all we've just said. Do you apply that same thought to yourself? Do you ever see a decline in your yourself or a change in trends in yourself, will you apply such a critical appraisal that you apply to the culture? And I'm not saying that you're wrong to do so, applying that to the culture, but will you apply that so critically to your own heart? Do you ever look at your inner character or your thought life or your outward behavior patterns and and lament that you you don't measure up to the way things ought to be, or maybe even used to Let's read. We're going to be in Matthew chapter 5, verse 6 today. I'd like us to read as we did last time, the uh verses 3 through 12, and then we will home in on Verse 6. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when they revile and persecute you and say all kinds of evil things about you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven, for so they persecuted the prophets who were before you We're in our second week in the Beatitudes. Last week we looked at the first three. By the way, Beatitudes is just a big word to mean blessings. It's some some Latin word, we use it. I'm not really sure why we use it. But the blessings, the blessings in Matthew chapter 5, right? We started with blessed are the poor in spirit, we have blessed are the meek, etc. And here Jesus is alerting us to our inward need. That's what we saw last week. We have a great poverty when it comes to spiritual things. That's what blessed are the poor in spirit means. Not material things, but in spiritual things, we need to see and acknowledge that we are bankrupt. We are impoverished. And here he is showing us today in verse 6, blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled. He's showing us what the best kind of desires are. How we can arrive at genuine happiness and what we ought to be desiring and yearning for. As we seek him and how we might might arrive at that blessedness and that happiness. Now, here is the theme statement for you And we'll touch back on it again, but I find it amazing. God promises satisfying happiness to the people who urgently put holiness first. Do you hear that? Do you hear the not quite contradiction, but there's a little bit of paradoxical truth going on there, isn't there? God promises satisfying happiness. To the people who don't seek it, but seek holiness instead. The people who urgently put holiness first. I've put some uh quotes for you. I don't usually do this, but I've put two quotes for you in your bulletin that I encourage you to read. Don't do it now, listen to me. But uh read it later. I think that you will benefit from them if you haven't read them already. They're beautiful And in there, one of them, a great Welsh preacher, Martin Lloyd-Jones, that you have heard me quote before, and unless the Lord takes me home earlier than I'm expecting, you will hear me say it again. You will hear me quote him again. He has this beautiful quote in there. I did not bring it up with me, but where he explains that miserable pe miserable people are the ones seeking happiness at all costs, and that is their focus. It's the ones who are seeking holiness, who are seeking God's righteousness, that find themselves to be the most happy. That doesn't mean they don't have trials. But they are the ones that arrive at this blessed state. Now we will talk more about that happiness in a little bit. So first I want us to look at, we're going to divide this into two parts. We have the blessed for those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. That's part one. Part two is for they shall be filled, or they shall be satisfied So first let's look at the hunger in the first half of verse 6. The hunger. We hunger and thirst for righteousness. Now I think the best way to understand what a hungry person looks like is to remember what the first three of these be these blessings, these beatitudes are, right? The the the person who recognizes that they are poor in spirit Not just not just the porn spirit, but those who realize it, who recognize it. Because anyone who's disconnected from God, as you were born, you were born a sinner. You were born separated from God. And you need God to make you right with him. You hear that? Not you need to make yourself right with him because you can't. I mean you do need to make yourself right with him, but you can't. So he has to do it for you. You need to be reconciled to God. And you can't do that until you recognize that you have nothing in you to make yourself right with God. Nothing to merit him making you right with him, except that he created you in his image and he sets his affection on you for that reason. But there's not nothing nothing you do, nothing that you value rightly that he says. That guy, I want to save him. Not the rest, but that guy. No, he has to graciously desire to save And he does. He sent his son into the world to do that. And his son is explaining these things. First you need to recognize you're poor in spirit, that you have nothing. When you do, you mourn over it, you see your sin. You see yourself as God sees you. God sees you with love. He sets his love on you, but he also sees How wretched you are, covered in sin. And you start to think, oh my goodness, there's nothing good in me. I'm not worth saving. And he's saying, that's actually the blessed person. They're going to be comforted. I'm going to comfort them I'm going to make them right with me. When you're mourning and you're seeing there's nothing in you that makes you meek, that makes you humble, that makes you gentle. Blessed are the meek, he said. And so we've worked our way through those, and it's very natural then to see this person whose mourning has been made meek. They're mourning a lack. And now he says, well, well, embrace that lack, feel that hunger, thirst for righteousness, thirst for what you do not have in yourself. And that that is the hungry person that we're talking about. So this fourth blessing, this fourth beatitude, is in our Bibles because sin separates us from the Creator who assigns us our purpose. You realize that? People spend so much time speculating about what the meaning of life is, but your creator gave you purpose. Your purpose is to belong to him. And to worship him. That that is the meaning of life, is to know God and enjoy him and make him known. As the Westminster Catechism says, the chief end of man is to Glorify God and enjoy Him forever. We are to enjoy our God. We are to glorify Him. And we will be satisfied. We will be filled by Him when we Thirst for him and when we recognize our spiritual poverty. Sin separates us from the Creator who assigns us our purpose and it leaves us empty and ha and unhappy. That's why this beatitude is in here. That's why these all of these beatitudes are in here. Well Let's talk about what it means to hunger and thirst. We think we know, though we live in 21st century America and we don't really know lack like other people know lack. In his memoir, A River in Darkness. I don't know if any of you have read that. I read it a few years ago. A River in Darkness. The author, Masaji Ishikawa, was uh a Korean man born in Japan, but as a uh I believe a preteen, he moved back to Korea with his family, specifically to North Korea after He describes in his memoir just how bad the starvation got for him in North Korea. especially for those in rural areas where he lived. When the crops weren't growing, which was most of the time, uh Masaji and his family family members would wander up into the hills searching for anything green to eat to to stick into their mouths. Sometimes they'd find some roots or or or some some shoots or ri wild herbs, but it was never enough. Their bellies were never satisfied. And he he says this. He says Ever since setting forth in north setting foot in North Korea more than 30 years before, 30 years, right? I'd known nothing but hunger. Everyone had been halfway to starvation for decades And at another point he says this. People didn't keep dogs in North Korea. They ate them. Now I've never felt my need. my hunger for food like that, that I'm I'm willing to eat the neighbor's dog. And I I hope I never do There's one dog I wouldn't have minded minded putting down, but that was a while ago. Anyway, don't have that neighbor anymore, don't we? Um But I've never I didn't intend to say that, sorry. I've never hungered like that. And if I'm truthful, I'm not sure I've hungered for righteousness like that either. Our bodies and our souls ought to be crying out for righteousness that would clothe us, righteousness that comes from Jesus. That comes from our Creator, and Jesus is our Creator. That we would be filled with a degree of morality that would cover up our moral defiance. That we would feel satisfied, as though our bellies are filled with finally the righteousness of God. be crying out for that soul and body. That's what he is saying, like a North Korean hungering for food Now there is a tension here. There is disagreement on how to understand this. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. What is meant by righteousness? here. The Greek word is the kaiosune. It's a very, very normal word throughout the New Testament for righteousness. But it can also be translated justice. So the question, and it can often be translated justice. He is right to call it justice, because in God's mind, righteousness and justice are really one and the same. Right, to to do rightly and to be just. He he does rightly. He is morally righteous and perfect. And so therefore when he when he judges a sinner and and And casts them into hell, or he judges a sinner who is clothed in the righteousness of Christ, and he brings them into his home and adopts them as his children. He is righteous. But we read this, and commentators read this, and they say, well, hold on. Is Jesus talking about people who long to be righteous on a personal level, like I just described? The hunger? Or are they hungering for a perfect society where people do justly, where we see justice carried out, where we see the world functioning as God intended? This is really the tension I brought up at the start of the message where I asked you, do you ever wish that things were different? Right? We can look at the world and desire to see God's values upheld and sin curtailed or eliminated. But do we look at ourselves with that same scrutiny and desire to see God's values lived out in us personally? So, is he talking about individual personal righteousness or societal righteousness, justice? Well, before we dismiss the idea of hungering to see a righteous society, let's consider this. The Sermon on the Mount, right, is commonly seen as Jesus explaining the way of that God's kingdom should be lived out. Kingdom life in a fallen world, as Sinclair Ferguson puts it out. He's talking about the kingdom the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Repent because of it, right? So did John the Baptist. And so therefore, when this kingdom comes, here's how you will live in it Thing is we don't, we live in a fallen world, don't we? So live like citizens, live as citizens of the kingdom here on earth before the kingdom comes And so, if he and John the Baptist are saying that, now he's explaining how things ought to be, does that mean that the main purpose of Jesus is sermon here is to tell us that we m we ought to be more involved in social justice and getting things right between people Is this saying that is Jesus saying, right, that the church ought to be fighting for justice and promoting social causes from the pulpit? If you've listened to me for even just a few weeks, you'll know where my emphasis is, if it's there or not. Well, I think you know that I am going to say if you don't know this, hopefully you know it now. If you want to understand a difficult passage or a question, you have a question about a passage, what do we need in order to understand that passage? What is it what is the aside from praying and asking God for for understanding, what is the first thing you need to look at? The context. I heard that. Yeah, the context. The near context and the further context too, because sometimes you need to go to other books of the Bible to balance it out and understand it, right? But let's look at the near context, right? We already have, haven't we? When Jesus says, blessed are the poor in spirit, is he talking about society as a whole or is he talking to individuals? He's talking to individuals. Blessed are those who recognize their poverty. Blessed are those who mourn. I don't think that we I guess you could say people are mourning about this this the society is not the way it ought to be, but okay, what about blessed for the meek? He's talking about the people who are meek. He's talking about the people who recognize their their spiritual poverty. He's speaking to individuals. And then that carries right into here those people who are mourning, those specific mourners. Who are hungering and thirsting for righteousness. He is speaking to personal people, right? Individual people. He's not speaking about all of society. When you're mourning something, when you are mourning a breakup, let's say, someone broke up with her boyfriend, or a marriage has broken up You tend to have a strong desire. Right? What is that desire for? Someone, if you've ever been through a breakup, you know how painful it is. And and perhaps for weeks, maybe even months, you are d you are yearning for one thing, right? The restoration of that breakup. Unless you're the one who did the dumping, maybe you're not. But but you are you are yearning for that that uh relationship to be restored Right? You're thirsting for it. And and so these beggars that that Jesus is describing, they're mourning their lack of righteousness. Now they want righteousness for themselves. They're not thinking about all of society, not yet. They're thinking about themselves. That is the right way to understand this passage. It's personal righteousness that Jesus is talking about here when we've seen the ugliness of our sin, and we've we we feel it and our inability to correct it. or make up for it before God. We want more than anything to be morally right. Like the young man who has lost his beloved. He is yearning to be restored. We are yearning for a right relationship with God when we see ourselves and we see our God clearly. We ache to be righteous. This is personal righteous we are we are aching for, personal righteousness. Does that settle it? Mostly. Mostly, but we're not there yet, okay? This is definitely the main thrust of the passage. I hope you hear me there. The main thrust of the passage here is talking about individuals If you want to be right in your relationship to God, you want him to allow you into his presence, which we call heaven, and not condemned to torturous separation from him in hell. Then you need to be hungering and thirsting for righteousness. If you're not thirsting for righteousness, you're not going to find it. You're not going to be righteousness until you desire it. Until you desire to be righteous. And God only allows righteous people into heaven. But All that stuff I said at the beginning, isn't that true? If you're a Christian who care about you care about your own personal holiness, don't you also care when you see that the society is unrighteous? You care about it, right? For example, I mean let's get into it. We want to talk about social justice. If you're a Christian And you've you've been re- you've been born again in the image of God, how do you feel about the unjust murder of infants in the womb? You hate it. I know you do. Some of you talk to me about this. I mean, how could you not? The righteous person cares about the image of God in man. So when any human is murdered, we hate it. We value children because God values children. Jesus valued children. He loved children. He said that if anyone puts a stumbling block in front of a child, it would be better for them to have a millstone hot Tied around their neck and then cast into the sea. He's not talking about the father's wrath. He's talking about his own wrath. He loves children and he will defend children And so if you've been clothed in the righteousness of Jesus, you care about children. We care about the defenseless. That's an inevitable outcome for the person born again to new spiritual life in Christ. We value these things and we hate when we see them perverted, right? Right? So, in other words, we hate injustice and we want to see justice prevail in our society. That's righteousness too, societal righteousness. So let's keep reading that. Look at verse 7. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Is that not looking at the interactions between other people? Right? We are to show mercy to other people. Look at verse 9. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. If we have the righteousness of God. Then we are we are making peace with the people that we had conflict with. Or perhaps, perhaps, and you have to do this carefully because there's warnings about it in in Proverbs, he who uh interferes in a quarrel who's not his own is like one who grabs a dog by the ears. So you don't want to be s stupid about it. But we see people fighting, right? And we wanna we wanna help them stop it. We wanna help them make peace. Blessed are the peacemakers. Well, these verses are part of that near context of verse 6 as well, aren't they? So here's what I think we have going on. We have at the beginning of the Beatitudes you have this personal righteousness. But by the end You've got the societal righteousness in view a little bit. A little bit. It's still the personal stuff, but but Christians who are transformed by Jesus Christ. We'll have an impact on their neighborhoods and their workplaces and their schools and their soccer teams. We will impact the people around us because we care about righteousness and because we're living differently. But you can't make your society more righteous, can you, until Jesus makes you righteous? So all of those longings that you have to see see the world honor their Savior, they're good longings. They come from a heart that values what God values, but they're misplaced. If that's as far as you take it, you can desire a righteous society that honors God without honoring God in your own life. Do you realize that? You could you could fool yourself into saying, man, people ought to respect their parents more. I see how how children are just far more disrespectful to their parents than they used to be. And people ought to be going to church, and we ought to be honoring blue laws more. You could say those sorts of things without ever having actually Given your life to Christ and yielded and repented of your own pride, your own self-righteousness, your own lust, your own anger, your own twisting the truth And so when it comes to this tension between personal righteousness and the righteousness you want to see in society, I think the right answer is both, but Both personal righteousness and societal righteousness, but the emphasis is more on the personal than the societal. That comes later. Now all of this hungering, all of this thirsting, it's building to something, isn't it? I said we need Jesus to make us righteous. And that's what he says will be the result. And when he makes you righteousness, he satisfies you. That's the word there, for fill. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they will be they shall be filled. I think perhaps a better translation there is they shall be satisfied. God fills and satisfies the hungry person with a personal righteousness. That starts with what we call justification. If you're the person working their way through these beatitudes for the first time, you're you're seeing your spiritual poverty, you're moaning over your sin, and you start You start desiring that God would would clothe you in righteousness so you would not be filthy in your own sin. That you realize there's not things that I can do It's not that I need to pr pray some cer some special prayer or or go to some confession or or do good deeds in order to outweigh the bad. You start to see your sin And and how God sees it. And you see, it's not about outweighing it. I need it eliminated. I need it eradicated. That can only be eradicated by the blood of Jesus Christ. He has to die for that sin. Someone has to die for that sin It's going to be you or it needs to be somebody else. And Jesus sent his son into the world so that you would not have to die for your sin. This is what we're celebrating at Christmas, that Jesus comes into the world, the Son of God Who's who has existed since eternity? That's a funny thing to say, isn't it? Since eternity. They he has no beginning Jesus is God, incarnate. And I know that the Trinity is hard to understand. That's good. If you think you got the Trinity un understood and figured out, then you probably don't understand the infinite God with your pin-headed finite mind. I'm not calling you a pinhead. I'm just saying in ca in in contrast to God, we're tiny, we're finite, we're limited, but he is not. Okay? So you might not quite get the Trinity. Don't worry about that. Worry about this. Is Jesus a created being unable to die for the sins of the whole world? Is he a man? He is a man able to die for the sins of man, and he is God able to die for the sins of all men. And not just the sins, the individual things we do, but the sinful We say he died for our sin and our sins. And we're celebrating at this time of year when the eternal Immortal, invisible, only wise God came into the world as a vulnerable infant for the purpose, the one purpose of dying for our sins. Along the way, he explained who God is. He showed us who God is. He explained the righteousness we need to be right with God so that we would see we don't measure up. And we need we need a righteousness that is foreign to us. And so when he says, Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, he's saying, I've come to give you, to satisfy you with my own righteousness. See, when Jesus died on the cross, The moment that you trust in him, right? You believe that that was enough. Not that plus penance, that plus confession to a priest. Jesus' death plus my works, none of that. When you're trusting in Jesus, because either he is enough or he isn't. Right? Does that make sense, right? Either Jesus' death is enough to satisfy God's wrath, and when he said it is finished, it really was, or he wasn't quite telling the truth So if it was enough, if it is finished, when after Jesus had atoned for our sin, he said it is finished, and then he yielded up his spirit immediately, right? If it really was finished. Then you don't need to do anything to contribute to it. You believe you exercise faith in him, and that's enough. When you trust in him, his righteousness He's not been treated as a righteous person, is he? While he's hanging on the cross, he's being treated as sinful. He takes your place, your sins transfer to him, and his righteousness is transferred to him And he's saying, when you yearn for that, so that you despair of anything else that you can do to make yourself right with God, and you come to God as you are, I will satisfy you. God will satisfy you. They were one and the same With a righteousness that is not from you, it's from heaven, it's from me, he's saying. Not me, but from Jesus. And we call that justification. God declares us as righteous as his son. But if you've been walking with the Lord for some time, if you've been justified, you've trusted in Him, you've even felt assurance That yes, I know I'm right with God, because that is what I'm banking on to make me right with God. That when I stand before God, before his throne, or perhaps not stand, but lie down flat on my face. I will be pleading Jesus and nothing else. Right? If that's how you comfort yourself, you know, he's your only not, well God, I I I did I did donate to the church a few times. I was really good in my attendance. We're saying, no, Jesus only, Jesus only, right? If that's your comfort Then you know, if you've been walking with him for some time, you still desire more, right? You still see your sin. You know you're right with him. You know he forgives you when you sin. But but you hate your sin still, right? And and you're you're yearning for it to be gone, right? You're waiting to be in his presence and have it removed. Well, there's a time coming when he will remove sin from us and give us new bodies so we're never tempted by sin. They're glorious bodies fully Set aside for him. We call that glorification, but in the meantime, you know we we keep designing that, but in the meantime, he promises to help us work out that salvation, that justification, so we become more like Jesus. And you know what it's like, right to, I want to be more like him. I don't want to be like that anymore. I'm tired of being like Robert Lough. I want to be like Jesus Christ. I want to be righteous. You have new desires once he justifies you. And you have new appetites and you want you st You've been satisfied by his righteousness, but you still want more of it. John MacArthur put it this way we may eat steak or our favorite pie until we can eat no more. Yet our taste for those things continues and even increases. Or a really good slice of pizza, right? Or whole pizza. It is the very satisfaction that makes us want more. The fact that God fills us and satisfies us with his righteousness. We want more of that. We want to see that in him, we want to read it in his word, but we want to we want to live that out as well. And part of being one that God satisfies with his righteousness is that we have new desires and appetites. We see the world differently. We have a new worldview. And we have new behavior because of those new desires and that new worldview. But the other part of this, right, if we are desiring righteousness and we're desiring to see the world be righteous. You know what? God will give us that too, because Jesus is talking about the kingdom here. And right now we're to live out the kingdom in this fallen world, but one day it won't be a fallen world anymore. He's going to remake the world, and he's going to reign over the world. And he will be the perfect political ruler, not just ruling from his from his uh believers' hearts from heaven, but Ruling on earth politically as well as spiritually. And at that point, right now we're you're probably like me yearning to see the rest of the state of Maryland adopt Christ's values. There's a day coming when this the kingdom that Jesus is preaching about is actually established on earth, and we will see righteousness and justice finally carried out. Well finally, the result then of us being satisfied, filled with righteousness, is that God will give us a happiness. That comes from that satisfaction. God promises satisfying happiness to the people who urgently put holiness first. The word blessed comes from the uh the Greek word makarios. It means happy. It means more than happy. It means that there is a blessing and a joy that can come only from God. It's the idea of holiness. Sorry, wholeness, wholeness before God, the idea of shalom, the the the the Hebrews, uh perhaps you've heard um Jewish people say shalom to each other. It's more than just peace as in a cessation of fighting, right? wholeness and it's a joy, it's a happiness. But it's a happiness. When when you're seeking happiness as an end in itself, You don't tend to find it, do you? In fact, you will do things that violate holiness and that displease God. And then you will feel that sting your conscience, don't you? But when we seek God Himself, when we seek holiness, we seek righteousness, because we're thirsting for it, we're desiring it, God fills us with that holiness, and that just so happens. to produce happiness in us as well. Stop looking for happiness as an end in itself. Look for your God and find him at your source of joy. Find righteousness, your source of joy. Determine to delight yourself, to be happy, but to be happy in God, to delight yourself in who He is. This is the joy that comes from hungering and thirsting and now being filled to the brim and running over, from knowing that you were once condemned by God for your sinfulness. Now you know for with certainty he's forgiven you and will accept you into his presence for good. Let's pray