Please turn with me to uh first John chapter one. First John chapter one. And uh we're gonna be just suspending our live broadcast for just a moment, and uh we'll be we'll be back in in just uh maybe five minutes. We'll we'll pray during that time and I have something to read uh to you and then we'll be right back. Thanks, Hannah Um yeah, I want to uh read to you um a uh before we pray, I want to read to you an email I received from Shay. Uh he is grateful uh to you for your kind gifts. And um he He just wrote some really uh sweet things uh about our church and to our church, uh so I want to share that with you. You remember Shay? All right. Hello, church. I'd like to formally extend my gratitude to you all for your support, kindness, generosity, and hospitality over the past one and a half years that I have been attending Grace Baptist Church. I have always felt so loved and blessed when I meet with you all, and I know that is nothing short of the grace of God saturating our lives. This church taught me the value of having a close-knit, Christ-centered community. And that is such an invaluable lesson that I will carry with me for the rest of my life. I'd also like to thank everyone who signed my card and contributed to my generous gift. I've already looked at the card to give me peace. And remind me of the goodness of God when I'm feeling overwhelmed. And I know the gift will take me a long way. You guys didn't have to get me anything, and I'm so incredibly grateful. I just finished my orientation week and began my first week of classes for medical school. As busy as I am going to be, I'll never forget how many people encouraged me to always put Christ first. It's so amazing that the whole church is constantly pushing me towards God, and I'm so grateful for this inspiring community. Finally, I'd like to apologize for missing the opportunity to say goodbye to many of you in I definitely intend to ref rectify this by visiting soon. I think we all look forward to that. Thanks again, and I will see you all soon by the grace of God. Many blessings. And I will print that out and post it on the bulletin board outside so that you can read that. But I wanted to read that out loud because I just thought it was such a sweet message and a really great testimony of of of what all of you as as the church, as the body of Christ and Christ's hands and feet, what you have been doing and what we can continue to do together the way that you've been ministering. uh to to Shay and and to others. So want to encourage you to keep doing that. And such a such a wonderful uh wonderful testimony for uh for me to read. I I really enjoyed that. Anyway, we're going to go to the Lord in Prayer. Judy, Janelle and her mom, Judy, but specifically Judy, they're not here because Judy is been been uh feeling real bad stomach stuff as a I assume a result of the the chemo. Um and uh uh Janelle was saying she could I think she was in a different room. She said she could hear They weren't able to make it. They really want to be here. And um they uh uh so I I told them we would we would pray, but they are they are watching on the live feed. So in fact, Hannah, you can go ahead and put that live feed up now and I'll just be careful that I don't reveal anyone's identity, but you'll know who I'm praying for. So All right. All right. Should we open in prayer? Dearest Heavenly Father, thank you that we can gather together in your name this morning. Thank you that you give us the blessings of technology that even those who can't be here today because we know of sickness in our our congregation. Thank you that they can join us online. And we lift them up to you. We thank you. We love these people. And we are sorry that they are sick. We ask that you would be with this dear lady. And put your hand upon her. And Lord, please heal her, deliver her through this pain, and let her see your kindness and your goodness and your love for her. And as she goes through all of her ongoing treatment and what that's going to mean, we just ask that you would please draw her to yourself and heal her and assure her of your nearness. Lord, we uh we thank you for the privilege it is to have your word preserved for us Some portions, the the newest portions of your word, you have preserved for 2,000 years. You've preserved it for many people along the way, but you've preserved it specifically. Typically for us too. You have a message to give us today. You've preserved other parts longer than that, Lord. You've preserved them 3,500 years or so. That we would have your word to speak to us, to guide us, to inform us of who you are, to renew our minds when they grow clouded by worldly things and when our sinful flesh asserts itself. Lord, help us to be quick, to run back to your word, to feed on your word daily, to treat it as our normal diet. Would you please, Lord, Speak to us from your word daily. But we know, Lord, that when we gather together as the body of Christ for the purpose of worshiping you, when we gather together as the church, You do something special. You are present here in a way that you're not present with us as believers, though separate from one another. You are present with your church right now in a special way. And you you are opening your word in a special way. It's no less authoritative during the week, but you have a message for us that you intend to give to us as your gathered people. This morning. And I ask, Lord, that you would speak through me. And as I've been praying, I ask again, Lord, you ordain to use an ordinary flawed people to to preach your word. You use sinners to preach your word. Redeem sinners most of the time. But sin And I thank you for that privilege as a man redeemed yet still a sinner, that I get to preach your word. And Lord, you know that this particular passage I'm preaching from is just so personally special to me. That, Lord, I ask for your help and the balance of preaching what is objectively found here and not adding to your truth in any way, but at the same time I know you use people and and our own experience, you you use the preacher as part of that that sermon of what is being preached. And so help me, Lord, to not put too much of self into this, but to also be authentic as I myself preach this. And I pray that I would not preach this. in my own strength, but in your power, we ask that we together as a body of Christ are asking you that you speak to us by your Spirit, through your word, and through me. that between the objective truth in your word and also the way that experientially you've caused it to be lived out in my life, Speak to us through that. Protect me from any and all error. And help us all to have attentive minds and hearts that will receive this message as truly from you, not from me. Lord, let us filter out anything that gets through that is me and not you, that is not true, but we pray that that would be unnecessary. Lord, help us to receive this message as from you. And help us, Lord, to be instructed by it, to be encouraged by it, to be corrected and convicted where necessary. But in all of it, Lord, turn us to worship. Help us to come to the end of this and just want to sing and praise and encourage one another in our Psalms and Hymns and Spiritual Songs. Please speak to us out of 1 John this morning. Lord, some of us need assurance that we are truly in Christ. Some of us know we're in Christ, but still need assurance that we are truly forgiven because we've failed yet again We've sinned against you yet again, perhaps in an area that has dogged us since we became Christians. Lord, thank you that you are an abundant pardoner. That you are a father who is eager to receive his children, and that you have you have pity on us, you have compassion on us and mercy on us. You hate seeing sin in us. You don't get angry at us. You just hate that that sin. You hate that that nasty disease that is sickening us us to the soul all the more. You are a loving Father who loves his children and wants us to be free of that which is bad for us. And help us to receive that message today. We love you, Lord. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Please speak to us now. Amen. If you're not there already, please turn in 1 John chapter 1. 1 John chapter 1. And let me tell you why we're why we're here. The plan is to go to the Gospel of Matthew very soon. We just finished Esther last week. But the week before last, we had vacation Bible school. And I want to share with you from the places that we that that that I taught during vacation bible school. I think that there are messages worth us receiving as a whole body. And so uh uh w the our main lessons uh uh uh throughout vacation bible school were from the life of Elijah and I expect to go there next week. But there was also kind of added unexpectedly we did an extra class um for some of the older kids that were kind of the borderline age groups, and that was from 1 John. So starting on the Tuesday, four out of the five days, we went through 1 John. And I want to I want to preach to you from what is one of the, if not my favorite passage, certainly probably the most used passage in my life. I'm constantly turning back to this. this passage in my life. And yeah, let me start by s by saying something Okay, so I start by saying by by taking you back in time a little bit to the man John Newton. He is a a hero from Church History of Mine. You know church uh sorry, you know uh John Newton for the hymn Amazing Grace and and perhaps for some of his other hymns as well. He's a famous slave trader, turned pastor and preacher. Uh and he but he weirdly enough, he's not known for this today. But the thing he was best known in his day was not for Amazing Grace or for the hymnal that he produced, wasn't even for his active activism in getting the slave trade abolished, which he did very successfully. The thing he was known for the most, at least among Christians, was for his letter writing, of all things. Uh if you think about it back in those days, um if you needed to get counsel from somebody and you weren't Immediately present with them. You couldn't just call them on the phone. You certainly couldn't text them. You'd write a letter and then you'd wait for a response. And as aggravating as that must have been to so many people It has preserved for us really good godly biblical wisdom that we still have 200 years later. And So in addition to his preaching and his visitation duties, Newton was constantly spending hours and hours each week answering questions about the Christian life that would arrive in the mail from From people all over the country. He was he was in England, so all over England. Um he'd get 'em from friends, from acquaintances, even from strangers. And sometimes he would recognize a question as something that many Christians would have. And so instead of just writing them a letter directly back to them, he would write them a letter saying, pick up the Evangelical magazine Yeah, the the the issue on uh ne next next uh Tuesday or whatever. And uh he said you'll you'll find an answer from me under the name of he had a couple of pen names he used. Sometimes it was Omicron, other times It was vigil. Look for the letter from Omicron on the February 9th edition of the Evangelical Magazine, and you're going to see an answer from me. And the reason he did that was he wanted to benefit as many people as possible with biblical wisdom. So that thousands of people could benefit from it all at once. And I have read a lot of I've read hundreds of John Newton's letters. In fact, part of my devotions right now, I don't do it every day, but but a few times a week, I uh I join one of his letters uh to my my devotions. And his public ones and his private ones. Right now I'm working through the public ones. And I'll just tack them onto my Bible reading a few times a week. And do you know what the the most common question was that he was answering just over and over for the people of the 17 and 1800s? It's the same question that many of us are often answering, and it's you see it on the screen there. Pastor Newton Help me. I'm not sure if I'm really saved. I'm scared. I've trusted Jesus Christ to save me, but I keep seeing such bad sin in my heart and in my life, and I'm scared that maybe I didn't really trust him. How can I be saved and know for certain that I really am saved and that I'm secure in Christ? And they may have been asked 250 years ago, but those questions are just as common among Christians today. We struggle with assurance of our salvation, right? Especially maybe after you sin. Which makes sense. Because that's what sin does. It it gets between us and the Lord. We no longer feel his presence. And and it probably should be that way. It's probably good that we feel This this anxiety when we save, or so when we sin, and let that be a deterrent to you, that you will lose your assurance of your salvation. when you sin. But that doesn't mean that you lose your salvation. You lose the assurance that you do have salvation. That doesn't mean you lose your salvation. And so I'm going to try and follow in the footsteps of John Newton here and point you to the exact scripture that you and I both need when we struggle with sin. And with guilt, with not knowing whether or not we truly belong to Christ. And the great news is, if by the end of this message you still don't think you're right with the Lord, because that might be the case. I'm not necessarily preaching the same message to everyone here. You may not be in Christ. You may not be saved. But You can become right with him. And this scripture tells you how and why you can be right with him. So let's get into that scripture, shall we? First John, starting in verse verse seven of chapter one. First John chapter one starting in verse seven, but we're going to spill over into chapter two. I don't know why the person who added the the uh verse divisions split up chapter one and two the way they did here. Really it should come after chapter after verse two is where you should start chapter two. But anyway, we'll be going chapter one verse seven to chapter two verse two. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, referring to Jesus and from God, to God, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar. And his word is not in us. My little children, these things are right to you so that you may not sin. And if anyone sins, We have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous, and he himself is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for the whole world. These are verses that I have read and read and reread and prayed more times than I can count. And not every time that I've done that was I scared that I wasn't saved, but but there were many times. In fact, even when I was in seminary. I was I went through a period in seminary where I was worried, am I am I actually not really saved? Because I was seeing my own sinfulness and I was understanding truths in new lights. And it was actually I came to realize, as John Newton himself has written to many people saying, I've come to realize that actually I'm seeing my own sin and I'm feeling my own inward filth. More because these these truths are becoming more and more real and vivid to me. The Holy Spirit is is shining the light more and more on the sin in my heart. Because he's there. Because I am alive. Because the Holy Spirit lives in me. That's how I know I'm alive. Because I am joined to Christ. And as we walk down the road of life with Christ more He shows us our sin more because that's part of having that relationship with him, isn't it? He's working to make you more like Jesus And so the more time you spend with Jesus, there will be times where you just feel all the more encouraged. There will be other times where he's showing you if you're going to be more like Jesus and if you're going to be more pleasing to me. Then I want to remove this sin from you. And Robert, you need to see that sin. Let me shine a light on it for you. And sometimes I think of it like, uh, have you ever gone spelunking? You ever gone into a cave? Maybe you've gone to Loray Caverns over in Virginia? Show of hands if you've ever been to Luray Caverns or somewhere like that. There's some spooky rock formations in there, right? Some really cool ones. You remember the the plate of fried eggs that's like up on a pedestal and there's what looks like a plate of fried eggs. They always point it out to you when you take the tour through Luray Caverns. I've gone there, I've gone to Mammoth Cave in Kentucky, and you have the stalactites and stalagmites, and I never can get straight which ones come from the ceiling, which comes from down below and who really cares. But you have all of these these kind of eerie formations. They're beautiful, aren't they? They're amazing. And when I've gone through Mammoth Cave, it is really well lit in certain areas where there's almost no shadow in there. They want you to see everything in all its glory. But other parts of it and other caves you can go through, and especially Loray, it's not always the best lit. And it though those rock formations that have been there for thousands of years, they're not new. But when you shine a new light on it, it casts an eerie shadow. And I imagine the people who went through those caves for the first time, discovering them a couple hundred years ago. Perhaps with a lantern or or now when you go through one of those caves for the first time with a with a lamp strapped to your head, right? A uh a flashlight strapped to your head. And you go through there and right in front of you there's these kind of scary shadows and it's spooky and maybe you even wonder as you move, do I just see a bat in here or something? Because the it's just the the light and the shadows are causing these things, right? These These stalagmites and stalactites and formations have been there for thousand years. They're not new, but they're new to you. You're seeing it for the first time, and especially those shadows. can creep us out. And it's like the Lord is doing that in our hearts, that He's going spelanking spelunking with a headlamp in our hearts And those sins have they've been growing slowly over time. You've had them there for years. And sometimes you are seeing things in your heart that you never knew were there Or you knew where they were there, but you didn't realize they looked like that. And when the Lord shines his lamp on it, it casts such a gloomy shadow. That it scares you and it depresses you, and you think, either you think, oh my goodness, am I just not even saved? And and and maybe you go through a period of time, which many of us have, I certainly have. Where the Lord's doing this like every week, and you're seeing more and more of your depravity, and that is a kindness and a ministry of the Holy Spirit showing you your wretchedness so that you can repent of it and be more like Jesus. You're already forgiven. Positionally, you're right with Christ, you're right with God because you're in Christ. And He looks at Christ who died in your place, and He says, I'm applying that righteousness to this wicked sinner here. You're positionally right with him, but now he wants to make you practically like his son. And so he takes us through these periods where we see our Well you have a period of prolonged failure. And you start to wonder, am I really saved? And maybe that's not the right question to put put up before you. Maybe it's not you're worried that you're sla saved, but How is it will I ever have victory over this sin? How is it that God forgives me? I get that He forgave me when I came to Him as a helpless sinner, turned to Him for the first time. Whether you were in your your twenties or your thirties or as a six-year-old. I get that he forgave me then, but now that I belong to him and I still sin against him, how is it that he can Surely he's not going to forgive me now. I have no excuse now. And so I say, if if any of those are seen at least a fraction of it, you can relate to and true to you. then this scripture is thoroughly relevant for you. So let's let's walk through these. Now I I want to I want us to see what it is that that What like why is this passage here, right? What is the problem in our hearts that required God in His wisdom to put this specific passage? 1 John chapter 1 verse 7 through chapter 2 verse 2. Why did he put that in our Bible? It's because there's this problem in our heart, which I think I've articulated, but let's put it in one sentence. God's people often doubt that their sins really are forgiven and removed. You don't have to fill these in in your blanks, in the note sheet given to you, but you can God's people often doubt that their sins really are forgiven and are removed. And so the effect of that then is They lose the joy of his fellowship. They lose the joy of his fellowship, right? You don't lose the fellowship, but you lose the joy of it, and you lose the Assurance of it You're still saved, but you're you don't rejoice like a saved person And the implications here are you start doubting your salvation, you'll start feeling like maybe Jesus' death wasn't enough. Even though you know what the truth says, you know what the Bible says, you believe it. But you've sinned and you feel like God is still mad at you. Well, you know that you're still saved, but you feel like, well, maybe I'm a second-class citizen. Yeah. The pastor in my church, he's a first-class citizen, and and some of the other folks in church, they're first class. I'm second, maybe I'm even third class citizen. Because because they don't screw up like I do. That's not true. That's not true. But God doesn't see me like he sees those really holy Christians. Because I'm just bad at it. I haven't changed enough. I haven't abstained enough from sin for God to love me like he loves other other Christians. Does this sound familiar? Well, brothers and sisters, let me remind you that that is not the gospel of Jesus Christ. What's the gospel? The gospel is from the moment you believed on Jesus to save you, you were covered by his blood. You were covered by the blood of Jesus. You were covered by the righteousness of Jesus Christ. And God loved you as his own child. He sent his spirit in you, into you, who is called at that point the spirit of adoption. And and he he comes into your heart and enables you to cry out and see see God as your father, God the Father as your father. That we can actually cry out something like, Daddy, I need you At the moment you trusted Jesus to save you, he saved you and he covered you by his blood. God loved you as his own child. You are as secure in your salvation today and the moment after you sin, or even while you're sinning, you are as secure in your salvation at that point as the moment you trusted Jesus to save you. Do you believe that to be true? Experientially it doesn't feel like it, does it? But it's objectively true. Can you tell I'm speaking from experience a little bit? Whether you feel as though you're saved or not, if you have trusted in Christ. And to have trusted in Christ means you are trusting in Christ. You might be going through a period where there's a lot of doubts in there, and it's pretty weak. But there's a saving faith in you. Whether you feel it or not, you are as secure in God's kung fu grip today as the moment you turn to Him in repentant belief. And so we're going to walk through these few verses for the next few minutes and let the Holy Spirit assure us of his love for us. Now if our if that's our problem, that we are losing the joy of of Christ's fellowship because we're doubting that he's really forgiven us, right? If that's if that's our problem, what's the theme of this message? Message that you and I can be confident that God continues to love us even when we sin, because He has obligated Himself to believers by His Son's blood. And I find that to be amazingly comforting. Not that God is under some obligation that we force him under, but he has obligated himself to us because Jesus died in our place. So let's look at how that works. We're going to break this passage into two parts, uneven parts. We're going to do the chapter one part, followed by the chapter two part. Verses seven through ten, we see forgiveness. through Christ's death. And verses 1 and 2 of chapter 2, we see that we have security through Christ's resurrection. Forgiveness through Christ's death, security through Christ's resurrection. So number one, Jesus Christ's death in your place guarantees you that God continues to forgive you. story. So what John's doing, and he does this throughout, this is very common in John's writings, but we especially see it here in in 1 John. I don't love preaching or teaching through the whole book of 1 John. Am I allowed to say that? I love this passage and I love parts of John 1. I love the whole book, but it's not an easy one to preach through. And it's not an easy one to read through, I think Because I like Paul, right? I think my mind is more like Paul's mind. Paul kind of starts here, right, and he just narrows his focus and And slowly, methodically, he might have a rabbit trail that goes over here, and that slowly, methodically brings you back to where you left, right? But then he keeps on Narrowing it down, right? And just very logically, procedurally, even with rabbit trails, he gets to this point that he's been driving at. for like three chapters or nine chapters or fourteen chapters, right? And he just makes sure he gets there and he brings you there. John though, he's it's more like you're you're walking up uh a spiral staircase, right? And you come along here and you you pass this truth. And you you take in that truth, but you keep walking up the staircase with him, and and you get a few other truths along the way, and then when you get around here again, you're higher up, right? But you're you're the same same point in the staircase, and you're like, you already said that. Right? And then you keep walking and okay, we go he said this again and then here we are again. We have this truth again, right? And and that's what he does. He kinda he spirals around stuff. on small scale and large scale. So if you're read if you've ever read the the the book of 1 John, you're like, hold on a second. Why are we here again? I don't see the logical connection. It's because that's what he's doing. He's spiraling upward. He's not going down the drain. He's going up the staircase, up a tower. And he's taking you to sublime truths just as just as Paul does, but he's going in a very different route. And he's done that already in chapter 1 He kind of flip-flops back and forth between uh when we're telling the truth about ourselves and we're be we're lying about ourselves. And so uh here here we're just gonna kind of jump in the middle of it. But he says, so if we walk in the light as he is in the light. Which is the opposite of walking in darkness, which he's already talked about. So if if you're in the light, Then you have fellowship with actually he says one another. We have fellowship with other Christians. But it's also because we have fellowship with God. We all have fellowship with God, therefore we we have fellowship with one another. And but then in verse eight, he's going to go back and say, if we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. And so back and forth he keeps going. He talks about us when when we s When we admit to the fact that we're sinners and when we lie about the fact that we're not we say that we're not sinners when when we actually are. The objective truth is you are a sinner. You were born a sinner. That is what you were, who you were as you were born, until and if you ever came to Christ. That is what you are, that is your identity, you're a sinner until you're given a new identity and made new in Jesus Christ. And perhaps you have not. Don't assume that just because you're here in church and have been here for some time, that you are definitely right with the Lord. But we can look at what how we know that we are right with the Lord. So John is contrasting this false fellowship that we have with God and with others with true fellowship. And that's actually the purpose of this letter. He says that his purpose for writing is that we have fellowship with the Father and with Jesus Christ. Second one is that we would be assured that we have that fellowship, that we would know that we really have it. And then three, that such fellowship would provide us with a full joy. And that's in verse four. Well, confession, confession of our sin is what distinguishes that false fellowship from genuine, that true fellowship fellowship. Now some people sadly do deceive themselves into believing that they're saved when they're not. They deceive themselves into believing that they're in a right standing with God. When they they actually are not in a right standing with God. And John's writing a show how you can know you're not self-deceived. Two characteristics of a of someone who professes to be a believer but is actually deceived is that they, one, they're characterized by sin, but two, they claim not to be. They claim not to have disqualifying sin. And you need to recognize that your sin disqualifies you from a relationship with God. You have to own up to it. in front of God. And the main contrast between true fellowship and false fellowship is that those who really do have fellowship with God and therefore with one another is is that they they confess the fact that they don't deserve this fellowship and that they they were miserable sinners before they came to Christ Now we will wriggle out of this because someone starts to talk to you about your sin and and you try to compare it to other people. Look, I I'm not like Jim down the street. I'm not like Hilda, his wife. If if you knew the things that I've heard them say, right, I'm a lot better than her, yeah, that might be true. It doesn't matter. You're a sinner, just as Jim and Hilda are. And you need to be right made right with God Another thing we'll tend to do is okay, we'll justify, right? Yeah, okay, yeah, I've sinned, but Okay, I've yeah, I did this, but I've done all that I've done this, but not for a while, and it's it's not like Jim and Hilda. We go right back to j justifying ourselves by comparing us to others. True believers have confessed to their sin, they realize that they have no other hope. They don't minimize their sin. They recognize that that disqualifies them from being right with God. Only Jesus can save them, so they believe on Jesus to do so. And if that describes you that you have confessed that you are a sinner, that you are wretched, you don't deserve his forgiveness. And that Jesus Christ, you recognize He does offer you forgiveness, though you don't deserve it, and you've trusted in Him. Okay, well then stop worrying. Focus on Christ. And let me restate that so you can understand me clearly, alright? When we wonder if we're genuinely saved or not, what is our natural tendency to do? We start thinking about the things that cause us to worry about that. Well, how might I know that I am saying, well, okay, so so I I really have Uh I do have this desire to please God, and I and that's actually that's why I went and talked to my neighbors about Christ the other day. But on the other hand, I I just can't seem to get out from underneath this temptation here and and and I I never should have said that thing. And and and actually the other day I I did have victory over it outwardly, but inwardly I I I know what my thoughts were, and God knows what my thoughts were, and I just I don't know if I'm I'm safe or not. What are we doing? Who are we looking at? Are we looking at Jesus? No, we're looking at us. And that's the problem. Because when you start looking at yourself, You're no longer looking at Christ, and he's the one who saves you, not you. Right? If we keep going back to who we are and what we've done We're not going to find, we're ultimately not going to find assurance there. Now there is something good about examining your works. We're told if we would judge ourselves, we wouldn't be judged by God. Meaning that we wouldn't be condemned by God. If we would examine ourselves to see if there is sin in our lives That we need to repent of, right? And we do that uh ev once a month, right, when we're when we're partaking of the Lord's table. We confess sins to the Lord. It requires some examination ahead of time. We want to see that we are growing in our likeness to Jesus But if you keep on doing that and all you ever do is look at yourself, I mean you really have to limit that practice. You're not going to be looking at Christ. And it's really easy for s for for the enemy, for Satan or one of his demons, to get in there and say, yeah, you really are pretty bad at this thing, aren't you? I bet that you're not safe. You know, actually, you might as well enjoy the pleasure you get out of sin since you're you're obviously going to be separated from God anyway. Right? And and the enemy can get in there. So the real solution is that we stop analyzing our beliefs and our behavior and we just start filling our minds with more of Jesus Christ. who he is, what he's done, what he continues to do so, and then simply be honest, is that where my hope is? And that's that's the last I'm going to say about false confessions. So let's not look at eight anymore. We're just going to look at seven and nine. When we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. It's the blood of Jesus Christ that gives us that fellowship. When we confess that we have sin, that's what he means by walking in the light. When we're honest about it, and we're not we're not continuing to live in that sin, we turn away from it, we come out in the light, we confess it, and we move forward. It's the blood of Christ that's keeping us cleansed. Verse 9: if we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. I don't know that I can state that anymore plainly. So let's just read it again. If we confess our sins. Not, this is not talking about going to a Catholic priest in the confessional box and quietly telling him all the awful things you've done so that you can unburden your conscience. Right? This is going before the Lord. You don't need anyone else to do it for you. Jesus Christ is your high priest. That's why, by the way, I'm not called a priest, I'm just a pastor. And a pastor is just a fancy word for or an old word for shepherd, right? I'm trying to lead you along, shepherd you to Christ But I'm not a priest. We don't have any priest except Christ. Together, collectively, as the church, we are a kingdom of priests. We're a holy nation before the Lord. But as individuals, I don't serve a priestly function to you. You don't have to come and confess your sin to me. You can if you want, and I can help you work through it, perhaps. But Jesus Christ is our high priest. That's why Protestants usually don't have priests. A couple of denominations do. They're a little uh shaky in their understanding there. But usually Protestant denominations, and certainly Baptists, we don't have priests. We don't call you don't call the pastor a priest Because Jesus Christ alone is our high priest, he's our mediator, and so we confess our sins to him, and he forgives us. His blood cleanses us. And he's faithful. You catch that? He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all our unrighteousness. So when I have sinned against my Savior, and I start to doubt whether I'm really saved, I read this passage down to chapter 2, verse 2. I read it and I think about it until I believe it. I just keep running this, running my eyes over this passage. Praying it, thinking about it, until I believe it, until I realize that that's where my hope is. My hope is not that I would be more victorious over the sin today than I was yesterday That's not what makes me right with God. What makes me right with God is everything said here, that Jesus Christ's blood cleanses me of my righteous uh cleanses me of my sin. That I am counted righteous. Because that happened. Because that's true. Because he shed his blood for me. And if I if if I can come to the point where I'm saying, okay, you know, that's what it is. That's why I'm right with God. Well now that's what I'm depending on, isn't it? That's what I'm believing in. You're believing it. You believe in Christ, you're saved. Whoever believes in him will not perish but have eternal life. Right? That's the gospel. So Read through this passage. When you're struggling with this, go to this passage. Maybe you've got another one that you really like to go to. Make sure it's one it's a gospel and not law, right? And believe it about Jesus. Just keep going through it until you believe it, and then he forgives you. Actually, you were already forgiven, but now he gives you assurance of that forgiveness. When you trusted Jesus to say that he died on the cross for you in your place, and you asked him to forgive you, He at that moment he does he determined to save you. He he all right, you're saved. You're good. Knowing every sin, not only just the sins you'd already committed, right? But he knew the sins you were going to commit after you trusted him. He knew the sins you were going to commit, perhaps you sinned very shortly after you trusted Christ to save you. And then you continue to sin years, maybe even decades, after he saved you. And he knew that. And he determined, God determined on the basis of my son dying in his or her place. I'm going to forgive him. I'm going to forgive her. Knowing that they're still going to do this. They're still going to fail me. I forgive them because Jesus Christ's death was enough. That is enough to cover that sin. And so I go through these verses and I look at verse 7 and I say, all right, I'm depending on the blood. And I read it until I internalize that I have no other hope except Christ's blood. Not at my performance, not my success with the sin, but Christ's blood. Verse 8, I get to no no no, I'm not deceived. I'm I'm absolutely certain that I'm a sinner right now. Everything that I've been rehearsing to you, that's usually not the problem there. We we feel that we're a sinner Perhaps you start to think, I'm actually the worst of all. No one in my church possibly struggles with the sin in the way that I do. God shouldn't save me. And then we get to verse nine and and we're we're assured of it. Yeah, okay, but he has and he does and he will continue to keep me, not because I deserve it But because of who he is, he has no choice but to accept my confession. Because he's faithful. And did you catch that other word? Faithful in what? To forgive us? Can I hear it? Just He's a just God, right? That's also the word for righteous, but in this context it is just, right? I think we don't always know what just means, but we know what unjust means, right? It means fair. Unjust means unfair. He is a a judge is just when they enact when they enact the law rightly, when they apply the law rightly, right? We say that a judge was unjust when he let that murderer, that rapist, that drug dealer get off of that that Get off from that crime that hur harmed somebody or harmed many people. We say that is an injustice. That is an ab abdication of justice That that person did not get the right the right penalty, right? God would be unjust To not forgive you. You hear that? I know that feels weird, but if you have believed in Christ, then by the by virtue of the fact that he his son died for you, and his blood was shed for you and was applied to you in your conscience, your guilty conscience, then Jesus actually God would actually not be just if he didn't forgive you now. He has obligated himself to you by the blood of Christ. Do you understand that? It would be wrong for him after you've believed in Christ, if it's a genuine belief and not just a fire insurance prayer, or not and not, well Jesus, I'm trusting in you and the fact that I Done this and that and this and that, right? But you're trusting in him, it would be wrong. It would be unjust. It would be unfair for God to say, I see that he's believed in my son. But I really hoped for better. I I think I've forgiven him a lot, but I think I'm done now. That would he'll be an unjust God. He'll be an unjust judge. So don't just rejoice that he's and don't just depend in the fact that he's faithful. Depend on the fact that he's just He would be unjust not to forgive you. And so what do you do? You appeal to him. You pray and you say, God, I know I don't deserve it, but you've promised because Jesus died for me. And I know he's alive. So I know you're pleased with what with his penalty on my behalf. So I'm appealing to you on the basis of Jesus' blood shed in my place. Forgive me. You know what you were already forgiven, but it's right for you to clear the air with him, right? If if you had not Pled that prayer, and right before you could plead that prayer, you got hit by a car. Some people get have the wrong idea, they they think, and and this is the Roman Catholic mentality, that if If you've sinned against God and you're driving to the confessional booth so that you can tell the priest what you did, but you get hit by a car on the way and you die, well now that sin wasn't forgiven. If we are in Christ, then that sin was all forgiven the moment we trusted him to Forgive us. It was all forgiven at the cross. That's why Jesus could say, while still on the cross, it is finished. He didn't rise again for a couple days. I think that's more likely just to show us he really was dead. And then he rose from the dead. It is And so if you sin against the Lord, you're still forgiven. But you're not going to feel that peace. If your conscience is working right anyway, you're not going to feel that And you should labor for that peace. Go to him in prayer. Plead with him that you might know that you are that you are right with Christ. Now so far, all that we've said depends on Christ's death. And every time you read blood here, just think of Jesus' death. death. But his resurrection is equally important. Because it's due to the fact that he's alive in heaven Standing before the Father, pleading our case, not dead in hell. Right? It's not that Jesus died and is in hell and now you don't go to hell. is that he died, he endured all the wrath of God, which we would otherwise we would feel in hell. He endured all of that and and yet is righteous enough that he could still Can we say, survive God's wrath? And that your sin is consumed? He is alive. He walks out of the tomb. He ascended to heaven 40 days later, right? And now he is before God the Father pleading on our behalf. And that's what the next two verses are saying. My little children. These things are right to you so that you may not sin. So God doesn't want you to keep sinning, you see that? If you can say, Jesus forgave me, he's still forgiven me. The pastor just told me that he's he's even forgiven me while I'm sinning. So I'm going to keep doing this. Because it's good. No, it's not good. You have the letter of 1 John in your Bible because God doesn't want you to keep sinning. He hates it. He hates it so much he put his son to death for it. So don't you dare try to justify the fact that He is gracious to use that to justify your sin. That's nasty. I write to you so that you may not sin, but He knows that we will. And if anyone sins. If you've got uh ESV, it says, These things are right to you so you may not sin. But if anyone does sin, I really like the way they put that. You put the emphasis on that does, but when you do sin. If you do sin. We have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. And when you s when you see this word advocate, think of it sounds like someone in a court of law, doesn't it? This is a faithful witness. This is someone pleading on your behalf. The word here is paracletos. You might have even heard the term paracletes. Just the English version of that word. It occurs only five times in the New Testament. It comes from verbs that occur many times in the New Testament, but this noun, paracletas, occurs only five times in the New Testament. And all of them are written by John. One is here in 1 John. The rest are all in the Gospel of John. John 14, John 15, and John 16. We have it four times there. In John 14, verse 16, he says, I will pray the Father, and he will give you another helper. It doesn't say advocate there, it says helper. Well, that's this word, paracletos. that he may abide with you forever. Ten verses later it says, But the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all things that I said to you. Now I told you that this paraclete, this advocate, is someone who's who he's advocating on your behalf. He is pleading in a court of law on your behalf. He's a faithful witness. So when Jesus says, the helper, the paracletos, that the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he'll teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all things that I said to you, he's taking the testimony of Christ. And testifying before you of these things on your behalf. He's speaking on Christ's behalf to his friend and disciple. That's you. Here he actually uses the term test testify. In uh John fifteen, he says, when the John fifteen, verse twenty-six, When the helper comes, whom I shall send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth who proceeds from the Father, he will testify of me. Like he's testifying in a court of law that Jesus Christ declares you righteous. You are good, you don't need to fear And then John 16, verse 7, nevertheless I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away. For if I do not go away, the helper, the paraklatos, will not come to you, but if I depart, I will send him to you. And in this case the emphasis is more on his presence. But what we we have kind of carrying through all of this is the idea that he is someone who testifies on our behalf. He's an advocate with the Father. If anyone sins, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. And if you're struggling under this fear that that you might be disqualified from God, this should just bring tears to your eyes. This should just be cause you to rejoice. You have an advocate arguing before the Father for you, pleading with you. You can think of him as a a witness on the witness stand, or you can think of him as a trial lawyer, a defense lawyer. in your pl uh arguing for you to be pardoned. Jesus himself arguing on your behalf And as he does that, God the Father sees Christ's blood And continues, he loves his son. He sees his son there. He has affection for his son as he sees him in the courtroom. And then he extends that affection that he has for his son to you, the one he's pleading for. Because he sees his blood on you. And that's the idea here then in verse two, and it says this this like what like $50 word propitiation. It's the idea of God's wrath being satisfied. It has satisfaction at the core of it. God's wrath is satisfied by Christ's death in your place. And so God, it's not that God is, oh, I'm glad that I put my son to death. Right? We we sing that song, for God the just is satisfied to look on him and pardon me. It's that his wrath has been satisfied. He has no wrath left. He's he's been appeased. He's satisfied. And he can look at you a filthy sinner and the but the sin's gone. The Father loves your advocate. He loves Christ. And he loves you in Christ, the book of Romans tells us. And so because he loves Christ, he loves you, and he continues to have affection for you, for me That's why he gave his son for you to begin with, because he wanted to extend his love, his affection to you. And this Jesus who loves you enough to lay down his life He continues to love you. When you sin, he loves you even more. Does that sound weird? He loves you more because he hates that sin more And he pleads, Father, don't hold that sin against him. Remove it from him. You know what? I think he needs a trial right now to help purify it out. I think we need to show him his sin and the consequences of it. Father. Use your spirit to take him through a trial that will help exercise this sin. Surgically remove it. It's gonna hurt, but oh, I hate that sin. I don't want it to keep her keep harming him. Keep harming her. And he pleads for you. Sometimes we we've we've pictured uh the the relationship between God and the Father. We we mean well, but we do it wrongly. We we we're sort of like God the Father's mad at you, but Jesus Christ steps in the way, right? And Instead of punching you, he punches his son. And I mean maybe there's some truth to that, because he invents his wrath on his son, right? But it's not like Jesus just kind of jumps him away, right? And the bullet hits him instead of you, and God the Father is still mad at you. He's now He's at peace. He's no longer angry with you. But Jesus doesn't then turn around and get mad at you because he had to take that bullet, right? Jesus continues to love you. It's like a parent who sees his son suffering under a terrible illness. Perhaps it's terminal, perhaps it's not, but he sees this disease threatening his child's life. And and that that child maybe is is doing better for a couple weeks, but then they have a really he has a really bad spurt of seizures. The father doesn't get mad at the child when he sees his son have a seizure, does he? But he hates that disease all the more. And he works all the harder to find a doctor who can cure his child. He'll work a second and third job if he has to to pay the medical bills, if he can just free his child of this deadly disease. He might even threaten a doctor to make sure he gets an appointment for his son. That's Jesus He loves you. He pleads for you now. He's your advocate on your behalf. But when you sin, he pleads all the more for your forgiveness. And so I cannot say enough how much you need to fix your eyes upon Jesus. Jesus on the cross Jesus in the throne room pleading. It's called the throne of grace for us instead of a judgment throne in Hebrews. Look at Christ there as your priest. Look at him as the sacrifice offered by the priest. Look at him coming out of the tomb, that you are as free from death as he is. Saturate your thoughts with the Jesus of the Bible until you can calm your mind and all of its accusations against you. And any accusations from the enemy that you can just quench them because you are saturating your mind. With the gospel and with truth. You remember in Ephesians 6 it talks about the whole armor of God. It says to take up the shield of faith with which you can That's the idea of of uh a Roman shield that had uh material on the front that they could drench in water. They'd stick But then when the enemy threw a an uh shot an arrow that was lit on fire, it wouldn't cause your your wooden shield to burn up. It would go into this soaked canvas and that would quench the fiery darts. That's what you're doing when you're saturating your mind, right? That's what saturate means, right? With the gospel, so that these accusations from the enemy or from your own flesh will not burn you up. We're going to close in prayer, and in the middle of that, I want us to take a few minutes just to pray silently. If you're a Christian, this is a great time for you to Confess any besetting sins to the Lord and ask him for help, but also ask him to assure you of that forgiveness if you're struggling with that. Or simply, if you're not struggling right now with this, great. Thank him and praise him for the advocate who died for you and continues to plead your case alive because he rose again. But if you're not a Christian. Whether you're in the room with me right now or watching online, right, if you're not yet a Christian, then I invite you to use this prayer time to cry out to the Lord Jesus to save you. Tell him that he would be right to condemn you. You are a sinner who falls far short of his perfect standard, and then tell him, but I plead the blood and death of Jesus. You have to humble yourself in order to admit that, don't you? And when you do that, she says he gives grace to the humble. He will forgive you because you're pleading Jesus. Not for any other reason, but because you're pleading Jesus. Jesus. If you're not ready to do that, okay, but then would you do something else? Would you come and tell me that that There's there's something there. I I I I want to do these things, I'm not ready. Would you pray for me? Can you give me help? Let me know. So that I can pray for you and that I might be able to help you to try Oh, I never advanced the slides. I'm sorry. Jesus Christ's resurrection guarantees me that he continues to plead my case. You can always ask me for these afterwards, okay? This clicker is not working. So let's close in prayer. Heavenly Father Thank you for Jesus Christ. Thank you that He pleads on our behalf. Thank you, Lord Jesus, your great love for us. You laid down your life. You laid down your righteousness. You gave it up. You gave it over to us. We have full forgiveness with you if we would just stop trying to justify ourselves with I did this and I didn't do that. Lord, let us just trust in Jesus and nothing else. Lord Jesus, help us to see you and to be grateful for you and to believe that we're forgiven and then to go and sin no more because you don't want us to sin. We love you, Lord. If there's anyone here who's not yet trusted in you, I pray they trust you right now. They do this stuff right now. So we're gonna pause, Lord, and we're just gonna have quiet time to pray. For Jesus, some of us are are guilty of slander and gossip. Some of us are guilty of lying. Some of us are guilty of lust. Some of us are guilty of just having no self-control. Either with things we should never be involved with or just an inordinate amount of time spent with things that are not in themselves wrong. And we confess these things To you, we confess our pride to you, we confess our unjust anger to you, we confess our laziness to you. And we thank you that Jesus Christ's death is enough to satisfy your wrath and your sorrow over all of it. We love you and praise you and ask that you would save another soul today by this plain truth that Jesus died in the place of sinners. Amen.