And uh I I also wanted to share then, kind of in that same vein, and I have permission to do this, um heard from uh Seraphim uh out in California. Uh a number of you have been asking how he's doing. Um His immigration status, of course, is dependent on his employment. He's been waiting for this this contract of his to be renewed. Um and so far it has not been. But I was just gonna read uh kind of some excerpts from the text he sent me last night. He said he has had no extension on his contract yet. So yesterday was kind of his last his last day of employment. He said, although my my supervisor still wants to try one more Hail Mary move over the w the long weekend, basically we're in the process of selling excess lab equipment, but it's not 100% sure if university policy allows the proceeds to fund my salary. So please pray for that, and this is what I really wanted to share with you. Pray for that, but I have an incredible peace about it. Either way, I'm sure your continued prayers play a part in me having that peace. Um and I told him we would be praying for him today, and that's why he let me share this. Hope you and the church family have a good service tomorrow. God bless. And then later he said, uh I I keep getting reminded that the church family is the best part of my life in Maryland. So So I wanted you to hear that and the affection that you have for uh Seraphim is returned. So with that, let's let's go to the Lord in prayer. We're gonna pray for him and for us. others as well. Dearest Heavenly Father, it's a privilege to get to worship you and Lord, uh, that we get to not merely attend church, but to belong to a family. We thank you, Lord, that when you adopted us, you adopted us into your family, and that we can call you by your spirit, and Lord, we say this reverently. We can call you not just father but daddy. And we need you. We need you as our provider for all things material and physical. We need you for grace. We need you for our spiritual And we ask that today, that this morning, that you would supply according to what we need, through the giving of your word, we thank you. you that it gives life. We ask that your your spirit who wrote this book of the Bible, all of the Bible, would the the one who wrote it would be turning the lights on as we read it. We ask that you would show us exactly what we need to see, each of us as individuals and all of us as a as a church body. What do we need to hear from you today? today. Lord, there are there are folks who have yet to trust Christ and Christ alone to save them. And so we ask that today you might help them to understand the gospel message clearly. And not just to understand it, not just to agree with it, to assent to it, but to believe it. And to see Jesus Christ as their only hope. But to see him in his goodness. to see him in his gentleness and his kindness and yet his strength. We praise you, Lord. You are omnipotent, you are all powerful. You are utterly transcendent, and yet you draw near to us and you give us your son, he has entered into human history, so that we can so that we can know you. That you are you are a God who humbles himself. And you you like humble people. You don't like arrogant jerks. And yet you sent your son to die for those arroganch as well. I thank you for for giving me and for giving me the privilege of getting to preach this message. Help me to do it as an act of worship and help me to do it. In a way that is most honoring and pleasing you and most profitable to us. And Lord, help us all to hear and to receive your message worshipfully, that we would, that we would listen as an act of worship. and receive your message for us. Some of us are hearing this this gospel message, understanding it, uh digesting it for the perhaps Four hundredth time, Lord. Other of us others of us perhaps understanding it for one of the first times or the first time. But you have something rich and new to tell us and something something old, something we've known for for a time. time to tell us. And we ask that you would strengthen us and encourage us and help us to go away rejoicing, overflowing, so that we would share more about you and about your goodness with with others and that you Lord we pray that you would be enough that we would not need more uh than you and so Lord we ask for your blessing on this day we lift up our brother Seraphim and ask that you would indeed extend his employment so that he can stay in the country longer. We ask that you might uh move his his green card application's been been in the works for so long and we ask that you would move that along that he might just see your timing and praise you on on uh September 2nd, Lord, um and receive word that that He has uh has gotten that that green card and can stay in the country. But we praise you that you are the God who gives perfect peace to his children. And so help him to keep his mind stayed on you. to trust in you. Lord, we lift up those who could not be here today and and some who are just just not strong enough to get out. I think Thank you for the time I was able to spend with uh with Lorenzo this week and to uh pray with her and to love her, but would you strengthen her so that she can attend uh and and worship because she misses her church. family. Lord, we pray for Tina and for others like them. Would you strengthen them and encourage them and we pray that they can Still follow along with the message online. Lord, we uh lift this time up to you in Jesus' name. Pray you be glorified. Amen. If you've not turned already with me, please turn to Matthew chapter 1. I'm going to do something a little bit different today, and that is because we are starting a brand new uh message series through the Gospel of Matthew. I have waited. I'm going on nearly two years now since I've been your pastor and I'm so grateful for that. And uh I've waited to do a long extended series like this. You know, we've done some shorter ones uh lasting a few months, but this This will go the long haul on our way through the Gospel of Matthew. So today we're not just going to start well, we are going to start in chapter 1, verse 1, but we're not going to stay there. We're going to look at the gospel message as it unfolds throughout the entire book. And I trust that that will be a blessing to you. We're going to see how Jesus shows us our need and then slowly teases it out and then and then finally shows us that We'll be spending a lot of time in the first like nine chapters and then we'll jump ahead. So if If you're checking your watch and you're like, he's at like 35, 40 minutes, and he's only in chapter 9. Don't worry, we'll jump ahead from there. So that's what we're doing this morning. There's a very popular movie in our culture, one that I imagine the majority of you have seen. has an early scene in it where one of the heroes is explaining why she's fighting bad guys and she says, I've got red in my ledger. In other words, she's saying she's done bad things in the past, and she's trying to make up for them by doing a lot of good things and hard things. Hard things that are good. And she wants to tip the scale from bad to good. She wants to to put in black ink to balance out the red ink that's in her ledger. And then she goes on, she beats the bad guys and continues on her path of redemption. And I fear that sadly The vast majority of people who claim the name Christian have this outlook on what the gospel is. They have this mentality. They say, like everyone else, I've done bad. But I've also done good. And if I can just do enough good so that it outweighs the bad, God will accept that and I'll go to heaven. And so they live a life of doing good for the sake of gaining God's favor. And that's good that they're doing good, but that's not how it works with God, because God's standard of good is 100%. And so You need more than just black ink to balance out the red ink. You need to eliminate the red ink entirely. God's standard of good reaches down not just to the things we do, but the things we think. It reaches down to the thought level. And so by that standard, there is not a single person on earth who passes by his standard. We cannot remove the red ink, let me say that clearly in our ledgers, simply by adding a lot of black. The red ink has to somehow be blotted out Now, the Bible tells us clearly throughout the Old and the New Testaments, and if you're following along in your notes, you'll want to perk up here so you can write these in. The Bible tells us clearly through both testaments. That our sin reaches to the core of our hearts, and so that we cannot atone for our own sins. The sin reaches to the core of our hearts so that we cannot atone for our own sins. Calling yourself a Christian will not save you. Trusting merely in a religious doctrine will not save you. What the Bible teaches is that You can only be saved by a person and by a relationship with that person. And so your only hope, again, if you're following along, here's the blanks for you, your only hope for forgiveness and for restoration. Is in the person of Jesus Christ Himself. Your only hope for forgiveness and restoration is in the person of Jesus Christ Himself. And so this morning we're going to take a guided tour through the Gospel of Matthew with this gospel focus, this gospel emphasis. If you have a Bible in front of you, or it's probably really much easier on your phone even. Get ready to move through it with me. If you can't keep up, that is okay. But I encourage you to try to keep up with me moving through. Won't hit every passage But we're going to look at w points where Christ causes us, before He causes us to hope, He causes us to despair of ourselves so that we can see that He alone can be our Savior. So we start in Matthew chapter 1. And we start with this genealogy, and perhaps You well, this would not be a a best seller today if it were written if we were were first written today. This would not be a best the way to open a best-selling book, right? The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ The son of David, the son of Abraham. And yet, this is exactly what we need to hear. Because one of the great themes of the book of Matthew is that Jesus Christ himself is the fulfillment He's the fulfillment of prophecy, prophetic scripture, predictions about him. He's the fulfillment of the law, and specifically, Jesus says in the Sermon on the Mount. the righteousness of the law. He fulfills the requirement of righteousness. He says that as he's about to get baptized, this is necessary to fulfill all righteousness. And then also he is the fulfillment of the Old Testament system of worship itself, the sacrificial system all comes Fulfilled in Jesus in numerous ways, and I won't be unfolding those this morning. But what we're told right here in verse 1 is that Jesus Christ is presented as the fulfillment of God's promises to two men that mark special epochs. Abraham and David. He's the rightful heir of God's promises. And so Jesus arrives to bring hope for us in the midst of despair. If we read through, and we don't have time to read through all of this today, We see a lot of familiar names. We're told that he's the son of Abraham, he's the son of David, he's the son of Solomon, and we follow the royal line of David. So that Jesus fulfills the prophecies of the Son of David. He is the one. He is the great king that we've been waiting for. And I will say much more on this next week, so we'll move forward. But in uh following that genealogy, when the angel appears to Mary I'm sorry, when when the angel appears to Joseph, Mary, that's in that's in Luke. When the angel appears to Joseph, he tells him he tells him a few things, right, that Mary is going to conceive and have a child. But what he says here is, I have something for you to do. You are going to name the baby. You're going to name the baby Jesus. And he tells him why. He says in Matthew 1. 21. Look at that with me. She will bring forth a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, because for he will save his people from their sins. And at the very beginning of this book, if you're reading this for the first time, We're told that that Jesus will save his people from their sins. So apparently there are sins from which we need to be delivered. And as we as we work through the second chapter, we have a horrible start because we have children being murdered State sanctioned infanticide and the countryside is crying out, they are mourning And in the midst of that despair, in the midst of that mourning, we have this child who is to bring hope to his people. Look at verse chapter chapter two, verse sixteen. Then Herod, when he saw that he was deceived by the wise men, was exceedingly angry, and he sent forth to and put to death all the male children who were in Bethlehem and in all its districts from two years old and under, according to the time which he had determined from the wise men. But we have a child who escapes all of that. And this child is the one who is to save everybody from their sins if they will but trust in him. But it's that his birth prompts the murder of countless children. And so God's people are crying out for a Savior. And an Old Testament prophecy then is quoted in verse 18. A voice was heard in Rama lamentation. Weeping and great mourning, Rachel weeping for her children, refusing to be comforted because they are no more. When Jesus comes, it's during a time of great despair, great mourning. And you may be feeling despair, though not showing it. You may be feeling despair because you recognize That you are not right with God. Or you may be feeling despair over something entirely different. You may be struggling with depression. You may be facing loss. You may have an uncertain future about your job or about numerous other things, but you're not doing so well. Jesus intends to bring you hope. And he does that to us, he does that for us. Oh often, not always, but often when we're at our lowest points. And in our despair. And so I urge you to turn to this Jesus when you are at your lowest point. Don't wait until you're better. I think some people view they view church, and I don't mean to speak specifically about church, I just intend to give you the gospel, but they they view the place where they hear the gospel, the church, like a gym. And how silly is it that we won't go to the gym 'cause we're we don't we we're not in good enough shape to go to the gym, right It's silly, so we don't go to the gym and we don't get in shape, and so we don't go to the gym 'cause we're not in shape and we don't go to the gym and we don't Uh well I I I don't want to go to church because I I I'm not I'm not in good enough shape, right? And I don't want to be a hypocrite. Well sadly there are hypocrites in church. Most of us are to some degree hypocrites. Hopefully we're honest about it. But we're here because we recognize we need to be and we need one another and we encourage one another and we point one another to Jesus Who brings us hope in the midst of despair? Well, Jesus will then lead you through despair in order to bring you to hope. And so I'm going to jump us forward to the greatest sermon ever preached, the Sermon on the Mount, in chapter 5. And I want you to imagine that you are a sinner who hears this message and you feel convicted. You are a sinner, whether you recognize it or not. And perhaps when when you read this, you feel conviction. Do you find hope in this sermon? Let's see, it's an amazing sermon, but it generates some despair for us. Now it starts with a list of things we call the Beatitudes. There's a lot of these blessed statements. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for there's the kingdom of heaven. Blessed. Those who mourn for they shall be comforted in it. He takes us through there to show us our need and show us hope that we can have. But we really get to the heart of the message In ver verse 17. So in Matthew 5, verse 17, he says, this is all Jesus, if you've got a red letter Bible like mine, all of this is red for pages and pages. And he says, do not think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets. I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill. And here we have initial hope that Jesus fulfills God's law. What does that mean, though? And meaning here is kind of vague at this point in his sermon, isn't it? What does he mean I come to fulfill it? It sounds good, but what does that mean for me? Well he he continues and then he shows us Our own sin with some really piercing statements that are hard to hear. Sorry, I'm going to make you hear them. Verse 22, but I say to you, well, I'll start with verse 21, you have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not murder. I think we can all agree that's a good thing. And whoever murders will be in danger of the judgment. But I say to you that whoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment. And whoever says to his brother Raka, and that's an Aramaic word meaning idiot, you ever call your Your friend, your brother, your sister, that. Whoever says to his brother Rakha shall be in danger of the council, but whoever says you fool shall be in danger of hellfire. In other words, when you lash out with your anger you are guilty of of the same seed sin, right, the thought level as murder. And you're in danger of hellfire, he says. And he goes on, he gives another example. You've heard that it said to those of old, You shall not commit adultery, but I say to you that whoever looks at a woman or a man To lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. And I don't think we need to go on to the ones about not keeping your word when you make a promise, that he goes on to say To see that we are all condemned before the Lord because we have had sinful thoughts like these and we have lashed out upon them Before God, who sees your heart clearly and sees your thoughts, we are condemned. And so he says at the end of that chapter, verse 48, therefore you shall be perfect just as your Father in heaven is perfect. And at this point, if you're reading, if you're reading it right in any way, perhaps you start to despair. Well, then what hope is there for me? I'm condemned at the thought level. I've done more than just think things. I've said things and I've done things But he starts to give us hope then in the next chapters, in chapter six and chapter seven. If chapter five woke you up and scared you. He talks about needing to cut off my hand and pluck out my eye to stop me from sinning, but even if I go to those drastic lengths, He never promises me that doing such a thing will gain me forgiveness. So what am I to do? So let's try and find hope in chapter 6 Chapter 6, verses 1 through 4, take heed that you do not do your charitable deeds before men to be seen by them. Otherwise you have no reward from your Father in heaven. And then he says in verse 4, let your charitable deed be done in secret, that your father who sees you in secret secret will be will himself reward you openly. So there is some some hope of reward, is there not here? Some hope that, okay, the Lord does see the good that I do But what if I don't make it to heaven to collect that reward? He doesn't quite extend forgiveness here, does he? Clearly we need forgiveness for the things we thought and said and done, and he doesn't quite extend it to us here So we keep going. Starting in verse 5, he starts to tell us how to pray. And he gives us a model prayer starting in verse 8 through verse 13. And there I find my dire need stated again in verse twelve. And we forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. So I am called to be a forgiving person. Then there's this terrifying statement at the end of of That where he says, For if you forgive their men their trespasses, your heavenly father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive men their trespasses, neither will your father forgive your trespasses Does that not scare you if you've ever struggled with unforgiveness, which I certainly have? So how does that work? Is it a one-for-one trade? Like if I'm condemned in chapter five for murder and adultery and for multiple instances Of lying, how many times do I have to forgive somebody else? It seems that I've sinned against a God a whole lot more than people have sinned against me. I've sinned against my God a whole lot more than people have sinned against me. How am I to forgive enough for that one-to-one trade to work out? Well, let's turn to chapter 7. I find myself at the very beginning, practically promised that God will judge me, because he says, judge not, or do not judge, that you may be not judged. For with what judgment you judge, you will be judged. And with the measure you use, it will be measured back to you. So if we've ever been judgmental, we find that God's going to take that judgmental Mindset and direct it at us. So unless you've never been judgy with somebody, you need to worry a little bit, right? Does that scare you at all? Because that is our natural tendency, isn't it? To be judging on people and think that we're better for for the dumbest of things, right? I wouldn't let my daughter wear that. And he's dumb. I wouldn't have done that. I'm s I'm smarter than that. And apparently this only increases our condemnation. And and it doesn't give us comfort. The greatest sermon ever preached. So I go deeper into the sermon, hoping, thirsty for hope that God might somehow forgive me, even though I'm seeing less and less in myself that I deserve forgiveness. Well, let's look at chapter 7, verse 7. Ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock, and it will be open to you for everyone who asks receives. And he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it will be opened. For what man is there among you? If his son asks for bread, will give him a stone, or if he asks for a fish, will he give him a serpent If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him? So why don't we take this advice and ask God for forgiveness right here because He promises to give it to us? He promises to give you forgiveness when you ask. His own son Jesus promises that. And then he hits me again with threat of destruction in verse 13. Enter by the narrow gate. Wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leads to destruction. There are many who go in by it, because narrow is the gate, and difficult is the way that leads to life, and there are few who find it. So we need to cry out to forgiveness and ask him to to save us from that from missing that narrow gate, don't we? But there's comfort. I can't expect the majority to know how to get forgiveness from God. If while I'm seeking God's forgiveness and struggling with despair and the people around me are telling me I'm just being too hard on myself, hey, everyone messes up, sometimes it's no big deal. I shouldn't be surprised then that if th that I'm in the minority. And are you tired of of made me being made to feel like you're in the minority? If you are a follower of Christ And you take things seriously that people are telling you you're way too hard. And maybe they're calling you nasty names for it. That is to be expected if you're following Christ because you're going through a narrow way. The vast majority of people don't take their conscience seriously. That doesn't mean that you should follow their lead. So we get to the end of Jesus' sermon. Maybe we're gasping for breath a bit. And there's some hope there, but we're also scared. Now, how is it that I can have that forgiveness and know with certainty that He will grant it to me? He says to ask, and so we ask. There's nothing wrong with the sermon. It's a good sermon, but it's intended to show us where we fall short. It's not intended to be self-contained. It doesn't give us the whole gospel. It continues into chapter 8 and all the way to chapter 28. And so we'll continue to follow our question. If I'm condemned by God's perfect standard, how can I hope to be forgiven? I will ask for forgiveness, but how can I know that that's enough? And praise the Lord, he gives us a solid answer after we leave this sermon and go into chapters 8 and 9. Because here, Matthew kind of goes through a series of healings, just kind of pretty fast. And there's plenty in each of them for me to work my way slowly through when we go through this in a few months' time, one by one. Some we'll take it, we'll take as a whole and some we'll zoom in more closely. But there's also a message here where we can take them all together as a single unit. And as for our question this morning's concerned, everything in chapter 8 is building up to something big, and it meets a boiling point and a climax in chapter 9. So, first we see in the first 15 verses of the verse, and I'm not going to read the whole thing, that Jesus has the power to make someone whole. There's there's someone who has a a hand that uh that that that needs to be uh stretched out and made whole. and he makes him whole. There's a leper here who is who is unclean and he makes him clean all at once. There's there's someone who is uh deathly sick And he can with a word without even being there, he heals that man. His disciple Peter, his mother-in-law, is badly sick, and he he heals her by simply by touching her hand. Then we we we healed that when evening had come they brought to him many who were demon-possessed, and he cast out the spirits with a word, and he healed all who were sick. that might be fulfilled which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying, He himself took our infirmities and bore our sicknesses. And then starting in verse eighteen, he has multitudes that he that he speaks to and he asserts that he has m authority over mankind. He says, Follow me and let the dead bury their own dead. He tells people to follow him even at a cost. In verses 23 to 27, then we see he has power over the natural elements. If you just kind of follow with me and look here, but we won't look at all of this, but this is where Jesus rebukes the wind and the waves, and they just stop. in the middle of a terrifying storm that got seasoned professional fishermen, sailors, scared. They're peeing their pants, and Jesus can just quickly rebuke the wind and it stops. Then in the verses after that, 16 and 17, and again 28 through the end of the chapter, we see that he has power over demons and not just one or two demons possessing somebody, but a whole legion, hundreds of demons in one person. And he casts them out and he has authority over them. And he sets the people right. He has authority. He has power over diseases and over demons. He has authority over people. He has power over leprosy. and fevers and storms, the natural elements. And now he's going to show us in chapter 9 that he has power and authority to forgive sins. And here's one of the very memorable healings that the Lord does. This is probably the guy, it's not mentioned here in the Gospel of Matthew. But in Luke and Mark, there's a guy, if you remember, if you know the story, who is actually led in to a house where Jesus is doing healings. He's led in through the roof. You remember that story? He has some friends who who believe that Jesus can heal their friend and so they they take the the tiles off the roof or the thatching, I'm not sure what type of roof it was, and they lower him down. I hope they re do you ever wonder I hope they repaired that afterwards. They let him in, and here's this lame guy who's lying on a on a bed, couldn't get there himself, and he just says, he doesn't heal him yet. He just says When Jesus saw their face, he said to the paralytic, Son, be of good cheer, your sins are forgiven you, and people are mad. And then he he he asked them, well, which is easier, to say your sins are forgiven, or to say arise and walk? Kind of a funny answer to that, right? Well it's You can say whatever you want, right? He can say that there's that this guy's sins are forgiven, but how are we going to know they are? And that's that's the question we have as we're reading this book, right? How do I I I I ask for forgiveness, how do I know I have it So how do we know that his sins are forgiven? That's the easier thing to do to say it. But he's saying, well, the harder thing to say is to get up and walk, lame man, since birth, right? Because they're going to know right away whether or not he can actually say that and mean it. And so he does. He tells the guy to get up and he and he walks out. He says, but that you may know that the Son of Man has power on earth to forgive sins, then he said to the paralytic, Arise, take up your bed, and go to your house. But what I want you to see here is how our thinking is inverted and messed up. Because What is really true here is it's easier for for him it is easier to heal a lame man than it is for someone to a sinner to be forgiven. Do you realize that? It's easier to heal someone than to forgive them. We get it the other way around, right? But supernatural healing is actually easier than supernatural forgiveness. But unfortunately, our fallen minds get it around the wrong way. And so we can see miraculous healings. They are not as amazing as the change that goes on in a per person's heart. The proof of a changed life when you see someone come to Jesus Christ and slowly, not not immediately, maybe with some things, but not immediately. You see them change turn their life around and that if you were to look at them over the course of a 10-year or 15-year stretch, you'd say, I cannot believe that that was once the person that I knew, who was who was completely crippled by addiction to numerous substances, and and was one of the meanest people I ever knew. And now, you know, it took a long time, but now they're completely changed That is more dramatic. That is a greater display of the power of God than simply a lame man walking. It's important that we recognize that. And so Jesus proves he has the power to do both. When you see Jesus heal in the gospel, recognize that is him showing in any given case That he has the power to heal you of your spiritual illness, not just your physical, your spiritual, and to save you and to forgive you. When you see Jesus heal, see that as an assurance that he can forgive you. And then he says something to the people who don't like that he just said that he could forgive people. Their hearts are so hardened. Because they like to suppose that they are the people who don't need forgiveness, that they are not marveling at the wonderful thing that just happened, that a guy can now walk who never could before. And so he says to those hard-hearted people. Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. But go and learn what this means. I desire mercy and not sacrifice, for I did not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. Now, do you recognize that you have a spiritual illness? You are mortally ill, you are dying, and you may not even know it. Jesus offers you full healing. It is your sin. That condemns you. All of the things that Jesus pointed out in that sermon, that's him being a good doctor and say, I can see the illness in you, and now I'm going to prescribe you a cure, but I need you to see how dire it is. And what he's saying is when it when he says that it's it's uh only the the sick who need who need a doctor, he's not saying, well you guys you don't get it because you You're all perfectly righteous, so you don't need me, but these guys do. He's saying you guys need to be healed as well But you don't recognize it. So let's just suppose that you're that you don't need healing while I and I'm going to go ahead and heal these people. So you cannot receive the doctor's cure unless you admit to the fact that you need This cure. You need to see you're not perfect. You're not righteous. And we often say, well, everyone's a sinner. No one's perfect. Yeah, and no one's going to heaven. Unless they are forgiven by Jesus Christ. You are part of all. You're part of everyone. And if if everyone's a sinner, everyone's condemned, that means you're condemned too. Don't let the fact that everyone's a sinner let you skate and you miss the healing that Jesus wants to give you. Do you recognize your spiritual illness? You can't follow Jesus. You can't partake of his forgiveness unless he makes you new. And that's where Jesus says this kind of cryptic saying that you might have heard before. No one puts a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment for the patch, pulls away from the garment, and the tear is made worse. Nor do they put new wine into old wineskins, or else the wineskins break, the wine is spilled, and the wineskins are ruined. But they put new wine into new wineskins, and both are preserved. The summary of what he's saying is it's not enough to just try and do better and be a better person. You need to be made into a new person. Only Jesus can give you a new heart. And that's what you need. And so we find here so far that everything we need is in Jesus. Only He can forgive me Jesus gives Jesus has power, and his power gives grounds to your hope Only he can forgive me. I can't earn it. But the story is incomplete because we haven't seen a culmination yet, and this is where we jump forward. Although there's a lot of gospel left, we're going to jump forward to the climax starting with chapter 27. I'm sorry I gave you those notes late, the heading for for point three. We're going to jump to number four now Jesus fulfills your hope in two places, in his atonement and in his resurrection. So jump with me to 27, chapter 27, and we're going to start by looking at verse 15. Jesus has been arrested. He hasn't done anything wrong, but he's been arrested. He has been put through a trial before the religious leaders, and now he's it's an illegal trial. Now he's going to go to the quote-unquote legal trial. There's been false witnesses at the first one. Now he's going to go to the legal trial before the Romans. He's been on trial before the Jews. Now he's going to go before the Romans. And he he appears before the governor Pontius Pilate and we pick up in verse 15. It says, Now at the feast the governor was accustomed to releasing to the m multitude one prisoner whom they wished. And at that time they had a notorious prisoner called Barabbas. Therefore, when they had gathered together, Pilate said to them, Whom do you want me to release to you, Barabbas? Or Jesus, who is called Christ? For he knew that they'd handed him over because of envy. Now, Pilate wants to release Jesus. He's afraid of condemning an innocent man, but he's also afraid of the crowds. He's a bit of a weenie. And so he's holding up to them, look, I will let you have this dangerous murderer. to go back safe on the streets again, or I'll give you this harmless guy. Assuming can you see can you get in his head? What is he assuming? He's assuming they'll say, no, no, no, don't release that guy. He's a little dangerous Release Jesus. And they surprise him. And they say, We want Barabbas. Release to us Barabbas. Now Barabbas was scheduled to be executed. Along with two other guys. You ever wonder how they got Jesus on the cross so quickly? They had the cross ready. It had been prepared. For Barabbas, not for him, not for Jesus, for Barabbas. And so Jesus takes Barabbas' place Well, you need Jesus to do for you what he did for Barabbas. Barabbas was as guilty as the Sermon on the Mount says you are. He was guilty of murder. And Jesus says that if you have harbored angry thoughts in your heart towards someone Maybe they even culminate in you saying mean things to them. You call someone an idiot. Well, you're guilty of murder too. Now I I get it that Barabbas actually did it with his hands. You didn't. But he is as guilty as you are. Or maybe we should say you're as guilty as he is. Now, Barabbas, what does he do to get Jesus to take his place here? Does he go and ask Jesus to save him? Does he file an appeal to the governor or to the judge? He does nothing. He does nothing. Jesus takes his place freely. Barabbas hasn't so much as asked. Now all you can do, you can't do anything you can ask. That is the one thing you can ask Jesus to save you. Cry out and ask Jesus to take your place. Isn't that what Jesus said? Anything that you ask my Father Yeah, ask him, and he delights to give it to you. This is a good thing, he delights to give to you. It's forgiveness. And so they crucify him. And after he has been hanging there for some time, he says in verse 46, he cries out first in in Aramaic, it says, Eli, Eli, Lama Sabhachtani. That is, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? He's been forsaken by God. And then as he dies, Verse 50 it says, And Jesus cried out again with a loud voice and yielded up his spirit. Then, behold, the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. And the earthquaked and rocks were split. There was a curtain A veil in the temple that separated man from God, and it has been turn torn now, not from bottom to top, but from top to bottom, from God to man, not got not man to God. God has torn it up As the Son of God dies, the earth can't take it, and it shakes and it quakes. And then it tells us actually that graves were opened, and two days later. People are going to be resurrected from the dead and they're going to walk around and preach the gospel. Crazy stuff. Now, the only way for man to come to God is through one person, Jesus Christ, not through the temple. He is the temple. Not through an institution, not through a building, not through a faulty priesthood, but through Jesus And as he's put to death, the natural elements, the natural world can't take it. And then Jesus rises from the dead and comes out of the tomb. Why is that significant? First of all, we see him bringing to life. I didn't actually read it, did I? Let me read that. Verse 53 after the earthquake. It says, and coming out of the graves after his resurrection, uh verse 52, I'm sorry, the graves were opened. Many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised, and coming out of the graves after his resurrection, they went into the Holy City and appeared to many. But then Jesus rose from the dead. So first he gives life to people who are completely dead. And now Jesus rises from the dead. What does that mean? He was condemned in Barabbas' place. God vented all of his wrath against Barabbas' sin, and yours, if you will trust in him, and mine, and the sins of the world. Actually, he concentrates all his wrath on that sin, whether we turn to him or not, but you'll only find forgiveness if you turn to him. He vents his full wrath on Jesus. He's mad that that Barabbas has has been a murderer and other things. And he takes out his anger upon his son. But his son doesn't stay in the grave. So what does that mean? That means that God was satisfied with the payment. And there's life left over. Do you see that? That's why the resurrection is so important. Not just that he died in your place, but that he rose again with life to give So our hope must be not merely in some mantra. Right? We sometimes think that it's simple, we just well, I just have to say that I believe this. I believe that Jesus is the Son of God and that He died for my sins and He rose again on the third day. Are you believing in the person? Like you can you can believe that like it's a fact, like you memorize in history class. But we don't just repeat a magic formula and now you're a Christian. Now it's important to believe the stuff contained there. We believe that Jesus is the Son of God, that He did die in our place for our sins. And he rose again and has life free to give. But your hope and my hope can only be in the person of Jesus, not just in some historical fact. Do you understand that? It's not simply believing that it happened, but putting faith in it, crying out. We cry out and ask him to save us. Now, maybe you've grown up with the facts in church and they've been drilled into you. I do a catechism with my children. They know these facts, but that doesn't mean that they've they've turned to Jesus and asked him to save them. And it's not what you say, it's the fact that that is where your hope is. You need Jesus to save you. You recognize that, you recognize that you're condemned. And you recognize that he's your only hope, and that's it. And you ask him to save you and he does We need a relationship with this person, this Godman who took the place of that murderer named Barabbas. And that adulterer named David, and that self-righteous hypocrite named Nicodemus, and this sinful preacher standing in front of you right now. You need to believe the truth of these facts, but it needs to be attached to a trust in this man named Jesus Christ who stepped in the way of divine justice And rose from the dead completely freed from the penalty that justice carries. And that is how you can have hope, and that is how you can know that you're forgiven, because Jesus walked out of the tomb. Freed from all charges. That's how you can know that He forgives you. So let me ask you right now to bow your head, take a moment before God to search your heart. Many of you have already trusted Christ as your Savior. But ask Him to help you to see that clearly. Is your faith in Jesus or is your faith just in a prayer? Is it just in some line of rote memory? Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we come to you in the name of Jesus Christ who died for us. in our place. Help us to hope only in Jesus, that He is our advocate before you, that He pleads our case. Because he died in our place. Lord, are we putting our faith in our performance that I haven't given in to that particular sin in some weeks? Is that where our hope is, Lord? Or is our hope in your Son who bore the penalty of our sin for us? Lord, help us to look at Jesus and Jesus alone. And if if there's somebody here, Lord, realizing that I've been I've known I know these things to be true, but I have not trusted in Jesus. I've trusted in my Faithfulness. Then Lord, I pray that you'd help them to just simply repent of that, to say they're wrong, to not trust in you personally, and to and to cry out for forgiveness, you will get it. Lord help us, those of us who are right with you, to just search our heart and confess our sins to you where we have continued to sin against you after trusting Jesus to save us. Some of us, well all of us, we've sinned this week. Help us to bring those sins under the light and under your blood And to trust that they are truly forgiven, that we have peace with you. Lord, we ask these things in the name of our Messiah, our hope, Jesus. Amen.