Online right now or are we not online? Are we going? We're online. Okay. Welcome back. If you were uh knocked off for a minute there, you're back online. We're back online. We're glad to have you here this morning. I'm eager to preach to you. From Matthew chapter 4, verses 23 to 25. Please turn with me. Matthew 25. Matthew chapter 4, verses 23 to 25. Two days before Independence Day, a large framed man walked into a DC train station. He was going to join his wife and children in New England for a summer vacation at the beach. It was well earned. While he was purchasing his ticket, a man approached him from behind, fired a gun twice into his back. The gunman's name was Charles Gateau. He attempted to flee as his victim dropped to the ground. His victim's name. was James A. Garfield, the 20th President of the United States. This did not happen recently. He was swarmed right away by several doctors. First at the train station and then after a very difficult trek to the White House, they continued to swarm him at his home. People just kept calling for doctors. They wanted to save this president They kept trying to find the bullet, but none of the doctors could. And there's something you should know about President Garfield. He may not be a president you're the most familiar with. He was beloved in his day. It was 1881. It was only 16 years after President Lincoln was shot. And so you can imagine how people felt about this second uh attempt on a president's life. He was the first president since the Civil War to be loved and embraced as president by the whole country. He was a unifying figure to the North and to the South. They both loved their president He was appreciated by both political parties. In fact, there was more there were more people who disliked him in his own party than in in the opposite party. But he was largely loved by the whole country. He was truly a unifying figure. And that love grew the longer that President Garfield lay in his sickbed. in the White House. He was so beloved that people from all over the country were north and south were sending in letters to the First Lady Lucretia Garfield With suggestions that, hey, you know, I had a thought of what might help your husband. I had a thought of what might cure the president. I had an idea of how you might find the bullet Maybe sounds odd to us today to think to uh just write to Melania Trump uh words of encouragement and of things that might help Donald. I'm not sure he would receive the the these suggestions anyway. Um everybody wanted to help President Garfield because they loved him and they wanted him to survive The most famous of all of these people who wanted to help their president was Alexander Graham Bell, the inventor of the telephone. Now he had he was Scottish, but he'd become an American citizen. He was living in New England. And he traveled from New England to D. C. while his his wife was uh many months pregnant, and he set up a workshop in DC because he too cared about the president. And while in DC, he built early versions of of a metal detector to attempt to help the doctors to find the bullet so that the surgeons could remove it, assuming that you remove the bullet, he'll be okay. Well, Bell's generous help was sadly ineffective. The letters of suggestion from concerned citizens were ineffective Garfield's chief doctor was especially ineffective, seeing it more as a resume booster than anything else. Everybody had an idea for a cure, but none of the cures could work. There was one man who did have a prescribed treatment for President Garfield. And his name was Joseph Lister. You might recognize that name. It's where we get the term Listeria or Listerine, if you uh use the the mouthwash. Joseph Lister. He was the uh the first person to prescribe what we now call the antiseptic mess method in medicine. And he was rejected at large en masse by the medical community. He was rejected by anyone attempting to care for the president. Because while President Garfield was still on the floor of the train station, those first well-intentioned doctors began probing his wound to find the bullet with their bare fingers. They didn't wash their hands, they didn't put on gloves. And we all grow, I heard you groan just now. Yes, you can imagine all of the germs that they in they injected into his body when they probed around with their fingers. Disgusting, I know. I'm enjoying seeing you cringe there. What it turned out happened was the doctor uh the I'm sorry, the bullet we've learned much later. The bullet uh lodged itself in a safe place in his back and it was encased in uh a uh a a uh a round of fat It was closed off from the rest of his body. And had the doctors left him alone, he would have healed up and he could have kept that bullet in his body probably decades until he died of natural causes The bullet was not the problem. The infection was the problem. And it was the doctors that attempted to save him early on who killed it. He died. Essentially his his body filled with poison largely in his blood, and he died of sepsis and ultimately of a heart attack brought on by the sepsis. The one man who could cure the president was ignored and ostracized by his would-be healers. And so our president died. On September 19th, two and a half months after the initial gunshot. And a unified nation warned him. Now, like President Garfield, We all have a deadly illness inside us. You are infected with something that will kill you. It will kill you. And there's only one physician who can cure you. Taking out for now the possibility of Christ's return before we die. Except for that, we will all die bodily of sin. The question is, will you die eternally by sin? And today we look at we look at that one position. We look at that one healer We look at his credentials as a healer. So let's read Matthew chapter 4, verses 23 to 25. And Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all kinds of sickness and all kinds of disease among the people. Then his fame went throughout all Syria, and they brought to him all sick people who were afflicted with various diseases and torments, and those who were demon-possessed, epileptics and paralytics. And he healed them. Great multitudes followed him from Galilee and from Decapolis, Jerusalem, Judea, and beyond the Jordan. I don't think it's a spoiler for me to tell you that Jesus Christ is that one physician who can kill who can heal you Other people may have ideas for how you ought to live. They do have ideas for how you ought to live. Don't spend too much time on TikTok or YouTube. Everyone has their own idea of what will make you better. Many people will tell you you are enough. You are not enough. You need Jesus Christ and Jesus Christ alone. He is enough. You are not. He is the only one who can heal you of a mortal illness that will destroy not only your body but your soul if it goes untreated. And that's the message of this passage. We would put it this way. Because Jesus Christ can cure all physical and spiritual diseases. Because Jesus Christ can k can cure all diseases, physical and spiritual, you can trust him to make you spiritually whole. Not just to heal you somewhat, but to make you completely spiritually whole. Now we read these three verses together, and I think most of us, and I'm I'm including myself in this most of us, most of the time. We hear the verse read, these verses read, right? And what is our takeaway? Let me do it again. Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all kinds of sickness and all kinds of disease among the people. Then his fame went throughout all Syria, and they brought to him all sick people who were afflicted with various diseases and torments, and those who were demon-possessed, epileptics, and paralytics. And he healed them. And we read that verse, and what is your takeaway? Jesus was healing people. He was healing people miraculously. He was healing all types of people. We jump straight to the healing, don't we? That is correct. He was healing people. That is what's described here more than anything else. I acknowledge that. But it's not the only thing that Jesus is described as doing in these three Now, what's going on here is it's a summary statement of what Jesus' ministry in Galilee look like in general. These things were all happening together at once. He's out in the streets and he heals some people and that draws a crowd and so he starts He starts preaching to them. He goes to the synagogue. He teaches. He explains things. And perhaps following his lesson, maybe even interrupting his lesson, He heals somebody. Maybe he heals multiple people. We know he performed healings in synagogues, on the streets, in people's homes. He was doing it everywhere. He was preaching. In synagogues, on the streets, in people's homes. He was teaching in various places. But in general, we are told of a specific priority. that Matthew is placing here. He was teaching in synagogues, he was preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and he was healing all types of people. everywhere. And so though these things are probably all going on in various orders at different times, sometimes at the same time, he's teaching while he's healing somebody. The priority is the the the teaching and preaching ahead of the healings. Now I'm going to make much of the healings. I'm not downplaying them. But I want us to see them in the right order, the right logical priority, and the role that they are playing here. Because, first of all, Jesus proclaims the message to you that can and will cure the disease of your soul if you will trust but trust in it. Jesus' message cures the disease of your soul. So let's look specifically at what he's doing, these first two things. The miraculous healings will wait for last. They're super important, but they're less important than these first two things. Number one, it says he was teaching in the synagogues in Galilee, right? These are the Galilean synagogues. And two, he was preaching the gospel of the kingdom. We'll take these two together because the New Testament usually pairs preaching and teaching together. Galilee, that's where he is. We tend to think of Israel today as a single country, don't we, north to south. Old Testament, though, much of the time it was it was actually two countries, wasn't it? It was the little kingdom of Judah down at the bottom and the larger kingdom of Israel at the top. But in the New Testament times it's different again. It was divided into like four different regions, and that's because Herod the Great had reigned over all of it. Rome ruled over Herod, and then Herod was a little king inside the Roman king the Roman Empire, so he was a governor of the whole thing. But then when he died, he s he split it into four pieces and had his three sons uh reign over the four different pieces. And I know that sounds weird, but that's how it worked. And these pieces were kind of getting jumbled around at different times depending on depending on the the sub-governor. That's why his sons are called Herod the Tetrarch. Tetra is is a fourth and and so or it has to do with number four, so one fourth of a province. So the the The region of Israel is divided into multiple pieces, and Galilee is the top part. It's the northern part. It was a pretty small part. It included the Sea of Galilee, or at least much of the Sea of Galilee And and then he was able to walk around pretty much all of the region. Doesn't mean he was necessarily in every single uh town, but he he went around the bulk of the region. But it says specifically that he was preaching in the s or teaching in the synagogues there. Now I'll remind you too that he is from Nazareth. He is from Galilee. Nazareth is a town of Galilee. Now look up with me at verse 15. We remember this, right? It's the the uh quotation of Isaiah. It says the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, that's where Galilee is. By the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles, is called Galilee of the Gentiles. There are a lot of Gentile people there. But where is Jesus doing his teaching? Not his preaching, but his teaching Do you see it? He's in the synagogues, right? Well, that's because the the synagogues is are that that's where Jewish people meet. And it wasn't merely, I think sometimes we kind of We we d we draw kind of an equal sign between church and synagogue and we say a synagogue is a Jewish church. I don't know enough about how Judaism is practiced today. But in in Jesus' day, the synagogue was very much the way that they worshipped when they weren't going all the way to the the temple in Jerusalem. So if you lived in Galilee, you certainly weren't going there every s every Sabbath day. Down to the temple. You'd go there for the big feasts. You'd gather together for worship, to hear the scriptures explained, to hear to hear a Bible lesson or preaching. That would be at the synagogue. But that wasn't all that happened at the synagogue. It was the center of Jewish life. It was it was a community center as much as it was a church, so to speak. And so to be excluded from the synagogue was a big deal, which is why it's n there's such a big deal made about it. And later in this gospel in Acts, in the book the letter to the Hebrews, it's a big deal to be excluded from the synagogue Well Jesus goes to where the Jews are. It's about a 50-50 population Jew to Gentile ratio. He is focusing his teaching on the Jewish places, on the Jewish scriptures. And what he is likely doing there is drilling down into certain scriptures and topics and explaining them more slowly. When I am I'm preaching to you right now, right, and I have written out a very specific orderly outline with some bullet points and some paragraphs. And it's all planned out very specifically. I don't deviate a lot from my outline. I might have some spur-of-the-moment thought that sometimes of the Lord, hopefully most of the time of the Lord, sometimes maybe of just of my own mind. Uh but I I try to stick to the the script, so to speak. But that's not how I teach. My teaching is different. It all takes on a form of teaching, right? But specifically preaching and teaching are quite different. If you've ever come to to Sunday school that I've taught, or if you've come to a Bible study, you've come to life group at my house on Thursday nights You know that that I teach very differently. I I leave room for discussion. There's a back and forth. I have a much, much uh barer outline. I have bullet points of things I want to get to. Certain things I remind myself. Make sure I say that. But otherwise I I I let it be fluid because I know that depending on questions people have or points they bring up, maybe they even disagree, I know that the message might go that direction, but it might go that direction. And I can get away with planning for teaching and it might last three or four weeks, whereas one every sermon I write, with with very few exceptions. It's going to be that one Sunday, and then I need to write another one for the next Sunday. Well, there'd be a difference between Jesus' teaching and preaching. He's going to go deep with the scriptures when he is in the synagogue teaching as opposed to when he's teaching to the multitudes out in the street explaining new things by way of parables and whatnot. We have one example of what his time in the synagogue looked like. And so I'll ask you to turn with me to Luke chapter 4. Luke chapter 4, starting in verse 16. This takes place right in the time that we're talking about after he has been after Jesus has been in the wilderness and tempted. And he's come up to uh to Galilee and he specifically goes to his hometown synagogue, verse sixteen, Luke four, verse sixteen So he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up, and as his c custom was, he went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and stood up to read. And he was handed the book of the prophet Isaiah. And when he had opened the book he found the place where it was written. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because He has anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives Then he closed the book and gave it back to the attendant and sat down. And the eyes of all peop the the eyes of all who were in the synagogue were fixed. And he began to say to them, Today this scripture is fulfilled in your hearing. Now, if if you're like me, I I see him closing the book, and literally he doesn't do this. Right? He does something like this, because he's he's twirling a scroll shut. And he hands it to the to the attendant. Now I see him shut the book, set it down, and sit down, sort of like a mic drop. A a first century mic drop. But that's not what's happening, right? He's he's handing it over, he's seating himself, because did you see what it says? He then he began to say to them, today the scripture is fulfilled in your hearing. In other words, then he begins to teach. We think of the uh if I sit down, I'm done, but in Jesus' day, teachers tended to sit and they would they would teach Perhaps you've heard of Francis Schaefer, the great Christian writer from the mid-20th century. He was known for, no joke, lying down when he would when he would uh teach. I think that's very odd. Jesus would not lie down, but he would sit down. And so he began to teach and explain that scripture deeply. What is he talking about? He's talking about the messianic scriptures, the ones that predict the Messiah, the ones that predict him. He's talking about the Messiah and what to expect from him. He's saying today the scripture is fulfilled in your hearing. He's saying that he is the Messiah. He's demonstrating that he's the Christ. And he's teaching them about that. So Jesus' teaching seems especially geared towards his own people, the Jews. But then there's his preaching. Now surely he did preach in the synagogues as well. We know he preached in the temple. But we know that he preached outdoors a lot. And next chapter is you can turn back to Matthew chapter 4. But when we get to Matthew chapter 5, we have. A three-chapter long sermon described, and it's all given outdoors. It's one of his two most famous sermons, and it's the Sermon on the Mount. And both of those, the Sermon on the Mount and the Olivet Discourse, they're both outside Much of his preaching and his most famous preaching was done outside. Well, who do we have outside? He's in Galilee, Galilee of the Gentiles. And so it's a much more uh mixed crowd of Jews and Gentiles. You have people that that don't know the Jewish scriptures like the Jews do. The Gentiles are not allowed to come in there. They're excluded from it. They don't have their own Bibles Jesus was not carting around the scriptures, not likely anyway, carting around all of these scrolls on some wooden cart as he goes through the mountains of Galilee. Not likely at all. He's going from synagogue to synagogue where they keep the scriptures. because people could not afford their own copies of scriptures, and we know that the Lord Himself had very little money. So when he's out in the streets, he's not doing it with a Bible in hand, not not most of the time, not most likely. He's explaining things in in more general terms. He's giving new revelation. He's using parables, stories to demonstrate things. And and he's not drilling down necessarily as much as he did uh when he was in the synagogue. This preaching was was for more than just the Jewish people. Because he's preaching in Galilee where all of the Gentiles are. And then look at the next verse. It tells us where all these people are coming from. In verse 24, it says, his fame went throughout all Syria. Now Syria is big. People are coming from a long way away. We think of Damascus, right, the capital of Syria today. That was the nearest part of Syria, or at least the nearest big city to where Jesus was. But it stretched all the way up to the border of modern-day Turkey. Uh z uh Antioch was the capital of the province of Syria. It's it's still a Roman province, just like uh like uh Galilee and Israel. Um Antioch where all of the missionaries went out, right? Paul and Barnabas went from Antioch. It was sort of like a second second capital of of Christianity in in Paul's day. All the way up there, more than a hundred miles away, they are hearing about Jesus doing these healings, and so they start bringing people out. Well, he's preaching to these Gentiles from Syria. It says that he's he's got people from the Decapolis, which is is uh uh bordering uh Samaria. You've got a lot of Gentiles there, people from beyond the Jordan. He's got lots of Gentiles He is preaching a gospel that is for everybody, not just for the Jewish people. And he's saying, repent for the kingdom of God is at hand. He's saying the kingdom of God has drawn near. Now the word used here for preaching is the normal word used for preaching in the New Testament. It's carusso. I always think that sounds like the Italian last name, Carusso. some neighbors growing up in the rusos. Keruso. And it means to proclaim or to herald. And uh preachers in in uh the New Testament are often called by the related Greek word kerux That's the word used for a king's herald. When a king would be traveling, he'd come near to a city, a herald would go ahead of him. Maybe you've seen like movies that take place in the Middle Ages, not not in Roman Ages, but the same idea where someone dressed very elaborately, perhaps with a scroll in his hand. and and someone with a blowing a trumpet behind him, and then he'd he'd read something saying, His Majesty the King is approaching. That's the idea. Jesus is going ahead of the coming of the kingdom and saying the kingdom is really close. It's coming Well what's he preaching? You know, several years ago um when Jamie was teaching in the public schools, uh she had a friend who was a a believer and uh one of her coworkers, and she and her husband came over for dinner. And uh they were profession pr professing Christians, but her husband had a question. I I was I was in seminary at the time, and he said to me, look, I know what the gospel is, and then he described the gospel. He goes, well, Jesus died on the cross in my place. He was counted guilty of my sin. God vented his full wrath on Jesus. instead of putting me to death. He suffered and died in my place. And when I trusted in him, his righteousness was accounted to me and transferred to me, and my my sin was transferred to him. He died under God's curse and God's wrath for me. And then on the third day he rose from the dead and he lived again. He said, I understand that. And he got the gospel. He said, but but all of that was that's the gospel after Jesus died and rose again. But when it says like in places in here in Matthew 4 Jesus was preaching the gospel of the kingdom, or literally the good news of the kingdom. Well, what gospel was he preaching then? He hadn't died yet. He hadn't risen from the dead yet. That was a really good question. I didn't quite know how to answer him at the time. So how do we answer that? Right? He would have been explaining he would have been preparing people for his death, right? But he we know that he duh he he would go on, right, to to explain to his disciples. Uh that he's going to die and that he's going to rise again on the third day. We know he did that and that none of them seemed to get it. It's it it's like their ears were just stopped when he would say that. But that was much later in his ministry. It wasn't here. This is the beginning of the of his ministry. He's not doing that yet. And it it's unusual for him to say that to the multitude. So our friend was right. That's not the gospel that he was preaching. He wasn't going to those details. So what is he doing? Well he's he's preparing them for that. He's preparing them for the the coming of his kingdom where he reigns And he's but he's showing them who Jesus who sorry who God is, because he is God Himself. He's demonstrating God's character. That is Jesus' mission the whole time. It's God drawing near to the people. So he's not necessarily preaching about his death and resurrection, though he will say that, hey, you destroy this temple, I'll build it back up in three days. But he's not doing that explicitly. Instead, he's he's telling, and we can piece together from his various his sermons. How it is that you can receive that kingdom, right? He's saying God, here's what God's like. He's not impressed by outward displays of righteousness. He doesn't care how large your phylacteries are. I'm talking to you, Pharisees, right? He doesn't care about your tithes of mint and anise. He cares that you're showing real obedience and real faith in him by caring for your aged parents. He cares that you're trusting in him and that you have a humble spirit, right? He's saying those are the people that God's impressed by, if he's impressed by anybody. He cares about the guy who's beating his chest And saying, Be merciful to me, God, not the one who says, I'm just I'm glad I'm better than that guy. He's saying God likes humble people. And he draws near to them. And then Jesus shows them what it looks like to be a humble person, right? He's constantly putting himself last and putting himself out for people. He's being yelled at and spit upon, and he goes to the next town, and he does it again. Verse 17 Says he's saying that people need to repent. He's saying that you need to humble yourself and turn from your way. You can't repent if you're not humble He urges people to listen to God. He's urging them to not assume that they already know and they're already doing what is right and they know what he's saying. He's castigating the religious leaders, isn't he, for uh for supposing that they know what God cares about and who he is, and they're misrepresenting him to the people. He's preaching about what life will look like in the kingdom of God. The Sermon on the Mount in the next three chapters will go into great detail with what life looks like in the kingdom of God. That's not all that this the Sermon on the Mount is. But it certainly deals with that. And then of course he tells parable stories that that explain all of these truths. And the whole time he's working to prepare people's hearts for His coming kingdom, which is inaugurated with his death and his resurrection, and his ascension into heaven. All of his preaching is preparing people for that by showing what God cares about and what he is like, who he is. Now we should recognize that Jesus, right now, right in the day that we're in, Jesus is reigning from heaven over the hearts of his people and in the hearts of his people. He's reigning right now in the church. But there is a day coming where he will he will invade the earth. He will forcibly take power and he will exert direct political leadership. over the entire earth and over all of the countries and and kingdoms and republics of the earth, he will be the number one ruler of It's coming. It's coming in the near future. We're looking forward to that. We don't have to fear his invasion. We should welcome it as a good thing. The kingdom of God is near, it's at hand. Well, all of the contents of his preaching and his teaching, the words that he's saying are things they ha they haven't heard preaching like this before. It echoes Isaiah. It echoes Elijah, it echoes Ezekiel and Jeremiah and Hosea and Zechariah and the great prophets from Scripture. It echoes Malachi. It echoes John the Baptist. But it's newer, it's richer, it's fuller. There should be enough there for the people to believe the contents of his preaching in and of themselves. But many won't. So he does a third thing. He heals and he does it miraculously. And that is the purpose of his healing. It's to prove that he can cure the disease of your soul. There's point number two for you there. Jesus proves that he can cure the disease of your soul. He proclaims the message that can cure the disease of your soul, and then he proves that that message is true by doing miraculous things like healing blind men and making lame people walk and raising little girls from the dead. So let's let's look at this. It says at the end of chapter three, and healing all kinds of sickness and all kinds of disease among the people. We have this general statement. It says literally healing all diseases and all infirmities or all weaknesses. In the next verse, we have specifically several categories of illnesses listed. We'll look at the specifics in a moment, but I want us to get straight to the point. When Jesus healed people miraculously, the proof that the words he was speaking were true. He's saying, I've just told you That you need to humble yourselves and receive the Word of God and trust in me and let me prove it to you. Get up. I'm telling you that that I can I can forgive. I have power to forgive sins. Let me show you. And and he raises up this man who cannot walk. Who's actually lowered through the roof on a on a stretcher because he he is absolutely helpless to walk. And the Lord raises him up to prove that he can forgive sins. As serious as all of these afflictions were that he's healing, right? People are blind. People can't walk. People are are going into seizures and convulsions. Some people are even possessed by demons. All of this is serious, right? And especially if we if we think about the physical diseases, it's not that they're unimportant. Because Jesus heals them. He cares about them. But what's more important is that you have the disease of your soul taken care of. Sin is a worse affliction than cancer. Sin is a worse affliction than a chronic illness like Lyme disease. It's wor sin is a worse affliction than COPD or heart disease. or rheumatoid arthritis or fibromyalgia on all of these nasty conditions that completely weaken us and and destroy our quality of life. Because those things are temporary and they can only they only affect your body. They can only or they can only kill your body, right? But sin will destroy you in hell. Sin will separate you from God forever. Cast you into hell where we are consciously tormented outside of time. And so, as serious as these illnesses are, sin is a worse disease. And so he's doing these healings, healing of the lesser It's an argument from lesser to greater. He's proving the truth of his word that he can give you the greater healing by doing these lesser healings. And he does the and they are things that are amazing, aren't they? They've attracted a lot of attention. Matthew says people have heard about him, not just all the way up to Antioch, but but down to uh Uh Damascus, in between, and far east of there, all over Syria, all over the decapolis. That means ten cities It's a ten city region. Uh and beyond that, all the way down in in Jerusalem, people are coming up, going past the mountains. Usually people are coming from the north down to Jerusalem in the south. This time they're going from Jerusalem up to where the the the savior is. So these healings are attack attracting a lot of attention. Um the the the wording is implying that it's actual sick people making these long journeys to And so we have a then we have a general statement followed by specific categories of illness. So look at verse twenty four with me. It says they brought to him all sick people who were afflicted with various diseases and torments, torments literally to be translated pains. They are in pain. So it's talking about the disease and the symptoms. And then we have three categories of illnesses. Those who are demon-possessed, epileptics, and paralytics. So some of these were of a spiritual nature that needed to be healed. Demon possession. Now we we can't ignore that this is a real thing. Spiritual darkness had held sway in God's own land for so many centuries that demons just flocked to it And people were were actually they had so possession means that a a a demon, a a an unclean spirit, right? One of the fallen angels that is has disobeyed God and is is no longer considered an angel but a demon is now going into people's bodies and taking taking control and they're at least somewhat unaware of some of the things that they do. I don't want us to rule out that possibility today. It was happening in Bible times. It appears to be happening at least in Bible times But we also don't want to assume that we see d demons lurking around every corner. Uh Jamie and I once attended a church that If if your bus had a flat tire, and this is a real thing, if your bus had a flat tire, it was Satan. If your computer had a glitch, it was Satan, right? We don't need to give him credit for these things. But but we recognize that it is a real thing. Well Jesus took these spiritually rooted problems and cast out the demons. Some of these illnesses affected the nervous system. It says epileptics. Literally the word there translates as moonstruck. Because it was thought that uh mental illness was uh was uh related to the moon and there were lunar goddesses With that's where you you we actually you can hear it, can't you? Lunatic, like lunar. Uh th that's what our English word means, moonstruck. The KJV, if you've got a King James Version in front of you, that's what it says. It says that he was healing lunatics. Bible scholars are pretty much unanimous that this is referring to people who have seizures. The ESV says uh says those who have seizures. If you have the the NASB or the NIV, I believe it says uh those taken with uh with seizures or something to that effect. Uh I'm sorry, it says epileptics, but but the the the real the best way to understand it is simply those who are having seizures. So you have those you have you have um illnesses that are of a spiritual nature, demon possession. You have illnesses that affect the nervous system. Things that would be very tricky and hard to deal with. And then we have purely physical. Purely physical illnesses, it says those who are paralyzed. We know that that many were lame or they had shriveled or withered limbs. And this general category would certainly uh we can think of other purely physical illnesses here, can't we? We the people who were born blind, um people the the woman who had the issue of blood, all sorts of different illnesses, but they all fall into one of these three categories. They're spiritual, they're physical, or it's a nervous system issue. And the takeaway here is that Jesus could heal them all, and he did heal them all, spiritual, physical, nervous system-related, nothing was beyond his ability to heal. And there's no record of Jesus turning anyone away who came for healing. There is one where it appears that he's doing that, isn't it? Where he talks to this Arophoenician woman, right? And he says that um I came came for the the lost sheep of Israel. And she says, but even the l the the dogs uh c uh well he he says that he's He uh it's not good to to throw a throw away what he's given to the uh give throw away to the dogs what was given to the children and And what what happens after that, right? After he says that no, I'm I'm here for Israel, not for you. Well then he heals her, right? Um it seems that he was giving that uh in order to to teach. something in specific. He never turns any away anyone away who comes for healing without healing them. No one is beyond his ability to heal. It didn't matter what their racial or ethnic background was, Jews and Gentiles, Syrians Samaritans, it doesn't matter where they are from, he heals them. Romans, he heals them. They're the oppressors, he heals them Their illnesses did not disqualify them, their backgrounds did not disqualify them. No one was disqualified from receiving his healing, and that is true for us today. Your ethnic background does not disqualify you from receiving healing. Christ. The sins that you have committed in your life do not disqualify, they disqualify you from being right with God, and then God comes into this world to reconcile with you. And he says, Trust me, let me heal that for you. Your sin only separates you from God in eternity if you wouldn't it if you would not let him remove that illness from you. He is eager to remove that sin from you. Let him do it. Give it up. Despise it. What else do Jesus' healings tell us? I mean the main point here is He can heal anything, and no one is disqualified. From receiving healing. But what else do they teach us? Well, they teach us that Jesus cares about people. He cares when people are afflicted. Your sin problem is your biggest problem, but he cares about the other things in your life too. He didn't hold his compassion back from people. And we may need to examine ourselves as well. When needy, lost people come across our path, maybe they say really aggravating, even offensive things Do we treat them as needy, lost, broken people? Are we patient with them? Do we give our time and our resources to them in the way that Jesus did for these sick people? And do we believe that God cares about our circumstances and our difficulties and even our physical pains While he also cares about our sins, he cares about more than just your sin problem. He doesn't say, I healed Rob. What's he praying to me about now? He can't sleep. I don't care. I saved him. Isn't that enough? That's not the attitude that Jesus has. Why is this girl asking me to help her with her test again? That's not the attitude he has. He cares about your circumstances. He does not cast you out. He's compassionate. Secondly, it shows us that Jesus is more powerful than any prophet who ever came before him or would come after him. Can you think of the things that set him apart in terms of power to heal? He healed instantaneously. Sometimes he didn't even touch them. Sometimes he did it from miles away. He just said, oh yeah, your son's alive. Go home And it worked immediately. He raised the dead. Even when a disease had run its full course, he could remove it. I realized that Elisha raised a dead woman, uh a woman's dead son. But he had to pray. And he had to stretch himself out on that body seven times. You remember that Jesus takes a little girl by the hand and says, Get up. He takes a man who's literally being carried out in his coffin and he raises him up to full life. And the guy sits up and probably gives everybody a scare. He could do these things immediately without praying. The prophets had to ask God to do the healing. He didn't have to ask because he is God. There's only one time recorded, perhaps there were others, but one recorded case where the healing took time, where it was a process instead of instantaneous. Do you remember what it was? He's healing the man's King James Version says. And so so then Jesus goes and the second time he touches him, and then the second time he can see. Right? And that that whole long process probably took less than two minutes. I mean I uh that'd be great if doctors were were that quick, right? You have to wait in the the doctor's office longer than that. And he he healed it practically instantaneously. That's the only time where it wasn't truly instantaneous. That's recorded. And he, here's the big takeaway, right? We think of the great things that Elijah and Elisha did, or even that like Peter or John did. How many times though did those people do miraculous things? And Jesus, there's so many of them that we just have to have these summary statements like, oh yeah, let's see, there were apopleptics. blind people, paralyzed people, uh d demon-possessed people. Um I'm running out of parchment. Can we can we move on? Right? He did so many exponentially more healings than any of the prophets before or since. Oh, and he also raised himself from the dead. There's that one too. And he said that he had power to take up his own life. To restore his own life. He raised himself, not just other people, he raised himself from the dead. Amazing. Taken together, all of this signifies that Jesus is the Messiah And that He is God. These healings reveal not only God's love and compassion for those suffering from physical illness but his ability and his desire to heal all of us, to make us whole, to heal our spiritual diseases. And we need to believe, we need to realize. That the worst possible physical illness that we could have is less serious than the spiritual illness that everyone has. I want to conclude with an application. This won't be a quick application, but I'm but we're getting there. The church and the Christian must place a high value on the preaching of the gospel and on the preaching. The church and every individual Christian must place a high value on the preaching of the gospel and the preaching of God's Word. And here's why Right? If everything I've said that I've just said is true, if the purpose of all of Jesus' miraculous healings is to authenticate his preaching. And to prove and verify that it is true, then it's important to him, right? He is doing that so that we will believe the preaching and the teaching. At one point he says Believe me, but if you won't believe for the words themselves, then believe for the signs themselves. Believe me whether it's what I'm saying or what I'm doing, but trust in me, right? So if this is true, that he is preaching in order if he's healing in order to authenticate his preaching, then that means that his preaching is awfully important. That means that the word of God is important. We ought to prize not just the Word of God, but the preaching of the Word of God. And I know you do, because you're still listening to me. At least I think you're still listening to me. After several minutes here. As a church, this is true for us. When we come together for worship services, right, the most important part of our worship service, we build up to it, right, is the proclamation of God's word. We worship him by listening to the word and by exercising mental power, mental room, making mental room for that message We spend the better part of the first half hour preparing our minds and hearts for for receiving the preaching. Yes, we sing songs in praise of God, but but we also sing them in order to warm us up, right, and to get us ready to receive. the central part of the service, which is the preaching. We have early in the service scripture reading. Jim read that to us from Revelation earlier. In fact we now we're even uh reading it together, parts of it. in order to prepare ourselves for receiving other parts of God's Word, because we value the Word of God highly We pray right before the message. What am I usually asking, among other things, but what am I usually asking that that God would help me to preach it right and help you to listen, and even help me to listen to the things I'm saying myself. And then the sermon takes up like two-thirds of the service. This is because we do this, right? We value preaching this way because God's taken measures to speak to the world. And some of these things are 3,500 years old. Others are relatively new. It's only 2,000 years old. He has preserved his words for 2,000 years. For 3,500 years, some of them, he's preserved these words. Because he cares about them, because he's a message for us today. He has taken pains to do that. So they must be important, and we value them, and we worship God by listening to what He said. So I encourage you, value preaching. I appreciate that you listen to me and you value my preaching. It's good to listen to other preachers as well. Don't let that be a replacement for church, because church is more than preaching. And having a preacher that you listen to on YouTube is good, but they're not a pastor who will care for you and know you. But I encourage you to listen to good preaching online as well. In fact, our church is now on Sermon Audio. And you you can go to Sermon Audio and you can find other churches on there as well. from all over the globe who have been vetted by sermon audio as good, solid churches that we would agree with the bulk of what they believe. And find good preaching on sermon audio. Now when we preach, when I preach, but anyone from this pulpit, we're not preaching opinion. I do my very best and I pray against it regularly that I'm not just going to preach to you my opinion, what I think We preach the Bible itself. I don't preach politics. I do my very best to keep politics entirely out of things. Sometimes I will reference a current event. Or there will be things that are political, right, that are in the Bible, right? When the Bible clearly values the life of the unborn. That happens to be a politicized issue. Really sad that that's become politicized. It should be common sense, duh, right? All life is sacred, but it's become a political thing. Certain sexual sins and behaviors are in the Bible and described in detail as sins Those have become uh contemporary political issues, right? That's not preaching politics, that's preaching the Bible, parts of the Bible that happen to be politically relevant. But we're not preaching politics. The Bible is the authoritative record of what God has said and what he's done, and it's preserved for us to act on it. And so because of that We value these things. He's he said things that he hasn't preserved, right? He's had conversations with Moses. We don't know the contents of. He's shown things to Paul. We don't know what he showed. We know that because Paul said so and that was preserved. He said things to John, and he had angels say things to John that John was commanded, let them know I told you this, but don't tell them what it was. Seal it up We don't have access to that stuff, but everything we have access to, God intends for us to hear, and He intends for us to take it seriously. So we try to preach it. And this is why I'm preaching slowly, methodically, through the Gospel of Matthew. Where were we before that? We were in Esther, right? We're in the Old Testament. And when we're done with Matthew, we'll go back to the Old Testament again. Because we're trying to preach the entire council of God. This is how we honor God and the word that He's spoken. Now you may have heard the accusation by churches that take the Bible less seriously than we do. And we are by no means the only church that takes the Bible this seriously. There are many good, solid churches that preach the Bible. But for those that take the Bible less seriously, they will caricature our churches and other good churches. You might have heard this. They they use the term bibliolatry. Have you heard that term? They'll say you're committing bibliolatry. Can you hear what's in there? Bible and idolatry. They're saying that we are We are idolized. We've made an idol out of the Bible. We don't love God. We love the Bible. And so they say very haughtily, we worship God. You worship the Bible. Now, I hope that you can see that that is one of the stupidest false dichotomies that you are ever going to come across, right? Because what it's saying is you can either love God or you can love what he said. How does that work? Either I love God or I care about the things he said. No, because we love God, we love what he said, right? Think about this. Let me apply it to my marriage. I'm going to say one more time. If we love God, we love what He says. If we don't value what God says, then we don't love Him. I think that's pretty simple. Think about think about your marriage. Think about my marriage, right? If I were to say that I love my wife, but I don't suggest that you really pay attention to anything that I love my wife, just not the things she says. I I would much prefer it if my wife would stay quiet most of the time. Right? This is not what I think. Okay? She's she's laughing. She's not she's not crying. Okay. Wouldn't I be disrespecting Jamie to say that though? If I'm saying to you, you know, Jamie says stupid things most of the time. You know, I really don't listen to any more. Uh if she talks to you, just smile and nod. She'll be done soon enough Right? Like that that that's ridiculous, right? And then I say, Oh, but I love her so much. You'd you'd be thinking this guy doesn't love his wife at all. Right? On the other hand on the other hand, if you were to come into a house And you were to find, say, letters that she'd written me framed on the wall. Or you go into my office and you find a note sitting on my desk and it's clearly faded because it's it It's two years old. Or you find a post that she wrote me, taped to my computer, right? An I Love You Note or something I would be really surprised then if the next Sunday I come in to find a business meeting where you're trying to impeach the pastor because he clearly loves his wife's love notes more than he loves his wife. No, you would assume that I love my wife and therefore I value the notes that she's written me, right? That's the same with the Bible, right? I would be dishonoring my bride if I said that I love her but I hate the things she says, or I just ignore everything she says. But this is what progressive churches are doing when they say, you know We know better now than when the Bible was written? It it's outdated. It's outdated. There's truth in there, but it's very outdated. It r it reflects the subjective values of the time Obviously, we all agree, right? It marginalizes numerous people groups, it wrongly elevates straight white males and gives them utter unfair dominance in society, it wrongly excludes uh queer people. It justifies all sorts of evil institutions. Oh, but God is love, love, love, love, love. And that is a direct quote, that last one. God is love, love, love, love, love. That is a direct quote. Do you see the contradiction? They say they love God, they say God is full of love, and then they say everything that He said about everything they disagree is just wrong. Rather than because we value what God says, because we love him, we value what he says, and because we value what he says, we recognize Ugh, that chafes me. I must be wrong. I'm gonna have to submit to that. It's really uncomfortable for me to tell people that this is a sin. But that's what God says. So I'm going to subject myself to that rather than the other way around, say I know better than God. We preach the Bible and we elevate the Bible because we love God. Because we love God, we do what He says. And we love what He says. And this is why You have Bible verses pinned to your fridge or framed on your wall or in your Facebook feed. This is why we have word art with the Gospel of John in it. Now Jesus proves that his word is worth loving. And he does that by healing people. The message he preached, which is the message I'm preaching you now, is the cure for your soul. It will make you right with God when you're out of fellowship with him. Are you burdened by a sin? Has some besetting sin driven a wedge between you and God? Have you just simply drifted away because you've loved other things more than Him? You feel powerless to overcome certain inclinations and urges or habits that you've built as some substance. Some behavior or some just some big emotion gotten the better of you. Jesus can cure you of all of that. Just come back to him. He's the healer. Trust him to make you whole. Let's pray. Dear Lord Jesus, we praise you as the healer of our our souls, the forgiver of our sin. Thank you for your forgiving Forgiveness. Help us to believe you and to value what you say because you are indeed our great healer. In Jesus' name, amen.