The topic that we are we are in this morning, I need to I need to come clean before I start preaching because I've and I've actually prepared a written statement for you. Okay I think it's important that I confess to you that I am personally acquainted with the topic of this message, temptation. I have a recent and intimate experience. facing temptation. Because as I was in the last hours of finishing off preparing this message, someone sought to allure me away from writing and studying. The suspect is a white male, measures about three feet ten inches, and weighs approximately forty-five pounds. He's five and a half years old and answers to the names Buddy, Stinker, and Zeke. He put up a good fight, and uh as he sought to tempt me to roughhouse, to cuddle, to watch videos, and all manner of other intriguing distractions. including toys and other things. I resisted as best as I could, but I have to admit that I am a sucker for a good round of roughhousing with him and his brother. And I I promise you that Zeke gave me his his blessing before I uh before I shared that with you. Now we laugh, right? In part because we understand the dilemma we all face temptation. Pretty much every day. Most of the time, it is much less benign than what I just described to you, isn't it? Temptation to sin has plagued the human race for 6,000 years and the worst part of it is, at least speaking for humanity as a whole, the worst part is that we lose far a far more often than we win. Against temptation. And the passage in front of us then gives us hope. The Son of God has endured temptation and won. That is the message of this passage. I'll give you the proper theme in a moment. The Son of God has endured temptation, he is one, and he's one on our behalf. And so this morning, we're going to look at each of the three temptations described here in Matthew chapter 4. We're going to learn the strategy of the enemy. We're going to look at the strategy of Jesus in defending and overcoming the enemy's offense. But we're going to start with the why. Why did Jesus undergo temptation in the first place? How is it significant for us that he did So we start with the beginning of the chapter, and I'm going to read from verses one and two here. Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights afterward, he was hungry. Now Jesus has left his baptism, right? He's gone straight from the high point. Can you imagine the high point he comes from, right? having the anointing of the Spirit upon him, where he and others can see it, and hearing his heavenly father's voice, From the sky, saying that he is well pleased with his son. I mean, when When a man or a boy hears his own earthly father say that he's proud of him, it does something profound. Can you imagine what it meant for the Son of God when he hears the voice of his of his father God in heaven, saying that he is pleased with him. He's proud of him. And he perhaps feels the anointing of the Holy Spirit, didn't just see it. From there, he goes straight out for one purpose, and that is the purpose of being tested, tempted by the devil himself. John MacArthur describes the connection of these two events in this way. He says: on the one hand, Jesus' baptism was his coronation and his commissioning. For ministry and as king. His time in the wilderness is then the testing of his kingliness. He says, his baptism in the Jordan declared his royalty, his testing in the wilderness demonstrated it. Here Jesus proved he was worthy to receive and to reign over the kingdom his father would give him. This is the king being tempted and doing battle without any assistance except from God Himself. Jesus is going to have to if he's going to to win this this battle in this period of temptation, he's going to need to trust in that anointing of the Holy Spirit. He's going to have to trust in the truth that his Father is pleasing. With him if he's going to succeed for what's coming. And we see here that it's the purpose of the Holy Spirit. Do you see that in verse 1? Jesus was led up by the Spirit. into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. Now that word can be translated tested. It really means both of those things, tested or tempted. From the standpoint of God, he's being tested. From the standpoint of the devil, he's being tempted. And it's it's important that we understand the distinction for us, right? God never tempts Anyone to sin. He doesn't do it with his son, he doesn't do it with us. We have that as a promise from from James He says, Let no one say when he is tempted, I am tempted by God, for God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he himself tempt anyone. That's a promise from the book of James, chapter 1, verse 13. Now God will lead us to be tested for various reasons, and that will include situations sometimes Where where we all we confront temptation. But God is not the author of temptation, he's not the author of sin. Those situations make that contain temptation, it may be to strengthen us, or it may actually also be simply to expose to us our own hearts and our weakness that we do not We're not strong in certain areas, and we do not have the same values of God in certain areas, and he will use temptation actually to bring that out. But he's not the author of the tra the temptation. God always strengthens Christians. He promises us in 1 Corinthians chapter 10 that he always gives us a way of escape. That is a promise. Now, what Jesus is going through in this case is unique, but it's just as true that God does not want him to sin. Very true, that he does not want him to sin. And that he gave him grace to prepare him for this very moment of temptation. And what God's doing here, which he does for all of us, is God will take an evil being like Satan and he will use Satan and he will use that bad thing For good. Satan intends to overthrow God. He intends to cause death and sin to reign. And yet God uses that actually to defeat the object, to defeat that purpose. Intends to use Satan in order to defeat Satan and in order to defeat sin and death. God uses Satan's evil motives to bring forth good. And it is the greatest good in the history of humankind. Now what is that good? It's what the mission of Jesus Christ was from the beginning. Jesus came into this world to die under the curse of your sin. Is that not right? Well, he came to die as a righteous one, but counted sinful. So he's doing this, he's undergoing this temptation. in order to prove his righteousness. He is going to fulfill the law over the course of his ministry. And here in the time of temptation, He is fulfilling the law by not giving in to the temptation to break it. Jesus had to prove himself righteous by overcoming the worst of all temptation. And this is why the writer in Hebrews can tell us over and over again that that he is he's fully sinless. He has endured All that sin can throw at him, and he's overcome all of it. He is tempted in all points, and yet without sin. He is made like us, and yet he never fell into temptation. Much of that temptation, perhaps not all, but much of that temptation happened in the the event that is described to us. Certainly Jesus would continue to be tempted tempted externally, not internally, but externally, when he would be confronted by enemies and opponents Throughout his ministry, when he was accused of his arrest and his trial and on the cross, people tempting him. him to sin and still he would not sin. And here in this episode, he faces the worst one that can tempt you to sin. If you look with me at verse 3, it says, Now when the tempter came to him, this is Satan himself. He is called the tempter. It's what he does. It's what he's good at. He's the best there is at tempting people to sin. And he's gonna win. Jesus is going to win. Spoiler alert. And so when Christ would finally offer himself To atone for the sin of the world, the Father can look at him and say, Here is a righteous substitute, here's a righteous sacrifice. I am pleased with that righteous sacrifice just as he was pleased with him at his baptism. He remains pleased with him after he endures the full brunt of Satan's allurement to sin against God. In verse 2, we see that Jesus is weak. Isn't it funny how the Bible puts it? When he had fasted 40 days and 40 nights. Afterward he was hungry. You know, if this was a a modern novel, we'd get like two full pages of of how his stomach is groaning and And he looks at at uh rocks and and he just imagines bread there and we get all of this graphic detail. I love this matter-of-fact. Yeah, he was hungry. After not eating for 40 days. and forty nights. Now I I do want to point out to you it's forty days and nights. This isn't Ramadan. Muslims fast during the day for forty days, but they they feast at night. They use they're known for getting drunk. and all sorts of bad behavior goes on during during Ramadan. That's not what this is. Jesus does not eat night or day. He is truly gone forty days without without eating. Muslims go like twelve hours. The Bible simply says, almost humorly, humorously, he was hungry. I want you to see then, everything that comes after this is coming when Jesus is at his weakest point. Point. And this is true for you and me. There's no mention of temptation in the first thirty-nine days. It's only after he's th fasted the full forty, when he is at his weakest, that the devil comes. And he's expecting Jesus to fall into temptation. And he comes and he shows him no mercy. We need to recognize that. Okay, this this is w right from the get-go, this is the enemy's playbook. The enemy with I'm talking about demons, okay? I'm talking about Satan and all of the demons that follow him. Spiritual enemies do not fight fair. If demonic opposition comes, I don't necessarily mean a a I'm really not talking about possession or anything like that, but simply when when you are tempted from the outside by by a demon to sin and it happens. They come when you're at they're at your weakest. They're playing for keeps. They will not go easy on you because you just buried your spouse. No, they will come to you to tempt you to sin because you just buried your your spouse, or because you just got a horrific diagnosis, or when you've just had a breakup. They'll attack you when you're sick. They'll attack you when you've not been able to sleep. And so Jesus tells his disciples everywhere Watch and pray, especially right before he's betrayed, right? Watch and pray lest you enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. We need to heed that advice. Because your enemy will attack you when you are at your bottom. Brothers and sisters, we need to be on guard always against Sin. And the best way that we do that is to follow his advice. It's to pray every day. Keep spending time with Jesus in prayer. Ask him to help you to delight in him. And and to give you grace to deny yourself for his sake. When you're delighting in God, it's a lot easier to honor God and to deny sin uh to deny temptation and sin. Now there's another way to strengthen yourself as well. And that's what we're going to see Jesus did three times. And that is to intake Scripture specifically to memorize Scripture. Memorize scripture. For some of you it'll be it'll it'll be really hard labor and for others of you it comes naturally. I find that I don't have to work super hard to memorize scripture as long as I as long as it's something I'm reading a lot, it gets stuck in my brain. I realize that's not the same for everybody, and there are passages that I really have to work at. One of my favorite passages actually is Philippians 4. 8 and I always get the words out of order. But but for the most part, I don't have to uh to work super hard. Some of us we do. And it's worth it. And we're going to see this is what Jesus has done. He's memorized it. It's his key defensive strategy. Every time. And that's what the theme of this message is. It places scripture as the very key. I want you to get this, okay? Jesus proves that God's word is sufficient. Yes, he is the Son of God. Yes, he's sinless. Yes, he has an anointing from the Holy Spirit, but he fights sin in the same way we should fight sin. He's weak just as we are weak. In his humanity he's weak, though in his deity he's strong. Jesus proves that God's word is sufficient. For spirit-filled Christians, that is real Christians, if you have the Holy Spirit in you, then you have the same resource that Jesus did. You have the Holy Spirit Within you, helping you to deny temptation and overcome sin. Let me do that from the top again. Jesus proves that God's word is sufficient For spirit-filled Christians to deny temptation and overcome sin. That is what we see here. Yes, Jesus is God, but he has a human nature which is not a sinner's human nature. While on earth he felt weakness, but he did not succumb to sin. He felt external temptation, just not inwardly. He wasn't drawn to sin like we are. He had to rely on the Holy Spirit, just as you do, for grace and strength. He he had to apply wise strategies. That comes from God's word, because that's where the treasury of wisdom is. He had to apply wise strategies to deny temptation, and you have to do the same thing. So as the Son of God, who is wiser than Solomon He applied those strategies perfectly, and now we follow them. Now, you're not the Son of God. You won't always apply these strategies perfectly. You will fail at times. You will sin. I am not telling you that tisk, tisk, if you if you fail, you could have overcome it because you have the Bible, shame on you. That's not what I'm saying, but I'm saying that between the Holy Spirit dwelling in you in if you are truly a believer, and the fact that you have this at your at your your right hand, you have the Bible as your weapon, as your resource. Then you have all that you need to fight your next battle and to win it. Yes, you will fail at times, but you have great potential to win if you will rely on the Holy Spirit. On his word and follow the strategies that Jesus Himself used. And so that's what we're doing now. So let's let's look at the three specific temptations that Satan attacks Jesus with and see if we can learn from him, okay? Temptation number one, Satan says, turn these stones into bread. Let's read verses three and four. Now when the tempter came to him, he said, If you are the Son of God, command that these stones become bread. But he answered and said, It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. So Satan arrives. He comes determined to make the Son of God fall into temptation. Think about the implications. If Satan succeeds, if Jesus is defeated, In this moment, then that means he can't defeat sin. He will have been defeated by sin. He cannot die for you as the perfect righteous sacrifice Because now the wrath of God will have to be upon him for his own sin, and he can't die for yours. So the stakes could not be higher. Now, if the eternal Son of God succumbs to temptation That means death wins, death reigns, essentially it puts Satan above God. There will be no salvation if Jesus loses this battle. God will not be God. You know why? Because that means God's not good. God's a sinner. Death and sin would last forever. If Jesus were to lose. And if anyone can cause Jesus to sin, it would be this guy It would be Satan, the accuser, the tempter. He's called by three different names in this passage. The tempter, the devil, and Satan. And they're all the referring to the same being. It's what he does. He's the best there is at it. Now, as Matthew said, Jesus is hungry. That means he's weak because he's not eaten for 40 days. And so Satan obviously he's appealing then to Jesus' own physical need, which is not a bad meat. Here's his strategy, right? First of all, he appeals to Jesus' physical needs. You're hungry? Well Prove who you are by meeting your need right now. See those rocks, turn them to bread. And that's the second thing that he does. He's appealing to Jesus' perhaps sense of innate pride, not the sinful sort at this point, but Jesus' identity as the Son of God. And he's questioning him. Now people have asked, okay, if this is the end of his fast, why would it be a sin for Jesus to turn the the the stones into bread now. Like he's already done forty days. Apparently that was God's will was for him to just do forty days I get that if he'd done it like three days earlier or even yesterday, then then that would have been wrong. But why not now when when Satan appears? Now there's more than one right answer to that question. Make sure I'm clear on the qu what the question is. Why is it sinful if he's at the end of the fasting period, why is it sinful for Jesus to turn those stones into bread that Satan just talked about? I think there's more than one right answer to this. They're all simultaneously true. I'll give you two of them, but I think the first one's enough. You know why it's wrong? Because Satan's the one telling them to do it You don't do what Satan says, just plain and simple. That ought to be enough. If the idea comes from Satan, the author of sin and temptation. You don't do it. And there's something in our culture where we've like we've given into moral relativism so much that we're like, ah, well let's at least evaluate the idea. Okay, we we don't we don't agree with Satan, but let's at least evaluate the idea. No, don't do that If it comes from Satan, it's bad. End of story. If Satan suggests you do something, don't do it. But two, here's a second good answer, right? Jesus' fast isn't over yet. His fast is over when he's finished with the temptation of Satan. The Holy Spirit brought him into the wilderness for this purpose. So that he would face temptation at the hands of Satan. And until he has defeated him, that trial is not over. When Satan leaves, we'll see God lets his angels help Jesus immediately, and that signifies the end of the fast. They probably give him food right then and there. But until then the test is still on, so it's not right for him to turn those those stones into bread. So Satan's strategy is first to appeal to it to Jesus' physical needs, but also he's questioning who he is. Are you really the Son of God? Prove it Do you really have the power that the Son of God supposedly has and turn those things into bread Now I want you to see that in each of these temptations, he's going to say that. He's going to say, if you are the Son of God, in all of them. So in all of them, he's questioning Jesus' identity as the Son of God. God. But Jesus has a defense strategy too. First of all, he prioritizes spiritual over physical. Obeying God is more important than meeting his own physical need. The spiritual reality of his mission that he needs to overcome temptation is more important. And so he recognizes that he quotes the perfect relevant scripture, doesn't he? He quotes the perfect one. It's relevant to his situation. Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. So he understands that God is going to sustain him if he obeys him. We're going to see that summarized in a different way in the Sermon on the Mount not long from now, where he says, Seek first the kingdom of God, and all of these things referring to physical needs will be given to you. And then he determines that he will do what that verse says. He will depend on God rather than on his own means. Now, yes, he is God. But he's also man. He has he has a human nature and a divine nature. And Jesus That's one being. He's not two people in the same body. He's one being with two natures. And so he needs to depend not only on his own divine nature, but on the whole, on God in his whole triunity. the whole Trinity of God. So he relies on the Holy Spirit for the enabling grace and the anointing, the empowering that he needs to win this temptation And then he seeks to honor the father he loves. Perhaps he's thinking of how much he loves his father. And so he's going to honor him. And then, of course The biggest thing here, the common denominator in all of this, he quotes Scripture. That is, if you get nothing else from this message, recognize that Scripture is your weapon. It's your tool, it will enable you to overcome temptation. And all of the scripture that Jesus quotes in this episode is from Deuteronomy. The last one is kind of a conglomeration of more than one uh piece of scripture. But all of these are f are found in Deuteronomy, at least in part. Now that book, Deuteronomy, it's the fifth book of Moses, the last book of Moses. And it's the fifth book of what's called the law. The five books of Moses are called the Pentateuch. They're also referred to as the Law. Even though Genesis is largely story, it's still referred to as law. Now you start getting a law in Exodus The book of Leviticus is the next Exodus is the second book, Leviticus is the third. Almost the entire book of Leviticus is is law and very very specific exacting laws. There's a couple short stories, but it's mostly just law. There's a lot of law in the fourth book, Numbers. But Deuteronomy summarizes what happened in books two through through three. Oh sorry, two through four. Deuteronomy is kind of seen as the the the the quintessence of the law. It summarizes it all up. And so Jesus finds strength from that book that is the quintessential law of God for this battle. And those of you then who you read through scripture. and you enjoy reading the epistles and you enjoy the psalms and you enjoy the narratives, the stories. But you kind of groan when you get to the law. Let this be just a gentle encouragement to you that Jesus prized the law. He came to fulfill the law. He's doing, he's fulfilling it right now in this episode. I encourage you to try, ask God to help you to love the law as much as you love the other sections of the Old Testament. That's the first temptation. Satan is unsuccessful, but he's not done. The second one, he says, all right, if you're the son of God, let's read it Then the devil took him up into the holy city, set him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down. For it is written, He shall give his angels charge over you, and in their hands they shall bear you up, lest you dash your foot against a stone. And before we look at his strategy, I want to set the stage for you. Satan is taking Jesus to the highest point of the temple. Now, the temple itself was not super high. But it sat upon the Temple Mount. And there's a street, a steep drop below into a valley So from the top of the temple, not to the base of the temple, but you would then keep going down to the valley below when you'd finally hit the ground if he if he were to throw himself off. That some estimates say it's as much as 300 feet. To give you reference, that's about the height of the Statue of Liberty. Imagine someone on the top of the Statue of Liberty's crown jumping down, perhaps a base jump or something. That's how far the fall is. People would notice. So Satan is going to try to throw Jesus off now by adopting Jesus' own strategy. He appeals to scripture, just as Jesus did, but he twists it. In context, these verses are in Psalm 91 where he says He shall give his angels charge over you, in their hands they shall bear you up lest you dash your foot against a stone. It's from Psalm 91. Now, in context there, it's a psalm speaking in general terms of Poetic terms, but general terms, of how God cares for those and protects those who trust him. It doesn't mean that no harm will will ever befall you if you're trusting in God, but in general terms, he protects his people. It's not speaking specifically of the Messiah, that it still applies to Jesus until Jesus gives himself up to his arrest. But what it's definitely not saying is that any person, including the Messiah, should intentionally put ourselves in harm's way. It is not saying Put yourself in harm's way and God will defend you. Walk in front of a truck in the middle of Interstate 95 and God will cause it to bounce off of you. That's not what it's saying. That's absurd, right? And so for Jesus to do that, he is testing God. He is tempting God to uh Tempt is probably not the best translation where it says in in verse 7 is written again, you should not tempt the Lord your God. Literally, you should not put the Lord your God to the test. It's the same word as used earlier in the in in in Matthew here for tempt or test. Now what Satan is doing is he's appealing to Jesus' good desire to gain disciples, to gain followers It's good for Jesus to gain disciples, is it not? So that they would be saved. But again, he takes a good thing. This is what Satan does. He twists it. So you may see in your own motives you've got a good motive and you you maybe recognize that this isn't quite right, the thing I want to do. But there is this good motive here too Satan seizes on our good motives and he perverts them and he twists them. And so he's saying, look, if you throw yourself down God will be forced to keep his word and to intervene. There will be this spectacular display of glory. And then you will just get followers flocked to you And that's the thing too. There's another good thing that he's twisting. It's the fact that Jesus recognizes he deserves glory. Not in a boastful sense. But Jesus understands who he is. And that there is a day coming where he will be glorified in equal terms with the Father, alongside the Father. Today, now he's seated at the right hand of God. He receives glory alongside the Father. A few weeks ago we read from Revelation for our scripture reading, read from Revelation chapter 5, where The Lamb is is praised in the same way that the Father on the throne is praised. That's a g that's good because it's true. And Jesus understands that, and again, Satan's going to twist it and say, you can seize it for yourself now. There's no need to wait. Well, how does Jesus defend? Well, once again, he quotes Scripture, but the difference between him and Satan is he chooses relevant scripture and he interprets it correctly, not out of context. How often do we see enemies of of God misquote scripture? Politicians do it all the time. Militant atheists on the internet do it all the time. College professors do it all the time. Jesus quotes the right scripture and he does it correctly within context. He also recognizes based on scripture that this is a sinful suggestion And finally, well let me say a little bit more on that first. It is totally possible for us to use means that God doesn't approve of to accomplish what God wants us to do. And that is what Satan is suggesting Jesus do. Hey, you should get glory, you should gain followers, why don't you use this means? And it's a sinful means. Let me give an example and this stuff goes on. This was passed on to me by a seminary professor. Imagine that you are you're on a missions trip to Panama City, Florida. And uh over spring break, and you want to to share the gospel with people on the beach, perhaps drunk people on the beach, and you try to to hand out tracts with them and you try to talk to them about their sin and they laugh you off. So instead you get the most attractive ladies in your group and you put them all in in bikini And then you have them go and share the tracks with the drunk men. They might listen to those those young ladies better, but that is not honoring, that is not pleasing to the Lord to do that. We could also lie about what Scripture says just to make our point more easily. We can manipulate people's emotions as people have done in the past in evangelistic services why by uh using using music and using uh uncomfortable temperatures, turning up the heat until people will relent and uh and confess uh to to uh converting to Jesus. These things have been done in the name of soul. It's not honoring to God. So Jesus, when he denies Satan here, he is teaching us that the ends do not justify the means, even if it's a good intention. The bad means do not glorify God. We need to Pursue means that are in are consistent with God's character, His righteous character And then Jesus determines I'm sorry, I'm in love No, I'm in the right one. He determines that he's gonna wait on God. He's going to use God's methods, and he's gonna wait on God's timing. Now, brothers and sisters, I just want to caution you, don't be surprised when someone who hates the Lord tries to use Scripture against you. Don't suppose that just because someone uses Scripture that they're a Christian. Now, if you don't want to get caught off guard by a college professor who hates God, Or by some atheistic person in your family, or someone who hates God and wants to undermine you and wants to embarrass you. I would encourage you that you may need to work to know your Bible a little better than you do now. That doesn't mean that you don't know your Bible. It doesn't mean that you have to become a Bible scholar or get a seminary degree. But any work that you do put into understanding God's Word will be worth it. For numerous reasons, but relevant to the one we're talking about now, if if as a result, the only thing that comes out of you studying the Bible more intently, and it won't be the only thing that comes out of you. out of it. You'll love God more, for instance. But if the only thing that comes out of it is that you are better armed against someone who wants to twist scripture, that's a pretty good incentive. You can speak up on your your God's behalf. But on the other side of that, I do want to remind you, I actually encourage you, this won't sound like an encouragement at first, but it is. Recognize, okay? There are atheists who are smarter than you. They're atheists smarter than me anyway. It's just a fact. If one smart atheist in some confrontation, maybe you've got some egghead in your family who hates the Lord, and when you you you anticipate this at Thanksgiving each year, And they managed to use scripture against you in some feat of logical or philosophical gymnastics And you don't know what to say and you lose the argument, you know what? Okay. The Lord's not disappointed in you. Now if that if that triggers in you, man, I need to know the Bible better, okay, good. That's good. But don't suppose the Lord is disappointed in you just because you you couldn't rise to some some premeditated Attack that you just weren't armed up for. But in that situation, first of all, never be ashamed of saying, I don't know. Well, let me get back to you on that one. Always rely on the Lord, pray for help. But if you can't overcome that atheist argument, don't sweat it. Be honest, say you don't know. And then preach the gospel to them anyway. Give them the truth. Give them the word of God. You say I don't know about that, but I do know this. Jesus has transformed my life. I used to be enslaved to this sin and that sin, and I'm not anymore. Old me would have would have just yelled at you and and cursed at you, but I'm not doing that, am I? And that's because Jesus has has transformed me. He died on the cross because you are a sinner and because I'm a sinner. And if you will if you would just trust in him and turn to him, he will deliver you from your sin. You won't suffer in hell. You'll enjoy his presence for eternity. And you'll let that be it. And then you go and make yourself a cup of coffee or something. Get out of the room. Give him the word of God, give him the gospel or her, and get out of there and let the Lord deal with that person. Be faithful to God in those situations. God's not relying on you to win every argument. In fact, it's good for you to lose an argument once or twice. It makes you more humble. It makes you more dependent on him. He does the saving. He doesn't rely on you to do it. He doesn't rely on your brilliance or my brilliance. I don't know that I have any brilliance. But he he doesn't rely on our brilliance to do it. He relies often on our weakness and our humility when we lose to save somebody. And sometimes we we assume that the militant atheist is the furthest person from coming into God's kingdom when perhaps In fact, now maybe it is true, but perhaps in fact they're fighting so hard because they're in the cusp cusp of losing, and what they need to see from you is not how you can best them in an argument, but that you trust in Jesus and He's made you humble And finally, temptation number three. Did I read verse seven? Jesus said to him, It is written again, you shall not tempt the Lord your God. God Verse eight. Again the devil took him up on an exceedingly high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory, and he said to him, All these things I will give you if you will fall down and worship me. And we will wait a moment for Jesus' response there. Now, in this case, Satan is using a similar strategy in this this temptation a as the previous one because again he's going to use Jesus' knowledge of himself and he's going to to pervert it. Jesus knows good things about himself in the future and Satan's going to twist that knowledge. It's not wrong that Jesus looks forward to his righteous reign. And somehow, probably some supernatural means. Satan is able to show him the glory of all of the kingdoms of the world. This is probably not just speaking in the present present day for him. This this may actually be speaking all of the kingdoms that will exist in the world, including perhaps the United States. Perhaps not, but perhaps there's something supernatural going on. We don't know what's going on. And he's saying, I can give you a shortcut to all of that. That. See, Jesus knows that he is destined to rule over all of that and to receive glory. But he also knows that first he is going to suffer. He's going to suffer on the cross before he is exalted to reign and to receive glory. And what Satan does is he appeals to Jesus' knowledge about those things. He preys on his fear of suffering, if fear is the right word. If you think of Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane right before he's he's arrested, there it it seems that probably the the word fear is appropriate, that he's anticipating Perhaps the physical suffering, but far perhaps, but far more than that. He's he's anticipating the suffering of being forsaken and rejected by his own God, his own father. And Satan's saying, you don't need to worry. About that. Let me give you a shortcut. You can have all of that that you're destined for. You won't have to suffer pain. You won't have to suffer rejection. All you need to do is bow down and worship me. Now of course I think you can This means that God would be subjecting himself to Satan. And once again, as I've already said, Satan would win, death would win. Him that has the power over death. He introduced death into the world when he introduced sin into the world. God ultimately has power over death. He has a power over life. And so Jesus cannot give in to this, can he? But Jesus' defense, first and foremost, is he recognizes how absurdly evil this is Right? It's not just bad like the last two. This is absurd to think that the eternal God would worship, would bow down and submit and worship Satan. Now, just to put a pin in that for a second. We're always looking for verses that prove that that Jesus is indeed God, right? That he that he the the deity of Christ. We're always looking for those. This would not be such a pivotal issue for Jesus to lose here if he were not the Son of God. It would just be someone else fell to Satan. No, this would this would overturn the entire natural order of things. It would put God below Satan if he succumbs, because Jesus is fully God. If he's not if this is not about Jesus' deity, then it doesn't matter. Not as much anyway. God would just have to send another Messiah. He'd have to send another human, another created being. But no, this is the incarnate God being tempted. And so Jesus recognizes this is absurd. So he just rebukes him. Literally, what he says is go away. Go away, Satan. Away with you, Satan. Go away. It's a total rebuke. He's rejecting. We're done now. Alright, I listened to you up to this point, but you can't get any stupider than that. Go away. And then once again he quotes scripture. He's seeing the pattern. Quotes scripture, quote scripture, quote scripture. He quotes the right scripture, the relevant scripture. And it's an antidote to the temptation. This is taken from two kind of two places in Deuteronomy, from chapter six and chapter ten. If you have a New King James like me, it also actually references Joshua, but really it's it's it's those verses in Deuteronomy. Jesus, then Jesus said to him, Away with you, Satan, for it is written, you shall worship the Lord your God, and him only you shall serve. He has victory because now we see in verse 11, then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and ministered to him. With that rebuke coming from the Son of God, it's enough to make the devil leave. You and I don't have that authority. We don't have that power. I don't suggest you do what some people do on the internet. I rebuke this in the name of Jesus, and I rebuke that in the name of Jesus. I don't see anywhere in scripture that gives us that authority. What I suggest you do instead is do what James says. Resist the devil and he will find you. flee from you. And how do you resist the devil? By following this translation this example. Keep on trusting scripture. Let that be how you fight back. It is a weapon in your hand. In Ephesians chapter 6, that's the only offensive weapon in what's called the armor of God there, right? You've got the helmet, you've got the boots or the sandals. You've got the belt, you've got the breastplate of righteousness, you've got a shield of faith, all of them are defensive weapons. What's the one offensive weapon? It's the last one. It's the sword of the Spirit, and it says, which is the Word of God. That is your, it's both defensive and offensive of a weapon. You fight back against temptation. You stab back with Scripture. Now look at God's goodness here in verse eleven. The devil leaves and the angels come right away. They start to minister to him. I don't want you to miss that behold. If you've got a more more uh Modern translation, perhaps it just says look. I like that better because it captures the idea. Then the devil left him and look, angels came and ministered to him and ministered to Jesus. Matthew's saying, wow, look, as soon as Satan leaves, the angels appear and they start serving him. It's like they're all watching. I suspect, though I don't know. But I suspect that they are watching. They're eager to intervene. My best guess is that the angels are waiting with bated breath unseen. They're watching their master fight against the great enemy of life, great enemy of righteousness and good. And they're they would can you imagine how dearly these angels would want to step in and meet his needs? Of course they can't, and they're restrained. They want to serve their master. They love him. They love their God. They want to give him food. They want to encourage him. They want to say, Don't listen to him. But Jesus doesn't need those angels, he's relying on the Holy Spirit, he's relying on the Word of God, and he's loving his Father And so as soon as the showdown's over, the the the embargo is lifted, and boom, the the angels are there. But can you imagine their opinion? Yeah, they're ministering to him, they're giving him food, they're encouraging him. But can you imagine their opinion of him after this encounter? I don't know if it's possible for their in their opinion to have raised, but if it were possible it would have, right? Their God just bested the devil in a one-on-one TKO showdown. He won. And he didn't outsource his battle to the angels. The most important battle, God fights himself. He takes him head-on in human weakness. It's like he's tying one hand, maybe even both hands, behind his back when he fights the mightiest enemy that he has, and he beats him simply by relying on the Word of God. That is the theme of this message. I've already given it to you, but I'm I want to conclude with this. Jesus proves that God's word is sufficient for spirit-filled Christians to deny temptation and overcome sin. Brothers and sisters, I ask you, do you have this sort of confidence in the Word of God that it can arm you to overcome any temptation? Now, if you ever decide that you or a loved one wants to come to me or another biblical counselor somewhere else, but come to me for counseling, this is what we do. We sit down, we consider your problem, we look at what Scripture says about it, and then we use Scripture to try to come up with a strategy and a wise response. To the problem or temptation. A lot of it is just matching scripture to our issues, diagnosing things scripturally. And that's what any biblical counselor will do. If you go to them seeking help, overcoming some besetting sin or addiction. We don't use psychology. We rely on the word of God. We believe that it's sufficient. And so I encourage you the next time that you read your Bible, remind yourself that it's a weapon. It's a defensive weapon to protect your mind and your understanding. It's an offensive weapon to attack sin and temptation. Because the Word of God is powerful, like a two-edged sword. And when you as a Christian filled with the author of the Bible, when you trust in the Bible, he will deliver you by it. It. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we love you. And we praise you for the power that is in your word. And we ask that you help us to see it as our weapon, as our tool, as our defense and our offense. That we would just give you more glory and praise because of how your word proves its has proved itself over and over in our lives and enabled us to defeat our enemies and our temptations. and our sin and to win our battles. Help us to keep winning battles, to win more battles, because we trust in your word and we trust that it is wisdom. Lord, we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.