If you're not at Psalm 1, I encourage you to turn there. And I want to uh I want to ask you to imagine something for me. Imagine that at the start of our worship service, before anyone got up on the stage, imagine that we had a warning up on the screen that said Warning, using this service for anything other than its intended use could result in tremendous unhappiness and eternal condemnation. That'd be weird. But I wonder if to some extent every every hymnal, every music collection, at least Christian music, should have some sort of advisory label on it like this. Because worship is dangerous. We can't avoid worship because we were created to worship. God created you to worship Him. It's impossible not to worship, though We don't always worship the one we were designed to worship. In fact, that's the the default setting of of most uh well of all people. And uh anyone who's not a Christian is to worship something, but they don't worship the God of the Bible according to who he is. And when we don't worship the one we were designed to worship, we end up in some way and in some form worshiping some cr some thing, either real or fictional, but some created thing. Paul tells us in Romans chapter 1. A crucial chapter of the Bible that your fallen nature means it guarantees that you will worship and serve the creature rather than the creator until the Lord makes you anew And raises you to new life so that you worship the one you were designed to worship. Now God desires not only that we worship Him alone, but also that we worship Him in the way that pleases Him. The way that he prefers and the way that reflects his holy character, and I believe the way we worshiped him today and did those things. We don't worship flippantly, and we don't just worship according to what's most appealing to us. In fact there there's Cases in Scripture where God put people to death for worshiping Him with wrong attitudes and selfish, self-serving preferences. But if we were to have such a warning like that, I realize it's pretty serious, right? If we were to have such a warning like that on at the start of our worship service, then we would also need something to go with that. We would need An incentive. Maybe it would say proceed with caution. Because indescribable joys await the genuine worshiper of Christ who attends the service or uses this hymnal. Maybe use a hymnal in your personal quiet times. Uh this morning we are examining the first song in what was Israel's hymn book, and that is the the book of Psalms was Israel's hymn book, song book. And it's a part of God revealing himself. It's without error. And he chose to preface the entire Israeli hymnal. With the warning and then also a promise, an incentive. Because this psalm promises us the possibility of unimagined blessing and prosperity. When we worship according to what pleases God. Now, how we define prosperity is usually different from how God defines prosperity, but he does promise prosperity. He created us with the intention that we would live so that we fulfill our purpose. Right? He created us with a purpose. He wants us to fulfill that purpose, and when we fulfill that purpose, worship. Then we'll enjoy happiness. You are happy when you're doing what God made you to do, the way that God made you to do it That's what happens when we're worshiping God genuinely according to what pleases him. When we come into a church service, or if you're during your devotional time I said quiet time. I guess it's not quiet if you're singing, is it? But but during your devotional time, if you are you might open the hymnal I do sometimes and sing to the Lord. Uh you you are You are fulfilling the purpose for which he made you. And we should do that with both a degree of fear and excitement. Understanding that God has a promise for us. He will fill us with delight as we routinely worship him according to what pleases him. But there's also there should be some fear. Because when we abuse worship, it displeases God We're about to do what we are made to do. We're about to worship. We're in the middle of worshiping, really, aren't we? Worshiping the greatest being in existence. He is the maker of the universe, and so we do it with the intention of pleasing him and enjoying him. And so now we're going to dig into these wonderful promises and warnings and see what they tell us. First of all, we have God's blessing. This is Psalm number one. We have the first three verses or God's blessing. The next two verses, verses four and five, of God's curse. And finally, in verse 6, we have God's arbitration. That'll be a short point. We're going to have the bulk of our exposition in the first point here. Because this is going to be the thing that ties them together, right? Because God is supremely satisfying. You'll see that if you're following in your notes on all three of those points, because God is supremely satisfying something. First of all, because God is supremely satisfying, you will enjoy full happiness when you forsake all other pursuits in order to know Him. When you let all other things fall by the wayside that you were going after, you're trying to find happiness in these other things, you leave them by the wayside so that you can know God first and foremost. You can delight in him, you can worship him. That's where we find full happiness when we forsake all other pursuits to know Him. And we see here in verses 1 and 2. We have the lifestyle of the genuinely happy man contrasted with the one who does not know the Lord. And that's in verses 1 and 2. And then in verse 3. We see the results of the man's lifestyle. So we have the lifestyle, what it looks like, and then we have the results of that lifestyle. So let's uh let's look at verses one through three. Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stands in the path of sinners, nor sits in the seat of the scornful But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law he meditates day and night. He shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water that brings forth its fruit in its season Whose leaf also shall not wither, and whatever he does shall prosper. We have the lifestyle of genuinely happy man, and first we see what it is he doesn't do And then we see in more in the positive. So we start with the negative, right? Blessed is the man who doesn't do this stuff, right? But look at that promise. There is a way to obtain blessing in this life. There is a man who is blessed. And of course, this would mean a man or a woman. There is a person who is blessed, and therefore it's possible for you to enjoy this blessing. Now, the way that the grammar works and the meaning of this word blessed here, you really could just interpret it. Happiness. It's actually a noun, not not a not an adverb like this, or or an adjective. O the happiness of the man who. And it's actually plural. So we might say this, like the New Living Translation says, O the joys of the man who. Doesn't do these things. So let's look at what he doesn't do. This is happiness, this is a joy that comes to you when you forsake one way of living and when you embrace another way of living. And that has all to do with your interest in Scripture and worshiping God, right? I've said all about worship, haven't I? Because this is the worship book The book of Psalms is the worship book of Israel. And the worship book of Israel takes us right to the Word of God. Here's what you should do with the Word of God. Here's the attitude you should have. towards the word of God. Okay. What d what does this man not do? The the blessed man, the blessed person, right? Walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stands in the path of sinners, nor sits in the seat of the scornful. That's verse one. Do you see the progression here? You have somebody who is walking. He's walking along with ungodly people. Now imagine that perhaps this is you when you were in school, right? And first in the hallways you're you're walking along and you you're minding your own business but but there's a couple of of uh soon to be friends come alongside you, right, and and they're they're talking with you between classes as you're going to Second period biology, right? And as you're walking along, some crass speech comes along, right? And and you start to think the same way that they do. You are walking along with them. And then maybe, maybe you you enjoyed that company so much that you guys actually stopped and you stood there in the hallway for a little bit and you and you you stood together and you conversed, right? It's the the person who starts Walking alongside ungodly people will sooner or later stop if he's not careful. Standing in the path of sinners, right? You've stopped walking the way you're supposed to go. You're standing still now, and they are continuing to, not not that you need the help, right? Because you're polluted from the inside out, but they're can they're they're furthering that pollution They're giving you a wrong way of seeing the world, of seeing life, right? Having a wrong world view. And then if you do that long enough Right, we you stand around with people uh eventually you you your legs get a little tired and let's really just get entrenched here and let let's sit down and maybe you even you you you have something to eat with them or something, right? And he's saying the the blessed person is the one who doesn't get caught up in any of that. Certainly not sitting down. Now look at what it says about the one who sits down, right? sitting in the the the seat of the scornful or a lot of modern translations say of scoffers. So there's a progression to the type of things going on when you're walking and then sitting standing and then sitting, right? First, you're you there's the counsel, there's the world view of the ungodly people, and they're giving you advice the way they see world the world. You're standing in their path, you're no longer walking the narrow way towards Christ You're standing in their path. You've stopped walking. You're standing still. When you sit down, though, right, that goes from them being called ungodly to being called sinners. By the time you're sitting down, they're called scoffers or scornful. These are people who know they they know truth, they hear truth. They don't they don't know it internally, right? They haven't internalized it for themselves, but they know what it is, and they scoff at it, they make fun of it Right? And perhaps, you know, you again to extend the school metaphor, your teacher tells you something that's good and right. and you you you mock it, right? And you maybe you say the same thing, oh make sure you do your homework. And no everyone knows you you're you're saying, oh that it's it's silly. It's silly to do your homework. What why would I waste my time with that, right? And you can easily sit in the seat of the scornful today on the internet, right? With with uh TikTok and YouTube is full of scoffers who will take the truth. and twist it or or give you a distorted worldview. Perhaps it's got nothing to do with talking about scripture. But I I caution you to be aware of all of the the clowns on the internet who think that they're gurus and think that that they're experts in something and they tell you that for good mental health, you need to cut toxic people out of your life. Does that sound familiar? We hear it over and over and over again. Cut the toxic person out. Well, you're a toxic person yourself. It's toxic advice to just cut people out and not forgive them. That's not Christ-like advice. We sit in the path of the scornful and we we walk in the counsel of the ungodly when we keep entertaining things like that. Please recognize That the average person who's going to give you counsel in this world is not going to be a Christian. It's just by sheer numbers. They're not going to have a Christian worldview. We have to be so careful. The blessed person is not this person, does not do these things. I want you to notice the constant use of plural here for these ungodly people throughout the Psalm. Without exception, there's a lot of them. Right? The ungodly, this is ungodly people, and it's plural in the hi in the Hebrew. The sinners, plural, the scoffers, plural. Down in verse 4, the ungodly are not so is plural. But when you get to the the godly man, it's singular. There's only one. It's much more uncommon for there to be an ungodly person who does not listen to this kind of counsel and does not scoff at what is good and right and true. Well what is that that ungodly man, the man who doesn't do these things? What is it that he does do? Right? I said first we have the negative. What he doesn't do Now we go on verse 2. It's what he does. Well, it's not really what he does. Right? It doesn't tell us what he does. I guess it does in the second half, but it starts with what he loves. It's the values, the what what this person values that is highlighted. He doesn't listen to ungodly people, he doesn't stand in the path with them, he doesn't sit down with them and scoff alongside them He delights. He finds a delight in the law of the Lord. It's a priority in his heart, in his mind. He cherishes these things. Walking in ungodly counsel is is kind of parallel and contrasted to delighting in the Lord's law. Sitting in the seat of the scoffers is contrasted with meditating. That's the next part, right? Meditate. In his law, he meditates day and night. These things are contrasted. Now I need to disclose to you. To my chagrin, that my first delight often is not in God's Word. I do enjoy God's Word. I love God's Word. But it's it's an inconsistent delight sometimes. Other things will win my fickle affections from time to time, that I will desire other things first. And perhaps that's the same for you, I imagine it is for most of us. Is it possible to win that battle? Is it possible for you to desire and delight in God more than in your favorite sport or your favorite hobby or your work or your family and favorite people in your life. Yes, it is to a great degree, not a perfect degree. We will mess up at times. We will sin by desiring other things, delighting in other things ahead of God. But it is possible to win in a great degree that we can have an affection for the Word of God and delight in God's ways, right? Because if you If you love God's laws, which is saying he he meditates in his laws, then you're going to love God's character because God's law is a revelation of his character It is possible that we would grow our affection because that's God's original intent in creating us. We lost that. It's not easy anymore because we're sinners. Because we chose to sin against the Lord. Our forefathers did that. Our first ancestors, first parents did that, and we do it too. But this is describing the type of relationship that Adam had, briefly, before he disobeyed God. That he would have delighted in what God had told him, delighted in who God was. And God wants the same blessing, blessed relationship that He had with Adam, that He had with the second Adam, His Son Jesus. He wants that relationship with you. He designed you for that relationship. You were incomplete. when you don't have that relationship with God. Do you realize that? You are incomplete until you turn to Christ because you don't have this relationship you were made to have. And this relationship is only possible to you, is only restored in Christ, in Jesus Christ. Didn't the Lord Jesus fulfill this description perfectly? And didn't the Lord Jesus have this relationship with his Father? He he did not go along with the he he could have gotten persuasion, he could have been able to to get his his persuasion across, have more of a platform for his For the things he was teaching, if he had gone along with the Pharisees or gone along with the Sadducees. There were two opposing groups there. But he didn't. He didn't do that. He delighted in God's word. He didn't stand with them, he accepts to contradict them. He did not sit down and scoff at who God sends. He delighted in God's law and then he expounded it to be just last week, right, for for Resurrection Sunday service, Easter Sunday service. We looked at how the Lord Jesus, one of the first things he's doing after he rose out of the grave, is going on a long walk, or he's just opening up all of Scripture up into that point and revealing the truths about Jesus in it, hidden there. He delighted in the law of God. Delighted in God's word. Right up until his arrest, he's delighting in his father. He's asking the Lord to give that relationship and that joy that he had with him before the world was, he says And would you give that to my disciples? He was not preserved from tremendous trials. He he went through all of them, and yet he had peace and contentment in his God. Now, here it says specifically God's law, right? The psalmist is talking about delighting in the law of the Lord. Now, at the time this psalm was written, this one is not attributed to David. Many of the Psalms in this book were attributed to David, and so we can we can assume that they we can believe that they were rightly written written by him. This is not attributed to David. But we can we can uh take an educated guess that at the time of the writing of this psalm, even if it's a bit later in uh Israel's history than David, and it could have still been written by David. Not a whole lot of scripture existed aside from the law. They would have had Joshua and Judges, maybe Ruth, and depending on how late in Israel's time, perhaps they had some of the prophets. They probably didn't have all the historical books yet. They certainly wouldn't have had Daniel and Ezra and Nehemiah and Esther. And probably a lot of other stuff was missing as well. So it's possible that he's simply referring to God's word by law of the Lord. And we really should understand it that way. That he is This is true of God's law, it's true of all of what God speaks. We have much in the New Testament that tells us how precious every word of God is. It's all inspired, it all benefits us. And so you can take this to say that it's good for you to delight in all and any of God's work. Read it all and love it all. But We should recognize there's a special blessing here on what he calls the law. And this would be referring to what we call the Pentateuch. They called it the Torah. which means law, and that is the first five books of Moses, Genesis through Deuteronomy. Special blessing on the law. Is that hard for you? Don't write off Leviticus and Numbers. And I had intended actually to bring one of my favorite commentaries, left in my office. That's okay. One of my favorite commentaries I have ever read, I think it's one of the best commentaries of scripture ever written, was written by Andrew Bonar, and the name of that book is Leviticus. That's just the name of the commentary, it's just Leviticus. And it is on Leviticus. And he talks about the beauty of, in in his very short introduction to it, the beauty of Leviticus. Don't tune me out, alright? Hear me on this. Let me try to persuade you, try to convince you. I know it's hard to read Leviticus, right? It's hard to read numbers. There are parts of numbers where you get a couple stories and it's like, whew, I'm glad I reached that part, right? And then you take you get your breath and then you have to go back in through the law. Or maybe you just you skip over it, right? And and I understand that, and I I think it's fair to do that sometimes, but you shouldn't do that every time, because all of God's word is good for you, and it is given by God, it is a revelation of himself, he's revealing himself to us. But what Andrew Bonard says in the opening words of his commentary is that there are there are different ways to appreciate beauty. And he says that it's one thing to look at a beautiful panoramic vista, right? Go go and see see scenery. Maybe you go to a um You you go to the national parks out west, right? I uh when I was uh in my twenties I went out to the Grand Tetons and those mountains, there's just a shape to them, it's just beautiful. They're almost rounded, but then have a point. They're just they're beautiful mountains And he says, picture a majestic mountain range like that in the full sunlight. But then when the sun goes down And it's not quite dark yet. It's nearly dark, but you've still got a few rays of light behind behind them, right? And you've got y you know what I'm talking about, right? Like it's bull it it's gray sky and then you have black mountains. And you can especially see things you didn't see in the full daylight. You can see the outline of those mountains in a special way that you didn't see in the full daylight. You're not distracted by the fullness and all the color and all of these details. You just see the the stark contrast of those mountains, those dark black mountains against the gray sky. And he says, there is a beauty to it, there's a glory to it, and that's what you get, he says, in Leviticus. And when you have a good commentator to lead you through Leviticus, you start to see the shadow That we have pointing to Christ. And you see things about Jesus Christ in that shadow, which is the law, which is Leviticus, pointing towards him. that is beautiful in its in its own right about him that we we miss when we're reading the gospels. And you do not have a full picture of Jesus If you only read the New Testament, there are things told about him. Who doesn't love, if you know your Bible, who doesn't love Isaiah 53? That tells us in excruciating detail things that the four gospel writers left out in his crucifixion. These things that happened to him for our restoration, for our peace. Crushed for our iniquities, bruised for our transgressions. We have peace with God because of that. If you only read the New Testament, you miss these beautiful truths in the old. And so let me encourage you, seek out help, seek out a good commentary, and then go into Leviticus and Numbers. And Andrew Bonard's commentary on Leviticus is certainly the one I would recommend for Leviticus. Do it slowly, do it over the course of a year, just read a couple pages. It's like 500 pages. Not a short read. You you just add a couple pages of that per day to your quiet time and when you read the Psalms or you read Luke, you also read like one verse of Leviticus, and you read two pages with that commentary. Over the course of a year, you will read that and and it will it will entrance you And it will show you the beauties of Christ in a way that you hadn't before. It's actually not that hard to do if you're reading the word regularly. You just add that to your devotional time with Him. So we have this man who is des delighting in all of God's word, especially the law of God. And what is the result of his lifestyle? Well, we see in verse 3, he is like a tree. Planted by the rivers of water that brings forth its fruit in its season, whose leaf shall not wither, and whatever he does shall prosper. We have a man who is safe. He's plant if if he's like a tree by by a river. Have you ever s b been to a creek, right, and there's a tree right there? We used to live in in Frederick, Maryland, and uh there are a lot of trees alongside a very prominent creek there. It's called K Carrol Creek, and they had uh we we live right by a park. And there were trees all along it, mostly willow trees, weeping willow trees that would would would you know what a weeping willow looks like, right? It kind of leans forward and all this this beautiful greenery drooping down. And you'd often see the r the roots. right at the s right at the edge of the the the bank, right, the the the creek bed, going right down into the water and drinking from it. When we would have have dry spells and maybe the water level even of the creek would go down, but the trees are still drinking from it. Other stuff's going brown or going white, but the the the trees are still flourishing. Now it brings forth its fruit in a season. Uh that means there are seasons like winter where it doesn't bear fruit, right? You still go through the normal troughs and peaks of life, right? The hill hills and valleys But you can expect abundance. You can expect you'll have all you need, you'll be sustained. That's what this man is. He's safe, he's always fed, he's preserved. He's fruitful. He has stability through the seasons of life. And ultimately he has success. It says, whatever he does shall prosper. This doesn't mean that your every financial endeavor, your every work endeavor will turn will turn out just the way you want it to But you will prosper in the Lord as you continue to feed on his word, that even if you should suffer setbacks, then you will. That's part of life. That's part of those peaks and valleys and those seasons. You have winters as well as summers. You have falls as well as springs But the Lord will prosper you, He'll bring you forward, and prosperity is probably referring more to spiritual prosperity than material prosperity, but you will have materially all that you need. Now, if you're a Christian, you do know this, don't you, that God actually is supremely satisfying. Some of you have been nodding along, or have seen it written in your face. You know this to be true. God is satisfied. Let me put that back, right? Because God is supremely satisfying. If you didn't get those blanks already, you had enough time, sorry. But God is supremely satisfying. You know this to be true, but we still struggle to enjoy full happiness, right? Part of it comes from living in a fallen world, where your own sin especially, right? When do you find that when you sin You really do struggle to feel happy for a while afterwards, right? If you're a genuine believer, that's proof that the Holy Spirit's living in you and you hate that you've grieved him. You're born again, you're awakened to your corruption, and you hate it when you live the old life, the life of the old man instead of the new man, the new lady that God has made you to be Your sin will rob you of the joy that comes from being God's son and daughter, Jesus is brother or sister, but so will the sins of others. And when we're constantly bombarded with ungodly messages It brings us down. We sometimes even forget what is true. I'll tell you what, I've been reading a book. I won't I won't even tell you the the name of the book. The title is horrible. And I'm reading a book because it's talking about people who have left the church and specifically about my generation, how so many people my age and a little bit younger and a little bit older have left the church and why and looking at that. And it's written from the perspective of somebody who herself did leave the church. It's snarky, it's sarcastic, it's nasty, and I hate it. It's a horrible book. It's taking me too long to read it because it's not fun to read, right? It brings me down, and I found when I read a couple chapters of this, I I'm really gloomy. And and I I almost I I found myself almost forgetting what the truth is. And you know what happens? Then when I read the Bible, it's like, of course this isn't true. This is just she's giving this this perspective that's pervasive. and her view of Christianity is true, but it's not. God tells me what's true. And that restores my joy. And so when I read that, I have to counterbalance it with the Bible and and also with other good Books by people who love the Lord, not those who hate Him. Now we also struggle to enjoy the happiness that God intends for us, where we satisfy ourselves in Him. Because we don't satisfy ourselves in Him. We struggle to enjoy happiness in God because we're seeking satisfaction and happiness from other places. We readily agree, we vigorously agree that God's word is amazing. And yet we'll exercise some form of unbelief when we decide, but what I really need right now while I'm down is a milkshake. What I really need now while I'm down is to just binge watch the office again. Sum number one is not that long. I can do that in like 30 seconds and then I can go watch TV for two hours, right? And I still checked it off the list, right? We're not seeking Happiness in God when we do that, right? It's a form of unbelief, really. We don't really believe that it will satisfy us. And I'm speaking, I hope you can hear, not to say tisk tisk on you, but like I Experientially, this is what it's like, right? And that's because the this this passage really highlights that, doesn't it, to us? Our our heart problem. We are we're naturally you're waiting for it, weren't you? I'll give you the the problem and the message now. We naturally pursue happiness in the wrong way. It's not wrong to pursue happiness. You were designed to To be happy and to want to be happy, it's just it's just human. You want to be happy. It's not wrong to want to be happy, but you need to pursue happiness in the right way, in the right place. We naturally pursue happiness in the wrong way, and it only results in cursing and emptiness. So really the key to enjoying this happiness Is in believing not only with my mind that God's satisfying and that his word will bring me joy, but in my effort I need to believe it with my effort and how I spend my time that God's word is more valuable than fine gold, as it says in Psalm nineteen. We need to ask God to help us with that, to place such a value on his revelation of himself. You can't do it on your own. You need to ask his help. Pray before you open the word of God. God, be honest with him, he knows. Lord, I'm really sorry, but I don't really want to open the Bible right now. When I open the Bible, please would you help me to enjoy it? Help me to enjoy it more than the novel that I want to read instead. That doesn't mean you can't read that novel. That doesn't mean you can't watch that thing on TV. There are better things in the office, but but you know doesn't mean you can't do that thing. But seek Christ first. And when you're in a funk, when you have no joy and you're desperate for joy, go to the Word of God first. That is what you need. More than those other things that are that are known to cheer you up. Drink your milkshake while you read the Bible. Or coffee or whatever it is. And that's the whole point of this psalm and this message is that God created you to be blessed and satisfied in Him and in a relationship with Him. Don't just stop at that first one or I'm preaching the prosperity gospel. God created you to be blessed. No, He created you to be blessed in Him. He created you to be satisfied in Him. And it's only through having a relationship with Him that you'll be blessed and satisfied. And remember this, that his son died in order to procure that relationship for you. You have access to the most exciting being in existence. who doesn't exist like the rest of us as one person in one being, but three persons in one being, mind-blown already. Right? You have access to a relationship with this amazing Creator only through Jesus. He died so that you could be made right with him. He took on your sin that's separating you from him and preventing you from enjoying him He wore that sin to the grave, consumed by God's wrath, satisfied God's wrath, and now that flesh doesn't need to prevent you from delighting in him and enjoying him. Trust in Jesus first so that you have that relationship and then you can find delight in God, the Father, who is your Father now. He's adopted you. So in this record of the blessed man, and we're going to speed up now, right? The the bulk of this this comes here in these first three verses. And you could divide it by The godly man and the ungodly man, but I do believe that there's three divisions here. Verse six is then the Lord's final perspective on that. We're going to look at these last two points now. In the record of the blessed man, we see that God is supremely satisfying. Because of that, it's worth it to forsake other the pursuits of other things, so we're going to have fellowship with Him and His Word. And now we'll see the cursed man. What happens when we continue to seek our happiness outside of God? We end up empty. The cursed man, because God is supremely satisfying. Any quest for happiness that is not focused on him will end in cursing and emptiness. Because God is supremely satisfying, any quest for happiness outside of Him will ultimately end in cursing and emptiness. If you're seeking God in your sports, turn back to Him before that becomes the end. If you're seeking God in your work, or sorry, seeking satisfaction, happiness in your work, or in your sports, or in your entertainment. Don't let that be your quest. You can enjoy those things. But if that's ultimately where you're expecting to find satisfaction and fulfillment and happiness, Even in another relationship, a good relationship, perhaps with your child, with your spouse, your parent. You're a dear friend, a godly friend, if you're seeking ultimate happiness and fulfillment in that Aside from God, you will find yourself empty. You will find those people, those pursuits to be lousy gods, because only God can satisfy Says the wicked are not as they appear to be. Look at verses four and five here. The ungodly are not so. In other words, they're not like the guy we just described. The the tree with its roots down in the in the creek. But are like the chaff which the wind drives away, therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous Chaff, if you're wondering what that is. This is the idea of when they would uh thresh wheat or have uh some other uh produce. They're the pieces of the produce that you that you toss away. Like when you when you have grapes, right? You pull the grapes off of the vine and you got this little piece of wood sometimes stuck on the end, right? And you you gotta pull that out. That's chaff. Specifically, this is when they would thresh grain and the little casings would come off of the top. And they're they're they're shaking it out, shaking it out, the casings of of of grain would come off with no actual grain inside it. And they just kind of disappear. You never see them again. They they they they don't last. The wind drives it away. And therefore, after giving us this brief illustration, a brief analogy, he says, that's how the ungodly will be. They won't last in the judgment. Sinners won't stand in the congregation of the right the righteous. Now, the wicked are never actually described. Do you see that? Right? It just says they won't stand. It says they're like like they're blown away. It didn't actually describe their behavior. We get God's assessment of such people and how He sees them and what will happen happen to them, but they're not what is it that makes them wicked? We're we're not really told. It's it's all in the first one. Well he's he's not he's not the godly man. He doesn't delight in God. That's what makes him wicked. The wicked people are wicked because they're not the blessed man who delights in God. You can't be anything else. You're either blessed in God or you're cursed and empty outside of Him. There's no enlightened third option. In God's eyes, it's one or the other. You're blessed and happy, or you're wicked, doomed, cursed. And so the wicked man is anyone who's not the blessed man. These people are like chaff that the wind blows away. I want to give you another another illustration from scripture. And that is that the Bible often uses wait. not weight like weighting but weight as in how much something weighs, right? He often uses, especially in the Old Testament, weight to show how valuable something is. Turn with me to 1 Samuel 17. Very familiar story here, though this part is not going to be the most familiar to us because we just kind of skip over it. We forget about it. 1 Samuel 17, this is the story of David and Goliath. And it tells us about Goliath in this way. And the champion went out, starting verse four, first Samuel seventeen, verse four. A champion went out from the camp of the Philistines named Goliath, from Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span. Look at this. He had a bronze helmet on his head. And was armed with a coat of mail, and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels of bronze, and he had bronze armor on his legs, and uh and a bronze javelin between his shoulders Now the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and his iron spear spearhead weighed six hundred shekels, and a shield bearer went out before him. Right? Look at look at how much Time is spent and how much ink is spent on telling us how much armor and weaponry this guy had. Because it's it's valuable. Right? They would weigh their money out. They didn't just have One dollar bills or one shekel coins, a shekel was that much, it weighed that much. If you had a shekel of silver, a coin was supposed to weigh one shekel as a as a weight of measurement, not just not just a money measurement. So if you if you're able to describe your the the number of dollars that you have in pounds, you're probably really rich, right? Like back to the gold standard. If you know you've got 5,000 pounds of gold, um you're that that is your wealth. And we we don't really do that anymore. We've we've moved away from the the gold standard. But that that's where this idea comes from. You see how how many shekels for his for his spearhead. How many shekels for his coat of mail? The idea that this not only was he intimidating because he was so big, but he He had glory, and he wasn't giving glory to the Lord. And what happens? Well, David slays that giant, and he you remember, he keeps his armor, he keeps his sword In fact, later on the sword is is kept with the ark of God. God receives the glory by having this massive sword displayed with him, and later on David's going to take it again because he needs it. He wasn't giving glory to God, and God took it from him, took that glory back. Well, the ones who are ungodly, like Goliath. They're like traffic what the wind blows away. They don't weigh anything at all. He thought he was all that. He got beaten, and now his glory has passed on, not to David, but to God Himself. Now experience tells us though, doesn't it? It tells us the opposite. It appears that the wicked people who have no delight in God, or at least not in the God that reveals himself as he is in Scripture, but some fluffy indeterminate God who's love, love, love, love, love and no judgment, no moral standard, no goodness, no righteousness They don't delight in him. Think of the most successful, most flourishing people that you can think of. Probably what springs to mind are people who enjoy their wealth in an ungodly manner. Either you're thinking of Elon Musk. Or some other billionaire, or you're thinking of the Hollywood celebrity, right? That's not a political statement about Elon Musk. He's just rich, all right? So is Donald Trump, says Bill Gates You're not thinking about probably not thinking about Christians. There are wealthy Christians who honor the Lord with their wealth, but you're probably thinking of people from Hollywood or Silicon Valley and people with book deals. Usually they have no relationship with the God of the Bible, and there are exceptions. They live ungodly lifestyles. They are known for sexual relationships that are not pleasing to the Lord, including at least one of the billionaires I just happened to mention. They are known for using substances that are not pleasing to the Lord. And and and they flaunt their wealth. And that is where their delight is. Those experiences are where their delight is. They are not pursuing joy in God. They're pursuing it in other things. Meanwhile, righteous people do not usually appear to be flourishing. Think of the godly people you know. Think of some of the things you read on our church prayer bulletin. You can hold it against Scripture and say, well, they delight in God and they're not flourishing. So now we have a choice we need to make, right? Are we going to believe what we see with our a our eyes? Or are we going to believe what this this inspired him, Psalm number one says? It's authored by the Holy Spirit. It's inspired. It's without error. Do you believe that to be true in what it says about the way things are? If we trust the word of God to be correct, then we have to understand that two things. One is the way the way things are are not the way that things always will be. And also the way things are are not always the way things appear are not always the way things actually are. And these people who seem so successful and enjoying these ungodly things, either they really are, but it's not going to last for long, or they're really not enjoying it. They just look like they are Because we're told then the fate of the wicked. The ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. It's all temporary. I read something on online uh this week that said the the flesh doesn't delight in God because it's not going to God ultimately. You know you don't take your sin nature with you to to uh to heaven. If you are a a a Christian living life in this world, which either you are a Christian or you're not, but it but you are in this world Then you have a part of you that wants to find happiness in these other things. That stuff won't last. God is the ultimate source of all joy and goodness and delight and happiness. And so we have the final fate of the wicked here. This is speaking of final fate. This could be talking about temporal judgment, but ultimately this is saying That those who do not make their ultimate delight in God are the ungodly, and the ungodly who don't know God don't belong to Him by the blood of Christ. Have not turned to him from their own way. That these people are tormented forever. They are cast out from God's presence. They are in hell. And I tell you this not because I like to talk about hell, I don't. But I would not be your friend if I didn't. If you do not turn to God and and ultimately delight in a relationship with Him. Then you will be separated from him. This doesn't mean that if you're a Christian who's turned to Christ and you're struggling to find that joy in him, that doesn't mean you're actually unsafe. That's not what I'm saying. That doesn't mean that you'll be cast out. But unless you're marked by that blood and have access to him so that you can enjoy him, then you will be separated from him for eternity. You will not be joyful. But if you are in Christ, you will be joyful, ultimately. If you are not at this moment, that you are in a time of suffering I encourage you to find joy in God. But remember, this time of suffering will not last forever. You will have joy in His presence. Your body will be resurrected. You won't even have sin present. You will have joy with him ultimately and lastingly. And you can have some measure, not the full measure, but some measure of that joy now when you determine and you you work and you fight to delight in God. We have God's blessing, we have God's cursing on those who do not know Him. And then finally we have God's arbitration. But because God is supremely satisfying, he will give you the fruit of your way, for better or for worse. Those who delight in God will ultimately know him and delight fully in him for all of eternity. And those who do not delight in God will have the opposite, the emptiness of delight. For eternity. For the Lord knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the ungodly shall perish. We focus on the man who knows God. And then at the end we find this man is known by God. It's important not only that you know God, but that God knows you. Anyone can say they know God, but will God say that He knows you? Will he say, Yes, I see the blood on the doorpost and lintel of your heart. Yes, you are mine. That's the important thing. Are you known by God? Does he count you as his own? And that will only come when you turn to Jesus Christ. You exercise faith in him. And the second half here is really a recapitulation of verse four, the chaff that the wind drives away. Verse 5, the sinners not standing in the congregation of the righteousness. The way of the ungodly shall perish. We must all come to the point where we turn away from this that from that type of way, where we turn to Christ. And only he can give you the new desires you need and a will that will seek him. So I encourage you, ask God to help you to enjoy thinking about Ask God to help you to enjoy reading your Bible if that's a struggle for you. Use an audio Bible. It's okay to listen to it. I encourage you if you struggle Use an audio Bible with the written Bible and read as it as the audio Bible speaks, and that'll help you, and that will help you can't keep your train of thought. Pause it when you need to so you can go back or so you can think on it Ask God to help you, and if his Spirit's in you, he will help you to delight in him. But it might mean that other things need to fall behind. Let's pray.