And there are a few things I I I've heard this said a number of times, but I I affirm it one hundred percent myself as well. There are a few things that will humble a pastor as much as when he is called upon to preach about prayer. Especially on the greatest prayer of prayers, uh the one we call the Lord's Prayer in front of us today in Matthew 6. six. Would you go ahead and turn there? Matthew chapter six. I am fully aware that I am not sufficient for these things. I am not claiming by preaching from the Lord's Prayer that I have mastered prayer. I still find it very difficult I I enjoy it, but I don't enjoy it as much as I should, and I don't enjoy it all the time. I am so grateful that our God calls us to pray. He wants to hear from you. Do you realize that? And but he knows how hard it is because of sin, because of our frailty, because of our bad wandering attention. And so the eternal God Himself taught us how to pray. And he did that in in Matthew chapter six. So I am not claiming to have mastered these things. I do sp I do spend a lot of time in prayer. I also realize though there's a lot of a lot of a ways I have to go. But Jesus knows how to pray, and so I'm going to show you what he says. Now, I want to take you back in time about five hundred years to the great reformer Martin Luther when he was still a Roman Catholic monk monk He took a trip to Rome that really opened his eyes, but not in the way that he would have expected. The devout German monk had been wrestling for years with a troubled conscience because he was always aware of his sinfulness, and he was known for being especially careful and conscientious. religious when it came to well with with every religious duty, uh and and especially with confessing sin. But when it came to delivering what what they call Mass, we just call it communion or the Lord's Table or the Lord's Supper, when he the first time that he delivered that in Germany uh what we call communion. He was he was shaking so much and according to their theology they believed that the the uh wine really did become blood and that the the uh bread really did become flesh. We we don't. Uh but he believed that and he was shaking so much that he spilled the wine and then it was as though he had spilled Jesus' own blood, and that's a that's a horrific thing to do in that tradition. That is how seriously he took uh religious duties and especially the the delivering of of communion. Well when he went to Rome, he was appalled to To see that the Italian priests didn't care. They just hurried through the mass ceremony. Their casual and cavalier attitudes made it clear to him That the Roman priests did not take seriously what they believed to be the most significant and most serious ritual of their religion. Surely that played a role in him defecting from Roman Catholicism and recovering the true doctrine doctrines which we now celebrate in our churches. Well, this morning we're not reading about communion, we're not reading about Last Supper, but we are reading a very significant significant passage that ironically gets rushed through uh and and and rotely recited quite often, much like those priests who became bored with communion. Now, maybe you have been to I won't ask for a show of hands or anything, but I imagine a lot of you have been to a funeral or to a wedding, or maybe you've gone to a church service at a different church background to And you've you've heard numerous voices quickly reciting the Lord's Prayer, that they make that a staple of the funeral service or the or the wedding or whatever. Have you ever had that that that experience where you're hearing these voices recite these words, but it's clear that their minds are not engaged with it. They've just become so familiar with it that it's just a recitation. It is not a Prayer. Well it's extraordinarily ironic that the Lord's Prayer of All Things has become that way. Because when we read our opening verses in this passage today, in verses uh seven and eight We're told not to do that, not to treat prayer like a recitation or an incantation or just something that we say thoughtlessly. It is very sad that it is Well the Lord Jesus gave us the Lord's Prayer not as something to be recited or or even memorized, so certainly memorize it as scripture. It's good to memorize all scripture. He gave it to us though as an example on how to avoid meaningless reciting with meaningless babble. So if you're not there already, please turn with me to Matthew chapter 6. Let's go ahead and read verses 7 through 13. The Lord Jesus said actually no we're gonna we're gonna back up to verse five, though I'm only preaching for you from from seven. We're gonna back up to verse five. So Matthew six verse five. And when you pray, you shall not be like the hypocrites, for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the corners of the streets, that they may be seen by men. Assuredly, I say to you, they have their reward. But you, when you pray, go into your room, and when you've shut your door, pray to your father who is in the secret And your fathers you see secretly will reward you openly. And when you pray, you do not use vain repetitions as the heathen do, for they think they will be heard for their many words. Therefore, do not be like them, for your Father knows the things you have need of before you ask him. In this manner, therefore, pray. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. For yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Now when we were in this passage last week, we focused on the theme of forgiveness that runs through it, and we spent a good bit of time in verses 14 and 4 and 15. We're not going to be in verses 14 and 15 today. We will mention forgiveness because it's in there. But we're going to look at the prayer and how to pray in its totality. So we'll be going verses 7 through 13. This beautiful prayer is the Lord showing us how to speak to our Father. Father, our Father. And the grand theme running through it today is that Christ instructs his followers to approach God as Father. If you get nothing else today, understand that. He is God, but he intends to be your father if you will trust in his son. Christ instructs his followers to approach God as Father. Praying submissively and dependently because he cares for them. Now verses seven and eight frame as I said, and they they actually prove that God did not intend for this to be a prayer in itself necessarily. necessarily. It is a method on how to pray. And and we know that because of what he says beforehand. He says, and when you pray When you pray, do not use vain repetitions as the heathen do. Now the Lord Jesus is referring to in verses five and six, he's told us how not to pray. You'll see I've given you the outline here of the Lord's Prayer. We looked at this last week. We have Christ's warning, Christ's instruction, followed by Christ's conclusion. We'll be in just those Those first two today, Christ's warning how not to pray. Well, he starts in verse five with how not to pray, where he gives the the Jewish bad example of how not to pray. Don't be all public with your prayers being loud so that everyone would know how holy you are as you pray. If you do that, you'll get attention from men, but you won't get attention from God the Father. That's the Jewish bad example. Now he gives us the pagan or the Gentile bad example, verses 7 and 8. See, he says that do not use vain repetitions. It's the context though of what we would pa say pagan. That every it's important we understand this actually, because I think we we we don't always know what paganism is or heathenism. Once upon a time, the whole world, the whole population of the earth, worshipped one single God. Uh of course Adam and Eve did. Cain did the first murderer, as did his brother, the one he murdered. Abel. But as as the nations proliferated, even after Noah's Ark, of course things got reset with Noah's Ark, and they worshipped just the one God who created it all, but as as the nations separated off and and became big. Every nationality, we use nation in that term, not in the sense of the United States as a nation, but nation as in terms of ethnic group, people group Uh they all have their own folk religions. So I'm sure that when when you were in school, unless unless you're real little, um but but most of you have probably been exposed to group Greek mythology, perhaps also to Norse mythology, if not at school, then in Marvel movies, right? You got you got Asgard and Odin and Thor and Loki and all of that, right? Um Egyptian mythology, perhaps Well, all those were the they can be really entertaining stories because we understand it's all fiction, right? But those were the the the religions of their day. When when we read uh of the Exodus and we read in uh Um in in the book of Exodus of Moses doing those ten plagues. You're familiar with the ten plagues of Egypt. What he's doing there is he's he's He's showing his might. God is showing his might over each of the different Egyptian deities, not all of them because they have so many of them, but he showed that he was sovereign over the Nile, not the Nile River God. He was sovereign over frogs, not the frog God. He was sovereign. Yahweh, the one creator, is sovereign over the the river and the dry land and the valleys and the desert and the wilderness and cattle. and flies, not these other deities. And so when you when you think of Native American folk religions and folk folk tales that perhaps you you learned in in school or or E East Asian mythology. Every people group on earth had these these things, these stories, these false gods they prayed to. That's what we mean when we say paganism. So when you read about Baal worship in the Bible, or Asherah, or Molech, or you think of Zeus and Hermes and Aphrodite, all of them that we just call that pagan religion. And that is what Jesus is referring to here. He's saying don't be like those who don't know their creator. Don't be like those who have proliferated their numerous gods of spiders and gods of of the sea and gods of the air pray to the one in in heaven when they are trying to uh pray to their own folk gods, their own pagan gods, they would they they would uh pile up repetitions. They'd run out of things to say, so they would keep on saying the same stuff over and over again. Sometimes it would become a chance. In other in other cases This would vary from n nation to nation. In other cases, it would be almost like a magical incantation. And it it might might not even be understandable when people are saying it. It's like they're just babbling. Jesus is referring to all of that in general terms. Don't be like them. So he gives the Jewish bad example how not to pray. He gives the pagan bad example how not to pray. And so then in verse 8, he says, Therefore, don't be like them. For your father knows these things. You don't need to keep repeating over and over again. He knows the things you have need of before you ask him. And then in verse 9, in this manner, therefore, pray. So what I want you to see there, that contrast, if you're saying, don't just have some formula, don't just repeat things, pray genuinely. What he's what he seems to be saying here even is pray briefly, and I know sometimes we think that we need to pray for a long time and and certainly the Lord Jesus himself would pray through the night at times. So he's not saying you can't do that. But that it doesn't mean you're necessarily inherently more religious or that you're going to be better heard for it. Pour out your your your heart to the Lord, take all the time you need. But don't artificially make it long. simply by piling up these repetitious phrases. And so what he's going to do next is is say, here's a template. Here's a way to pray that that my father appreciates That my Father will respond to. He's not saying pray these exact words. We can, but he's saying pray like this. And so everything that follows here is going to follow that. One thing I'll say before we get into that template is really to to ask us. So if Jesus is saying That God wants us to ask, right? He's saying, your father knows the things you have need of before you pray, before you ask him So pray. Notice he doesn't say he knows what you so let's let's read the exact words. Therefore do not be like them, for your father knows the things you have need of before you ask him. Wouldn't you then expect him to say, so you don't need to ask? But that's not what he says. Your fat your father knows the things you have need of before you ask him, so ask like this. In this manner, therefore pray. And pray is another word that means ask, essentially. Ask in this way. Not don't ask, but ask in this way. So my question for you is why? If he already knows what we need, why? Now la last week I told you one of the reasons that he has us ask anyway It's because it's important for us to realize what we need. Prayer changes you, and the the process of going to your Father and asking him is good for you, and it shows you your dependence on him. It shows you your need. And then you get to praise him for being good when he answers you. You won't be you won't have the gratitude when he says yes or when he says no that you would have had you not prayed. That's the first reason. The second reason I touched on it briefly last time is that so that I just answered on the human side, it's good for us to ask On the on on God's side though, there's a reason on his side. Why does he tell us to ask? Because he likes to hear us ask He likes to hear you talk. He loves you. If you are his child, he wants his child to come and talk to him and say, Daddy I don't know what I'm going to do tomorrow. I'm worried about this thing. Would you help me? I'm worried about school tomorrow. Help me to have friends. Daddy, I don't know how I'm going to pay the bills. Please would you provide for me? And and God as as a father, as daddy, and I promise I'm not being irrelev irreverent by saying it that way. He wants us to depend on him like a daddy. We don't say that flippantly, we say that reverently. As we ask and as he enjoys hearing us talk to him and ask He enjoys answering and getting to be not only the king but also the father that he is. It is good for you to pray, but it is pleasing to him that we pray and that we ask. Well, so far we've we've seen the Lord say how not to pray. Now of course we are going to see how to pray, and we're going to break that down. In uh in the first i in in uh verses nine through thirteen it's all how to pray in the first two verses there. We pray according to God and His glory I want you to see that when we approach God and when we we finish talking to God, we begin, we end our prayers with prayers of adoration, prayers of praising Him. Now He says to address him as Father. And the truth is you cannot approach God as your father. He's your creator, but he's not your father. Until you're actually reconciled to him by the blood of Christ. Christ has shed his blood. He died on the cross for you. But are you trusting in him? Have you asked him to apply his blood to your heart, to your account So that and what you're doing when you do that, right? When when you pray and you ask, not that it's the prayer that saves you, it's your faith that saves you But but really the best way that we can express that that uh that faith is by going to our Father and saying, Father, I'm trusting in Jesus. who died for me. I know that that's the only way I can be made right with you because I've I've sinned against you and I've incurred an unpayable debt. But I'm trusting in him now. Would you would you let his death count for me? Now do you believe that he rose from the dead? Because that has to be inseparable to that. You have to believe he died from the rose from the dead as well. And so you are believing that because Jesus came out of the tomb, God really was satisfied with Jesus dying in your place. There is no sin yet clinging to him. God's wrath is satisfied. It's not still pinning him in the grave. And he will not bend his wrath on you. He has delivered you from his own wrath. If you will if you believe that, ask Jesus to save you. And I will I don't do altar calls, I won't call you to come up at the end, but please seek me out after this message. If if you realize I need to be right with God, I need to get saved, as as they sometimes say. I like to say, I need God to save me. But come and seek me out, please. I would I'd love to help you walk you through that how you can b how you can uh know that you belong to Christ and that you are saved. And then we can even talk about baptism as well. We approach him as father, and only those who have been reconciled to him by his son's death are call are called his sons and daughters, and we can then call them So this is a relational prayer for those who are trusting in Jesus. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. What does that mean? And you may have a different translation there. But the hallowed is a very old word, isn't it? And it sounds very archaic. It sounds like something we might expect uh to hear in uh, I don't know, Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom or something Hallowed means to make holy. Now, God's name couldn't actually become any more holy than it is, is it? But in our sight, we are to see his name as holy. Uh one good translation would be let your name be sanctified. We have this in kind of funny form. I think it goes back to King James in But really the best way to understand each of these, or most of these, um, because of the the the form they take in the Greek would be our Father in heaven, let your name be sanctified. Let your kingdom come. Let your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day, our daily bread would stay the same. Forgive our debts as we forgive our debtors would stay stay the same. But on these things where we just kind of your kingdom come like it's just a statement, it's really the idea is let that happen. It's a third person imperative. You don't really have to remember that or anything, but what it is is it's it's almost as though we are commanding God, but but we're we're saying, let this be so, Lord. Of course we can't command God, we are petitioning him And we're saying, let this let this be the case. So what we're saying is, Lord, I'm approaching you. You are my father. But it's not a flipping, hey dad, what's up? Which some people will try to do. It's Heavenly Father, I love you, and now help me to see your name as holy. Let your name be made more holy in in your sight and in my sight. As I'm praying, I'm asking that God would help me to see His name, his reputation, who he is, name stands for really his old identity there. But that we're asking that we would see God according to his holiness. But we're also asking that other people would be brought in to to to hallow his name, to sanctify his name, to make his name more holy to them And so by coming to him, we're we're really starting to ask that the Lord would help us to share the gospel with others so that others would see God for who he really is. And that goes right into then what he says next in verse ten. Let your kingdom come. We want to see God's kingdom spread across the earth, do we not? If you belong to Christ. And he has transformed you, and he is in the process of transforming you. And you're starting to love him more. Don't you want others to love him more? Does it does it bother you when you're you're watching TV or or even you're just in the grocery store and you hear OMG and you you you hear his name blasphemed You hear our precious Lord Jesus' name used as a swear word? Doesn't that hurt? It's worse than than the F-bomb, isn't it? And and and so we start to desire that we see his kingdom just take over that we see Christianity flourish, genuine worship of Jesus, genuine love for him, that people stop blaspheming his name. Let your kingdom come. Now what you are praying here, when you say, let your will be done on earth as it is in heaven, there's a couple Ways in which we mean this. We mean both, or certainly Jesus means means both. You are asking that the things in heaven Would extend to earth that the the full sovereignty, the full control that God has. When he says something in heaven to an angel What he wants to be done is done, just as he would have it done, right? His will is done. And we're saying let your will be done on earth in the same way that it's done in heaven. We're asking God, Father, bring your kingdom to completion here on earth. You are praying for Jesus to return. Do you realize that? We are actually encouraged and commanded to pray that Jesus would return. In Sunday school this morning we were talking about Jesus' return and we should be longing for it and we should be asking him to return. One of the well the very last prayer in in uh Revelation if we my memory serves me correctly, is a prayer not to the Father, but to the Lord Jesus Himself. It says, Even so come, Lord Jesus. We want him to return. In Romans eight, Paul describes how we feel about the fact that he hasn't returned yet. We're waiting for him to come back and roll back this curse that's been on earth ever since Adam and Eve first sinned. We're asking him to take sin away from us And and Paul says in Romans eight verse twenty-three, we also who have the first fruits of the Spirit, that is, we have the Holy Spirit living in us once we we trusted in him. He's the one, like I said, uniting us to Jesus. Even we ourselves grow within ourselves. Because you have God in you, living in you, you long for more of Him. You long to see Him face to face You long to see Jesus with your own physical eyes. But we're groaning because we don't. It says we're eagerly waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our body. We are growing, groaning. To no longer be tempted by sin. We're groaning for Jesus to return and establish his kingdom. But the the the that's that's the first way we're praying for his eschatological, that is end times coming, that his kingdom be established. But the second way in which we're asking When we say your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven, we're saying, Lord, help me to obey you as the angels and the cherubs do in heaven. You're praying that God's will would be done and carried out through your life here on earth. You're the one praying. You're saying to the effect, Lord, I know in heaven everyone does your will fully and immediately without questioning it. No one begrudges your will, no one drags your feet. The angels in heaven are given over to obeying you. And I'm asking you, Father, that's not true for me right now. And I still have questions. But would you make that happen here on earth in me? Start with me. Do that for others, but start with me. So by by praying this, you're asking your father to help you obey him. And and you're saying you want to submit fully to his will. You want to submit to his sovereignty. So when God brings events into your life that are painful, perhaps you prayed for a new job because the one you were in was just soul-crushing. Or or or it just wasn't providing enough. And you pray for a new job and it turns out to be a persecution a place of persecution And a place of sorrow, especially for you as a Christian in that workplace. You will submit to God's will for you there. Doesn't mean you won't try to Find a job and you'll pray for wisdom about that. You'll pray and ask God, Lord, you planted me here. Should I look for another one? Help me to submit to whatever it is that your will is. Until I'm given another job, help me to honor you here, even if you It means persecution. When the Lord brings illness into your life, you submit to God's will by trusting Him to glorify Himself in your weakness. It's good if He gets glory from you being sick. As you wait on him for healing. That doesn't mean that you give yourself over to death and that you you don't take medicine, you don't pursue treatment, nothing like that. You want him to be glorified in your healing too. But in the meantime You don't say, well, this can't be God's will for my life, that I that I am sick He will bring about your ultimate healing, whether it's now or in eternity, when he delivers you from your ailing body to an incorruptible body. He desires to do that for you, but he has other purposes for you in the meantime. And you and you will say, you might have questions for him. But you say, I will submit to w whatever your will is, Lord, if if it's your will to take me into heaven rather than to to uh heal me. I trust you in that, Lord. Use me. Help me to suffer well so that others would see your goodness and see that you're trustworthy and turn to you, Lord. Jesus. When your marriage turns sour, I shouldn't say when should I, but if you should be in a a sour marriage And you desperately want help, you submit to God's will for you, that you be as loyal to your unlovely, unholy spouse as your Savior has been to you. you when you have been unlovely and unholy and when you've not. You don't leave your spouse. You seek to redeem the marriage. You s you you make all that you do in persevering in that difficult marriage about your covenant keeping God. I'm not I'm not saying there aren't times to separate for safety or things like that. That I'm saying that you s you submit to God's will for your life and you seek to glorify Him and obey Him and honor Him in heaven. So really when we're praying for this kingdom, we're taking up our cross to follow Jesus. Because we're saying we're we're giving, I'm I'm giving my will up, and I'm giving it over to you. Heaven We have to let our own will die, our own way die, and our own desires die, so that His will for our life can take over. And it's a good thing. It can only be a good thing when we live according to the way that our Creator designed us to live. Let Him take over. Not just with the big stuff either, with the little stuff. But especially for us, we worship him when we let him have his way in the smaller stuff and to let him rule over our heart and our lives. Well then we move from God and his glory to man and his need. And that's where we start praying for the little stuff compared to this cosmic level stuff of ruling the universe. We're asking God to meet our personal daily needs. I want you to see that in In verse 11 and 12 and 13, these are daily personal needs. Give us this day our daily bread. That's your pr your bread, your food. That bread there is standing for all food and physical nourishment. Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. You need Forgiveness on a daily basis. Do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. You need to be preserved from temptation. Health being upheld so that you don't succumb to it on a daily basis. This is all daily stuff. So first we look at the basic physical needs daily. Now there's a little bit of debate When you r if you were to read uh a detailed study of the Sermon on the Mount, you get to this verse, there's debate about um whether this is saying give us this day our daily bread. day by day our daily bread, or if it's actually saying give us our bread tomorrow. But you know what? It doesn't really matter. What it's saying is one day at a time we need God to meet our needs. That is what he is saying. We need to depend on, well we do depend on whether we realize or not. We need to recognize that we depend on God's provision one day at a time. In 21st century affluent America, many of us, some of you do, but many of us don't know what it feels like to have to pray for food one day. at a time. More than likely you fill up your fridge several days or a week or maybe two weeks at a time. Maybe you have a pantry of dry food or or or a basement full of of of uh dry food or a freezer full of frozen meals. Well stocked. And that's a mark of God's kindness that He's gone above and beyond what we ask and what we're instructed to ask. And although God may give you more than enough to meet your physical needs for two weeks, a month, six months at a time, that doesn't mean you should stop praying until suddenly you need food again. Really, what Jesus is saying is we should be approaching our Father every day. And it should be fresh prayers. This is why we don't just treat this as a rote prayer. It's a template. And so you're praying for food, your physical sustenance. You're praying for your financial needs. Lord, help me to make rent this month Lord let you have provided me great provided so wonderfully for me with this good job that I've had for several years. Please, Lord, let it not be taken out from under me. I will trust you if it is. Please continue to provide your provision to me. To my family, we need to recognize we depend on God on a daily basis It's by his provision that we have anything, and when we pray like this, it reminds us of that, and it helps keep keep us uh humble. Now I had a a roommate in college that as we were discussing prayer uh and and discussing good God's goodness as um as as a provider Uh I had a roommate who said, Well then why should we even work? This is as we're in college studying to have jobs and he was already thinking about retirement Why should we work if if we trust God to provide for us? Well of course work is God's daily way of providing for us, and you're not you're not asking the the Lord to just keep you on welfare. Right, you're not just asking that he would drop food into your lap. It doesn't mean that we don't work, but he he provides food and he div provides our basic needs by giving us work. Now in some cases we're unable to work and then the Lord is kind. Or or our work is is uh we go through a dry spell, or it's not enough. And the Lord is kind, and so ask him to provide and he will. He is a good daddy. He is a good father. He provides for his children. Ask and he will give to you. Deuteronomy 8 verse 18 says, And you shall remember the Lord your God, for it is he who gives you power to get wealth. He's saying that we do need to work, but it's the Lord who enables you to do. We move from the most basic of the daily physical needs to the most basic of the daily spiritual needs Verse 11, which I spent a lot more time talking about last week, is that we need, I'm sorry, verse 12, but we need Forgiveness. That is your greatest, deepest spiritual need. So I reiterate what I said earlier today. You need to turn to to Jesus Christ. Trust that He has granted you forgiveness. Through his death in your place and through his resurrection. Unless you turn to Jesus, your sins will not be covered because you can't atone for them They need to be forgiven. You can't just make up for it on your own by working extra hard. Escorting a lot of old ladies across the street will not change the fact That you sinned against your God, that you're guilty of murder and adultery in your heart. And so we ask him to Now, there's two two uh sides to this forgiveness. There is the the once and done. We we trust we trust in Christ and He forgives us all of our sins And we need not fear separation from him in eternity. But then there's also because Because he is your father whom you love, when you sin against him, and he loves you, when you sin against him It disrupts the fellowship. If you were to die after you after you had sinned and you hadn't asked for forgiveness, you'll go to heaven. I'm not saying anything Anything contrary to that. You're secure in that forgiveness. But just like if I say something that offends my wife or do something that that hurts her She doesn't stop being my wife. I'm pretty confident she wouldn't wouldn't divorce me because I I said something uh in a huff and lost my temper She doesn't cease to be my wife until I've apologized, right? My my boys when they sin against me, if they they have a temper tantrum or they They disobey me, they don't cease to be my boys until they've apologized. That the the relationship is is secure. But but there is interruption in our fellowship. And so until I can apologize to my wife and ask her forgiveness, until until my son might apologize to me For disobeying. There is a strain there, isn't there? You know what that's like because it you have this in your own relationship. Maybe it's just with a dear friend, but one of you offends the other because you didn't invite them to do something with you, right? And you're still friends, but you need to put things right, don't you? And that's how it is with our Father. So on a daily basis, we ask for forgiveness so that that fellowship would not be interrupted. You're still secure in him If you're trusting in Christ. But it's right for us to ask Him to forgive us. And what it says here is, as we forgive our debtors, so that means it's just as important that we are forgiving those who sin against us. We are f Lord, would you give me the forgiveness that I'm granting to others? And you can grant that to others if Jesus has if Jesus' forgiveness has united you to God If you're made right with God, if you are a Christian, then He has shown you such a forgiveness that you are able to forgive. It might be hard And so one of the things that you pray about when you go to him is, Lord, enable me, help me. I can forgive these people, but I'm still struggling with this person that I that who wronged me ten years ago. And so I'm bringing it to you once again. We had a lot of discussion about this on Thursday at Life Group, and I just wanted to uh to bring one thing back. Uh today, and that is there is we all have the setting sins. Some of us struggle to control our language, or we struggle with telling the truth, or or we struggle with coveting things. We always want more We struggle with lust or with losing our temper and anger. Those are besetting sins. And we confess unto the Lord, don't we? And we feel we feel shame and and and we we earnestly desire forgiveness from the Lord when we when we sin against him, right? And and then and then after you've sinned you you plead for forgiveness and he grants And perhaps you go on for a little while, maybe it's only just a couple hours, or maybe it's several days or weeks or even years, and perhaps you you fall to that besetting sin again And then we ask for forgiveness again. Unforgiveness, bitterness can be that way as well. It's not just the the the easy ones we go to like losing your temper or saying Saying a read word or something like that. It's also bitterness. It's un it it's unforgiveness. And so If you have gone to the Lord and said, I I I I give this over to you, I I trust you. I don't really know how to forgive, but I'm I'm trusting you. Um help me to forgive, Lord. That is not a har that is not a hardened heart that then Jesus. Jesus warns against at the end of this passage where he says that if you don't forgive men their trespasses, neither will your father forgive your your trespasses. We need to go to him and ask him for grace and he will give you that grace and he does grant you that forgiveness. But keep going to him and ask him, make that part of your prayer that you would be able to That is our basic spiritual need. But recognize you need that once for all forgiveness as well. Don't suppose that if you've been s subsisting off a spiritual diet of just trying your best Maybe when you when you fail with a besetting sin you do some form of penance or you confess your sins to to someone that you know is gonna be more sympathetic Or maybe you write, I've seen this done, you write checks to a church or to a charitable organization. You may find that in eternity, this did not give you life. Because you never actually went to God for full forgiveness. To make sure that you were running to Christ, plead his son's body and blood that was broken for you and shed for you and say, Heavenly Father Father, grant me the full lasting forgiveness that comes from your son's death in my place. And when we've experienced this type of forgiveness, then we're able to extend it. When you find yourself holding on to grudges, ask for his help there too. That's the last I'll say on that. Finally, also a basic spiritual need. We need the live From temptation and from from evil. And so the Lord tells us here. That just as we we ask for daily forgiveness, ask him daily to help you not need it. myself. When you sin against the Lord, and we tend to do that on a daily basis at least at a thought level, we need to ask his forgiveness. We need to to uh keep short accounts with him. But we want to ask that we wouldn't be falling the temptation, so we wouldn't need forgiveness in in the same way. Now there's a difficulty here, isn't there? When we're saying uh lead us not into temptation. We're in chapter six. What happened in chapter four? Do you remember? I mean chapter four, that was like four months ago, six months ago, right? We're taking our time going through it here. Jesus was led out into the wilderness. Do you remember that? By the Holy Spirit. to be tempted by the devil. And so we we read this and we're like, well, could Jesus pray that? So let's say a couple things. One is Jesus is exceptional. Jesus had to be tempted on all points to the full extent and not give in to it, not sin, in order that he could pay the penalty for our sin needed to be proven that Jesus could die in our place because he he would not give in to any form of sin or temptation or evil. So he's exceptional in that regard. Now the word here for for for temptation or translated temptation Here is if the Greek word parasmos, and there's no pop quiz, you don't have to remember that. Uh but if it helps to hear the actual word, it's perasmos. And that is translated temptation, but it is also temptated also translate as testing or to be tested, right? And so uh as we understand that passage with Jesus, for instance, I should probably read the exact words to you, shouldn't I? Matthew 4, verse 1, then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. And we could understand that as The Holy Spirit, God Himself, never tempts us to sin, but He does test us. Now He was the one who led Him to the one who would tempt us God was not the author of that sin, but it was important that it would be proven that Jesus could endure all temptation, that he would be without sin and then die for sinners. Now, the Lord may put you in a in a place where you are tested. He's never tempting you. Himself to give in to sin. But let's let's say that you have been asking him for grace that you would not give in to a certain addictive substance. Now, the wise thing to do, and we are we are commanded to do, is to flee temptation. But are there perhaps times where now it's foolish for you, if you're struggling with with drinking, to go to a restaurant that serves alcohol, and it's even more foolish for you to knowingly go to a bar And so if you're for instance you travel for work and you've you've got struggle with alcohol abuse in your past and the whole the whole uh uh work team are going out with the client to to get drunk, you don't go with them to get drunk. And and and if that means that you're gonna you're gonna be passed over for a for a promotion or you're gonna get a reprimand, so be it. And you trust the Lord to care for you and you honor Him in that. Now you might have to go to dinner and they may be drinking around you, and in that case, it's a time of testing, isn't it? You flee the temptation as best as you can Perhaps you go to a meal and there's that stuff around you and maybe your your temptation is not uh alcohol, but it might be crass joking. And the the crass jokings that go on at that table that that's what's tempting tempting you, right? The Lord's not tempting you to sin. He doesn't want to s he's not saying to you, don't you want to do this But you will feel temptation. He puts you in a situation where you can learn to rely on him and oh my goodness, the Lord just Sustained me there. I sought to flee from it, but I couldn't. But then the Lord sustained me, and the Lord is is growing me, and I can see his goodness. So though we pray for you should pray that the Lord would keep you from temptation. And what we're doing there, we're praying that that we might have minimal instances of those testings But that when they come, that he would enable us not to give in to temptation. And that that testing, that parasmos, would not become a temptation, which is also translated parasmos. Does that make sense? That we're asking the Lord that to s to undergird us and strengthen us for when we are in temptation, but we're also asking that he might not put us in that in that situation a at all. If that would please him. And then we trust it to his will, which we said at the beginning of the prayer, your will be done, not mine. Right? Now then then this next line that helps us to understand in that context, but deliver us from the evil one. Now, the word there, translated as the evil one, can also simply be be translated deliver us from evil as paniros. is is the word for evil. Now, evil in the Bible numerous times, evil can can refer to not moral evil, it it does refer to moral evil a lot, but someone is not talking about like good and bad. Good and evil Evil in that sense. But uh throughout the the Old Testament, for instance, there's there's often deliver me from the evil day. Preserve me in the evil day. Do you do you remember that that sort of And that means the evil day would be like a day of crisis. It's not that it's the moral quality, it's that it it's a bad thing happening, right? You have a family emergency, it was an evil day, someone got in a car accident. It it's in that sense, it was an evil that befell you. So in one in one case, i or i i w in in one way, as we're praying this deliver us from evil, we're asking that the Lord would prevent us from catastrophe. Prevent us from car accidents. We're asking for protection. That sort of thing. That's one thing that we're praying for when we pray, deliver us from evil. But of course, we are asking that the Lord would deliver us from wickedness. Wickedness. The wick wicked people and wickedness would not harm us, but especially in the context here that we would not give in to evil, but we would not give in to that temptation. Now The New King James here says, deliver us from the evil one. And I believe that is the right way to translate that because there is the article, the word the that does occur in the Greek. And you can understand you can translate that as deliver us from the evil or from the evil one. And so we are asking the Lord for a number of things. We're asking him to prevent us from from crisis and from emergencies and protect us. We're asking him to prevent us from falling into doing evil. We're asking him to not let evil harm us, evil people, evil circumstances. And then we're asking finally that you deliver us from the evil one. That would be sent that would be Satan. That would be I just tend to say the the enemy because it doesn't mean that Satan himself will tempt you, but one of his one of his underlings might, a demon might tempt you. And so we're asking that the Lord, in this context, with with temptation especially, don't lead us into temptation. As the Lord Jesus was led into temptation for me. Deliver me from Satan. As you did deliver him from Satan, you you upheld him. We are to pray according to all of these things. We are to pray completely independence on God. Not independence, but Depending on God. We should be in full dependence of Him. We're starting our prayer with submission to Him. We're starting it reverently. You should always start your prayer with reverence, don't just go straight, okay God, here's what I need, right? But we start with, my Father in heaven, help me to see you as holy. And we take some time to worship him. We confess our sins to him and ask for forgiveness. We ask him to meet our daily physical needs and spiritual. And then this is a this is likely an addition. Uh if you have it in New King James, this is likely an addition to the manuscript. It is in some old manuscripts, it doesn't change any meaning. If you have uh ESV for instance. They do not include it. It says, For yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. This is likely a uh a formula of praise that was it was added by the the early church, not in the original manuscript. your scripts, but it certainly doesn't hurt for us to conclude our prayers with great worship to our God. You start your prayer with worship, you end it with worship, and in the meantime you are submitting and depending fully to him. Pim and on him, let's pray