Matthew chapter five for so long. I almost wondered if I might slip into it by accident. We've taken our time getting through there. We've gone verse by verse one at a well not quite one at a time, but we've gone in small chunks. We're actually going to do a very large swath today. And I'll explain more about that in a moment. Actually, why don't I just explain it now? I'm doing it anyway, right? So we're looking at Matthew 1 through Matthew chapter 6, verses 1 through 18. In the middle of there is a very familiar passage to a lot of you, and that is the what we call the Lord's Prayer The one that starts with our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. That that very familiar passage, at least to some, is in the middle. And I'm not going to be preaching that. I will touch on it very briefly to show you how it fits in the overall flow of things. But I'll save that for next week. We're going to be looking at the first six verses of this chapter, and then again, and then again verses 16 through 18, because it is a unit And I will show you those distinct features in just a moment. So next week we'll we'll be, unless I decide that the Lord is leading me to take another week in this passage, next week we will probably be on the Lord's Prayer. And uh today we're just gonna look at the broader themes here, so it will feel a little bit different from what we've been doing the last several weeks Several years ago, Jamie and I were pretty taken with a TV show on PBS. And if I were to say what the show is, and I'm not gonna, you'd recognize it. Well, if you've ever watched PBS, especially if you've watched it live and not just streaming shows from it, you probably know they're always looking for donations. And this show was highly popular at the time. I wonder if it's maybe perhaps even the most popular show that PBS has ever had. I don't pay a lot of attention to PBS, so I don't know. Um I'm I'm currently watching another PBS show But they don't usually hit the mainstream. This one totally broke the mold and it was it just became an utter cash cow for them. By the time that the final season was about to air, there was a lot of fanfare and there's a real sense of excitement. And and I remember as we turned on to watch the series premiere, sorry, season premiere of that final season We we were excited. We we weren't sure where it was gonna go, how it was gonna resolve. And for the earlier seasons of that show, and if you've ever watched some of these TBS shows. This particular show always got a brief introduction before every episode by an accomplished actress. Someone who was not who's not one that you see a lot in the headlines, not one who's embroiled in church controversy, a respectable actress. who's well liked, well accomplished. And having her give the introduction to the show added dignity and and and and a sense of anticipation and and gravity to the show. It it kind of elevated what was already a very good show with without letting it just become popular nonsense. It it it added dignity. But by the final season's premiere, the show had become such a moneymaker for PBS and then opportunity gained donations, such an attention grabber as well. really what's important here. That this introduction apparently went up for sale. So we sat down to watch the first episode of that final season. And by then we were used to seeing this familiar actress's faith and an unfamiliar woman showed up instead. Someone else. If my wife were here right now she'd be laughing and you'd be watching her because she knows that I'm not the biggest fan of this this woman who came up. in the actress's place. Over the course of the season, I came to loathe that now familiar woman. I'm not going to say her name. She'd like that too much. This woman is a total attention hog And she bought herself she she just bought this slot uh for this popular show so she could brag about all this money that she'd given it to PBS. I'm a major philanthropist is what she was communicating to everybody. Look at how good I am. Now I got curious about her, morbid curiosity. And sure enough if you Google her name you'll get a lot of, and I'm not going to tell you her name. But you get a lot of articles, you've never heard of her unless unless you've heard of her, right? And then when you've heard of her and you Google her, you see all of these articles proclaiming what a great philanthropist she is. In fact, one case uh We put her in the list of some of the greatest philanthropists in American history. Now to her credit, she often gives the money to worthy causes, schools, universities, hospitals, and she always makes sure she gets that credit. As good as the show was though, I don't think that sponsoring a popular TV show is quite in the same category as sponsoring a hospital that saves lives. Why do it then? So that millions of people will see your face and hear your voice and know how generous and rich you are. And in the passage before us this morning, the Lord Jesus warns us not to be like this PBS woman. And I recognize I don't know her personally. Perhaps she is doing this for another motive. But all appearances point to things being the way I described. We are called not to be like such attention grabbers. We can do good things with the goal of getting praised by other people for how good we are and how good our our deeds are. Or we can do good things with the goal of bringing pleasure to our Heavenly Father. And Jesus consistently presents pleasing God the Father as the only worthwhile motivation for doing any good. As I said, this is a large passage in front of us. So I'm gonna try and not go in too deep. I do want to answer any questions and and and kill any wrong assumptions about the passage. But I will move faster. You'll see that the first point will be long and each point will get progressively shorter after that. Then we'll do a brief sweep through afterwards for application. We'll do our exposition explanation first and then our application. And so that means that the the bulk in the middle there we will handle next week. Now there are unifying themes. The reason that I chose to do this this way is because I believe this is genuinely, truly, the way that the passage is broken down. There are clues in the text as to how we should take this, and I want to show them to you quickly. We have various repeated phrases and words and themes That mark this out as a as one whole unit. That prayer does rightly exist in the middle of it, but the unit runs from verse 1 through verse So if you're with me, you've got Matthew 6 open. If it's easier for you to just listen, that's fine. But if you want to look with me, I invite you to do so. You'll see certain repeated phrases. There's this emphasis on charitable deeds. Look at this in verse 4. Actually the the emphasis is on showing off. And the first means is through charitable deeds. So showing off to man or or or women as well, humanity, doing versus doing things for God's attention. only. That is the overarching theme. And then we see it, there's the potential to show off in three different areas. Charitable deeds, verses 1 through 4. Verses 5 and 6, it's specifically about prayer. And then that prayer continues down through verse 15. But specifically, this emphasis on showing off in where and how you pray to other people, that that is that that is where people choose to show off. They also choose to show off in fasting. That's verse a sixteen and again repeated in eighteen. Now, in each of those there's the contrast of showing off in verse one, doing it for God's attention, verse four, showing off verse five for God's attention, verse six, showing off in verse sixteen. Through fasting, but then fasting for God's attention, for God's pleasure, in verse 18. There's also the theme in each of those units, right, of God giving a reward. So if you look at verse 2. He says, Assuredly, at the very end of verse 2, before you hit 3, he says, Assuredly I say to you, they have their reward. You see that there? And then we have the opposite in verse 4, the end of verse 4, and your father who sees it. So verse two and four, again in verse five and six, and verse sixteen and verse eighteen. Also in each of these you have this theme of hypocrisy, and it's finally stated as hypocrisy. in verses 16, 17, and 18. But the idea of people putting themselves out to be one way while not really being that way at heart, that runs through all three of these units. And I bring that up because Verse 7, we're not looking at 7 through 15, but that continues that theme of hypocrisy, and it kind of sections itself off. It follows the same formula, and when you pray But then it doesn't end by talking about rewards. So we're we're we're putting that in kind of its own bucket even though it exists in the middle. There's this whole formula for praying. We'll set that aside today and get to it next week. But then the formula picks back up with fasting in verse 16. So that's a general structure. We've got these three uh three breakdowns. You've got the charitable deeds, verses one through four, prayer five through fifteen, but we'll look at just five and six and then fasting sixteen through eighteen. Now I'm going to skip over the theme because I think I have these slides slightly in the wrong order. So I'm going to try and get to that very quickly and then Um we'll start with four with with point one and then we'll go backwards. Okay. The first point that Jesus is making is that we should give generously, but discreetly and he gives it as a command, give generously but discreetly, because your generous father rewards humble givers We could say, be discreet when you are generous. Because your generous father rewards humble givers. Let's look at just verse one. He says, Take heed that you do not do your charitable deeds before men to be seen by them. Otherwise you have no reward from your Father in heaven. Now This is a general statement, and everything else that follows it is gonna be supporting this. The general idea that we should we anything we should do should be with the goal of pleasing God. Not only that though, that his reward is better than anything that anyone could give us. Any attention, any praise you could get from people pales in comparison to pleasing your God and the pleasure that that brings. The verse or sorry, the word translated here where you have charitable deeds, most modern versions Just say righteousness or acts of righteousness or deeds of righteousness, something like that. There is a manuscript difference there that doesn't change the meaning of the passage. But uh it it is it is speaking in these general terms and so really this should say something ESV, if you have an ESV in front of you or you have a NASBIA, a New Mech and Standard Bible. They both say the same thing and say, beware of practicing your righteousness. That is the idea. Beware of practicing your righteousness before men, or beware of practicing your righteousness before other people. And they get it right. So that makes verse one this general statement and then the charitable giving comes after that in verse two as just one example. But before we go further then, let's talk about this in general terms. Because we've been in chapter 5 for a little while now, and you may remember back, hold on this This feels a little bit contradictory because I remember Jesus saying something about doing things to be seen by men. So look back at chapter five, verse sixteen. It might even be on the the the just the opposite page from where you are. Now. Chapter 5, verse 16 says, Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. Does that feel like a contradiction a little bit? Don't do anything to be seen by man. Oh do do something to be seen by men. Well it Jesus in in chapter six here is not saying it's wrong to be seen by people, right? What he's saying is it's wrong to do things in order that you be seen by people. And specifically, it's wrong to be seeking praise from people. Don't do stuff so people will say how great you are or think how great you are. That is his point. It's not that you shouldn't do things to be seen, but if you are doing things to be seen, do it so that God gets the glory. That is the point. Do you hear that? That verse I read to you is chapter 5, verse 16. Let's start at verse 14. He says, You are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hidden. Nor do they light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a lampstand, and it gives light to all who are in the house. You might know that song This little light of mine, I'm gonna let it shine, right? The idea is, and I've heard non-Christian people singing this song Uh it's it's apparently quite prolific even along uh even among people who don't go to church. They sing this little m light of mine, I'm gonna let it shine. The idea is that you are being a light that points to the greatest light, that points to Jesus, who is called the Son of Righteousness. in the Bible. We are to do anything we do. If we do something righteous, it should reflect on the one who is righteous and made us righteous. And so the key here is motive. Are you doing righteous things you want to be seen so that God will get glory? Or are you doing righteous things wanting to be seen so that you'll get glory? Don't go robbing God of his glory. Better yet, he says, don't seek to be seen at all if that is a temptation at all. So these things that he's saying are actually in quite a close agreement, chapter 5 and chapter 6. And we need to keep that in mind the whole way through this passage. People will notice If you are consistently living like Jesus, they'll notice it. They'll notice your righteousness. They'll notice you're doing good things or that you act differently and that you stay away from certain things You don't laugh at the same crass jokes that your classmates laugh at and tell. You don't tell those jokes. You don't do that at work either. It's not wrong for them to notice that. It's good for them to notice it. But when people notice it, use it to glorify God. And the best way to do that, if I can just give you some wisdom and some advice is when people say, I I notice that you don't laugh at those kind of jokes. I noticed that you're you're so kind. You always you you you're always coming in early and making sure that you fill the coffee pot for everybody here. And and and I've noticed other things too. You you were kind to so and so last week. Uh you you stand out. When they s when people see, that's an opportunity for you to tell 'em about Jesus. Whenever possible, just say, well you know what the the Reason for this act of righteousness is because Jesus has made me righteous and he enables me to be righteous. He washed me clean of my sins. And and he can do the same for you, and he'll make you he can make you like me. You can be like this too. But you need Jesus. Maybe you can't go into every line of a gospel presentation, but you can witness that way and do things in the name of Jesus so that he gets the credit. So you take the glory that's going to yourself and turn it back to God. Now don't miss the last line of verse 1. Otherwise you have no reward from your Father in heaven. If your goal of of doing the righteous act is for people to notice and praise you or think high love of you, then that is all the reward that you will get. He's implying then, and he's going to say it explicitly in three times in the passage, God rewards righteous acts. And I realize for some of you that that sounds you're uncomfortable when you hear that. I'm uncomfortable so I I kept trying to rewrite these points and take out this idea of reward or at least with motive, but it seems to be what Jesus is saying, and I can't make him say something else, right? But but it sounds like the prosperity gospel to us, doesn't it? It sounds like the TV and online preachers who say, Give to my ministry and God will bless you richly, right? It sounds like that God will give you a a a bigger bank account, He will fix your crooked teeth and you have a nice smiley s shiny smile, right? All the the fake charlatans that we we kind of recoil from The ones that aren't that you know, they they found a way to to do it in our generation where they're not they don't appear as funny, but it's the same idea. They're giving this idea that if you give money if If you do certain things, God is going to bless you in this life. Now the truth is that Jesus doesn't promise to bless us in this life, but he also doesn't say he won't bless us in this life. What he says here is that, let's look at verse 4. Your father who sees in secret will himself reward you. Here, reward you openly. That may be here in in our in this life, but it may be he rewards you openly in eternity. And and I think it's going to depend on what God feels like doing for each person in each case. There is no rule set up there that yes, sometimes God does reward A humble giver by blessing them financially, but it is by no means a promise that He will bless you in that way. The blessing may be may take a different form, and it may not be until eternity So I promise you, this is not a prosperity gospel thing. He doesn't say what kind of reward, he doesn't say whether it's here on earth or in eternity, but one thing is certain. Hear me on this. If you haven't heard me yet, wake back up. Here's what I want you to hear. The reward he's talking about is not salvation. If the reward were salvation, that means you get to heaven by giving money to poor people. You get to heaven by just praying stuff and praying long and praying often. Right? Or praying the Lord's Prayer. Or praying through a rosary. Or by fasting, the other example he gets, right? That this the more you fast, the more likely you get to heaven. That is not what he's saying, not at all. When he talks about reward, he is not talking about salvation. And we we know we there's two reasons that we know that, right? First of all, I want you to see the fur the first time, right? The first time this comes up in in verse 1, if you have something other than New King James, we're in the New King James It says charitable deeds. But as I said, that that that word there is a it's it's actually righteousness or righteous act. It's a righteous act. But we can't do righteous acts unless the Spirit of God is living inside of us. And the Spirit of God doesn't live in people who are not saved. That's the definition of being saved: you have the Holy Spirit of God in you, uniting you to Jesus. Jesus is the one who saves you, right? You cannot do a righteous act until God declares you righteous and starts to make you righteous. And he does that by uniting you to Jesus in his righteousness. And by having His Holy Spirit make you from the inside out make you righteous so that you can do righteous things. So these rewards have to come after you become a Christian. Here's the biggest reason, though, we know that he's not referring to salvation as the reward. It's because your salvation had to be c purchased at the cost of Jesus' death. You have sinned against the holy God He is infinitely righteous, perfectly holy, and when we disobey him, even at the thought level, but don't say you've only disobeyed him at the thought level, thought level, right? Because you haven't. Your thoughts have have given birth to words and to actions. We are condemned by an infinitely righteous God for lacking righteousness. And so it takes the sacrifice of one who is infinitely righteous to atone for us. Jesus Christ who was perfectly righteous and never sinned, could atone for our sin, for the offense against an infinitely righteous God Because he's infinitely righteous, he can atone for an unlimited amount of people in a finite period of time But you who have offended God and are not righteous to begin with, you can't hope to atone for your sins. In fact, it would take an infinite amount of time for you to do so. And therefore Hell is an infinitely long-duration punishment. And we are separated from God for eternity unless, unless somebody can bear the penalty for us. But not only that, right? Jesus was on the cross and and God was was angry at our sin, but he pinned it to Jesus. So he took out his anger at our sin on Jesus. So Jesus paid the penalty But we still need to be righteous. There's a problem of righteousness. So when Jesus died, God takes your sin and he pins it to Jesus. Imagine that you're wearing imagine that I if I take my jacket off, it'll take the the microphone off, so I can't quite do that. I take my my my jacket off and I give it to Jesus. Imagine that this jacket is Covered in filth. And Jesus wears it. But before those are my sins, the filth is my sin. But before God puts his sin, puts my sin on Jesus, He takes Jesus' perfect righteousness, a white robe and agin, and he clothes me in it. He clothes you in it Now, if you will but trust that Jesus did that for you and that it was enough, and you ask him, God, count Jesus as dying in my place. Count me as being righteous like him. You don't have to do anything else. Simply trusting in him, he gives it to you. You're saved, and then his spirit comes and dwells in you and lives with you. He will not leave until he takes you into his presence in heaven And you can do righteous acts. But until God saves you by his own will and work, you're saved. Sinner in his eyes, you can't do righteous acts. So therefore, this reward cannot be a reward that it can't cannot be salvation, cannot be going to heaven. You must be saved. First. So he is referring to blessing us in other intangible ways that he doesn't define. Verses 2 through 4, I think we've covered most of it now then. Verse 2 is a charitable deed, and the modern translations refer to it like when you give to the needy. But that is the perfectly literal translation there as charitable deed. Uh therefore, when you do a charitable deed, or when you give to the poor, the idea is giving, charitable giving. When you give to the poor, do not sound a trumpet before you as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets. That they may have glory from men. I'm going to talk about that word hypocrites a little bit later. Assuredly, I say to you, they have their reward. That is all the reward that they're going to get. That PBS lady, she was blowing the trumpet. She was going on TV and saying, look at how giving I am. Look at how wonderful I am. And her award is that people would think so. But she's not going to get anything from the Lord for that, assuming that that is indeed her motive. I cannot conceive of why you would do that if there was any other motive, but I recognize I don't Uh but we're called not to to blow trumpets. They probably weren't literally blowing trumpets when they were putting money uh giving money to the poor, but people were taking coins and practically throwing it in there so it would make a clang so that people would know how much money they did. We have we have that in in the gospels saying that they did that. The whole point of this passage, the big theme, is is simply that God's attention is better than man's attention or humanity's attention, I'm going to be saying here, because that means Women too. Because God is kinder, God is more generous, God is all around is more wonderfully amazing than anyone else that you know. His attention's better. Whoops Wrong wrong order here we go. There you go. The pleasure of our loving God is so sweet. The praise from anywhere else is worthless in comparison. I think my clicker just broke. Can you turn that back for me, please, John, so that we can see the first one again? The pleasure of our loving God, that is to make to bring pleasure to our God. It's so sweet to do so. To know that that He is pleased with us. So sweet. Alright, it's working again, thank you. Is worthless in comparison. Why would you want the praise of men when you have the praise of God who created you and who's perfectly righteous? And he's going to actually give you something worth having. Praise from people disappears. I mean have are you one of those people that really cares about clicks on your post on Instagram or Facebook or maybe you even put stuff on on YouTube, right? And and you're you're maybe living for praise from people and and you need to get more likes. Alright. Those likes Don't mean anything. I don't know how many different things I I like when I go, oh that's cool, that's funny, that's cute, click, click, click. And then I don't think about it again. But people live for this, don't they? Don't let your Instagram profile define you. Don't live for that. It's worthless. It doesn't go anywhere. It doesn't mean that people think any more highly of you than before they saw that post. But God Notice this. Live to please him. Live to bring him joy. Now verse three there that says uh when you do a charitable deed, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing. doing. That's that's figurative. I I laugh. I read a commentator this week who said the only way that that could be taken literally is if you get a lobotomy. I thought that was kind of funny. It's figurative language, right? You you can't literally do one thing that only your left hand knows about, but not your right, or vice versa. Um But I will talk about what that means application-wise for us in a The idea is be be quiet about it. Don't let people know Now, one last thing I want you to see, and I promise we're going to go faster and faster as this goes, but notice that Jesus keeps referring to God as Father. And your father who sees in secret will himself reward you openly. In just these 18 verses, he calls him father ten times. That's including the in the Lord's Prayer. Ten times he calls God Father. Do you know how many times he calls him God in in this passage? Like an Oregon scoreboard. Zero. He only calls him Father in this passage. He wants you to see God as Father. Now you may not have a good relationship with God. with your father. Maybe you maybe you didn't grow up with a father. You don't have a father. Or the father you had was a terrible example. Maybe he mistreated you you or your mom. Or he just he was he was detached and wasn't there. And you've seen bad examples of fathers. Get those out of your head. This is a God who is there, who loves you, who wants to care for you. And therefore he's going to tell us, he's going to spend a lot of time telling us how to talk to him in prayer. We'll cover most of that next week. He wants to hear from you. He sees what you're doing. He's paying attention. He will care for you. He will even reward you. Now He wants us to see God as our father, and as a father, God likes to give good gifts to his children. Now, I'm not calling myself a good father. I hope that I'm a decent father. I'm not as good a father as my as my heavenly father. But as a father I don't want to spoil my kids, right? That's important to me. I don't want to I don't just buy them candy and ice cream and toys all the time, though they would love that. It would not be good for them. I try not to spoil them But I do buy them ice cream and candy and toys sometimes. Why? Because I love them and I know they like that. And if I only give them that stuff, it's bad for them. But if I never give them that stuff, they get the idea that I don't love them or or that that daddy's detached. And and I can't help sometimes, but you know what? Let's just go let's go get some Ritas. We're big fans of Rita's Italianite. They did not respond to that. for me to say that. Because I love my boy, I can't help sometimes but but reward them. If I if I see one brother being really kind to the other brother I just I wanna give them something. I wanna sometimes I lavish them r with other rewards, right? It's just I love them and I tell them how much I love them and I give them a big hug And other times I give them the things I know that they really like, the material things, the things that taste good or fun to play with. When my son has pleased me, I give him a good reward. And I'm like this because my heavenly father is like this. He made me In his image. That's what your heavenly father is like. And so he gives rewards not as a quid pro quo thing, but simply out of his lavish love. See him that way. That's the big point of this passage. It's in the theme statement in front of you. God is our Heavenly Father, and His attention, His reward, His approval is better than mere humanity can ever get. We see that in this example of giving, and then it's in these other two areas, right? Prayer and fasting. We've covered the bulk of it. I'm going to make minimal comments in these next two examples. The second example is petition your father. That is pray to your father privately. That's the end. He says, petition your father privately, because he responds form far more lavishly than people do, than humanity. Let's read verses five and six. And when you pray, you shall not be like the hypocrites, for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the corners of the streets. that they may be seen by men. Assuredly I say to you, they have their reward. But you, when you pray, go into your room, and when you've shut your door, pray to your Father who is in the secret place. And your father who sees in secret will reward you openly. Much of the prayer in Jesus' day was hypocritical critical prayer. He is most likely referring to the Pharisees here. He doesn't actually name them. He does in other places about this very thing. He's maybe also talking about the scribes and probably the priests. Probably not the Sadducees because they weren't known for their holiness, but the The Pharisees were all about putting their righteousness and their prayerfulness and their fasting on display for everyone else to see. And what Jesus says here then is that God's actually less likely to answer those prayers. They go outside and they pray loudly so that people would hear them and say how holy they are. But God's not likely to answer those prayers. Because he said they have their reward. If you want God to actually answer your prayers, don't put your prayer on display so that people will think how holy you are. Now there are, of course, times where it's appropriate for people to hear you pray. I prayed a few minutes ago, but it wasn't that you hopefully it wasn't, that that you would think that I'm great as a prayer It was in order to bless you, to pray on your behalf. That's actually one of one of my it's my it's part of my job is to lead you in prayer. When we get together for Bible study, we pray together for the body of Christ. And there is a benefit to praying with each other. And when when I hear uh a sister of mine praying for somebody, I'm encouraged, and then that reminds me I I ought to pray for that other person. And there's this like rebounding effect. It's good for people to pray together. But if we're doing it for the wrong motive, that's what he's preaching against. We don't do it so people gawk and marvel at how holy that we are. Now he calls them hypocrites. And this is a theater term. This comes from Greek theater, and the Bible, the New Testament was written in Greek. They were in Greek culture. Hypocrites were actors who wore masks. Actually, the main role of hypocrite was the one who we think of as a bad term, as a very good term in that day. They would wear this mask. And if you've ever read, if ever like in high school you had to read like Oedipus or Antigone or something like that, right? If you ever had to read a Greek drama, think back to that. Um there's a chorus throughout the uh throughout the play, the chorus suddenly gets a chance. And what's what's happening is the play's been going on And things have happened, and then it pauses and the chorus sings about what they've done. They like to provide commentary on it. I'm really glad our movies don't work that way. That uh you know the the the superheroes are are are fighting the supervillain and all of this cool special effects are going on, blam blam blam blam and then we pause to talk about what just happened. I'm really glad we don't do that But that's how it worked in Greek drama. And you'd have this one person who was like kind of the the chief hypocrite who would, while wearing a mask, would sing in response. And they'd sing back and forth between the chorus and the hypocrite They got all the attention. But what is Jesus saying? Hypocrites, they wear masks. That's not who they really are. They're hiding behind that mask. They're putting out one idea because it's just a play. It's it's pretend. But there's someone else. There's something else Maybe you've even seen an actor that you you've you've seen a movie that you love or maybe multiple movies and you really admire that actor. You don't actually admire the actor, you just like the roles they're in, right? Right? And then you see an interview with them on some late night show or something, right? And maybe they're really crass. And you're used to seeing them praying uh playing these really respectable people and then they say they're telling dirty jokes on the late night show. And you're like, ah, that's not what they really like. Oh, that stinks. That's the idea here. And he's saying, Don't be a hypocrite. Don't hide behind this mask of prayer. Just pray to Jesus or pray to the Father in secret. I felt convicted actually just while while praying this message because sometimes on Sunday mornings before church starts there's just a few people here. They're they're uh preparing for Sunday school. They're George and George is practicing with uh um the the our soundboard people, um John and Barbara and and And I will sometimes take prayer walks around the church and they've told me they see me praying. And if we're not careful, that can become a show in itself. So I may just stop doing doing that when I know that other people are more likely to see me because I d I don't want to be doing that for the wrong reasons. I don't tr mean to do do it for the wrong reasons, but it's possible that could creep in. So I want to put up some some boundaries for myself that I wouldn't put on others. Doesn't mean we shouldn't pray publicly. But we have to be careful when we're praying for other people that we're not just trying to And then he goes on in verses seven through thirteen. He he gives us a method on the best way to talk to God. And then verses fourteen and fifteen, the result of the prayer that pleases God. And he speaks Specifically about God forgiving us. Well then finally we get the last example of fasting. Let's go ahead and read verses sixteen and eighteen and I'll explain the the heading there that you're you're scribbling down and you're filling the blanks. Moreover, when you fast, do not be like the hypocrites with a sad countenance. Countenance means their expression, their face. For they disfigure their faces, that they may appear to men to be fasting. Surely I say to you, they have their reward. But you, when you fast Anoint your head and wash your face so that you do not appear to men to be fasting, but to your father who's in the secret place. And your father who sees in secret will reward you openly. Now fasting is a way that people have sought the Lord since Old Testament days. It means that you're going without food, and in some cases, even without water, for uh whether it's uh uh a period of hours or days. The Lord Jesus fasted from from uh food for forty days and forty Others did long fastings as well. Often, not always, but often, especially in the Old Testament, this is for repentance. It's for the sake of showing God that they are that they are really sorrowful for what they have done. They would sometimes wear sackcloth and put ashes on themselves to show that as well. Even pagans would do that. Sometimes people fast out of trying to make a decision. And the idea is that I'm going to deny myself, I'm not even going to eat. I'm going to spend that extra time uh uh praying and just really seeking God's face and seeking his will, asking for wisdom. Other times it wouldn't necessarily be repentance, but it would be expressing sorrow about a situation and spending dedicated time in prayer. There are numerous times throughout the book of Psalms where we see fasting mentioned, throughout the books of the prophets. The Pharisees had scheduled it though. These guys that like people to think of them as holy, they schedule it twice a week. I'm not going to go there because we're running out of time, but there's a parable of the Pharisee and the tax collector. It's in Luke 18. You can write it down if you want to check there later. Luke eighteen, verses nine through fourteen, where God describ or Jesus describes two people. One is the Pharisee that everyone thinks of as holy, and he is just his prayer is simply telling God, very publicly for everyone to see. Thank you, God, that I'm so righteous. Here's all the things I do that make me righteous. And then there's another guy who simply repents and says, God be merciful to me, a sinner. And Jesus says, that's the one that God loves. That's what he likes to see, not this guy who's saying how great he is. Well while that guy's saying how great he is, the Pharisee, he is saying, I fast twice a week. It was scheduled in, it was part of their normal calendar, fast twice a week. Not so that they could see Seek the Lord, but I'm not saying you shouldn't schedule in fasting, but really check yourself for why you're doing it and why it's scheduled regularly rather than based on the occasion. It was so that they could show off. Now, fasting is not something commanded in Scripture. We get to the charitable giving, you see that Jesus is he's assuming that the people who love him will give. Prayer is just a given. It's part of, if you have a relationship with God, you can only maintain that relationship through prayer Just like you can't maintain a relationship with somebody without talking to them. Prayer is how we talk to God. Fasting is a little bit different because it's never commanded in Scripture with the exception of related to one feast in the law. But it is modeled. It is set as an example. Not everyone can fast. It would be medically unsafe for you to do it. You cannot be healthy. And you may not even survive a fast of even a day. So I'm not telling you to do it. is is being pushed on us, but he's saying this is a normal expression in Jesus' day of of how people would seek to please man when they should be seeking to please man God. In the Old Testament there are fifty direct references to fasting. In the New Testament, there's twenty-nine direct references to uh to fasting. But none of them come after Second Corinthians. So as you go f deeper into the New Testament and they're becoming more and more assured of their freedom that they have in Christ, you do see it kind of trailing off. That doesn't mean we shouldn't fast, and I've certainly fasted, though it's been some time. But I'd say that this is a matter of conscience. But when you do, don't be like these guys. He's saying when they're doing it, it's all for show. So they want you to know that they're that they're really fascinating. So you see a Pharisee on the street, And he's oh I'm so hungry. Right? Oh it must be Tuesday. Tuesday or is it Thursday? It's Tuesday or Thursday because that guy's grumping again. Right? They they want you to know. And and he's saying, no, don't do that. Actually do the opposite. Let everyone see the joy you have in your God. When you're fasting him, you're getting closer to him, you're denying yourself in order that you would seek God. In order that you would know him, you are you are putting something behind you. It doesn't have to be food, right? Deny yourself to seek your father. That's what goes in your blanks there. Because his attention is better than human admiration, right? When you seek him, it ought to be a joyful thing, even if you're denying yourself food. So anoint your face as a normal thing they would do. They'd use oil, they'd they'd wash themselves. That's just a normal part of the beauty routine of the day. Do whatever is normal to you to get ready for the day. Don't make a big show of the fact that you were fasting. You might have to tell someone you're fasting if they invite you to lunch. I'm sorry, I I can't go. Oh what you don't want to hang out with me? No, it's just a fasting, right? Oh, okay, well, probably don't want to go talk about that. But again, it's about getting the attention of God and knowing Him, not getting the attention of other people. When we seek God, it's a joyful occasion. So rejoice. Now hopefully you understand the big picture and some of the details of Matthew 6, 1 through 18. We've done the explanation. I want to give you just a few relevant points of application. I promise to be quick. First of all, especially looking at verses 1 and 2 here, but stop seeking human applause online. And I've mentioned this a little bit already. God's attention is better than the attention of the online community. Don't keep trying to get likes and attention and applause. It can become an advantage. Secondly, I want to revisit that that kind of funny expression in verse 3. When you do a charitable deed, when you give the poor, do not let your left hand know what your right hand hand is doing. Obviously that's not possible. He's speaking figuratively, but I think we can we can learn something from this. You can talk to yourself about what a great giver you are, how good you are at praying, how much you deny yourself. Man, I am the most humble person I know. And you never say it to other people, right? You don't tell other people that man, I am holier this week than I usually am. I mean you can you should see my quiet times Right? We know that that would be bragging, but we brag to ourselves. Right? And and so I I think that that's an extension of what he's saying. If you go around patting yourself on the back all the time About how generous you are, like in this this example, or in any other, you're you're violating the spirit of this command. Give to benefit people and And to please your heavenly Father. He's pleased when we show kindness to other people. Now it's not wrong to keep track of what you've given, that's part of good stewardship. So make so that you make sure you are giving and giving what people need, and that you are you're not being uh stingy. And then of course we can we can apply it to all areas of life. We don't brag to others about hopefully we know or at least we know not to brag to others about how great we are at sports, how good our grades are. How much we've accomplished, how much money we've made. And we all know people who do that too much, and it's ugly, right? No one likes that guy. But we might keep quietly telling ourselves how awesome we are. Man, I have had on a roll like three semesters in a row. And I I know that Becca has only done it like once in the last three years. I have accomplished so much than most people might age. And we never say it out loud, but we're we're dishonoring the Lord. Well we know, he says, right, don't seek human praise. That's the whole point over and over again. God's attention is better than human praise, right? Well, you're human. Stop seeking your own praise And so when you find yourself starting to think on this idea that you are awesome in more than one area, redirect your praise from yourself to God. That's the thing to do, right? Let me say that again. Redirect your self-praise when you're praising yourself to how great God is. Praise God for making you good at baseball instead of just telling yourself or other people how great you are at baseball. Start praising God for the opportunities you've had rather than just telling yourself how great you are for accomplishing these things. God gave you the opportunity to do it or to learn or to get that education. Praise God who made you as smart as you are. Don't keep telling yourself or other people that you're smart or you're going to start treating people nastily. Thank God for giving you this natural intellect. You know it's not not because you've earned it. He just made you that way. He deserves the glory Turn off these would-be sinful thoughts. Make it an opportunity to praise your Creator. And you're going to frustrate the devil when you do that. He wants you to brag to yourself and other people. And say, nope, I'm not gonna do that, but that's a good idea. Thank you, enemy. I'm gonna praise my God for that. Finally Just looking at this broadly, I want you to realize that God sees you and hears you. God sees you God hears you. Maybe you feel like you're trying to honor the Lord in certain areas and you're totally in the minority. What I mean by this is Maybe you have a conviction about something that most people don't have. Like you have a really peculiar conviction. And you get discouraged because people don't share that conviction. And maybe they're even telling you, you don't have to be that meticulous about that Or I think you're going a little too far, honey. And they're brothers and sisters in Christ. But you're trying to honor the Lord. You're not trying to get attention. You're trying to honor the Lord because He's giving you a sensitive conscience about something, or perhaps about a number of things. And you take extra care with certain things out of a desire to please him. And it's almost an affliction because People that you love and respect, who do love Jesus like you do, keep telling you you're wrong to do that. If you've got a tender conscience, keep honoring the Lord in that conscience, unless it's something the Bible specifically condemns. What tells you to do differently. Maybe even me, maybe even your pastor, doesn't practice quite the same way you do, but you're doing it out of love and honor for your Savior Jesus Christ. Christ. You know what? The Heavenly Father doesn't think that's silly, even if your brothers and sisters do. Jesus Christ does not think that that's silly. God sees what you do to honor Him. In due time, you're going to see, and maybe others will, that when you've been honoring Him in these little ways, it was always worth it. And you pleased him. So just keep pleasing him. And let's take that as a a uh an opportunity for us too to to not to not judge harshly, to not be hard on people whose conscience is a little bit different than ours. Now maybe that's not quite your case, but nevertheless, you're starting to feel as though I've been pursuing God and I am following his commandments, but does it really matter? Does God really care? I know he saved me. I know I'm spending eternity with him. I am trusting in Jesus. Do I really need to worry about denying myself in this area? Or making sure that I keep pursuing him in his word, that I keep on uh dedicating time to pray. It's hard. I don't really see much of a point. What if I slacken off of it? Would that make any lasting difference? Yes. Yes, it would. Because God sees you, He hears you, He knows your heart, He's pleased at how you seek Him. Don't get discouraged from seeking Him. You may not feel like you're hearing from him. Sometimes, you know, when he answers prayer, he answers no. That doesn't mean he answer he didn't answer you. He did answer. It's just no. But he is pleased when you want to spend time with him. Do what you do to bring pleasure to your father. If you can, instead of slapping off, ramp it up even harder, whatever that thing is. Honor him with your whole hearts. Honor him with all your time, with all your energy, with your effort, with your resources, with your schedule. It is worth it to bring pleasure and joy to our Father because He gave His Son to purify us. So that he could adopt us as children and call us, so that we would call him father. Let's love him because he notices. And let's live to please our God because that is sweeter than getting praise from anyone else. Any reward we can get from the world. It is sweeter to get God's attention and know we've pleased Him. Let's pray.