There's a little name a little known name in church family history, in the history of the evangelization specifically. of China. Shi Shamu was the wife of an opium addict. Her husband had been hired as a tutor for a foreign missionary with the China Inland Mission, if you've heard of the the missionary Hudson Taylor. It was not Hudson Taylor, but it was an associate of his. And this missionary gave uh Shi Shimu's husband a Bible in Chinese. As a result of reading that Bible, he largely was doing it in order to aid his work as a tutor, because he knew that the missionary would ask him about it. As a result of reading that Bible, this addict had turned his life over to Christ and very shortly afterwards gave up smoking opium. It was a terrible ordeal for him. as his body went through the withdrawal process, but he found himself strengthened by Christ and able to able to to go through it. Now, Shamu had been angry with her husband at first. He had been so stupid, she thought, to get hoodwinked by these foreigners with their foreign religion. But then she saw the power of Christ to deliver her husband from addiction, and Mrs. She soon became a Christian herself. And when later her husband became a pastor, she partnered with him in ministry. Together, the two of them opened up opium refuges, a bit like drug rehab facilities today, to help get their fellow Chinese Freedom from the powerful addiction of these substances It was it became these these uh opium refuges became a powerful avenue for sharing the gospel. They were very successful. They'd opened refuges in multiple cities But now their funds had run out. Mrs. She and her husband were burdened, her husband specifically, to open a another opium refuge. in the uh the city of I'm I'm sure I'm gonna butcher the pronunciation and this is the old pronunciation of the city. Huo Chao. They were burdened to open one there but they had no money Now, Mrs. She had come from a family of some meats. She had stored up valuable wedding gifts that had been given to her, and that was the practice in in uh nineteenth century China. Uh to store up her wedding gifts, she had beautiful silk garments. She had some trinkets made of gold, she had jade jewelry, she had silver. They were stored in a very ornate cabinet. In nineteen Country China, these things basically served as a life insurance policy so that if her husband died or if there was a terrible famine or something like that, she could sell the beautiful things and live off of the proceeds. She'd come from this family of means. You didn't sell if you came from status like that, you didn't sell these things for any other reason. But there were people dying in their Separated from Jesus Christ forever. And she knew what she had to do. She took her wedding treasures to her husband and she said, I can do without these. Let Ho Chau have the gospel. All of us, Christians or not, have a very human problem that Shishemu understood. Where's the clicker? I don't have the clicker here for for advancing my s my slides. I'm so sorry. Can Barbara, can I ask you to advance the the uh the slides for me? And if you find it, just c come and bring it back for me. That'd be great Could you please uh advance that slide for me? Perfect. Yeah, thank you. That was probably my fault. I don't know. Thank you, All right. Mrs. Che had understood the problem. We don't treasure our God nearly enough. We do not treasure our God nearly enough. But I want us to recognize how deep this problem is by adding some adjectives here. If we treasure him, we cannot pile up enough adjectives to describe our God. We do not treasure our imminent trend Transcendant, triune, holy, mind-boggling, all desirable God, nearly enough. Stick as many adjectives as you want there, as long as they're correct ones, as long as they're true. Our God is mind-boggling. He's incomprehensible, yet he draws near to us. He reveals himself to us, and yet he has existed since before the universe. He made all things out of nothing. Not only that, he's perfectly good. He's always kind. He's always generous. He's just. He looks upon our sin and instead of just condemning it all to hell, he says, let me love them into thy kingdom. Let me save them. Let me pay the penalty myself. And I will go there. In the form of my son, I will die so that they can be ransomed to me. We don't treasure such a wonderful, kind, loving God enough. That is our human problem. Shishemu understood it. She did. And you need to be like her. I need to be more like her. You need to be like her. That's what Jesus is about to tell us in Matthew 6, verses 19 through 24. You're going to see, if you're following along in the bulletin, you'll see that the points are all very similar. We have two of everything in these three main points. In the first point, we have two treasures. Those treasures are heavenly and earthly. In the next two verses after these ones, you'll see two. different things. And then in the final verse of this passage you'll see a last a last pair. You're going to find that these the first two main points are more closely related. They're all very closely related, but the second is kind of a subset of the first But let's just work our way through, shall we? Let's read verses 19 to 21. This is Jesus in the middle of the Sermon on the Mount, his either his greatest or second greatest sermon ever preached. Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on heaven where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven where neither moth nor rust destroys and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. Start with this negative. Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust corrupt and thieves break through and steal Jesus is just in a very straightforward manner pointing out that the material things that people treasured in his day clothes that get eaten by moths. uh uh uh f fine things, uh jewelry, it tarnishes. They they do not last forever. Anything else that you could throw in there? Well it could get stolen. It won't last forever A few years ago I was flipping through uh the the B channels, you know what I mean by the B channels. Does anyone use broadcast TV anymore or are we all just on streaming? I always forget that I still have those channels. We We paid for a a uh one of those digital antennas and then we barely ever use it. And and we have this uh this channel, this is in a different state called Buzzer. Anyone know that the Buzzer channel It's basically Game Show Network, but it's the B channel version. So it's like really, really, really, really old game shows that haven't been aired in decades. So you only see tremendously old reruns. And it's plenty of fun. They're they're they're just as good. Um and I was flipping through uh channels in South Carolina I found this show on Buzzer and uh it was an episode from the early 1980s before I was even born And I don't know what I don't even remember what the show was called. I'd never heard of it before. I haven't seen it since. Um and at the end the contestant is you know we've all seen game starts right he's he he had won like the jackpot he got everything he could get and it was a very young man. He he couldn't have been older than twenty three. He was probably younger than that He drove off the set in this beautiful, brand new, very ostentatious, sky blue, open-top sports car. He was grinning ear to ear. He was clearly very happy with his winnings, and they were even letting uh pretty young ladies from the the audience run onto the stage. They all wanted to get in the car with him, uh screaming, cheering You know what I found myself thinking while I'm watching this this beautiful s shiny new convertible drive off to the lot I mean it's only so pretty it was an eighties car there were Yeah, but not as But still, yeah, for the for the for the era, right? You know what I was thinking though? I was thinking that thing would be a total piece of junk right now. It's probably ro rotting in a junkyard. And this was I probably watched this seven or eight years ago and then it was thirty plus years old. Right? These beautiful sports cars or these eighty sports cars uh they they only last shiny for seven so long and before you can't even you can't even get to the local Taco Bell in 'em. They don't the things that we work so hard for, the things we treasure give us great pleasure, they will that pleasure will not last. They're only temporary. But then Jesus gives very good news. There's treasures that you can be storing up for yourself right now that won't tarnish, won't get eaten by moths, won't get stolen, won't devalue By your odometers, these things will give you pleasure for eternity. And he says, so fo focus on these things. Focus your years on earth On eternity, not on accumulating the stuff that's going to disappear. Maybe it'll last as long as you do, maybe it'll outlive you. Then you pass it on to somebody else. Maybe the government takes it when you do it. Now what is the treasure that he is talking about? I want us to ask the big obvious, maybe worrying question, first of all. Is Jesus talking about our salvation as Treasure. Salvation certainly is a treasure. That you can spend eternity with him. That is something we ought to treasure. But is that what he's talking about here? I'll say the answer to you is maybe. So here's what he's not saying. He's not saying you can buy your way into heaven. He's not saying that in order for you to get into heaven, you need to sell everything you have, like he said to the rich young ruler. You need to sell everything you have, give it to charity, or give it to the church, or give it to a missionary, and then you will be let into heaven. You know why? Because the cost of your deliverance, that is too cheap. Giving up stuff that will tarnish and fade away, giving up the entire contents of your bank account or even of Elon Musk's bank account is not enough to deliver your So he's not saying you can buy your way into heaven. And I urge you if you've ever thought you you're you're burdened by a sin that you have committed, don't suppose you can just write a check to the church. or to Samaritan's purse, and that will clear you with the Lord, it will not. You need something more precious than gold to redeem you. Jesus Christ's death, Jesus Christ's blood, his life, his righteousness, that is the only thing that can redeem you. Money will not do it. And the reason that Jesus told that rich young ruler that he needed to to uh let go of his earthly possessions was because he saw that they were holding him back from actually committing to Christ and receiving Unless you trust in Christ's death in your place and his resurrection that proves that his death was enough for you, that his perfect obedience fulfilled the law. for you and that that his his righteousness can be imputed to you and that is enough unless you believe that you will remain alienated from Jesus Christ, from the God who made you for all of eternity in the life of eternity. Lake of fire. But okay, can the material treasures prevent someone from entering heaven? You bet it can. If you're comfortable enough with your wealth, you might think, oh, I'm not I'm not rich. I I you know I I certainly don't have a problem with materialism. In fact, I don't have enough. I can barely make my my mortgage payment yet You might have a problem with materialism. If let's say though that you're comfortable in your wealth. You're not super rich, but you got all you need. You don't worry about being able to make ends meet. Some of us do Not all of us do. You're busy enjoying all your creature comfort comforts. You're enjoying your your sun porch and your easy chair and your streaming plan and your boating time at the bay. You don't see a need to turn from these things to have Christ. You figure I can have Christ and I can have these things And you're so preoccupied with your life on this earth, you might have prayed a prayer, but all it was is served as some empty incantation that did nothing. Maybe you've you've you've said the right thing and you believe the right doctrines and you prayed that prayer so that you can You can uh know that you're you're gonna end up in heaven instead of hell. But it hasn't changed your life because you don't treasure life in heaven. Your life is still focused here. It's focused on your family and on your things. In this case, Jesus is talking about your salvation as a treasure. Because unless you treasure your salvation, you won't turn to Christ. You'll utter some prayer and keep on bawling unchanged. That's not true salvation. That's a fire insurance prayer, and it does nothing. So salvation, depending on the context, depending on your heart, your hangups, may be referring, or may be referred to as your treasure. But that is not all. What else might this treasure be? Well one thing is that it might be your Christian character. The rest of these are objective Your Christian character, if you value your Christian testimony and you want to become more like Jesus, you're gonna make costly choices. Now, Jesus isn't necessarily saying you have to give up everything, but the what you treasure will determine how you spend your wealth and how you spend your time and where your heart is. You will make costly choices in order that you may be more like Christ and that you may reflect Him to others. I have known a professing Christian businessman who would go to strip clubs while on work trips, on business trips. trips. Why would he do that? Wha why on earth would you don't do such a foolish, vile thing when you supposedly are have the the Spirit of God living in you? Well that's where the team was going. That's where the client was going. And it was more important that he keep his account. Keep the client account and keep the job. And be in with the team so that he gets the leads that would earn more and keep him going. That he honored God in his section. Or in his marriage. The same applies to getting drunk on business trips with the team or joining in with making dirty jokes at school or work. We do those things because we value the company We value getting ahead and we figure we cannot get ahead in the things in which we want to get ahead Unless we live that way. When your treasure is on earthly things, you will behave like earthly things and earthly people. And when your treasure is in heaven, you will behave differently. You value your Christian culture, uh your Christian character, you value your Christian testimony, and so you you do things that might it might cost you the account. Or you you might not get all the leads at work, and they might ostracize you. You know what, you might even lose your job Is that is that the worst thing that can happen to you? No. And you know what? If you are so treasuring Christ that you make those decisions, you don't you don't set up You know what, God, I'm going to lose my job for you, so I am going to say provocative things until they fire me. That's not what we're talking about, right? But you you you continue. Some people are kind of ding bats about this, right? You don't go and do stupid things, but you do you do wise things and you you do according to where your treasure is. And if your treasure is in Christ, and out of loyalty to him, not out of stupidity, not out of a lack of self-control, but out of a determinedness to follow him You end up losing your job or losing your bonus. The Lord will provide for you. He will take care of you. Do you know that that verse from Psalm 37? Where David says, I've been old, uh I've been young and now I've been old, he said, but there's certain things I've never seen. I'm paraphrasing here. He says, that I have never seen the righteous man uh forsaken. I've never seen His children begging for bread. God will take care of you if your treasure is in him and if you're treasuring your Christian character, you will lose things on earth. You are gaining things in heaven. You will take your Christian character with you. What else might this treasure be? Souls. You invest your attention, your heart is in sharing the gospel with your co-workers, with your your your family members, the way that you spend your time, the the the way that you spend your money for certain resources. So that you can use these resources that w whether it's a way to attract people to your home, you invest in a swimming pool so that you can have people there where you're going to lovingly share the gospel with them in relational evangelism. But you consecrate that to the Lord. Or or you're buying extensive books and tons of tracts so that you can share these things. You're funding a kid going to college. You're paying for a missionary to spend to live in the foreign field and evangelize the gospel, whatever it is that costs you something here of your earthly treasure. It costs you your time. It costs you your attention. Focusing on making sure that your children prize and love Christ takes vitality from you sometimes. You will spend your time and your money differently because this is your treasure. But look, in heaven, those souls will be with you. And if you shared the gospel with them and they didn't trust Christ, but you earnestly love them, Jesus will be pleased with you. And when you get there, he'll say, Well done, good and faithful servant. I saw that sacrifice. For me, you vindicated my judgment. What else are these treasures, rewards that God gives to his people? I don't want to press this too far because he doesn't say Much about it. He says a little bit in other places. But as we sacrifice for the sake of obeying Christ and honoring Christ, Christ does promise certain rewards for following Him. She shmoots all these treasures. As a result of her sacrifice. That's the lady I told you about at the beginning. As a result of her sacrifice, she saw not only another opium refuge established, but a church. And that church grew, and the city of Cuo Chau actually became a major missionary station And and missionaries went there and ministered there for decades of gospel advance as a result. Mrs. She has her treasures in heaven, and it only cost her her treasures Trinkets here on earth. What a good return on investment. Far better than a four oh one K. So as you if we look at verse twenty-one, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. What is he saying? As you invest in those things that will last into eternity, and you treasure them in your heart, you're going to find it easier to part with earthly treasure And you're going to find yourself longing more and more to be in heaven with those people who have gone before you, that you fellowship with and enjoyed Christ with together. I have friends that have already departed to be with the Lord. I have family members who are in heaven, and I look forward to talking to them about Jesus after we've both seen his face. I trust that that is the same for you if you've known the Lord for some time. If you win somebody to Christ, the joy that that brings, the thought of getting to present them to Christ. In eternity. What a joy. That's where your heart will be. And if you find yourself Thinking more and more, I want to hear King Jesus say, Well done, good and faithful servant. You're wondering maybe what those rewards are that he's kind of just hinted at Your thoughts keep going there more and more. You've been storing up treasures not here on earth but in heaven, and that's where you find your heart set more and more. Now, one implication of this, the more you invest in eternity and less on earth the easier it gets to make more and even bigger investments. So if you're let me ask you, are you frustrated that you find evangelism hard? Do you find it hard to share the gospel? Is it hard to start those conversations? If you find it trust uh find it frustrating, right, try investing in eternity in some other ways as well, some maybe even smaller ways. But as you do more of that, like as you part with your earthly treasures in order to do that, perhaps you decide, I'm struggling to share the gospel here, but I know that I can write a a check that will maybe hurt a little bit. And I'm gonna have to forgo my Starbucks. But I I can I can give that to I wasn't a joke. You can you can you can forgo st Starbucks for the kingdom of God. And and I'm gonna I'm going to up my giving to to a missionary so that they can take the gospel to to a place where it's not gone before. Our guest speaker last week. You can take the gospel gospel to the Himalayas, for instance, by by giving. And when you find yourself doing that, and you're you're you're parting from your earthly treasure and you're you Your ha your treasure in heaven is becoming more and more built up there. You will find yourself, if I'm understanding this scripture rightly, and I think if I'm interpreting my own experience rightly, Then you will find it easier to share the gospel. Because your treasures are there more and more and they're getting bigger, and you start saying, Yeah, I don't care anymore. I don't care if they think I'm a weirdo. I'm going to share this with them because I I want them to be there too I want them to be part of my treasure horde. Be like that dragon and the hobbit, storing up for yourself treasure, not in some cold mountain underneath the ground. But in heaven. competing lamps, two competing treasures, two competing lamps. And this one really is just an another illustration, another way of explaining the first point. I think this feels a little harder to understand. The lamp of the body is the eye. If therefore your eye is good, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in you How great is that darkness? Think of the things that you look at. Think of your eyes as kind of being like a way of passing what you look at into your into your mind, right? Into your brain. It's also that the things that you're beholding are are going into your soul, like your eyes are windows, and the light is coming through and enlightening your soul. So Jesus is speaking of letting light into your inner self. your immaterial part of you that will live forever. Your eye takes in light, it affects you internally, and he's so really he's speaking in terms of your heart and its desires, just like he was in the first three verses. The word translated there good is haploos, hopluse, and it occurs only twice in the New Testament. It carries the idea of sincerity and generosity. The ki the King James uh trans used to translate it single. And in context, it's actually not a bad translation, but it feels a little foreign. Because it's conveying the idea of being s fixed singly on one thing. You're you're you're you're fixated on the right thing. You're fixated on on God and his kingdom if you have a good land. And remember, the theme of God's kingdom, of Christ's kingdom, runs throughout this whole sermon. It's set on your king, it's set on your master, Jesus. So on the one on the other hand, if you don't have a single eye, but you have a roving eye, and you're you're looking for things that will satisfy you, you're treasuring earthly things. Your lamp is bad. But here's the hard thing, the scary thing, the dangerous thing. He says, if therefore that the light that is in you is darkness, How great is that darkness? That's not a question. That's an exclamation. Oh, how great that darkness is. If you think that you are right with God. You think you have light. But that light's not actually light, it's darkness. You're a blind man, dude. Do you call yourself a Christian? Then let me ask you, is Christ satisfying you, or are you trying to satisfy yourself with other things, with your things, or or with your career and your hobbies. Perhaps you're you're really trying to satisfy your desires on your family. And family is such a good gift from God. But it's not God. It's not Christ. If you worship your children or your grandchildren or your wife or your husband, they won't fulfill that place that only God should have. The greatest thing to set your desires upon in life is Christ. So set the eye of your heart, the lamp of your soul upon him. But I do want to recognize that Jesus mentions here the eyes. And we need to be mindful of what we're looking at. Don't let your eyes lead you to the shiny things that won't satisfy you. The obvious implication here is that men but women too, we need to turn our eyes away from lustful objects. Because that will shipwreck our faith. That will turn us away from our our good God. So many young people who who start by making a profession of faith and they they get baptized. They're they're active in their youth group. But sex is an idol. And as they as they move out and they want to move in with somebody that they're not married to And live in a w live as though they are. We find that they turn away from Christ. This is happening over and over again. We need to tear down these ideas. Idols. And we need to not let our eyes lead us away from our God. So the two lamps are really an illustration of those two types of treasure. Now Jesus will take us a step further to tell us what these treasures become. They become masters. And we are forced to choose between two masters, God or wealth. No one can serve two masters, he says in verse 23. for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will be loyal to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and Mammon. If you wonder about that funny word mammon, it's really just uh a uh an English version of the Greek word. Uh it really means wealth or or riches or money. Most modern translations say money or wealth. But we need to focus on that first one. No one can serve two masters the uh the Greek word here is I'm I'm I don't like to say a lot of Greek words, but I know some of you like it. I promise I'm not trying to sound smart, but you may know this. I'm not saying I am smart, but you may know this word. Do you know the word doulos? That's just one of those Greek words we do tend to know. Uh and that means slave. In the New King James, when you work your way through the epistles, you see numerous times the Apostle Paul saying, I am a bondservant of Christ. It's translated bondservant there. It means slave. Same idea. He's a servant, but he's bound, right? He's not like a servant like in Ba downton Abbey, right? Or upstairs, downstairs. or some period drama that you may have seen. Not like that. He's not wearing a livery and he's he he's he's not free to come and go as he pleased. He is enslaved to Christ. And that is the word he this is the verb form of that is dululo. Whoever or whatever you set your driving desires on, the things you're treasuring up in verses 19 through 21. The things you're constantly thinking about or even looking at in verses 22 and 23, they become your master. You are enslaved to them. No one can be enslaved to two masters. You are called to be Jesus' slave. And I know we recoil at that word, and our our nation especially, the whole world, but our nation especially has a disgusting history with slavery. But hear the biblical term, alright? Jesus spent his blood and his life and his righteousness to purchase you for his kingdom. If you ask Jesus to be your Savior, you are submitting to him right then and there. You are submitting to him to make him your master, to make him your Lord. You are submitting to be his slave. He must be your master as he cannot be your savior without being your master. There is a lie that says, I'll take Jesus as my savior, but not as my master. There are good men who have said wrong things about this. If you will have Jesus as your Savior, you must take all of Jesus. He will be your master as well. He will be your Lord. And so we follow him. But here's the good news, Jesus is a good master. He's a gentle master. Do you know what he says about that? He says later in chapter 11 of this gospel. Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart. You know that book, Gentle and Lowly, that's where this comes from. And you will find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy and my burden is light. There is a burden. He will lay it on you. There is a yoke like oxen that would have a big wooden thing put on their neck and And yoked to another oxen. There is a yoke, you'll be yoked to Christ. But if it's an easy yoke, and it's a light burden, and it's good, and he's gentle and lowly and generous and kind. If you call yourself Christ's slave, you're in good company. You might not like to use that word, but you're in good company. Paul said it. Peter said it. James the brother of Jesus said it. Jude the brother of Jesus said it. And it was said about others. Apaphroditus. I believe in Esimus as well. They all were called or called themselves slaves of Christ, bondservants of Christ. So what's Jesus saying? Determined to follow God, deny your desire for wealth. You have to choose. And if you won't choose, you will find yourself if you won't choose God as your master. You will either at some point you will find yourself at a crossroads and you say, you know what, forget it. I'm gone. And you go after wealth. Or you will find yourself slowly, gently rolling along, not fighting the current, and suddenly you'll wake up one day, maybe in eternity And you find find that you were never actually following Jesus. You were calling yourself a Christian, where it was easy to. But you weren't doing the costly things. You weren't treasuring him. You weren't living for him. Let's make the decision today that our priority will not be to accumulating wealth here on earth. Don't be like the missionary candidates who decided real people have decided this. They look into the possibility of f of of following the Lord to a foreign mission people where people are dying without the gospel. And then they decide, you know what, we're not gonna go there and they tell the recruiters for the the mission board we're not going and they But why not? You're you're perfectly qualified. We've talked about this. You seem like you want that. And they say, Yeah, but if we spend our lives overseas in that mission field, we're not going to have a good retirement plan. Saving for retirement, it's not unimportant. There may be a time when you cannot work. You need to have some nested behind you. But these folks counted the cost of following Christ's calling to ministry and decided that they would not lay up treasures in heaven. They needed a 401k on earth instead. Don't be like them. Whatever you set your desires on. That's the theme of this passage. Whatever you set your desires on will master you. You may not realize it at the moment. They will master you. So Christians must treasure God above all else. Well you're not worthy of the name Christian. You're not worthy of bearing his name Christ. Let me ask you what what tends to prevent you from prioritizing the Lord? We've talked about wealth. We've talked about money. Money. What about your time? Say time is money, right? What about your time? When you have days When you have days where you don't get to spend time alone with God, most of us when we're we're really tr seeking to prioritize our time with the Lord, right? But but then you have an off day for whatever reason, you're sick or you're Just your schedule's totally jammed, or you just you make a stupid, selfish decision and you don't have time with the Lord. What what are those days like for you? Like, does it pain you when you don't get a day, even if it was because you made a simple decision, right? Does it pain you when you didn't get time with the Lord? Or do you secretly relish the freedom that you have with your time? Is God your master? Or is your phone controlling you? Do you just find your phone your your time sinking into doom scrolling and watching funny cat videos? And then you look up and it's, oh my goodness, it's been like two hours and forty-five minutes. And I should have been in bed half an hour ago. And I never had that time with the Lord. When that happens, are you grateful for it? Secretly, maybe even a bit guilty that you feel glad. Well, at least I got my PlayStation time in. At least I got to finish the game. Or or does it does it hurt? Does it ache? Because that would that would be a a a clue that perhaps you really do treasure God. Not aches out of guilt, because you know you should, but you really don't want to. Does it ache that I really did intend to read the book of Ezekiel today? I want I want to hear God's word to me. In fact, I'm not enjoying Ezekiel because it it hurts all of those all of that judgment, but I need to hear it. I know I need to hear it. I need to pour out my my my heart in prayer. I've been stupid wasting my time like this. I never experienced what the time is like. I don't watch cat videos, but I watch equally stupid things. Let me ask you this. The the FIFA World Cup's coming up this summer. What are you gonna do when there's a game on Sunday? Will you worship sorry I said the wrong scene. Who will you worship when there's a World Cup game during church hour? Who are you gonna worship? You gonna worship the game? You gonna worship worship the players? Are you gonna worship Christ? You will worship that day. You will Will it be the God who gave his son to die for you? Will it be a stupid game where they kick a ball through two posts? I like sports too. For me it's more hockey pucks than soccer balls, but it's just a game. Are we really going to treasure that above our our master? Who gave his life for us? And I know that these questions aren't fun to hear. Who are you serving? Who gets the most of your time? Where do you give the first of your money? Not the second or the last. Things get tight, what do you cut first? You're giving the missions or your streaming plans? I know these aren't fun to hear. I don't like asking them, by the way. I don't like being vacuumed. I'm doing it because I love you. And at the end of this amazing sermon, the second to last section, Jesus says something Terrifying. He says, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father in heaven. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, we have we not pa prophesied in your name, cast out demons in your name, and done many wonders in your name. Then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. See, those people said they loved Jesus. They even did certain things in his name, but evidently he was not their master. They served, they duluoed, they f enslaved themselves for other masters. And his response reflected that. I will declare to them, I never knew You depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. They didn't practice godly things because their master was not godly. Their master was not god. There's a way for you to hear this message and not actually hear this message. I'm almost done, I promise. You could go away from the service thinking quite genuinely, the pastor's saying I shouldn't be materialistic. That's a good message. I need to make sure I don't love my things too much. I I I don't think I do. But but not a whole lot anyway. But but I can probably do better. So I'm gonna pray and I'm gonna ask God to help me not be materialistic. And you do. And you're genuine, you pray earnestly. You're not being unhypocritical about that. You don't want to let your things master you. But after you've prayed, you stop thinking about the implications of the message, and you start thinking about how you're going to spend the rest of the day, how you need to return the message. as close to old navy and and make sure you make your kids school lunches for tomorrow and and make sure that you're done in time to watch the Spurs game tonight. And that would be a superficial Understanding of this message because the whole point here is yeah, Jesus is talking about materialism, but he's talking about more than just materialism. to stop thinking about life merely in terms of the here and now and the what can I see and and that we call that temporal life. He wants to think us have us think about eternal life, not just the the the years that stretch across a timeline God made you and me for life that stretches beyond the timeline, beyond temporal life. He made you immortal He made you everlast he made you for everlasting life. He intends for you to enter into eternity, and you will enter into eternity, but it might not be with him We need to think differently then. We need to think like immortals, not mortals. We need to recognize our life is more than just a It goes on forever. And you will live forever in one of two places, either in heaven, which one day will be reunited to earth, so that you live with God in a heaven-earth, a heavenly earth Which is basically a Garden of Eden the size of the planet, and I assume we'll do space exploration and colonize other worlds and those will become edenic too. Or you'll spend it in the lake of fire. Which for shorthand we tend to call hell. You will live forever in one of these two places. And the Lord Jesus came into this world to rescue us from the lake of fire and bring us into heaven. If we trust him. So in order for us to get there, he tells us, he's been telling us for the last forty-five minutes. Start living for heaven now. Don't live for your life now and then you'll focus on heaven when you get there. You might miss the mark. You might miss the destination. The pro predominant way of thinking, at least among Americans, is one that was summed up perfectly by a high school friend of mine. A few years ago, posted publicly for all to see on Facebook. He said, Life is too short not to do what makes you happy. And he said that in the context of encouraging somebody to mutilate his body Do what makes you happy because life is short. You know what? He's he's right depending on on how you define it. If you define life this way, that it's too short, then his conclusion is astoundingly wrong, right? Because life is not short, it goes on forever. Don't believe the lie that life is constrained to 70 to 100 years. But if you define life as lasting forever in one of two actual geographic locations, heaven or the lake of fire, Then my friend's conclusion is terrifically correct. Do what makes you happy. I'm telling you that. Do what makes you happy, but only do what will serve your eternal happiness, not your temporal happiness. Do what is costly now, so that you may delight in eternity in Christ and all of those treasures that you accumulate now. It's not enough, my friend, to just declare yourself a Christian. If you're a Christian, your heart, your affections, your mind, your will, it all goes and belongs to Jesus Christ. He is the Lord. And if you're attempting to serve two masters, To have Christ while treasuring something more, you're probably not going to have much peace doing that. And at some point you may find you've been deceiving or and deluding yourself. And you may find that the the the price becomes more costly the longer you wait to decide. I'm not saying you have to sell everything. I'm not saying you have to take a lower-paying job. I'm saying focus your desires. It's not the money that's evil, it's the love of it that's evil. It's your motive. What are you living for? Determine now I'm going to live for Christ. If that means that my bank account goes down or my precious collection or my garage diminishes, it's okay if I can have Christ. Let's pray.