Turn your Bibles to Psalm one hundred and thirty. We'll be looking at that together today. And uh very thankful, Pastor Rob, for the the opportunity to uh preach from the word, thankful for the Warm welcome and uh cannot express what a blessing it is to be back and see you all, see uh many familiar faces. We've missed you a lot. It's like a a family reunion. Getting to come back and and see you all again. And uh you mean a lot to us. We pray for you often and also just give thanks because uh Pastor Rob and his family are a big answer to prayer. Um just seeing how God has brought him here and is working in and through their family as they they come and uh thankful for God's provision there as well. And so uh yes we we love And miss you all and uh look forward to just getting to visit with you more as we're here. And uh happy Father's Day to you all as well. Um father myself have learned the the joys and adventures of being a dad and leading children and uh learning all along the way. Um there's nothing that teaches me how much I don't know other than being a dad and uh for the longest time my my kids thought I was one of the smartest people ever and I try to tell them that I am but they're they're starting to doubt that Um but uh it's interesting because uh we're gonna talk uh titled today's message is Out of the Depths. It's from the first verse of Psalm 130, but uh also our song in the waiting looking at the just the emphasis of the psalm before us and the emphasis on waiting and waiting is heart and I don't I don't like waiting at all. Um in fact I I hate waiting. I it tests my patience all the time, like, uh give it to me and give it to me now, get out of my way. I'm in a hurry Come on, let's go. Um nothing tests that so much like driving. And uh so uh it's a continual test in my life. Uh but there there's actually uh daily opportunities to wait and even as a parent, um being a dad and all the time waiting on my kids, like, okay, let's go, uh get ready I told you to get ready, how long ago? Um can you can you hurry up and clean your room? Can you hurry up and and why why haven't you done this yet? And on the flip side, uh kids waiting on Their parents waiting on dad, like, come on dad, uh when can we have this? When can we do this? Uh we we've been asking for this. But uh just the immediacy of our culture and how much we want things right away. Uh can't can't even wait for fast food, can't wait on the stoplights to turn so we can go Uh why is that? I uh time wasted. Like come on. Uh there's there's gotta be how can I make the most of my time because uh m my dollar doesn't go as far as my my seconds Do. My my seconds matter, so don't waste my time. It's a challenge. In fact, um there's a lot of things we wait for. Um perhaps uh you're in the stage where you might be waiting for I can't wait till I get my driver's license. I've just been waiting for that opportunity to be behind the wheel of the car and to go where I want to and uh get around just that much easier. Um being waiting on oh I can't wait till I graduate because once I graduate then uh finally I'm out of school I can put that behind me and not have to deal with that anymore. Um just waiting for my own freedom. Like I I I wanna be able to not be under anybody else's thumb, under anybody else's authority. I wanna uh live my life the way I want to. I won't I can't wait until I'm an adult and uh hand in hand with that freedom to get to do what I want, make my own decisions. By the way, um being adult is not always cracked up to be, you get freedom, but you get all these responsibilities that weigh far more than the freedom you get. Oh, I can't wait till I maybe there's a a a job I've been waiting for and be able to get a hold of that job or uh I can't wait till I get married and finally cross that line. I can't wait till I have kids. Um I can't wait till I retire. What what's the next stage? It doesn't matter where we are in life. There's something we want to attain just beyond And like a struggle to wait for when that would come and I can't wait for maybe I've been praying for health, or maybe I'm praying for some sort of answers or some sort of relief. For some sort of happiness and Lord uh uh I need it and I need it now. I cannot wait. Well there's a lot of as you look in the scripture in the pages of scripture, just a quick glimpse is actually Many things in the Bible, the theme of waiting that we're waiting for. First of all, we're waiting together for Christ's return, the the promise that Jesus has given us that He will be back and and uh it's not right now. It could be today, it could be tomorrow, but it it could be how much longer? But having to wait is it's such a challenge. But he gives us that That promise second uh or sorry, Titus two thirteen says we're waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. But we're waiting for that. When's the going to come? We wait with that hope and wait with that trust. We're also, according to Romans 8. 23, we're waiting for the redemption of our bodies. And I feel it every day the aches and pains. But we ourselves who are the first fruits of the Spirit, we groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption of sons, the redemption of our bodies. I'm waiting for that. I feel it now. It hasn't come yet. Still waiting. We're also waiting for new heavens and new earth. Another promise of God that we can wait with anticipation, but it has not Arrived yet. 2 Peter 3. 13 tells us that promise. But according to his promise, we are waiting for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. It's coming, but it's not here yet. We'll keep waiting for it. We're also waiting for the final judgment. Also, not here yet, according to James 5, 7 through 9. In fact, James 5. 9 says this. Says, do not grumble against one another, brothers, so that you may not be judged. Behold, the judge is standing at the door. But verse seven says, Be patient, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. Just like the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, being patient. There's a a waiting process. Yes. And it can be Painful and especially if you struggle with the impatience or you're waiting for that relief. I I want it now and and just okay, we look around the world around us and We're waiting for God's judgment, waiting for God to step in and to make it right again. We're also waiting for, according to First Peter 1 4, our inheritance in Christ. So something great is coming. We wait for those promises. It says to an inheritance that's imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you. Waiting for that promise that we will get to receive one day. Amen. But it is a lot about waiting. When will we get hold of that? So I'm going to read again Psalm 100 And I I want to hear the tone of this psalmist who's crying out. There's certainly a a struggle, a desperation behind and and uh in fact In fact a song in the songbook, so don't miss that these are songs that would be sung not just by the psalmist himself, but the the songs of Israel as they would sing together. I'll give you a little more background of that in a bit. But here how he's waiting, but also waiting with anticipation. I'm going to start with uh this little part at the beginning is also inspired Part of it, a song of ascent. Out of the depths I cry to you, O Lord. Oh Lord, hear my voice. Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my please For mercy. If you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? But with you, there is forgiveness. I wait for the Lord. My soul waits. In his word I hope. My soul waits for the Lord more than watchmen for the morning. More than watchmen for the morning. O Israel, hope in the Lord. For with the Lord there is steadfast love, and with him is plentiful redemption, and he will redeem Israel from all his iniquities. Invite you to pray with me. Well, Father, thank you for your word. Lord May the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight. O Lord, my rock, my redeemer, proof bless the preaching of your word today as we look into it together. In Jesus' name. Amen. Psalm one hundred thirty, a great um song that we're equipped with to turn to the pages of study, these inspired words. And we don't know a lot of the context of this song. We know that it's a common song that Israel would sing together and that emphasis again on waiting. Now want to think a little bit about what it means to wait as we get started. The English dictionary would put it this way. Waiting means to remain inactive or In a state of repose as until something expected happens. Look forward to eagerly. I'm waiting, and I know something's gonna come, and I can't wait till it happens. But um Just want to frame it a little more from a biblical perspective. From Gott Questions, they explain it this way. Waiting means exercising a patient, confident Trust in the Lord even amid trouble. Mark Brogrop, uh an author and former pastor, says this way waiting means living on what I know to be true about God when I don't know what's true about my life. That frames a little bit there's there's uncertainty, but I can turn to there's there's truth that I I know. Theologian Andrew Murray puts it this way: it's the confession of our trust that our God will in his time come to our help. It's the quiet resting in him. And so I'm going to challenge us with that this morning to think about how we wait and what are we hoping in in the midst of the wait. Might be struggling with impatience, but how do we How are we going to respond in the midst of that struggle of waiting, whatever it is we're waiting for? Again, daily occurrences, the small things and the big things, big picture of life, but there's constant waiting going on. And really what I want us to take from the psalm this morning as we look together is that we ought to cherish the Lord in our waiting. Cherish the Lord in our waiting you're waiting and and that's gonna be a challenge because when you when you're waiting for something you might find that actually what I'm craving the most, what I'm putting my most delight in And cherishing it is it's in that anticipated thing that I would hope that I would receive. Uh whether it's it's my food, uh just once that microwave dings and I can get a hold of that food or w whether it's it's the relief of this health situation that I'm in or the coming of of age when I can finally wh whatever it might be, but that ought not be the object of my delight so much as to be able to in that waiting enjoy something far better. To cherish the Lord in your waiting. Again, notice right here, folks particularly on verse 5 and 6. He says, I wait for the Lord. My soul waits. Ultimately what he's waiting for is the Lord himself. Not On what the Lord would deliver, not on the receiving of the desire, but on the Lord Himself. And in His word, I hope that we're equipped with the truth of God's word that that helps us in the midst of that. And he says, my soul waits for the Lord, and there's an echo here. More than the watchman for the morning. More than the watchman for the morning. For the coming of the morning. Uh this is the one who is keeping watch for the protection of Israel, keep making sure that all is safe. And uh just for the the morning sun rising And what does that mean for him? Well first it means he gets to get off work, he gets to go home, he gets to get his rest. But it also means we made it through the night. Safely the all the concerns we we've passed and and God has cared for us through it all. So just that in the midst of that, the anticipation but the struggle and God has brought us through. Cherish the Lord in your waiting. And so we're going to see in the midst of this three postures, three heart responses that enable us to And again, thinking I I I want to keep it before us. What what kind of waiting is that? Because it's easy to read through the psalm, like, ah, I don't I Identify with that struggle, but that's the beauty of the psalm. We don't know the context. We don't know what the psalmist was going through, whether it was uh a a s relational struggle, the a national struggle of of Israel at war, what what's going on? But no matter what it is, I mean there's not an escaping, a bypassing, there's no quick solution that Big picture or little picture awaiting. Might be the the nine months of pregnancy and anticipating the arrival of the little one. It might be illness or disability. that there there's no guarantee when will this let up. It might be just I'm waiting for my vacation so that the the stress of my job I can put behind me at least for a week or two. It might be uh my chance to finally get to go on a a date or to have a job opportunity. Or might be my my kids that I have not trusted in the Lord or have wandered away from the faith and and God when are you going to intervene the desires or changes that might come? But it's a reminder that God has a purpose In the process of waiting, to come to Him to cherish and enjoy Him and His presence in the midst. So let's look at three heart postures that we can have in the midst of waiting to cherish Him. First is this that we learn to cry for mercy. Cherish the Lord in your waiting as you cry for mercy, you get to know Him in the Now look with me at first session focus once again. We're told it's a song of a sense. We don't get much of a context. We don't know who the author is we don't know what's going on. But um uh a song of ascent um is likely something that Israel would sing particularly as they're heading in on their pilgrimage to Israel. celebrate some of the feasts. And there's fifteen Psalms, um Psalm one twenty through one thirty-four, uh as part of this for their holy feasts each year, perhaps three of them. And uh it's as Are heading into Israel. It's a preparation of their hearts. It's a turning to God as they're focused on Him and heading to worship and celebrate Him. And uh it's been observed there's likely a pattern in these Song Psalms of Ascent of sets of three where the first is one of distress, the next is one of reliance, and then one finally of resolve. Um is describ By J. Alec Mot here to see that these first four sets particularly. Uh first Psalm focuses on stress or distress. Second looks at God's power to save. The third brings us home. And so if Um just kind of illustrating that point. Um the first of these Psalm one twenty illustrates distress, Psalm one twenty three one of contempt, Psalm one twenty-six One of weeping, Psalm one twenty-nine, one of affliction. And then heading into the the next um the middle of them. Psalm one twenty one depicts a journey. Psalm one hundred twenty four depicts a Escape, Psalm 127 depicts a building process, and Psalm 130 depicts this waiting in the midst. And then one of resolve, 122 says is depicts peace and calm. Same as 125 and 128 and 131, the arrival of have a rest, a peace, a calm about me. Perhaps you've you struggle with that. uh we had our scripture reading from Jonah too earlier and that that's one illustration that you've got the prophet Jonah who said no Lord I'm not going and by God's inter Intervention uh both of judgment and of mercy. Jonah's cast and then he's rescued by this whale, but he's calling out from from the belly out And so we had that similar depiction Jonah needs to cry for mercy, and for him it's one where he's wanted to be able to do that. And we might have our own struggles what brought us to that point, but in the midst of the waiting, the need to Where are we looking for the help? Where are we looking for hope? We need to turn our attention to the Lord and cry out for mercy to Him. We might have different feelings of Deep waters that we might be coming from in the midst of the struggle of waiting. So here's a few possibility of that, a few categories. One might be that of un Uncertainty. I don't know about you. It's so hard to not have the answers when I am waiting, but I don't know what's going on. Like Lord, what are you doing? Lord, where are you? I don't know No, but what I really want is I want answers. I wish I could just if I knew anytime I was waiting, like here's how it's gonna turn out, I've got the guaranteed outcome and And so it's just a matter of in this much time, this is exactly what's going to happen, and I could have the peace and comfort of that certainty, having those answers. Another thing that makes waiting hard is when there are delays. When when I want something and I want it now. Um why hasn't it come yet? I I've been Anticipate it, it should have, but but I don't know how much longer and I don't know why it hasn't come yet. Lord, where are you? What are you doing? Other feelings of deep waters might be that of disappointment. Um I this is what I expected. I thought this is how it was gonna turn out. I it was supposed to be my way, my desire, my timing That's not how it turned out. What happened? What went wrong? The disappointment also that the deep waters of pain. This hurts. I the the the pain of whatever struggle that I'm going through and I want relief, I want comfort, I want healing. When's it going to come? Another one is that of power. And and maybe one of these is harder for you than the other. Like uh man, if I could just be in control, uh if I if I had the power, the control to fix this and I could make it happen the way that That I want to. Well, waiting tests us in all these areas. But I don't get the certainty. I don't get to have what I want right now. I don't get my I don't get comfort and healing whenever I want. I don't get the control in the midst. But I get something better. I get the presence of the Lord who I can call out to any time. No matter when it feels like I'm drowning, no matter when it feels like I'm going under that He's there. In fact there there's a saying, you cannot buy mana in bulk. Like if if I could just go to Costco and get my big set of mana, if you're not familiar with mana, that's in the The Old Testament uh Israel was wandering in the wilderness and God would provide give us this day our daily bread. God would provide bread for them that would bring down from the sky. Just enough for that day. They couldn't save up for the next week a and live off that. Nope. some of the hardest way to learn dependence because it takes away my control, it takes away my certainty, my assurance. I'm gonna have to trust that God will provide again tomorrow. And I'm each step of the way as I wait on him to know I've got to turn to him. I wish I could uh save up save money, save time, be more efficient, but God has a better plan. And so instead we're called to intentionally wait. That we have a call to the Lord who hears us, who knows. And so The psalmist says, I cry to you, and he pleads, Lord, hear my voice, listen to my pleas for mercy. And God is a God of mercy, but that doesn't look the way we might always want it to, but God's mercy is far better. Our God has that character. And so we have that opportunity as well to let this be Our song. Again, we're equipped with a song to sing to the Lord, to cry out to Him, and we can bring our laments to God. We can bring our cries asking for mercy Mercy we can pray and ask for God's help, but it's one of of depending on Him and trusting that uh His mercy is gonna take many shapes. So uh cherish the Lord in your waiting. That's our first is the cry for mercy, but second We can stand with fear. That is a heart posture that will help us to enjoy and delight in God that much more, even when we're stuck in the midst, having to wait. From pre-modern times to now has increased by a factor of 100. The speed of communications is skyrocketed by a factor of 10 million in the 20th century. And data Transmission has soared by a factor of around ten billion. Now if that's not helpful for perspective, I mean how I assume all of us use the internet in Some form and I don't know about you, but I I get impatient when it takes seconds to load that web page. Like uh it needs to be the quarter of a second or it's too long and I'm frustrated. What's to work on what's wrong with my computer, what's wrong with my phone? When we had no problem with it taking two seconds in 2009 and four seconds in 2006. In fact that's depicted by Chelsea Wald who writes an article called Why Your Brain Hates Slow Pokes putting into perspective of like we are trained for immediacy. Give it to me. Uh why is it taking So long now. Slow drivers test me. Slow internet tests me. Slow grocery lines test me. The slow fast food like Why isn't it fast enough? Well, as we as we continue on, um I have to ask the question. Perhaps you wondered this too. What kind of God would make us wait? Lord, what what don't you understand my needs? Don't you understand uh Like, who are you, Lord? And and putting that into perspective, first of all, what kind of God makes us wait is first of all a God who works for us. If you want to hold your place and turn to Isaiah 64 4, a God who works from us. It says From of old no one has heard or perceived by the ear, no eye has seen a God God besides you who acts for those who wait for him. God is at work. And um sometimes I might struggle with trusting that. I might struggle with with doubt like Lord what are you doing? Because um and and God knows in the midst and he's working in ways we can't see and he's working intentionally for some of our biggest needs. And he's working individually on me and on you in that waiting. But he's also working collectively on what he he's he's in the little picture and the Big picture as well, and we need to trust that God is working for us in the middle of the way. There is purpose in the process. And I don't like to have to wait, but God's going to do something far more valuable. And it also shows us that God is a God who works with forgiveness and with steadfast love. Forgiveness and steadfast love. He acts for those who wait for him. But is we continue in verse three and four. It says this If you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord Who could stand? But with you there is forgiveness that you may be feared. Verse 7, again, with the Lord there is steadfast love. To look at the character of God. He's a merciful God. He's a forgiving God. He is a loving God. And if that's the kind of God who's making me wait, then I can trust in a God with that character. I can trust and hope in him, cry out to him, but also have a certain response to who he is that I would stand in fear of this God. Not a a demand God give it to me now, but a fear that knows who he is, that he is greater and in awe of him. Sometimes we might struggle with an illusion of God that he's just kicked back on the couch. He's quite comfortable. He's he's content. And uh when we're desperately waiting on him, he's doing us Okay, Lord, uh, can you get up and help me out? But uh again, the reminder that God is at work and we need to change our perspective Change your perspective on who are you seeing God as, to note the character of God, to see his mercy, his love, his forgiveness, which changes it from the whole notion that I don't deserve waiting. You realize that? When you're impatient, when you're frustrated, when you're agonizing, get out of my way Or what's going on how much longer? What's behind that? A heart of why should I have to wait? Do you have any idea who I am? Change in perspective from I don't deserve waiting to more about I don't deserve receiving. Like to be able to get hold of something and what a Blessing that is, and see the provider who gives it to me, and not because I deserve it, but because of his mercy, because of his love poured out of me And that's what's behind these verses here. If you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? It's a recognition. God is. Holy. And God knows. I mean, I can't imagine if there was a whiteboard up here, we get our screen and God's gonna put put up every single one of my sins in this past week, everything I've done wrong, everything I've thought wrong, I would be crawling out of here and h hope you never find me back. And that's the reality of I I'm I'm a sinner in desperate need of God's mercy and grace. Grace. I could not stand before him and and I I want to hide that from you guys, but God knows it all. And if He's going to hold those against me And have no mercy and forgiveness, I'd have no hope. And I certainly wouldn't be demanding, like, Lord, I don't want to have to wait an extra three seconds in line. But he goes on, but with you there is forgiveness that you may be feared. The reality of what God does for us. And it's right there In the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ, we were waiting the pages of the New Testament when God would send his Son Jesus, this holy and perfect man who was God God's own son lived a perfect life and how how long did he hang on the cross? Seconds, minutes, hours Bearing the punishment for sin on my behalf. The good news that he paid it in full, offering forgiveness, that I couldn't ever stand before God because I'm a sinner. But he died on my behalf to offer the gift of eternal life, having paid for sin in full. I don't deserve waiting. I don't deserve receiving seeing who God is and being able to turn to him with a song of awe, a song of worship, a song of praise that fears and delights in him And I can only stand because of what he has accomplished through his son Jesus. That's my hope. That's what drives me and that's what enables me even to wait. Trusting him in fear and awe of him. Finally, cherish the Lord in your waitings, crying for mercy, standing with fear, but also hope Hoping in redemption. And that's where he continues on with the final verses of our psalm as as he frames it verse five and six with that of waiting and hoping in His word, waiting on the Lord, but then heading into verse seven and eight. O Israel, hope in the Lord, for with the Lord there is steadfast love, and with him is plenty. The psalmist invites others to hope with him. And as Israel sings this on their pilgrimage in the Israel Israel they're preparing their hearts to hope in God's redemption, what he will accomplish. And that's an important reminder. Because again, what am I waiting for as I wait? What's my hope? Where's our hope as we wait? It's not, first of all, my hope isn't that it won't be long. Like I'm okay waiting as long as it's Not too long. And again, that it that can be kind of silly at times when it's the impatience of the small things, and it can be kind of serious at times, like I don't know how much longer I can walk through the agony of this broken relationship or the agony of this health struggle or the agony of of the the circumstances that I'm facing That weigh heavily upon me in the midst of these trials. But my hope isn't that it won't be long. My hope isn't that it'll end soon There's a greater hope. My hope isn't that I'll get what I want. Like, okay, I know I can't say it I I'm hoping in that, okay, God's gonna give me what I want As soon as he God might do it entirely different. God might have an entirely different plan that's far better than my desires. My hope isn't that I'll get the answers I need. Like I have all the information and now um I'm okay. My hope isn't in having my own control in the midst of it. But when I'm waiting, that might be what I'm grasping at. Like as long as I can get a hold of these, if I can have some sort of answers or control, then I'll be okay. Instead, my hope is in God's presence, in God's purpose, in God's promises. God's presence. God's purpose God's promises. Oh his Israel, hope in the Lord. For with the Lord there is steadfast love, and with him is plentiful redemption. And he will redeem Israel. Israel from all his iniquities. That means I might have to continue in the agony of the struggle. And it might be indefinite and I might have no answers along the way other than knowing who God is and trusting that says I'll work all things together for good. Okay. I don't know what that means or what that'll look like. But uh imagine uh uh a father speaking to his daughter and and this daughter is looking on the world and she's got the desire to keep up like oh I wish I could just um stay uh you know just like the world is um I want to um follow in their way and and live to my fullest life now and uh uh all the the partying, all the the music, all the the life that all these other high schoolers might be living and And the father um takes this rosebud and talks to his daughter and take starts forcing open the rosebud and he's getting to the the petals inside, but it's quite damaging As he does so. And he's telling her, Well, here's what what you're looking for in this life right now is you're trying to blossom and be someone you're not. And and you're forcing the way ahead to to to keep up. It's not God's timing. God would have you to wait, and God's got something beautiful for you in the right time. right way. Well much in the same way we we see God's timing is perfect and we can hope in his redemption that he's got coming and sing a song To that effect. A song that hopes in God's presence, hopes in God's purpose, hopes in God's promises. So cherish the love. Lord in your waiting, by crying for mercy, by standing with fear, hoping and redemption, because in the midst of That we get to see who God is. In the midst of that, we get to turn to a God that has all we need and can take care of us. In fact, when we Wait on the Lord. There's just a few uh notions to keep in mind as we get ready to close. We wait on the Lord. God shows his goodness. I'd encourage you to write these verses down and and Look him up to find God shows his goodness, Lamentations 3, 25, and 26, as we wait on him. As we wait on God, God gives us his peace. Philippians 4, 4 through 7. As we wait on the Lord, God renews our strength. Isaiah 40, verse 29 through 31. And as we wait on the Lord, Psalm forty one through three. I'd encourage you to write those down and look those up and see. Now you and I we we never choose like Hey, I just want a reason to have to wait. I'm gonna try to go find some way that I can wait on something instead of having it now. No, we we encounter situations where we're stuck. in the waiting. So we're not looking to how can we go wait, but as we're in the waiting, how can I trust the Lord and respond in faith and in the midst of it cherish Some of you might enjoy baking or or cooking or um I don't know if you've ever uh bake a cake. And so you get it all ready to go and then you slide that cake into the oven, but then you go ahead and just sit there right in front of the oven and like I can't can't wait until this is cake is done. I I can taste the cake already. I need it now. In fact, um I need a little more control. I need to see so I'm gonna keep the oven door open. So that while it's baking I can make fully certain that my cake is underway. I'm I'm ready, I'm ready. Is it the thirty seconds in is My cake ready? Like I've got to have it now. I I'm ready. Well y in fact uh you're gonna be stuck waiting without the the results you're wanting and and by having that oven door And that's often what we want to do in the midst of waiting is just have my hands right on it. So I can make fully sure that I can have what I want and have it now, but that's not how God works. And it's not going to come out the way that I'm wanting. And in fact, I'm going to miss what God's going to do in the process of waiting, how He's going to accomplish His purpose in the midst. So as we wait, we need to cry out to God. We remember who he is. We need to hope in his promises, but don't waste your waiting. Don't waste your waiting grasping for control, grasping for control For answers, demanding it now. But in the midst of waiting, trust the one who's always at work. You're going to encounter waiting this week. And I want to challenge you in the midst of that, turn it into a moment of worship. How will you delight in the Lord and cherish him in the midst of that? To love him more. to trust him more and to take delight in him, knowing that he's going to have something far better than just having my cake, whatever it is, right now. He's going to do something in that process. Lord, I trust you and hope in you. Let's pray together. Father, I thank you. Thank you so much for your perfect plan, your perfect purpose, your perfect will. And Lord, that's easy to pray, that's easy to say. But Lord I know the pain of waiting. I know the pain of having my patience tested. Lord, I know the struggle of the hurts of life because waiting is not easy. Well Lord, we thank you that you show us in the pages of Scripture that waiting has a reason. And we're not given all that information like, yeah. We're waiting because of this in this moment. It's hard not to have those answers, Lord, but I thank you that instead of equipping us with all the answers, you equip us with truth. You equip us with a knowledge of you that we can turn in your word to know who you are, Lord, and what you've already done. You've given us a hope in your truth. Son. You've poured out your love on us. Thank you for Jesus. Thank you that we don't have to wait to trust in him. We don't have to wait. To have an eternal hope. And because of that eternal hope, Lord, we're clinging to some of the greatest gifts of life. Knowing you and delighting in you. In your presence, that you are always with us. Father, we ask that you would help us in the midst. Help us to endure Help us to know your mercy and love. Help us to have a confidence in your redemption and your timing. And Lord, help us to surrender our desires to you. and delight in your perfect knowledge, your perfect purposes. We love you, Lord, and we thank you. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.