If you're not there already, please do turn with me to Matthew chapter five. If it's easier for you though to simply listen rather than read, whether it's on your phone or or or on the page. If it's easier for you simply to listen, then that is that is good. Go ahead and do that. We're in Matthew chapter five. We've been working our way through the what's called The Beatitudes, the start of Jesus' greatest sermon, the greatest sermon ever preached in all of history, the Sermon on the Mount, and the start of that sermon is known as the Beatitudes. I'm going to read to you verses one through twelve. We've been doing this for a few weeks now. And then we're going to dig into the last three verses of those Beatitudes. Starting in Matthew chapter. Chapter 5, verse 1. And seeing the multitudes, he went up on a mountain. And when he was seated, his disciples came to him. Then he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor and Spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness For they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Blessed are the peace those who are persecuted for righteousness's sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when they revile and persecute you and say all kinds of evil things against you falsely from My sake, rejoice and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so they per persecuted the prophets who were before you. A thirty-one-year-old British Bible translator stood before the Vizier of Tehran in Persia, what is now present-day Iran. He had a gift for the Shah and for his people. Translation of the Bible into Persian. There's a loud a large crowd of Muslim men around him as he spoke with the vizier. And they started Shouting at him as he defied their demands. Now the vizier had instructed Henry with an implied threat to say, God is God and Muhammad is the prophet of God. And what Henry said was, God is God. And Jesus is the Son of God. And the crowd, as you can imagine, started yelling. One voice called out and said, What will you say when your tongue is burnt out for blasphemy? I think I think it's pretty much miraculous that the crowd did not kill Henry Martin on that day. They didn't even arrest him. They dism dispersed muttering insults and threats, but they they left him un uh alone. He would die within a year, but of natural causes. And he stands in a centuries long line of men and women Brothers and sisters who've been persecuted for their devotion, their faithfulness to Jesus Christ, their commitment to Jesus. And in the passage before us This morning, Jesus is addressing a common struggle that we have in our hearts, and it's this. We don't like, if you're following in your bulletin, you can fill this in. We don't like we hate being insulted, excluded, slandered, and a good catch-all term for all of it, persecuted. Regardless of the reason, whether it's for good reasons or bad, we do not like being insulted, we don't like being gossiped about, we don't like being excluded. And yet the Lord Jesus Christ calls his people to the to face the plain fact that this stuff will happen if you love him. This stuff is Normal for Christians. If you're a genuine follower of Jesus Christ, you will have to deal with some form of persecution. If you've been a follower of Jesus Christ for some time Then you have dealt with some form of persecution. I hope you haven't been threatened as Henry Martin was with having your tongue burned out for blasphemy for being loyal to Christ. But perhaps you have been excluded. Perhaps you have lost some relationships. Perhaps you know the pain of being slandered. and gossiped about or called rude names because you love Jesus Christ. Or perhaps these experiences are foreign to you and you just learning of of who Jesus really is. And that's good. I want you to learn more of him today. Perhaps you have never and ne never will have to deal with physical suffering. You will at least have to suffer by words if you would be loyalty. of Christ. Sticks and stones can break my bones, but words can never hurt me. Did your kindergarten teacher lie to you like she lied to me? Right? It's just not true, is it Words hurt, I think sometimes they work wor they hurt worse than a compound fracture. I've had both. I've had my bones broken, not not out of devotion to Christ, just uh being careless on the soccer field. But I've had hurt words that have hurt me worse. Words spoken against us can hurt very bad Sadly, but Jesus Christ holds out hope for us, whether the persecution that you face for him is verbal or actually physical And this is really the message of this passage this morning. Christians should expect and celebrate. I know that sounds weird. Expect and celebrate persecution because their Savior Promises them the better reward of his presence. Now that is the truth we need to let sink into our brains and our hearts this morning. And perhaps Jesus anticipated it, being strange. Because we've been working our way through these Beatitudes and there is a logical progression. You start with recognizing that in yourself spiritually you have nothing to brag about before the Lord. You have nothing to give you comfort that you that you should be counted right with God. And the the the people who will be allowed to Dwell with Christ forever, already have been, if you've trusted in Him, then there was a point in your life where you recognized there is nothing good in me Nothing that would make me right with God. And you mourned over it. Verse 4, he says, Blessed are those who mourn. And when per perhaps you you wept over the fact That you see yourself keep sinning, and you don't seem to have any resource within yourself to stop yourself from doing that thing. You can't seem to restrain yourself from going to those locations on the internet. You don't seem to be able to to to restrain the words from coming out of your mouth. You you can't seem to overcome your innate sinful laziness or whatever it is And you mourn over it. And it makes you humbler, weaker, more meeker, more lowly. And he says, blessed are the meek. You hunger to be filled with righteousness. And he promises to do it. It makes you merciful. It it makes you not only brings you he He will bring you to peace with God. He he drives you to make peace between other people. He is working towards your purity and all of that. And the and all of These build upon each other. And he gets to the end, he says, Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God, those who are not only trying to restore peace between two people that are perhaps at odds with each other, but even trying to to bring them to God so that there'd be pe peace between them and God, right? All of these make logical sense when you stack them on top of each other. What is the logical connection between blessed are the peacemakers and blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake. I don't really see it. Right? You know what I think the logical connection is? It's that it It's counterintuitive. It's well to use a big uh $10 word, it's a contra expectation. It's the opposite of what you expect, and yet it's true Now this section of the of the Sermon on the Mountain is called the Beatitudes. If you've ever wondered why it's called the Beatitudes, that's just some big word we have in English. I think it's derived from Latin. That means it's a statement of blessing. And we have this list of blessings. And when Jesus says blessed here, you could translate that happy. And so this feels really counterintuitive, doesn't it? Happy are those who mourn, but especially happy are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake. A truth we need to let to think into our brains and hearts to smell morning is first of all that God's people must expect persecution and suffering. Let's define what persecution is then, because this is a word we hear a lot. It's It's tossed around in in church circles. It's spoken a lot on Fox News. What does it what does it mean? Baker Encyclopedia of the Bible just says this. It says infliction of suffering, injury, or death on another. And that's a pretty good Definition because it's very general, right? You hear how basic that is? Persecution doesn't necessarily have to do with religion. But that's how we associate it. Merriam Webster's 11th edition Collegiate Dictionary links persecution specifically to belief as the cause of suffering. But it says it can be For anything. Think of bullying in school. Bullying is the best analogy we have for persecution. That's exactly what it was. in school. I was bullied, but it wasn't because I was a Christian. I was bullied for for my looks and probably because I was about the nerdiest kid in my class. I got made fun of for for liking Spider-Man. That doesn't count as uh as um religious persecution, but as a form of persecution Why do kids get bullied? Any number of reasons, right? But often it's just because they happen to be on the line of sight of a mean kid, right Persecution is really just a big word that means bullying. And like bullying, it can be repetitive. Not necessarily. It's not wrong to say that you were persecuted because uh you uh you you you uh perhaps said something that honors Christ or just just reflected that you were different from the person that you are interacting with because of your love for for Christ and Someone says just something kind of rude. You don't see them again, but they're they're rude to you because you love Christ. Perhaps you try to offer a A word of comfort to somebody. Perhaps at a funeral or something, you tell them you're you're praying for them and they rebuff you. They make you feel stupid. But that's it. Right? That's a a A form of persecution, it's small. But we tend to think of persecution as repeated, targeted. And one way that you could translate the word here in verse 10, blessed is Blessed are those who are pursued for righteousness' sake. It has the idea of being sought after for suffering. Now that's that again, that's not the only definition, but that tends to be the idea behind persecution when we use it, is that we are being targeted targeted and pursued. That someone is trying to And Jesus says here, it's for righteousness's sake. It's not even necessarily inherently religious here, right? But he's saying that if you value righteousness, you will be persecuted. And that's a blessing. He says now, do you know experientially, do you get this? You get why that is the case? Like have have you ever been called a prude? Because yeah, you're you're not as experienced with with perhaps grass joking Or sexually perverse language? Have you ever been called innocent or or Goody two shoes or something like that. That's a form of persecution for the sake of righteousness. But then in verse eleven, Jesus connects it specifically to religion, doesn't he? Because he call it connects it to his person He says, Blessed are you when they revile and persecute you and say all kinds of evil against you falsely for my sake. Now he's connecting persecution In verse 10, he's speaking in general terms, persecution in general, for the sake of righteousness. And he says that when that happens, you should be happy because it's a reflection that the kingdom Of heaven belongs to you. You're going to inherit it. But then specifically in verse 11, he is connecting himself As the cause of your persecution. Now, righteousness and Jesus are definitely connected, aren't they? Right? Christians Who have come to see and know Jesus for who he really is have been changed by him. You've you've heard the truth about Jesus. You understand that when he died on the cross, he was dying and counted guilty, though though perfectly innocent, he was counted guilty not just for sin in general. But for your sin. He was counted guilty in your place. He was counted guilty of your fornication He was counted guilty of your lying. He was counted guilty of your mean-spiritedness, of your stinginess He suffered for it and he died for it. And when you understand that and you say, Jesus, I know this isn't right But would you take my penalty for me? Would you count what you paid to God on my behalf? Not only then is he counted guilty for your sin, but you are counted righteous for his obedience. And it's amazing, that's astounding, and it changes us, doesn't it? Because it does, because at that moment God God the Son has been suffering, and God the Father has been receiving his suffering as payment for your sin. And God the Spirit, the third person of the Trinity, unites you to Jesus And you are counted as righteous as he is, and his righteousness is another big theological word. I'll try to stop doing this, alright? Is imputed to you. You are counted righteousness Righteous while he is guilty counted guilty. The theological term is double imputation. He is counted guilty in your place, you are counted righteous in his place. And what he when he reun Unites you to Jesus and his righteousness, now you are actually intrinsically righteous and you start to become righteous outwardly. Declared righteous, but now you start becoming righteous. And it transforms you. So as a result, people around you who are not united to Christ, who are Still in their default setting, which is separated from God and sinful, they don't like it. Right? When you don't laugh at those crass jokes that your co-workers are making We don't participate in some of the same behaviors as those on your college campus. The people around you feel judged, don't they? And what do they do? They they judge you. Let's not discount that. Perhaps you've been called judgmental Because you're judgmental. But perhaps you've been called judgmental and you've tried to stay out of it. And it's simply your staying out of Things, impurities, that has caused people to feel that you're judgy even though you've not been, right? That if they lash out at you for that That's a form of persecution right there. That's what Jesus is talking about. When he says that that the world doesn't like the Light. It recoils from the light because it points out it its its darkness. That's what he's talking about. Different lifestyle, they'll be convicted by that different lifestyle and say something unkind. that awkward two and a half seconds, right? You're you're you're talking to your your neighbor over the fence. There's that awkward two seconds where you you don't give them the expected laugh And maybe things go fine after they go back to their house, but then you find out they've been saying just just mean things, maybe untrue things about you to the neighbors He thinks he's better than us. That's that's the sort of thing that happens. And so Jesus doubles down on that, right? He has to say it a couple uh a couple times because It's counterintuitive, right? And so he he doubles down on it and he says, here's what I'm talking about specifically. There are other kinds of persecution, but he's he's zeroes in not on the physical Physical getting beaten upside, right? He zeroes in on the words. Blessed are you when they revile and persecute you and say all kinds of evil against you falsely for my sake. Still got the general term persecution But what's he focusing on? He's focusing on words. Reviling. That'll be insults. That'd be rudeness. Slander. Certainly it can entail that physical suffering, but and not just the verbal stuff. But he is, this passage is focusing on the verbal. Jesus is speaking in detail about those spoken forms of persecution that if someone lies about you because you love Jesus, maybe they even just they misunderstood something about you and then they were they started repeating that that misassumption to others. What he's saying is this person Persecution is hurtful and it's hard to bear. And then he prescribes a counterintuitive approach to dealing with it. What does he say? And we'll get there in just a moment. We'll catch up on the outline. He says, Rejoice and be exceedingly glad. Does that not seem weird? He is by by prescribing such a counterintuitive approach, Jesus is kind of highlighting just how pernicious these things can be, how how harmful, how much can hurt, right? And and this stuff is hard to face if people have ever told lies about you. You may or may not have been offended, but If people you care about start believing those lies, you were probably offended. You were probably hurt. Why would they believe that about me? They know that's not true If your allies or your friends are agreeing with rumors about you, slander about you, gossip about you, then it's almost Guaranteed that you've been hurt by such things. Not necessarily the telling of the lies, but the believing of them. That's the especially hard part, isn't it? Now the prophet and Amos was accused of making up prophecies. They weren't good news to his people, uh to the people he was prophesying to, so they figured, well, they must be lies. They accused him nastily. Prophet Amaziah was a false prophet. And he accused the true prophet Amos in front of the prince, in front of And here's the stuff he said. This is in Amos chapter 7. Starting in verse 10 10. It says, Then Amaziah, the priest of Bethel. Bethel uh was where they had a rival cult. They were they were worshiping golden calves and and calling that the uh the true god when it is not. They were breaking The land is not able to bear all his words. For thus Amos has said, Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel shall surely be led away captive from their own land. That's what he said And Amaziah said to Amos, Go, you seer, flee to the land of Judah. There eat bread, and there prophesy, but never again prophesy of Bethel, for it is the king's sanctuary and is the royal In other words, he's saying, we don't want what you're saying, you're making up a bunch of lies, you're exiled from this country. Get out. I imagine that that was hurtful He may have counted the cost, known it was coming, but he was slandered publicly, he was defamed. His accuser is saying that the stuff he's he's speaking on behalf of God is all lies. And he was exiled because of it. How about how about Jesus himself? He casts out demons from poor afflicted people. Children are throwing themselves into bonfires because they're possessed by demons. And Jesus, out of compassion for them Cast those demons out. What do his opponents say? He can only do that because he's in league with Satan. He's casting out demons by the ruler of demons. Now Jesus refuted them and showed them how illogical what they were saying was. But man, that's gotta hurt, right? You do a good thing, and that's used as proof that you're evil For undermining the very evil that you're fighting against? That hurts. It's hard. How about outside of the Bible? Most pastors, at least the ones loyal to Christ, know the dilemma of preaching through a book of the Bible and they're coming up to a passage where they know that that high level likes a sin that is popular in their congregation. Their congregation don't perhaps doesn't realize it's a sin, or they found ways of of justifying it. Ah, that's not what it means And they know they're gonna have to they're gonna have to deal with that sin come Sunday. If out of devotion to Christ They call that sinful thing sin. How do you think the congregation is going to talk about that? It's normal for that passion. Pastor to receive a call a couple weeks later and find that he is the last to learn that the whole church agrees with one another. That he is Wrong, that he's mean spirited, that he's judgmental. They have been freely gossiping about him, and they all agree Work in workplaces, high schools, college campuses across the country, Christians are mocked. They're made the butts of foul jokes simply for seeking to deny sexual temptation to be pure in their relationships. Most of you don't need me to tell you this, do you? You've seen it. Brothers and sisters, Jesus says that these things are normal and that we should expect We don't invite it. We don't parade our righteousness so that someone will see it and then persecute us so we can say, Oh good, I'm gonna be blessed now. That that that's actually kind of the opposite. Then you are Shoving it in people's faces unnecessarily. You don't invite it, but settle within yourself that today I am going to be loyal to Jesus. Christ, and I may have to pay a cost for it. In fact, tell yourself you will have to pay a cost for it. Think of it as a toll. Think of it as a tax. that being faithful to Christ will until you being being slandered or or having a a rude insult said to you. To be expected. And Jesus says, you're blessed. You ought to be happy when these things happen to you. And so then the obvious question is, well, how? How Can I rejoice? God's people can rejoice amidst persecution and suffering. How The the word translated here for be glad, or rejoice and be glad. If you have the New King James like I do, it says be exceedingly glad. It's the idea of An intense joy. This does not mean that these things being said about you or done to you are good things. But they ought to provoke joy if they are be if they are reflecting on your loyalty to Christ. Now, the pastor John MacArthur, who went to be with the Lord last year, said that the amount of first persecution re we receive w will be uh in proportion to how close we're following Christ. I don't know that that's a hundred percent true because in our country we we we tend to only face so much persecution. We did not have to worry about how loudly we were singing earlier. Because in case someone hears it, they'll come in, they'll realize there's Christians here, and they'll start beheading us. We don't have to deal with that, but there are people in the Middle Eastern world and other parts of the country, especially Asia, where they do have to worry about stuff like that. On Sunday to worship their Savior, and if they're overheard by the downstairs neighbors, their names will be given to the governmental authorities, and they may disappear. We don't have to deal with that. But within our culture, within what's normal The more loyal you are to Christ, the more you can expect, the more outwardly loyal to Christ, perhaps I should say, the more you can you sh you should expect to see people recoiling. Have you ever said no, I'm uh you've said no to an invitation, perhaps to a wedding of two people that the Bible tells you ought not to be married. Or to some other event. You said, no, I'm sorry, not going to come to that. And you've lost a friendship over it. And you know the things they are saying about you are just not true and really mean, and they're people you love, and you don't like that they're talking to you about that. Jesus says in that case, the sorrow that you're feeling doesn't mean you should just pretend it's not there. It doesn't mean that you that it's going to be replaced. But at the same time, you ought to make the conscious decision. This is this is a you can almost call it a command, rejoice. Determine, I'm gonna rejoice because what this is, this is This is just reflecting what Jesus always said would happen, and now I'm experiencing it. It's a reflection that the kingdom of heaven is mine. And you should remember that this happened to Jesus, this happened to Amos, this happened to Jeremiah, this happened to Abel, this happened to Noah, this happened to Lot. I am Experiencing the same thing that my brothers who went before me experienced. I I I I don't worship them, but I I I idolize them, right? Right, n not in the sense of committing idolatry, but but I I I look at the Apostle Paul and I think, man, what an amazing man. I wish I were like him. And and now I'm starting to to just small degree experience some of the same things that he experienced. Man, I'm in good company. You still feel the pain of what they're saying about you But you're recognizing that what Jesus said is true. And he told me to rejoice. You know, the apostles After Jesus had been received into heaven and they started preaching the kingdom of God and pre preaching the truth about Jesus with at with reckless abandon, right? Multiple times They were arrested and taken before the Sanhedrin, the religious governing authorities. And on one occasion They they uh testified before this governing body and one man said, you know what, just leave them alone. If this is of God, it it doesn't matter if If we beat him up or not, it's going to continue. Just just let it let it go, and if it's not of God, it'll just peter out, it'll fizzle. And it says in Acts Chapter five that those who heard him agreed with him. That's a really good idea. But then it says they beat him up anyway. Rejoicing, it says the apostles rejoiced that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name. And that's what we need to do. We need to remember the worthiness of Christ. We sang it a few minutes ago. He is worthy to receive all blessing and glory and honor. Remind yourself of who Jesus is, remind yourself of what he is like, of his kindness, of his gentleness, of his patience with you the numerous times he's he's forgiven you when you have you have below it again and and given into a besetting sin. Remind yourself of these truths. Remind Remind yourself of what he is like and that you get him. These other people who are saying nasty things to you, you may or may not spend eternity with with some of that. But you will spend it with Christ and He is worth it. And if you have if you have trouble if that if if that's not affecting your heart It's not stirring your emotions enough for you to rejoice, then spend time in those passages that will stir those affections. Go to Isaiah 6, which we read for our scripture reading. Isaiah chapter 6, the first seven or eight verses, and just read the glorious picture there of Jesus being seen. I believe that's that's specifically Jesus And and not God the Father, perhaps. Either way, remind yourself of what he what he looked like. Do you remember the d did you catch that the the the the the door post foundation of the temple are are shaking not at not at God's words. He hasn't opened his mouth yet. It's these lesser beings that have to shield their eyes and their feet from him or else they'll perish and they'll be blinded. Right? These these insignificant beings who could be obliterated by him. Their voice Voices are powerful enough to shake the temple. And Isaiah sees all of this, and he's convicted about his own speech, about the words that come out of his mouth. And he says, Woe is me for him. I'm done. I've seen the Lord of hosts. Read passages like that of God in his glory, of Christ in his glory. Read Revelation 4 and 5. Read Revelation 19, where he finally descends on a white horse and his robe is dipped in blood, and there's arguments about is that the blood of his enemies or is that his own blood that he shed to make me right with him Read Ezekiel chapter one and chapter ten. Read Exodus twenty four. And Remind yourself, when I'm persecuted, that is a reminder that these things, this man, this God belongs to me, and I belong to him. Rejoice in who he is and think more on him until you're you are able to have a f have have emotions of joy. Don't plaster on a plastic smile and pretend everything's okay. Still feel the hurt, but feel the joy as well. They don't have to be mutual Exclusive. Sometimes it is families that turn on their Christian family members. Doris Duckworth had been orphaned at age five when her teenage mother abandoned her at an orphanage. As a young woman, she reconnected with her father. She moved across the country so that she could live with him and and with her half siblings. But her Christian testimony created friction in the house. She wouldn't go To the same events as them. She spent a lot of time alone with her Bible open. And they felt uncomfortable. She didn't talk the same way they did. She had different affections. And ultimately, what happened after decades of longing to know her father and to have a family David accepts her and loves her and she's found it. They kicked her out of the house because she loved Jesus more. And at that point she could have said, It's fine, it's fine, I'll stop. I finally got that family I want. If she'd have turned her back on that, she could have probably Had her family, but she'd have turned her back on Christ and she esteemed Christ as worth it, of losing that family she had longed for. And she invested herself She threw herself into studying and preparing for overseas missions, for telling other people that needed to know about the love of Jesus. The love of Jesus that had sustained her through A decade and a half in an orphanage that had sustained her through all of her neglect and even sexual abuse She wanted to take that love to people who had never heard of him, and God made her and her new husband into pioneer missionaries to Papua New Guinea. Doris rejoiced And delighted in her heavenly Father, not the earthly one who turned his back on her. She tried to reconnect with him multiple times. He would never talk to her again. There was no big blow-up. They just didn't like her purity. She delighted in her heavenly father And that is how she overcame this persecution and this rejection. And God's glorified by that testimony now, nearly a hundred years later, because this happened in like the 1930s. The Apostle Peter says in 1 Peter 2, What credit is it if when you're beaten for your faults, or we might say same But when you do good and suffer, if you take it patiently, this is commendable before God. Praise God that we don't see a lot of intense physical suffering as persecution for being loyal to Christ. It's not normal for us to be martyring ourselves. But sometimes we might have to martyr our careers or our reputations. But do you suffer Or have you suffered some form of persecution? And verse 10 here actually says, not just blessed are those who are persecuted. For righteousness' sake. It it actually literally says, Blessed are those who have been persecuted. So you may not be facing suffering right at this moment because of your testimony for Jesus, but have you been Persecuted in some perhaps small form out of your love for Christ. Now that does not qualify you for heaven. What qualifies you for heaven? The fact that Jesus was was Afflicted and persecuted and and cast off not only by his persecutors but even by his own God in your place. By his own father in your place So you could have him as your father. So you'd be justified. He he suffered persecution. So he has qualified you for cr for for heaven. You do not have to be persecuted in order to be qualified for heaven. But if If you've if you've seen this Christ and you've trusted in him that he is enough to make you right with God, then it will produce He will produce in you some Some form of determination that doesn't mean you get it right every time. Maybe you have laughed at some of those jokes you ought not to But he will produce something in you that will resist and something in you that will keep you loyal to him instead of loyal to wanting a good reason. ri reputation. Wanting to just fit in and be one of the guys. Have you ever suffered some form of persecution, even if it's small Because if you haven't, you might want to ask yourself, well, if that is evidence that I belong to Christ, is there any evidence in me that I belong to Christ? Have I actually given myself to him. And it's not about the evidence. That's not what makes you right with him. But let that drive you to Christ. And perhaps you are you are genuinely a Christian. You're trusting in him. Okay, well Live like it. I encourage you, live like it. Because the Bible teaches us throughout, Old Testament and New, that those who have come to Christ and trusted him Will be changed. And they will be faithful to him ultimately So I urge you to behold this Jesus Christ who did offer himself up to ultimate suffering in your place Place so that you could be qualified for heaven. The moment that you trust him, you are. You don't have to worry About falling out of his kung fu grip. He promises to keep you firmly in his grip, and his father too will keep you firmly in his hand. The devil can't snatch you out. You can't wriggle your way out if you trust him. It's not the strength of your faith. It's the power of his grace that keeps you. And so if you've trusted him, if it's a genuine trust in him, we talk belief and we just think, yeah, I believe he exists. I'm talking I'm talking beyond that. This is fake, this is trust If you're putting your faith in Jesus, he will save you. And then he will change you. And I urge you, I encourage you to go Back to that Jesus who is the fountain of all grace and let him transform you. So that you can stand up and bear up under these mean things that are said about you. Let's pray.