Please turn with me to Matthew chapter 6. Matthew chapter 6. You've probably heard me say something I'm quite fond of saying. that I th that the Lord uh plans the the preaching cla calendar and I really uh take much uh Much delight in that. I know it doesn't rely on me. God is creator and king. He's sovereign in all things. He also reveals himself to us as a communicating God. Who's interested in his people. And it does not make sense then Or rather, it does make sense, doesn't it? Doesn't it make sense that as a sovereign communicator, God will move events to make sure that we receive his each message from his word at exactly the time that he intends for us to hear it. Doesn't that make sense that he would do that? And So let me let me explain what's going to happen this morning and the Lord's hand in that, right? As I was uh trying to study on on Tuesday, uh despite being sick, Um I uh uh the Lord gave me a a very short window in which I was I was able to get uh a lot of uh of profitable study done. And as I was looking at the Lord's Prayer, which is where we were due to be today, I saw an additional theme there, and I was thinking, well, that is powerful, the way that the Lord draws attention to that. And I want to preach that as an additional message. It would be too much to tack on to another message. It would take a normal 45-minute message and make it at least an hour. But on the other hand, it's it's a little bit too short for a message, uh at least from this pulpit, uh a little bit short, uh, how would I do that? And then I remembered, well it's Communion Sunday, and it wouldn't hurt if we if we have a slightly shorter message. And then I realized just how down for the count I was going to be for the rest of the week. And that the Lord uh kept me out of uh out of the office, out of the study, um uh all the way through Thursday. And so it became necessary to preach a a shorter message. So I believe it is very much the Lord's hand in directing things. that we have this message this morning. It won't feel like the normal messages you're used to hearing uh here. It uh it will be shorter than usual. And uh it I I have put in less time than usual. I am praying uh very much that the Lord would really magnify his name through my weakness Uh but I believe this is the message he has for you this morning. And if you were here this morning, even if you're not normally here at this church, we're glad you are here. Um it is no is no coincidence. The Lord has this message for you to receive. So we are still in Matthew chapter 6. We are still making our way through the Lord's Prayer. We are right where I was expecting us to be. But it will be a different message from the one I intended to preach. Let's read the entirety of the Lord's Prayer here and the opening verses. uh and and the the surrounding verses. Uh we're going to go from verse seven, so starting in Matthew chapter six, verse seven, I'll read right through verse fifteen. And when you pray, do not use vain repetitions as the heathen do, for they think that they will be heard for their many words. Therefore, do not be like them. For your Father knows the things you have need of before you ask him. In this manner, pray therefore pray. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil. One. For yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. For if you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive men their trespasses, neither will your father forgive your trespasses Now I want you to see how, first of all, how this passage breaks down, and we will be following this structure next week. The passage breaks down, and you could certainly do it differently. But we start before the actual prayer with Christ's warning. How not to pray. Continues all the way through. And here it's just implied. It's just implicit. But it becomes all the more clear and all the more emphasized the further we get until it just takes over the final. We start with how not to pray, then we have Christ's instruction how to pray, and finally, Christ's conclusion regarding our greatest need. And it can only be met by prayer. In verse 8, look there with me. Therefore, do not be like them, for your father knows the things you have need of before you ask him. Jesus tells us that we have a Father who knows what we need before we ask. And he's definitely talking about all of our needs, right? Because he's going to start with the first of the prayers of supplication in what we call the Lord's Prayer is Give us this day our daily bread. Right? He we're asking for God to meet our physical needs. He he des definitely is talking about all of our needs, and he knows what you need right now in the situ the unique situation, the unique dilemmas that you have right now. He knows what you need. But there is one per one need in particular that Jesus keeps on singling out. I want you to see then this next outline, right? This is the general outline of the Lord's Prayer and the and the surrounding context. Now If we look at through the lens, through this one need that he keeps highlighting and building towards his crescendo, it's forgiveness. So we start with your father knowing you need forgiveness before you ask. And we're just going to spotlight on the specific relevant verses. In verse twelve, then we have us asking the Father to meet what that greatest need is, and indeed it is And in verses fourteen through fifteen we have this terrifying conclusion that shows us how How we must be transformed by forgiveness so that we are forgiving people, or else we have no hope in eternity We need forgiveness from God, and that is the first thing we need to recognize. Our great need is forgiveness. We were born sinners. We inherited sin from our very first parents and and it has been passed down to us. You were born with a sin nature. You were not born a Christian. You may have been born into a Christian family, but you were not born a Christian. You were born a sinner. And you need to acknowledge that, that you need to be forgiven by God. And this great God is so perfect and is so holy that, as the Lord has revealed in just the chapter prior to where we are now. We have sinned against him at the thought level. Let me just dip back very briefly to Matthew 5, verse 21. You have heard that it was said to those of old, You shall not murder, and whoever murders will be in danger of the judgment. But I say to you that whoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment. You see, he goes to the thought level, even the the emotion there that has been abused. If we drop down to chapter five, verse twenty seven, you have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not commit adultery But I say to you that whoever has look whoever looks at a woman to lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. At the thought level, at the eye level, at the emotive level, we have sinned against our God. And I know that that's not all you've done. Because we have sinned with our actions. You need forgiveness from God, and Jesus is coming to the world to to enable that forgiveness, to grant that forgiveness, to explain how you can have that forgiveness. And so here he shows us our need, and in verse 12, he instructs us specifically when we are praying. to ask God to give us that forgiveness. If you're expecting a full expository message of each of these these lines, I promise you will have that next week, unless the Lord redirects me again. So if if this is feeling like it's it's disjointed, it feels that way to me too. Um so we're gonna jump jump forward, jump over these other verses, we're gonna land at twelve. And I encourage you to prepare for that for next week. Verse 12, he instructs us specifically, ask God to give you that forgiveness that you recognize that you need. Now we'll go deeper in just a moment. I want you to see how the word forgive appears here twice, right? Look at that. Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. It wasn't mentioned in verse 8 at all. Now we have it appearing twice, explicitly stated. And then in verses 14 and 15, that's the whole focus of that main point, isn't it? For if you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. Everything seems to hinge on forgiveness, doesn't it? Our greatest need, and that is our theme this morning, our greatest need The greatest need is forgiveness. And Christ meets it as we pray for it Our greatest need is forgiveness, and Christ meets it as we pray for it. That is our main theme. From the start of the section on prayer, forgiveness seems to dominate. And Jesus assures us That God wants us to ask for it. He wants us to ask for forgiveness. As he wants us to ask for anything. He's a father who likes to answer the things that his children ask him for But Jesus wants us to ask because he knows that that is what we need. So why should we ask? What why if if we recognize that we need forgiveness, why then should we ask? If we recognize i or sorry, if if if God knows that we need forgiveness, why why should we ask? If God knows that we really need a job interview this week, if ja uh if God knows that what we need is a certain amount of money to meet rent next month. If he knows what we really need is is for the long gem to be broken in our relationship with with a family member. Why must we ask for it if he already knows? Well, apparently it's good for us to recognize what we need. Jesus wants us to to to see our need and to ask for it. It's also simply that God likes To answer what we ask for. God wants us to have a relationship where we come to Him and He gives. So Jesus wants us to realize what we need, especially with regard to this most basic need, more basic than even our food for the day. It's our forgiveness. Because that has eternal consequences. Once he's assured that God knows what he needs, then he articulates what we need and specifically how we should ask for it. And so then we come to verse 12. Ask your father to meet your greatest need. Now I want you to see that God is repeatedly called Father here. When he's hearing our requests and answering us, it's specifically the first person of the Trinity, the Father who receives our prayers and answers them. Throughout the entirety of this whole whole passage, verse 1 through 18 here, we do not see a single single reference of it of God being called God. He's not called God to Herodol. He is only called Father. And Jesus wants us to see God as our Father. So God, the Son, then tells us what to ask His Father for: ask for forgiveness and ask for help forgiving other people. So let's look at those two. We need to ask our Father to forgive us, and we need to ask our Father to give us help to forgive others. Forgive our debts as we forgive our debtors. We have specific debts to God. We need to be forgiven because we've sinned against him But the Lord cast that in terms of depth. Now, uh the the Lord's prayer also appears in Luke chapter 11. And there the it is a remarkably similar prayer, this this same uh frame, the same wording. One key difference is that the word uh debt is exchanged for sin. So we can take those two to be analogous to one another. When you sin against God, when you fail to do something he commands you to do. Or when you do something that he commands you not to do, you are essentially going into his debt. And the Lord, numerous times in his ministry Yes, he's giving parables. Perhaps you've got some coming to mind right now, right? Uh the the Lord is is drawing parab parallels to to being indebted. And he tells the the uh story, for instance, of And he begged his master uh to forgive that debt, and he actually he didn't ask for forgiveness of the debt, he just asked him to give him more time to pay this debt, and clearly the master realized this this uh poor useless servant, he's never going to be able to pay it. So I'm just going to forgive the debt in full. Do you remember what that that servant did then after having been forgiven that massive debt that he could not pay that would require for him to be sold into slavery. He's owed some money by somebody, and he demands that they be given into slavery. And then the the master who'd forgiven him in his first debt takes it back for his lack of mercy, his lack of forgiveness. We owe a debt that we cannot pay. It must be forgiven. It must somehow be paid for. We cannot do it. A thing about God being infinite and God being holy and God having an infinite holiness means that when we sin against Him, We incur a debt that is infinite. It would take an infinite amount of time for us to atone for our sins. if we could theoretically atone for them somehow anyway, if we had any resource from which to pay that back. Right? It would take you an infinite amount of time. Have you ever wondered why hell is infinite? Why does it last forever It's because we've offended this this God who is outside of time, for one, but it's also that we owe this immense, infinite debt. We cannot pay our debt against our holy Creator. But God, who is just, must deal with that debt, must deal with that sin. And so he cannot just wink at it and pretend it doesn't exist. God, who is just, must have that debt satisfied. And he is the only one who has any resource from which To satisfy it, to pay it. And so he sent Jesus into the world so that he could fulfill that debt for you Some of you look like you're half asleep. This is good news. Jesus came into the world in order to pay that debt for you. Worship him for that. And when Jesus died on the cross and the Lord vented his wrath on him, that was Jesus stepping in your way, stepping in your place, paying what you cannot pay. The wonderful thing is we know that he rose from the dead. And so that that debt was satisfied. God the Father is is pleased. There is no debt hanging between us and him. We don't have to w worry or wonder, was that enough? Or, oh no, what if what if I incur another debt because I'm still sinning? Jesus' own infinite holiness is enough to atone for your finite sins. He has already cleared any future debts that you will incur. You realize it hinges upon Jesus being fully God, because he is therefore infinite and able to pay infinite amounts of debt. And being truly human so that he can die in the place of humans like us, right? He has to be both God and man. It cannot be done any other way. And so God died on the cross while God the Father remained alive. The Lord of life died. We we Struggle to understand how that could be the case. And he did that in order to fulfill our debt and so that we might be able to call this God Father. We cannot pay our debt against our holy Creator, so He pays it for us. It's a wonderful truth. Now, if you are a Christian, if you're a follower of Jesus, you have put your faith in him to save you from the penalty and power of your sinfulness. You still need to repent of your specific daily sins, right? Though Christ has has forgiven you and you are now by the Holy Spirit united to him if it if truly you were trusting in him. Though that is true, though he has already paid your debt, it is right for you to turn from your sin to recognize that you have grieved him. This is one reason that we make sure that we we partake of communion, the Lord's table, the Lord's Supper, whatever you like to call it. We do it once a month because it helps us keep short accounts with the Lord. I encourage you to not wait a month to forgive your sins. I hope that that's not what you do. That uh that you let 'em all pile up, so to speak, until until Saturday night before communion. Sunday. We should be constantly turning from our sins on a on a daily and weekly basis and recognizing I fell short of your glory. I sinned against you a few minutes ago, Lord, when I lost my temple with my spouse. Would you forgive me and enable her to forgive me or him to forgive me and enable me to walk in newness of life? A significant mark of a Christian is ongoing prayer for forgiveness. And so we find it here in Christ's model prayer. It's not that we necessarily pray these exact words every time. We don't just recite it, but we pray. And so he says, Give us this day our daily bread. being that you're going to pray this day and you're going to pray tomorrow as well. And this is a daily type of prayer. Well also as we're praying for daily sustenance, daily food, we're also praying daily food Forgiveness because we are so sinful that even though we've been united to Christ, we continue to sin against him. And so we need ongoing daily forgiveness. It is granted to us in Christ. You can't it's not like if you if you sin on your way out going out of the the church doors today and then you or or you or you get in a fight with your spouse on the way home And then you crash the car and you die. Oh no, he didn't he he didn't uh pray and ask for giv forgiveness right before his uh his his car hit that semi track, right? Oh the is the Lord going to allow him into heaven? No he's he you have you you you call him father now. You have that relationship with God now. You are saved His wrath is satisfied. It is all done. But if he is our Father and we have a relationship with him, then we say sorry when we sin against him, don't we? Just as we do when we sin against our friends. We sin against our family members. We ask them to forgive us. We do that with the Lord. We keep short accounts with him. And so we ask the Lord to forgive us, but then we also ask that He would help us to forgive because just as we continue to sin daily, so do the people in our lives. If you have been forgiven an unpayable debt, then we can't hold smaller debts against other people, can we? And and that means that you know you are unforgiving when if If your sister refuses to share with you, or your brother refuses to share a toy with you, right, and and you get mad. And they're rude to you. Or your spouse, you ask them a question at the beginning of the day, and he or she really snaps at you. And If you start to get into a bad mood because of that, and two hours later you're ready to have a fight, you know what your problem is? You're unforgiving. Because you let that get under your skin Rather than forgiving them the moment on. If it sounds like I'm speaking from experience, I am. I struggle to forgive as easily as I ought to forgive. But then of course this is this goes beyond just the daily stats. This if you have been wronged greatly You might say, yeah, okay, I got w I get what you're saying, Pastor, that that I I need to to not just be petty, but you don't understand what so and so the item 25 years ago. You don't understand what heartbreak that that brought or how much that changed the course of my life. I probably wouldn't even be living here if that were the case. I'd have a completely different life. The Lord knows the hardship that you have gone through. In fact, He's even sovereign in allowing those things. And he has a purpose for you in those things. But he has forgiven you a greater debt than the one that you are holding on to. And if you hope to to enjoy his forgiveness in eternity, then it is going to require that you let go these These grudges, these hurts, because anybody who has been forgiven a great degree Can can forgive less. We have to do that. If you've been forgiven by God, then your conscience now regenerated by the Holy Spirit won't allow you to refuse to forgive. You might be really good at it for a long time, but it's going to trouble you. And the Lord who loves you is going to keep bringing you problems problems troublesome messages like this one that keep reminding you. And when when you're reminded, when you hear something about forgiveness Right? You keep thinking about that person you're refusing to forgive, don't you? Isn't that how it works? I can let that person I I can let that go, but I can't let that go. We expect forgiveness, but then we're unwilling to give it. Now a significant mark of a Christian, I told you one is that that they they pray for forgiveness. The other one is that they forgive those who have hurt them greatly. They forgive those who offend them. Now there's one particular pitfall that I really want to cause in parents to watch out for. As you allow your children, for instance, to go online. Especially when you allow your children access to social media and video sites, which are essentially social media anyway, right? Because there's the interactive component you need to do. You can give comments and whatnot. Uh TikTok and YouTube are especially dangerous. Adults need to be aware of this too, right? Because here's what this particular pitfall is. Online influencers often encourage their viewers to cut, quote, cut the toxic people out of your life. Right? This is this has been a growing problem for years and it it is it's it's reached a critical mass on social media sites. Influencers tell you, if there's somebody toxic in your life, cut them out. If your parents don't affirm you in something You want them to affirm you on this, they won't, or they make you feel any sort of negative emotion at all. They're bad for your mental health. So they're they're they're toxic. You need to cut them out Especially if you're a grown adult and you struggle to get along with your parents, they're toxic. Just cut them out. The same thing goes for your siblings, for your friends, for your teachers. It applies to church life. Once that toxic label gets put on somebody, It it's like it's a free pass to just ignore them, to ghost that person, or actually find means to remove them from your life. And it might be a way that that that is vindictive and hurts that person. In fact, of course it hurts that person. They're being removed from your life. They're being ignored. And this rhetoric is destroying families. It's destroying friendships. But number one, it's completely opposite from what Jesus Christ teaches. It is not remotely biblical. Jesus teaches us to forgive all people, even toxic people, 70 times 7, he says. That doesn't mean that you forgive them 490 times and then but the 491st time, oh, you don't have to do it anymore. No, what that means is over and over again we we seek to perfectly forgive Give complete forgiveness. He instructs the church to come along then, to come alongside toxic people, and to lovingly rebuke them, lovingly help them turn away from their sins. I mean this is what Jesus taught in Matthew chapter 18. We'll get there eventually as we work through this book. That we are we are called to actually confront toxicity and lovingly help them remove to to cut out the toxicity from their lives, but not to cut out toxic people. The church is actually given to you as a gift to help you become. Not just non-toxic, but but to transform you, to help you become a positive agent for good to all the people around you You might be a toxic person to somebody. And you perhaps you need to be confronted with that message. And I know you hope they'll forgive you. You need to extend that forgiveness as well. We're called to love and minister to the toxic people who offend us, not just cut them out and disown them. Beware of such messaging. Recognize that does not exist in the Bible. Now if you're f if you're fighting with me inwardly on this one, I hope you'll let Jesus have the word the last word, because he takes it even further than in In verses fourteen and fifteen, we're back to that superstructure there. For if you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. Isn't that a terrifying like end to the to the greatest prayer ever written? Isn't that doesn't that just scare you? That if if you fail to forgive somebody Then we're we're being told that our Father will not forgive us. Now, I realize that this can sound like a works righteousness passage, doesn't it? It it and and in fact even the way I stated something a little bit earlier, I I I I s I think I maybe stumbled even in in the way I was saying it. It it it It made me realize I gotta be really careful. So let's make sure we understand this. This is not saying give forgiveness to get forgiveness from God. And and w the moment that you fail that forgiveness then you are no longer getting forgiveness from God. That is not what he is saying. But you can see what how people might at surface reading take that, right? We need to remember what all of Scripture says, and we need to take it in context with everything we've just read. This is our Father who is forgiving us, has forgiven us. And what this statement is saying is that the person who does not forgive has not experienced Christ's forgiveness. If they had, they wouldn't be able to hang on to that bitterness. Now Christians are able to be better bitter. Sadly we're quite good at that. But the Lord continues to work through his agency by bringing these things into our life. He'll bring in these hardships the that that cause you bitterness to show you that you have a problem with bitterness. Perhaps he's he's allowed you to have a hardship in your life that has stuck with you for many years. in order to expose to you that your heart is not right with him. Those that that Jesus has forgiven. If you have come to Christ and you said, I I realized, Lord Jesus, you died for me and that that is enough. Right? Yeah, you have to come to him and you have to ask for forgiveness. You have to pray. That's what he's saying. But if you're trusting in him and you said, Lord Jesus, I I I recognize Your death in my place is enough. I can't do anything to make it right. And I can't add to your forgiveness. Please do forgive me. I recognize your atonement, your death in my place. That is enough to save me If you have not done that, you need to do that. You need to turn to him. You need to trust in him. Or else you are separated from him. For eternity. But the moment that you trust in him and he grants that forgiveness to you instantaneously, now he starts to change you. His Holy Spirit comes into you And this forgiveness that you experience, he'll start leading you in it in his word, right? And you read about the great evils of your heart that God has forgiven. And you read about the fate that you've avoided. And you read about how sweet and gentle the Lord Jesus was. And is. And how forgiving your God is. And that changes you. This is why we spend time in the Word daily, if at all possible. And he transforms us and he changes us so that he enables you to forgive. And if you if you say, yes, I know, but this one thing, I just can't do it. I just cannot forgive that person. You're wrong. If you're in Christ, you can forgive him. I'm sorry, you c you not forgive him, but you can you can forgive He will enable you. He will help you. And so we need to pray and ask not only for give forgive our debts, but help us to forgive our debtors And so when he's saying that if you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly father will forgive you, he's showing if you've been forgiven, then you will you will you will do this, you will forgive. Forgive. If you do not forgive, then you have not been transformed by that forgiveness. Let that search your heart so that if you're resting fully in Christ you recognize, okay, but it is in I I I know that I'm forgiven in Christ, but it is incumbent upon me then, if He if I love Him, that He has called me to walk with Him and to let Him help me to forgive this great injustice that was done to me so long ago. You need to come to your Heavenly Father. You need to ask Him to help you to forgive. If you would at all rest on his forgiveness. We are incapable of great degrees of genuine forgiven until Jesus is radical, superhuman Divine forgiveness has changed us. I want to remind you, we're about to partake of communion together. We need to repent of the sins that we have committed in the last day perhaps. We need to ask him for forgiveness, that we would not participate, partake of communion in But we especially need to for repent of our unforgiving spirit So I want to give us a moment of silent prayer, and we will conclude after that, where you would not merely repent of your sin that perhaps you know that you need to ask the Lord forgiveness for a lustful behavior in the last week or for losing your temper or for indulging in laziness to a sin. And you know you need to get right with the Lord for that uh over that before you partake of kingdom. Communion. And I I encourage you to do that. But in addition to that, you need to ask him to help you search your heart. Is there are there people, is there somebody that you are refusing to forgive where bitterness has taken? Taken root. Because if the gospel means anything, then you need to let that go. Let's have a moment of silent prayer. Let me start us off.