On February twenty-eighth, nineteen forty-four, Gestapo agents raided the home of the Tinboom family in Harlem, Holland, due to suspicion that they are illegally housing Jews after violent interviews of of each occupant of the house. They decide at 11 p. m. to that they have enough cause to arrest this family of six and and the other people there with them. Including Casper Tenboom, who's 84 years old, patriarch of the family. And a respected businessman in the area. He's a watchmaker. The very next day, at the Gestapo's uh headquarters in the Hog, the Holland headquarters, the chief investigator takes pity on the old man. And he calls him up to his desk. He's actually been yelling at the agents that brought him in and said, Why this old man? Why are you bringing him here? And this Gestapo investigator seems to take pity on him and says, I'd like to send you home, old fella. I'll take your word that you won't cause any more trouble Now, Casper has been arrested for aiding Jews illegally and for protecting them in their hour of need from those who And Caspar's response is simple. He says, if I go home today, tomorrow I will open my door again to any man And with that he sealed his fate, and he would be dead in nine days. Unbeknownst to the Gestapo agents who raided the Ten Boom home, four Four Jewish refugees and two people, two workers who were helping them illegally are still hiding in Caspar's home. And they will do so for two full days before finally they are rescued and all of them destroyed distributed to other safe houses. They live because of Caspar's kindness and the kindness of his daughter Corey and his daughter Betsy and two His kindness saved those six lives, along with the lives of dozens, perhaps scores, we don't have numbers, of how many people cast And his family managed to smuggle out of the grasp of Nazis over the over the course of two years. Kindness, and as Jesus calls it here in the greatest sermon ever preached, mercy, defined the lives of people like Caspar Tenboom and his and his famous daughters who have been transformed by Jesus Christ. And in the passage before us this morning, then, the Lord Jesus Christ is showing us the things that he especially values. the things that he looks for. And it's going to it's going to reveal to us a common human problem. Here's our problem, right? We've To measure our degree of purity, our righteousness, our morality, whatever you want to call it, by values different to God's. In other words, we see th we see ourselves in a certain way, but we don't measure ourselves the same way that God measures us. He values things differently. to us. And so we get a wrong measure of our purity, of our righteousness before God. And so I want to give you the overarching theme of this passage right now. And I invite you, if you would if it helps you, to use the film links in our bulletin. on the table by the door. You certainly don't have to use those, but if that will help you, go ahead. And so I'm just going to give you the blanks that go in there for the main theme. So you're not worr wondering about that. And really this is this is a summary of how we should be responding to this As you're reading this and you're feeling stuff, here's how you ought to respond. And it this this answers for the whole of the Beatitudes here, verses 3 through 12. Feel or recognize, that's actually what's on my outline, recognize, but really feel it. Feel where you fall short of Christ's ideal virtues. As we read through them, feel where you fall short of Christ's ideal virtues. Repent, and then rely on Him to purify you like Him. The three beatitudes we're looking at today concern mercy or kindness, purity, and peacemaking. We need to let these three beatitudes convict us so that they would drive us to Jesus, who needs to Purify you before you can put any of these things into practice. Let me say that again. Before you can actually put these statements of blessing, we call them beatitude That's not some religious expression. That's just the dictionary definition of what a beatitude is. It's just a statement of blessing. We cannot put them into practice unless we have And until we have been purified by Christ and transformed, made new. But I want to remind you of one thing, okay? If if you've been working with me through these, or if this is the first time you're hearing it, it it doesn't make sense You can't take one of these these proverbs, you might want to call it, and and just take it isolated and just put that into practice and live by that on its own It occurs in context, as all of Scripture does. You need to take it in its context. And so uh these beatitudes don't stand as single isolated lines. We don't So let's look at the beginning. Verse 3, blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. We need to feel our our poorness, our spiritual poverty. And when we do, we find that we start to, when we see things the way that that God sees them, when we see ourselves the way God sees us, we start to mourn at how unrighteous we are. And that's the second beatitude there. You see that in verse 4? Blessed are those who mourn. We mourn over our sin and over the fact there's nothing good in us. Well, when when you start to mourn over that and you're seeing these truths, you you start to become humble. Blessed are the meek. That really that Best translation there might be blessed are the humble. Blessed are the gentle. Meek just sums both of those both sides of that up very well, don't you? They they they make you humble and therefore you are more gentle. with people. But while you're still there, you're hungering and you're thirsting that you might be made righteous. That God might be pleased with you. And he promises to fill us when we do. And then someone who has been filled with that righteousness, who's been satisfied by God, who's who's received mercy from him becomes a merciful person and that that the mercy that that God makes you right with him by it purifies you and it makes peace between you and him and you start making peace with others, do you see how they build on each other? And so we don't want to take these apart from one another. So if you're if you're w reading this correctly and you're you're working your way through the Beatitudes, you might be feeling, well, I'm not sure I qualify here. Am I meek, really? I mean I I I I maybe and I can be Gentle at times, but I know there are times I'm really not. I think I need to grow there. Do I really thirst for righteousness? I mean I I I know I feel my need sometimes, or or I get bothered by sin in other people, but I don't I don't know it's right to say I hunger for it, not like not like I desire some other things in my life. And we need to be, we need to let these things drive us so that we feel our weakness and instead of saying, yeah, I think I'm good there, check. Saying, No, I'm not good there, and run to the one who can make us good. And so that's what the theme is here. Feel where you fall short of Christ's identity. ideal virtues and repent of them, run to Jesus, rely on him to make you right, to purify you. That's how we are to receive this rightly. And now we'll go into the first main point, okay? That's the attitude we need to have as As we go into them. First of all, merciful Christ. He is a merciful Savior, desires that you show mercy to others. That's what he says here. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain So let's define mercy and merciful, right? We certainly recognize a very common understanding of mercy is withholding punishment and retribution from those who deserve mercy. Perhaps you've said, Oh man, you you read in the news and you're like the court was way too merciful to that guy. They should have thrown the book at him and they didn't. They let him off with a slap on the wrist. They were far too Merciful. That's a correct understanding of mercy. God has God is even to show you mercy. You don't deserve you you deserve a punishment. You don't deserve kindness. When he shows you kindness you don't deserve, you know what we call that? We don't call it mercy. It's the other side of that coin. We call it You're in Grace Baptist Church right now. We celebrate grace, but the other side of grace is mercy. And that's where we deserve his full wrath to be vented upon us, but instead he vented it on us His own son. That Jesus stood in your place and and drank of the wrath of God. It for you. He was forsaken by his God. He was put to death. How is it that the God who made life? And Jesus who calls himself, he says, I am the life. I am the resurrection and the life, he says at one point in the Gospel of John. How is it he could die? I mean seriously, how scientifically speaking does it even work? That the one who creates life in society sustained life and according to the book of Colossians holds the whole universe together, how is it even possible for him to die? He willingly died under the wrath of God, counted guilty for your sin, so that God would be able to show Mercy to towards you and yet remain righteous and just, a good, just judge. He has shown mercy to you. He desires to withhold hell from you. And if you will just believe that Jesus Christ is enough and you ask him to apply his death in your place to your account, he does it. He was withholds. Hell from you. And instead he gives you grace. He brings you into right relationship with him that starts now. We call it heaven in eternity, but it starts now. So that's the first understanding, first definition of of mercy is simply not getting what we deserve when it's something bad, not getting the punishment and retribution we deserve. But the other s the other part of this That often goes overlooked is that mercy, used in this biblical sense, means kindness. And it's specifically the type of kindness that seeks to alleviate suffering caused by sin. Whether it's that person's own sin or someone someone's sin has hurt somebody else. So you see somebody who is hurting themselves through drug abuse. Or they've hurt themselves just through their own stupidity and laziness, right? And they haven't done the things they ought to do, and they're reaping the consequences. Laziness is absolutely a sin. A merciful person who is like their Savior seeks to And we and we see this and we have this codified for us in the Gospel of Luke. I'd ask you to turn with me to Luke chapter 10. If it's easier for you to just Listen, that's fine. If you want to read along, you can turn with me to Luke chapter 10. This is the parable of the Good Samaritan. Be familiar to a lot of you The context here is that there is a man asking Jesus, how do I get eternal life? And he says He gives him an incomplete answer by asking him, what are the greatest commandments in the law? And the guy says, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength, and with all your mind. And your neighbor as yourself. Verse 28. Jesus said to him, You've answered rightly, do this and you will live. Verse 29. But he wanting to judge Justify himself, said Jesus, and who is my neighbor? In other words, he wants to figure out what is the minimum what number of people that I need to love in this way. And this isn't actually the gospel that that he he's been reciting to the Lord. It's law. Verse Then Jesus answered and said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among thieves, who stripped him of his clothing, wounded him, and departed, leaving him half Now, by chance, a certain priest came down that road, and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. He crossed the street. To get around him. Likewise, a Levite, when he arrived at the place, came and looked and passed by on the other side. But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, So he went to him and bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine, and he said, Him on his own animal, brought him to an inn and took care of him. On the next day when he departed, he took out two deneri, gave them to the innkeeper, and said to him, Take care of him. And whatever more you spend, I will come again, I will repay you. So which of these three do you think was neighbor to him who fell among thieves? And he said, the man who's been talking with Jesus said, he who showed mercy on him. And Jesus said to him, go and do likewise. Now I'm, as a preacher, I'm really tempted to go. down like numerous rabbit trails here and just preach this passage. Don't let me do that, alright? I'm not gonna let myself do that. What I want to fixate on here is what the other man said at the end In verse 37, right, he said that the man showed mercy to him. Right? It's it's not that it's not that the man deserved to be beaten up by bandits, and yet uh the The Samaritan said, Well, he deserves to die, but I'm not gonna let him. That's not what it is. It's that he showed this costly kindness to him, right? Whatever he was doing for that day was shot Um and and perhaps he's he's on a long journey himself. He gets off of his his donkey or camel or horse or whatever it is, just as his own animal, puts the the bleeding man up there. By the way, because he's the he's bleeding, this this This man is now counted unclean according to Jewish law. That's why the priest and the Levite went far around and they didn't want to be counted as unclean. And then he has to pay for a night's lodging. And did you catch that? That's not a small amount of money, uh gives it to the innkeeper for his for the guy's medical expenses. And and the word there then for mercy, him who showed mercy on him That's the same word we have back here in Matthew 5, verse 7. They shall obtain mercy. Merciful is just the adjective form of that same word, and it's the exact same word when it says, for they shall obtain mercy. Mercy. That's what ought to characterize someone who shall obtain mercy from God. Now, we read this and we read, blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Okay, so if I want to And it's basically we read it causatively, right? The cause of God showing mercy to me is that I've first shown mercy to someone else. That's how we read it, right? But it would be wrong to read it that way. Because that's not the way God works. He's not a legalistic God who looks at you and says, let's see, is there enough goodness In this guy to get into heaven. And the reason for that is because he already knows the answer. We're not. We're not good enough. We have been corrupted by our own sin nature. We are sinful. We cannot pay him back. That's why the cross is what the cross is. That's why the gospel is what the gospel is, right? Jesus looked at us and said, all of those people created in my image are headed for hell because they're vile. But I don't like that. And it's not just Jesus, it's God the Father and God the Holy Spirit, agreeing with God the Son, say, we need to do about something about this. And so Jesus comes into the world and says, I will take on their sin. And so what this is describing in this verse here is not Not how to get to heaven, hey, be merciful to others and then God will let you in, but you've got to do it first. No, it's if Jesus has shown you mercy, you cannot help but show mercy to others. If God has shown you kindness and he's withheld his wrath from you at great cost to himself, the death of his son The pure and perfectly innocent, never defiled by sin creator is counted guilty and defiled and forsaken. Now perhaps you've heard the really nasty crass argument online, which is very much in vogue at the moment. I hate to even repeat it. But I will, right? Where where atheists and agnostics will sneer at at Christ and say all it cost him was a weekend. All it cost Jesus was a weekend. Okay? He was separated from God for a weekend. They clearly do not understand what it meant for the sinless spotless creator to be defiled by sin and counted guilty for it. They do not understand the cost. And infinite God in his full wrath vented vented his wrath upon Not just the sin of one person, but the sin of all. So that if if you were to try to atone for your sins as a finite person who's offended an infinite God, it would be It would take you an infinite amount of time. That's what hell is. It's suffering for sin, as Jesus did on the cross. But Jesus could do it in a finite amount of time because he is infinite God. You are finite man. You cannot atone for your sins. You owe an infinite debt. And yet, infinite Christ atoned for your sin and the sins of the whole world in a finite amount of time, it is amazing. And so being pardoned by that kind God who is Tasted the full wrath of God for us. We cannot but show kindness to other people. We cannot but be forgiving other people. We can be patient in other Mother Christian, get on your nerves this week. You can be patient with him. You can be patient with her. If it's your pastor, please be patient with him. And so those who've received mercy, extended to others, that is one mark of a blessed person, right? Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. Blessed means, it means happy. You could translate it that. That is one one of the ways to pursue happiness. You've been struggling. With feeling inexplicably down at the start of the year, I have. This is this is one way that you can start to pursue joy is by finding someone in need of mercy, whether it's They they deserve to be treated a certain way and you don't treat them that way, but even beyond that you would you desire to alleviate their suffering and you do it. That's one mark of a blessed, happy person. And the next mark is that pure-hearted Christ is Eager to purify you. Pure-hearted Christ is eager to purify you. I have already preached the gospel to you. I've explained how that works. Right? That when Jesus died in your place All of your sin is atoned for. It's gone. And if you will but trust in him, he counts you pure. And the rest of your life, he starts to make you pure. Now to quote another argument from online, right? Because if we're not careful, there there's so much bad stuff online that even when you're you're perhaps looking for truth, there there's a lot of And one argument is that, well, there'll only be bad people in heaven. All the good people, they don't go to Jesus. It's only the bad people. No. When you recognize that you are not pure And you accept Jesus Christ as dying in your place to make you pure, He makes you pure. He transforms you. It's gradual for most of us. Perhaps there are certain things that that you trust in him and like bam, my grandfather he stopped he stopped smoking. I I the the I think he he was like saved one week Like three weeks later he realized that his his cigarettes offended God, and the next day he was done smoking. That happens, but it's not normative. And though the Lord purified him of his of his uh desire for smoking, he didn't purify him of his temper. He had a bad temper, and he would wrestle with that the rest of his life. But he was slowly becoming more like Jesus Christ. Christ. A merciful Christ desires you show mercy to others. Pure-hearted Christ is eager to purify you. And so there's a two-part definition here of pure in heart. Pure as in clean. He has washed you in his blood. You will trust in him. You are purified. But there's another side to it as well. Pure is the idea of being unmixed, single-hearted, single-minded, faithful. And it's the opposite of double-minded that we find in scripture. Someone who, like we perhaps you know someone who you you just can't tell if they're really a Christian or not. They they talk a good game and they seem to love him and they seem to repent of their sin But then they just they seem to just go but right back to certain certain uh lifestyle defining sins. And you look at this person and you you you you can see a double-mindedness to them. And you just you don't know. They seem to have some allegiance to Christ, but only so much, and some allegiance to themselves, but only so much. But what the Lord wants for you is that you be single-mindedly devoted to Him, faithful. And so that is the other of the the other component of of pure heartedness is not only that you are purified and made clean, and then of course start to live that way. But that you would have a single-minded devotion for him. That you would not go after other things Because so often, right, we we love the blessings that God gives us as much, or let's be honest, more than God Himself. And so when He gives us a good job that enables us to serve Him, we sometimes enjoy the job more than we actually enjoy him or we or we pursue it with a greater faithfulness than worshiping him on Sunday or gathering with our our church family midweek. We appreciate the gifts of living in a twenty first century Western country with all of the comforts of That come with that more than worshiping our Savior, more than giving praise to the God who gave us these blessings. And so sometimes we watch the NFL instead of going to church where he deserves our praise. Now the result of someone who is who has this type of purity, this single-minded pursuit of God, coupled with the fact that they have been washed clean by the the blood and death of Christ is that they arrive at happiness. Where is their blessing here? So they shall see God. Knowing that we are right with God, that one day we will see him, we will be in heaven, we will see him not at his not at his throne of justice, his throne of justice gets turned into a throne of grace for us. It even becomes a throne of reward, perhaps. And knowing that we are right with him then ought to produce joy in us that we will see him. Now, perhaps you know this already. You've heard this a thousand times and you're saying, yeah, but I still struggle to feel happy. I s that's not enough. Like I I'm I don't and I don't mean to oversimplify, right? Because we can we can have intense struggles and difficult factors that conspire to rob us of our joy, right? But I also know that the Bible exhorts us, and you could perhaps even say it commands us, to rejoice and give thanks at all times so that It's possible to have intense sorrow in our lives and yet also rejoice in Him. Rejoice in Christ. We need to have something objective to rejoice in So if you're saying, yes, I know this truth, I believe the Bible, but I still struggle with terrible depression, or I'm still about to lose this loved one. And I and I'm I'm struggling to see how knowing that I'll be in heaven one day ought to enable me to rejoice right now or be blessed or be happy. So let's try and answer that just I encourage you to seek out biblical counseling from someone who can help walk slowly with you. Biblical counseling. I didn't say a psychiatrist, right? Biblical counseling. counseling, someone who can just take you through the scripture. Whether it's myself or another pastor who loves who loves you, or another brother or sister in Christ who can walk you through truth and help you apply it to your life, right? First of all, I would say, feed your heart with more of this. If you're finding that the gospel isn't enough to bring you joy and happiness when you're strong Struggling like this, like you're struggling through a state of depression, and you say the gospel hasn't brought me that blessing. Well maybe you need to preach yourself a little bit more Feed yourself with the Lord of Jesus. Maybe your one chapter a day or four chapters a day of of Scripture and and perhaps just following that Bible reading plan that a number of us are working real hard at the first ten days of the year Right? Maybe you need to depart from that plan and just fill your mind with more than just four chapters. And specifically with the ones that will tell you about what you've been saved from. And that will show you who Jesus is and show you God in his glory. Chapters like Ezekiel one and maybe you've never gone there because it's kind of intimidating to go into book called Ezekiel with like big flying wheels and weird colors and strange beings. Hey, re- if you want if you want to get excited about seeing God as He is, right? Blessed are the pure Pure in heart for they shall see God. Read a weird chapter like Ezekiel 1. And then read it again until you start to understand it. And let yourself get joyful and excited at that. Feed your heart with more of Jesus. Preach the gospel to yourself. Remind yourself of what you already know to be true until it starts to affect your emotions. Now let's say that you've received a terrible diagnosis, that you've learned that you were close to death, or a loved one that you care about is close to death. Remind you Now I'm talking to Christians who have trusted Christ as their Savior. They have assurance that that they will be with him for eternity and that they will they will not be judged by him and cast out. They know that they will spend eternity with him, right? That's who I'm talking to right now. Remind yourself seriously. Let it think in, I'm going to be seeing God soon. Or, oh my goodness, my precious aunt. My precious parent, my precious child, my dear friend, in like three weeks or nine months, in the next year. They're going to see Jesus as he really is. Let that sink in. Let that be enough to know I am Cleansed by Christ, and I will then see Christ as he is, and not be cast out, but get to stay with him forever. Let that get you excited If it's a loved one, be excited for them. Be joyful that they are going to be with the Lord. They're going to see him, they're going to know him in a way you don't and can't until you're with him yourself. Now, if you don't have that assurance that you belong to Jesus Christ, Christ. This will terrify you, this thought. And a diagnosis like that will terrify you. And it should. Let it And then run to Christ and and and stop relying on anything else that you think might might be enough. Don't try to persuade him that you're good enough to be counted with him. If we're going through these these beatitudes, we should see we're not. And confess to him, Lord, I've sinned against you. I don't deserve to be right with you. But But your word or that preacher told me that Jesus dying was enough. And Jesus, I want to trust in that and just in that. And turn to him and ask him to save you, and he 100% will. It's guaranteed. He says I won't cast anyone out that comes to me. And then let that that assurance of mercy and that he has now purified you, you have objectively pure standing before God, let that start to transform you outwardly. Those who have been purified by God start to be purified outwardly as well. It starts inward and then it goes out outward. But we don't just try to do pure things outwardly without changing the inside. We have to go to Christ for that Finally, then, we have a peacemaking God speaking to us, the Prince of Peace himself. makes peace between you and God that you might act like him. That's what his death on the cross has done. It makes peace peace between you and God. That if you will trust in Him, rely on Him to purify you, He does. He makes peace. God no longer has wrath at you. You are made right with him. All is put right between you and him. There is no war, there is no conflict between you and God. The Prince of Peace makes peace between you and God so that he actually adopts you, makes you as your makes you into his child, so that you can then go and be like your father, or like your older brother Jesus. So really what he's saying is Jesus is saying, look, since I make peace between you and you and your heavenly father, my heavenly father, I want you to reconcile Now, again, I'll remind you: this says blessed or happy are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Back to that question of depression, or simply just kind of the winter blues and the start of the year and and you're still kind of hung over from Christmas. I don't mean hungover in in drunken sense, hopefully not. Uh I mean kind of hung over from all the warmth of Christmas and and the new year just it just doesn't cut it, does it, sometimes? Are you still feeling down? Share the gospel with somebody. You'll feel better. It will make you happier when you share the gospel. I can s I could speak from speaking from experience. Doesn't mean that they get saved in front of you. You'll definitely feel better when that happens Maybe you ever, you know, you've been in a coffee shop, you've been in a grocery store, and and perhaps unexpectedly to you you find you have a an opportunity to say Or or some some truth about God that you know will bring light into someone's life, either the person you're talking to or the guy listening and even Dropping that you didn't realize, right? And wow, I got that opportunity. And you you feel pretty good afterwards, right? Even if they if you don't see them break down and ask the Lord to save them right on the spot. It's wonderful to share the truth about what will make peace between a person's soul and their creator. Now this is not the primary reason why you should share the gospel. But hey, if your pursuit of happiness causes you to speak about Jesus more consistently with lost people, let it do that for you. Share the gospel with lost people because they are not at peace with God and they need peace made between them and God. Jesus has done it for them. Now they just need to come to Him and trust Him. And when that makes you happy that you're able to bring this truth to people, not just that you can say A nice word to somebody and really listen and be kind and pat them on the back and pray with them, but when you can impart truth to them, or you can show them what Jesus is like, even if you don't say a whole lot. But you do it in his name. If that is what gives you joy, then that is a sign that his spirit is sanctifying you and he is purifying you. Because your pursuit of happiness has become the pursuit of people who need forgiveness and salvation. That is a sign that God is working in you. Secondly, since Jesus makes peace between us and God, we can't help but reconcile, want to reconcile people to Him, but also we want to reconcile people to people. So if you know of two people in your church family, and I don't have people in mind, but say you know two people in your church family, you just you know two Christians that are that are not at peace with each other, that have a conflict with each other. You were it hurts you to see two people Who are united in Christ, yet at war with each other. And perhaps the Lord is leading you to be a peacemaker, to be a mediator. I want to read from Philippians chapter four. Philippians chapter four verses two and three. So the Apostle Paul speaking to Church and Philippi. It sounds like a pretty great church, but they have a problem. He says, I implore you, Odia, and I implor Look at verse three though. And I urge you also true companion, writing to all these people in the church, I urge you, help these women who labored with me in the gospel with Clement also and the rest of my fellow workers whose names are in the book of life. In other words, help them to be reconciled to each other We need to be quick to settle disagreements. First of all, any that you have with someone else. Be quick to settle those with people. And if if it's something where simply love covers a multitude of sins and you can forgive them and that's all you don't need to talk about it. That's the first one. That's great. Do that. If something needs to be said, then go and go and have that conversation with them. But do it humbly If you need to apologize, you know what? I have learned that many Christians, many Christians stink at apologizing. Have you noticed that That shouldn't be the case, brothers and sisters. Blessed are the meek, that means humble. We need to admit when we're wrong. And when we're When we admit that we're wrong to somebody, it really helps make peace with the people we apologize to, even if we're in a lesser degree of wrong than they are. Like if it's a 90-10 split and they're 90% at fault and you're only 10% at fault. Take responsibility for your ten percent. Take responsibility for one hundred percent of your ten percent. And that will help you have peace with that person. But then encourage your brothers and sisters in Christ to love each other for the sake of Christ's reputation. Does Christ shine as a pe as the Prince of peace? peace when his people are at war with each other. No. He doesn't. And so for the sake of Christ's name, we want to show the world that Jesus can make peace between them and God by making sure there's peace peace within our own churches. Now finally then, make sure you exercise wisdom in this, because Proverbs 26, 17 says, He who passes by and meddles in a quarrel not his own is like one who takes dog by the ears. Don't be foolish about it, don't be quick to do this. But if they're perhaps even an unsaved person, you should apply this wisdom even when it's too Christian, especially when it's A Christian and a non-Christian, or two non-Christian people, there may be an opportunity for you to lovingly speak the gospel to them, to the two parties, and help them to make peace together. Do it prayerfully. Do it carefully. Don't be the unwise guy who just grabs the dog's ears and he gets bitten. But sometimes when you see two people you know, or someone has opened up to you about a burden in their life, a conflict in their life. You can demonstrate the gospel that Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners, to make peace between them and God by helping them to make peace with each other. But the whole way through, you ought to be preaching the gospel. And saying, look, I'm no better. Jesus Christ desires to see people who are merciful, who are living in the purity that He is accomplished for them. Who are delighting in the peace between them and God by seeking to restore That is what Jesus Christ has accomplished for you. You can't do it until you've trusted him as your Savior. And once once he has, rejoice that these things are true of you, and then Seek to walk in them, let's pray