On the live stream. Those of you who are here in person, very glad to see you face to face, eager to preach from God's Word to you. Can we open with a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, you are a God of grace, and we need your grace. We need you to make us new, to make us whole, to do a work of new creation in our hearts. And it is unmerited, undeserved. We plead that you would save us on the basis not of what we've done, but what Christ has done. If there's anyone here today, Lord, who needs to be made new in Christ. We ask that they might uh make the the the the that they might do business with you today, Lord, that you would make them whole, that they would cry out to be saved. And I pray for the opportunity. to get to discuss uh things further with them how they can be made right with you. Would you would you do that, Lord? But Lord, you're also a God of enabling grace, and I ask for your enablement right now. You know my weakness, you know my limitations. Would you preach through me by your spirit today? Lord, we uh we are all uh desperate for your word. If we don't have your word sustaining us We wander off into foolishness and towards death. And so we we pray that you would use the preaching of your word to sustain us, that we can remain loyal to you this week. We pray that today truly would be like an oasis in the desert. Because it is a desert that we live in devoid of your truth. We need to keep coming back to your word to drink. From that well. And we pray that you would meet with us in a special way this morning. Please give us grace to listen. Give us grace to Pay attention and really consider the things being presented. And Lord, we ask that you change our lives as a result of them. That you would that you would uh Cause us to live differently and more faithfully as a result. Help us to listen as an act of worship and help me to preach as an act of worship. We ask these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Yeah. There's a famous comic book story from the nineteen forties that uh makes a lot of people laugh today, but it was uh it it was pretty serious uh at the time it was written. written uh and it represented pretty great uh wish fulfillment at the time uh really for all citizens of any allied nations. The story was printed during World War II by what was then called the National Publication. is now known today. You've probably heard of DC Comics. It was a very short story. It was just a single two-page spread. I did a, I actually and worked this into a paper I did in college, uh so I'm familiar with it. Um it is a uh a story where Superman if you don't know who Superman is, uh I don't know what to tell you. Um You really should. You you just should. Uh he he he uh he's he's uh he is the uh the ultimate superman. He uh he has uh a lot of powers, he can fly, he's in a blue costume. You I I don't think I need to fill you in on that. Superman flies over uh over the ocean, flies to Nazi Germany. This is during World War II. He finds Adolf Hitler, he hauls him by the lapels, pulls him up in the air, flies him. See you're laughing, because it's kind of ridiculous today. He hauls him, flies him over the ocean and sticks him in a U. S. court and and uh very angrily super man says to Adolf Hitler. I'm not making this up, this is a real story. He says to A Adolf Hitler, now you're going to be tried for your crimes. Now justice is going to be done. And it really represented the uh the hopes and dreams of the American people and really any the the people in any Allied nation at the time. The thing is though, there's something about Superman as he used to be written. Maybe not so much as how he's written now. Um they try to make him a little bit more relatable, more morally gray, but there is something very hopeful about a hero like Superman. I mean who can't like a guy who can shoot laser beams out of his eyes, right? It's just awesome. But what makes Superman Superman is not uh take it from Super Someone who's read far too many comic books. It's not his superpowers. That's not what makes Superman Superman. There's plenty of superheroes that are less than Superman more moral-wise, and yet they have the same powers. What we love about Superman beyond the powers is what he stands for and what he represents. He is good and he's morally pure and he's kind and he's gentle despite having all of those powers. Then of course on the other hand you've got Adolf Hitler who is pretty much evil incarnate as far as what we've seen so far on Earth, right? get worse than than Adolf Hitler. Sadly, we will one day in the future on this earth have someone more evil than Adolf Hitler. So on the one hand you've got you've got good in Superman, you've got pure evil in Adolf Hitler, and that appeals to people. at the time. That's how we want our heroes, right? We want them to be we want good to be good and bad to be bad and we really don't want there to be any, at least as Christians. Right? We don't want there to be bad mixed in. We certainly, from our Bible heroes, we don't want, we don't even expect there to be bad mixed in. Unfortunately, though, the Bible is true to life. The Bible is real life. The Bible is not fiction. And especially in the book that we're going through at the moment, Esther, we do not have Superman-like heroes in the book of Esther. If we have human heroes in them, they're Mordecai and they are Esther. And they are far from the moral standard that we as Christians expect. They're far from the moral standard that Superman represents. I think it's good to hope, especially in our fiction for purity. In real life, that's not what we get. And the problem that we find ourselves faced with as we Oh, the bad guy is bad, right? Haman, we haven't met him yet. He's bad. You don't have to wonder about that, but the characters that we call the heroes of the story Don't act like heroes a lot of the time. And Bible expositors throughout history have have grappled with this It's been hard for them. Going back to the the very first time that Esther was ever translated into a different language, it was written in Hebrew. But uh a couple hundred years later, maybe maybe less than two hundred years later, it was translated into Greek for the Greek Old Testament. That's the Bible that uh Paul was often quoting from. It was from the Greek, not the original Hebrew. Hebrew. And even the very first translators, translating it 22, 2300 years ago, added verses to their translation because they were bothered by we don't we don't use their translation. We use the the Hebrew original. The the Jewish school They're called the Masorites, the school of the scribes that preserved the scripture for us, that God used to preserve the scripture for us, recognize that the The true version that God had authored is this version you have in front of you, not the one that the Greek authors tampered with. Why did they tamper with it? Because they recognized that we do not have a virtuous hero in here. And I grew up hearing that Esther, she's the example to follow for young ladies. Well, no, she's not. We want her to be, and I think it's just this this kind of wish fulfillment thing, we try to make her into this virtuous example when she is not. And and what we need to do though as Christians is we need to look at the the the difficulties in Scripture and look them in the face. And what I'm learning as I'm preaching I did not expect the book of Esther. I've taught it before, but I've not preached it before. And there is a big difference teaching in a small group context and and having back and forth and even able to be selective with certain things. versus preaching and giving you the full counsel of God here. Not that I'm ever dishonest with it when I teach, but this is a hard book to preach. And one of the reasons is it is embodied in what we're going to look at today. We do not have a virtuous moral heroine. Numerous attempts throughout history, starting with the example I gave you, have been made to clean her up and say that she didn't do the thing That it's pretty much guaranteed certain she did do, or that she did do the things it's pretty guaranteed certain she did not do. Uh they they add uh add versus saying that she is More virtuous than she appears in the text here. We value truth as Christians, right? Jesus Christ is the way, the truth, and the life, and we value truth. And so uh I would be doing you this service if we looked at this. I am learning through preaching this difficult book of the Bible that my perhaps my biggest job while we go through Esther uh is to help you to interpret difficult books of the Bible, just to learn how to study the Bible when we have problem passages and when we have have stories that just don't fit the way we want them to fit. And so we're going to look at this. We are going to be working through. I don't have the normal way that I do things as as you're you're used to by now when we're going through an epistle or something. I give you the headings that's that kind of gets the uh the the heart of that uh that section, th those few verses. I'm not giving you that. We're simply going to go through the The kind of move through the story the way it goes. We start in verses one through four with a search for a new queen. And you can write that down or not write it down. front of you. Just write what's helpful to you. I encourage you not to get PowerPoint syndrome where you have to get every word down. That's not going to be what helps you. What helps you is that you you hear the message. Take the relevant notes that will help you. But we're just going to work through kind of verse by verse or section by section as we go, making a bit of a running commentary, and then get to the heart, because there's really just one point, one message which I'm withholding till the end That we need to take away from this. Okay? You good? You ready? Alright. So let's read the first four verses here of Esther chapter 2. After these things, when the wrath of King Ahashera subsided, he remembered Vashti what she had done and what had been decreed against her. Then the king's servants who attended him said, Let beautiful young virgins be sought for the king, and let the king appoint officers in all the provinces of his kingdom, that they may gather all the beautiful young virgins to Shushin the city. Citadel, into the woman's quarters under the custody of Heggai the king's eunuch, custodian of the women, and let beauty preparations be given them. Then let the young woman who pleases the king be queen instead of Vashti So we start here in uh in verse 1, and uh I'll remind you what happened in chapter 1 if you have uh short memory or you weren't here last last week. The queen has been deposed. She does not do what the king asked her to do, and rightly or wrongly, she has she has been removed from being queen. To our knowledge, she was not executed, but that is a possibility. But she is no longer queen. And it says that after here in verse 1, after these things, King Ahish has a a chance to cool down. He remembered Vashti and what she'd done and what had been decreed against her. There's there's no going back. Whether it's we don't know exactly what this means. Uh we know he's not angry anymore because it says so. So perhaps he's sad or simply he he regrets not having a queen. And so he wants a queen. Perhaps he regrets a little bit how he treated her. Perhaps he doesn't. He just doesn't like the outcome. But he doesn't like that there's no queen. And so the servants around him come up with an idea. Hey, let's just seek out the most beautiful young ladies in all the empire What I want you to see here, which we did see in the previous chapter as well, we're going to see throughout the whole book, is that King Ahashrus never really acts for him. himself. It's always someone else's idea. The bad guy is able to rise up the way he does because he he just puts ideas in the king's head. The king and the king just says, Sounds good to me. The king is a total yes man, a total sycophant to the people underneath him. He's a poor leader. Another thing that I need to note to you, and we mentioned last last week is that he was when he was having the the banquet where the whole thing happened with He was trying to r muster support for a great military campaign against Greece. And we know based on the dates, that was three years into his reign. He ran a four-year campaign against Greece that started out really well. He had two really good runs, but on the third invasion, he got repelled. And he kind of sculpts back after four years, which would put us in the middle of this chapter. It's actually right around the time that that Esther is made. Queen. So from the end of chapter one to the middle of chapter two, we have this four-year gap where he's waging that war and then Slinks back with his tail between his legs, kind of a broken man, and he's not the same leader after that according to history. And he became a very hedonist Man who just kind of indulged his passions, indulged his flesh. And so what we see playing out here where he's just going to to uh Consort with all the beautiful women in the kingdom. That is that is the man's character. We have that in in inspired biblical history here, and that is confirmed completely by Secular history. It is most likely that he was assassinated. It's known he was assassinated assassinated in his bedroom, most likely by a jealous husband. He was he was a lech, we would say. He was not a good dude. He was not a good king. He was not a virtuous man. And uh The events we see unfolding here are going most of this stuff is going to take place while he's on his military campaign absent from uh from SUSE. When he gets back, then he'll start uh auditioning candidates for Queen. Okay? And so the the young men, they come up with the idea, let's not worry about Look who the next queen uh comes from. We're not worry about her noble birth. We're not gonna worry about uh how shrewd she is politically. Let's just make sure she She's gorgeous. That's that's that's all they care about. They know the king. That's all he cares about. And so he says good to me. Sounds good to me. So they they they do Do a search throughout the provinces of the kingdom, not just locally, but throughout the provinces of the kingdom, and they gather together all of the young ladies they think that might be suitable. Now they're taken away from their homes. So perhaps in some cases this isn't the point. You may remember I said last week that we tend to supply most them eunuchs so that they would serve in his court as well. It's not exclusively with women. This is this is an evil institution. But we're not going to park on that. We're going to acknowledge that we're not going to park on that. on that. Some of these these women would have gone very very eagerly, whoo, I want to be queen, and perhaps some of them would have been sad to leave their families behind. Certainly there would have been uh people in both c categories and in between We don't know how Esther felt about it. So the the the the search begins. It says then let the young woman who pleases the king And then in the next cr next three verses, we have a little bit of an interlude where we have the two most important characters of the of the story introduced, two Jews. specifically. And first it's Mordecai, then it's Esther, and I want you to look. There's something that the writer brings out about Mordecai. We see it three times. Ready? In Shushim, the citadel, there was a certain Jew whose name was Mordecai, the son of Jer, the son of Shimeh, the son of Kish, a Benjamite. Kish had been carried away from Jerusalem with the captives who had been Captured with Jeconiah, King of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away. What we have over here is the th this it's the th it the same word three times in the Hebrew. a couple different ways here, but captive or carried away. I would say deported. There's all of these deportees that were taken from uh the land of Israel, about uh hundred and twenty or so years ago and uh now uh the their their descendants are living here in uh in Sud Now uh skeptics who read this, uh they they read and they say according to the Hebrew, this is saying that that uh Mordecai was brought with captives. That makes him like over a hundred years old. Um see Well, if you if you read what it says, it says that he's the son of Jer, the son of Shimeh, the son of Kish, who himself is from the tribe of Benjamin. And uh the the most straightforward way to understand that given the context is simply that it was Kish who was carried away captive and uh Mordecai has has uh uh descended from him. He's he's he's a native of Susa, he's a native of Persia, even though he is ethnically a Jewish man. And so we have his Jewish identity and his Persian identity kind of wrapped up here. Then it tells us in verse 7. We have first we have Mordecai the exile, now we have Esther the orphan. Mordecai had brought up Hadassah, that is Esther, his uncle's daughter, for she had neither father nor mother. The young woman was lovely and beautiful. When her father and mother died, Mordecai took her as his own daughter. And so here we have another Jew introduced. And first, this is the only person in the story where we have two names. Perhaps if you're familiar with especially the Old Testament, New Testament as well, especially the Old Testament, people had multiple names all the time. Sometimes there was a family name, there was a Jewish name, there was a non-Jewish name if they uh if if they associated with the Gentiles. And that's what's going on here. You have Hadassah is her Jewish name, her secular name is Esther. Esther is most likely derived from the name Ishtar, which is a Babylonian goddess. Mordecai is most likely derived from Marduk, a Babylonian god. So we have these these two people who are they're Jewish but they're secular. They're they're Israeli but they're Persian. And there's gonna be some internal tensions. internal conflict that goes on there, especially for Esther. Mordecai maybe has got that all kind of more fully baked and he's he's raised his cousin as his own daughter, so he's he's older than she is. Esther, we're going to see her kind of going back and forth between the two identities until she finds a way to kind of really embrace both of them. When we get to the end of the book, I'll actually just go ahead and read it to you. At the end of Esther chapter 9, if you turn to verse 29, you'll see her Jewish and Persian identities combined together. Look at this. Verse twenty nine, then Queen Esther the daughter of Abahi, Abbail, with Mordecai the Jew, wrote with full authority to confirm the second letter about Purem. She is Queen Esther, the Persian, Persian queen, the daughter of Abbail the Jew, and her her lineage, which she's going to keep hidden starting here in verse 2. is out in the open in chap sorry, starting in chapter 2, is out in the open in in chapter 9. So we're going to see some character development in Esther as we work our way through the book. But that's what we need to notice is that she is both Jewish and Persian. We're gonna really struggle seeing this secular Jew, both of these people being secular Secular Jews. They are not living like Jewish people. So it was, starting in verse 8. We go into S Entering the royal harem, and this is really where the problems begin. Ready? So it was when the king when the king's command and decree were heard, and when many young women were gathered at Shish in the citadel. under the custody of Heggai. That Esther also was taken to the king's palace into the care of Heggai the custodian. Now people in the past have made a lot about the fact that she was taken, and they're saying, see, that means she went against her her will. Uh the thing Things that go on are really they're forced upon her. She is not uh immoral in any way. That's reading a lot into a single word. You know that word she was taken. That's the same word used of Mordecai, it's just a just a verse above, right? That Mordecai took her to be his his uh daughter. That is literally the the uh Hebrew word that is there. Uh when you it says that uh that he uh brought up her hadassah the the Hebrew word is the same Hebrew word it's it's just he took her to be had His daughter. So I think we're re reading in too much to say all of this was against her will. We we don't know how she felt about things, but we do have a pretty good idea of how she responded. Let's let's Let's keep reading. Now the young woman pleased him, and she obtained his favor, so he readily gave beauty preparations to her besides her allowance. Then seven choice maid servants were provided for her from the King's palace, and he moved her and her maid servants to the best place in the house of the women. Esther had not revealed her people or family, for Mordecai had charged her not to reveal it And every day Mordecai paced in front of the court of the women's quarters to learn of Esther's welfare and what was happening to her. Now to really understand what's going on here, I think we actually need to do the next the next section here, verses twelve to fourteen, where it explains the process, how this audition for Queens works. So let let's go ahead and read just a little bit further and then we'll come back. Each young woman's turn came to go into King Ahashrus after she had completed twelve months' preparation according to the regulations for the women, for thus were the days of their preparation appointed Six months with oil of myrrh, six months with perfumes and preparations for beautifying women. Thus prepared, each young woman went to the king and she was given whatever she desired to take with her from the woman's quarters And we'll we'll pick up in verse 14 in a moment. Um so perhaps you have a picture here. What's going on is they gather these ladies in, they're already very beautiful, and they're going to make them more beautiful. see that it's very much objectifying the young ladies. They're gonna make them more beautiful and so they they have treatments for six months uh with the uh with the oil and uh six months there's uh there's a lot of perfumes likely involved in this um uh the the these perfumes would be given to them uh via baths uh and and whatnot. So basically they're having treat spa spa treatments for a full year, six months this six months of that. And when they get to the end of those spa treatments and they're thought to be as beautiful as they can be, then they go and have their full audition with the king. And we'll get into the CD kind of discussing details about that in just a moment. Esther is going to have these same treatments, and it says here that she's actually so so impressive to the Uh to the eunuch here, his name's Heggai. Uh he's the guy in charge. That he gives her extra uh beyond that regular allowance, he gives her extra beauty preparations, extra cosmetics. He wants her to shine. He thinks she is the one. She is going to win. He's going to be right. And he's going to do all he can to uh he's he's placing bets on the best horse, basically. And so he's going to help her. Now, two important facts here. One, Mordecai has told her, don't reveal your lineage. We don't know why. We like to think we know why. We really don't know why. We we think about anti-Semitism and we say, well, obviously that's why. It certainly didn't bother the king that she was Jew. That doesn't seem he's just saying indiscriminately, yeah, let's go ahead and and I'll I'll take anybody as long as she's pretty. I don't by the way, if you are in that stage of life where you're looking for your for your mate, I don't recommend that be the only criteria that your your future spouse is just really, really good looking. Sure, it can be can be part of that perhaps. But I I suggest that you put more into it than King of Hades. Things don't work out too well for this guy who doesn't really think. But she's told to conceal her identity. We don't exactly know why And we need to not read read too much into it. The important thing is that she does. She does con conceal her identity. We're told twice that she does And uh no one seems to know that she's Jewish. In fact, it's it's a big surprise to King Ahaserus. And to the enemy, Haman, when she finally reveals that she is a Jew. Nobody knows. Mordecai, who tells her not to reveal, tells her to not reveal her identity as a Jew. He is going to reveal his identity at some point. We don't know if he's done it already, but he will reveal his identity in chapter 3. Esther doesn't do it. It's a complete surprise when she does. So what does that mean? Right? That means that she is not Keeping kosher food. I it's pretty much guaranteed. She is eating things that violate the Jewish law It means she is most likely, most likely not keeping the Sabbath. She's not going to synagogue. People didn't know she was a Jew. She has a whole a whole staff of maids that would go with her to the synagogue. They would know that she's Jewish. She's not going to the synagogue. She is not honoring the Jewish law. And that's a problem, isn't it? The biggest thing that we see in her not honoring the Jewish law, and this is a big one. You search throughout the Old Testament, you even translate into the New Testament, and this is a big one. She's marrying a pagan king. Right? This was one of the biggest injunctions. This is one of the main reasons that they got deported to begin with. Do you remember why did the Before they got deported, right? There were two kingdoms, right? And they each got deported in turn. But wasn't there a time when they were a United Kingdom? So why why did they not remain a united kingdom? Why did Israel split into two kingdoms? Why was it? Remember? We we we saw that when we went through Solomon's life, didn't we? It's because he married pagan women. And those pagan women had their own false gods. And he went after those false gods. And God split the kingdom in two because of marrying pagan religious people. That's what Esther is in the running to do. And and even worse than that, if you didn't if you couldn't tr quite cut through the innuendo, and I'm trying to be careful. No, there's children here You didn't cut through all the innuendo there, right? The way that they audition with the king as they go and spend the night with him, someone to whom they're not married. They become contrary. This is not good. This is not okay for our heroine. And if we want to make every biblical character, at least all the good guys into a an example for us to follow, then either we have to change what scripture says or we have to say, you know what? She may have done some things right, but she is not someone you want to follow. This is not the young lady you want to tell your your young your Teenage girls, be like Esther. Be faithful like Esther was. Have courage like Esther did. And we'll we'll get to that in future future installations of the story, future episodes. Don't be like Esther. She was not virtuous. She was not seeking the Lord. Lord. She goes along, she obeys her her father figure. She appears to be fairly happy to do so. She violates the law of God. I want to read to you just from uh Deuteronomy chapter seven. They are uh they are um forbidden from making marriages with other with with with foreigners who are pagans, who worship other gods, right? Deuteronomy seven, verse three. Nor shall you make marriages with them, you shall not give your daughter to their son, nor take their daughter for your son. I'm sorry, actually we should start in verse verse two, shouldn't we? When the Lord your God delivers them over to you, you shall conquer them and utterly destroy them, you shall make no covenant with them, nor show mercy to them. Then it says, Nor shall you make marriages with them. You shall not give your daughter to their son, nor take the daughter for your son, for they will turn your sons away from following me to serve other gods. So the anger of the Lord was er will be aroused against you and destroy you suddenly That is what happened. That's why the Lord was angry with Solomon. Uh in the days following the story with Esther. If you think that the Lord doesn't care anymore In the in the book of Ezra and again in Nehemiah, they're dealing with this issue where the Jewish people have been restored to the land are taking foreign wives who are pagans and not Jews. Today we'd say they married non-Christians. And they have severe consequences for those people that did that. It is not allowed. In the New Testament, we are commanded, and I ask you to turn with me, 2 Corinthians chapter 6. This This is one of those things that carries over from the Old Testament. 2 Corinthians 6, verse 14. Do not be unequally yoked together with unbelievers, for what fellowship has righteousness with lawlessness, and what communion has light with darkness, and what accord has Christ with Belial, Belial being Representative of pagan deities, pagan false gods? Or what part has a believer with an unbeliever? And what agreement has the temple of God, that is us, if we have the Holy Spirit living us? We are his temple. What agreement has the temple of God with idols? For you are the temple of the living God. As God has said, I will dwell in them and walk among them, I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Therefore, and he's quoting Old Testament scripture, come out from among them and be separate, says the Lord, do not touch what is unclean, and I will receive This is a serious thing to God. He does not want those who are his people and are set apart. Joining themselves to pagan deities, false gods, worshiping demons And in the New Testament, even more so, because if you've been marked by the blood of Jesus Christ and you have His His Spirit dwelling inside of you, God living inside of you, and then you're going to literally join yourself physically. If you're marrying this person, right? Yoke yourself to this person. Now you've gone and violated God's sacred covenant. Now, this unequal yoking certainly extends beyond, at least in the New Testament era, extends beyond just marriages. Uh, even in the Old Testament, he says you won't make covenants with them, right? So we've got to be careful that the business agreements that we enter into, if we're going to have torn loyalties, what Esther is doing here, she has these torn loyalties to her God. And to the the the secular duty that she is doing in her quest to become queen. Whether she went into it real gung ho or or kinda hesitant, we We see that she does compromise herself. She doesn't obey the law of God. You might think I'm being too hard on her, but I'm going to keep doing it because let's go to let's turn forward now to Daniel Chapter 1. Many of us are quite familiar with this. Daniel chapter 1, there's a uh uh quotation that we like to remember. We like to quote it to young people. Daniel is uh he's like uh Esther actually. Daniel is his given name, it's his his secular Babylonian name, it's not his uh Jewish name. Uh Um and he is uh he is taken into uh the the the Babylonian administration and he's gonna be one of the he's being trained to be one of their officials. He goes on to become basically prime minister of the the whole empire. Now this is before Esther lived. And like Esther, he is being given maybe not brute beauty treatments. But he's been given their schooling and he's being given their their their food, their diet. And you'll remember the story if you're familiar if you're familiar with this book, and it's okay if you're not. They gave him all sorts of delicacies to eat Not all of them were kosher, not all of them were in a line with God's dietary laws. This was a big deal to the Lord in the Old Testament era. This is how he showed that his people were separate. It's it's right to uh to eat these things and not call unclean what the go what God has now called unclean. But for a finite temporary amount of time he was calling these things unclean for his own. And so in Daniel chapter one, verse eight, we have this wonderful statement. But Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the portion of the king's delicacies, nor with the wine which he drank. Therefore he requested of the chief of the eunuchs that he might not defile himself. And the story goes on that the the eunuch didn't really like that, but he's able to negotiate with him. It's like, give me give me a month. Let me see, see if it works. And the Lord causes him to uh to physically to to to grow so well, to respond so well to God's diet, this is most likely a supernatural working going on, not j it's not a prescription. for the type of diet that you should have and there have been cookbooks written on the the Daniel diet. It's a little bit silly. This is clearly a supernatural work of the Lord through this. But they they became more handsome than all the other young men in just a month, so much so that the eunuch said, Alright, cut out all of the rich food, we're going to give all these vegetables just this vegetable-only diet to all of the young men here. I imagine that did not earn them many friends. But the Lord honored Daniel. He was prepared in his heart. I will not defile myself, and he knew it could mean suffering. Let's just just extend that story out a little bit longer. Daniel wasn't present for this episode, but his three friends, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, again, they're They're pagan Babylonian names, but faithful Jewish men, they were determined not to defile themselves by worshiping the way that uh the the Babylonians would, and they were thrown into the furnace for He attempted to execute them. He was unable to because the Lord protected him but protected them. But they they gave their lives up to martyrdom rather than defile themselves. I'll give you one more. Joseph, and we won't turn there, but we know about Joseph many Many of us, Joseph and Potiphar's wife, she wanted him to defile himself sexually. And he didn't. And he ended up suffering immensely for years in a in a dungeon prison as a result. Esther had that choice. You may say that not in every point, that that perhaps she was forced into some things at some point along the way, but she She hid her identity by blending in with the world and living just like them. She violated God's law in the process. And this is not okay But we see the Lord, that doesn't mean we that we should be like Esther. It certainly does not mean that. We should be like Daniel, we should be like Joseph. We should be loyal to our God. But God is gracious. God is merciful. Not merely forgive Esther if she repents. And we don't know. We don't know if she repents. Of course, we get to the end and we're like, well, of course, Esther will be in heaven. We don't know that. There's nothing told to us that suggests that she We don't know that. If she repented, the Lord certainly would forgive her. But Beyond that, the Lord will still even use she as one of his covenant people, and he will use her even through her sin, even through her indiscretions, even through her foolishness. Same with Mordecai Even though she has sinned against him and been unfaithful to her God. And so we come to, let's catch us back up to verse 14. In the evening she went. She's going to the king's palace. And all of these ladies, it'll be the same for Esther. Once they've had their one night with the king, they go from the the uh this this harem they've been in this this And they may never be called to the to the king again. Or they may be called more frequently. Frequently. But that's where they're going to live. They'll live out their lives as just part of the court. And that's kind of it. They'll live in luxury, but that's kind of it. Pretty pointless existence the rest of their lives. Pretty sad. And that's what what could be the case for Esther. Very luxurious life for the rest of her life, but not queen. So we get to Verse fourteen. In the evening she went, and in the morning she returned to the second house of the women. Fortunately we don't have any salacious details there. Uh to the the the custody of Shaishkaz. Sorry, this is just the the woman in General. Um but then we'll get to to to Esther. Uh the king's eunuch who kept the concubines. She would not go into the king again unless the king delighted in her and called The custodian of the women advised. She's a wise young lady. And Esther obtained favor in the sight of all who saw her. We have this statement three times We have it here. We have it again in verse 17. We had it back in verse uh nine. In verse nine it says, Now the young woman pleased him and she obtained his favor. Again, talking about Heggai, the guy who's in charge here. That's how she got all the extra beauty treatments. Are you hearing echoes here of like Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord? Or going back to Joseph, right? That he was Given favor, the Lord gave favor in the eyes. Why don't we turn there just briefly? Genesis 39, so you can see that for yourself. Genesis chapter 39 He we see him getting uh getting um favor in the eyes of of Potiphar before he is disgraced before before 39 verse 2. The Lord was with Joseph, and he was a s he was a successful man, and he was in the house of his master, the Egyptian, and his master saw that the Lord was with him. Literally the he Hebrew reads, God gave favor, gave uh this this special uh favor To Joseph in the eyes of Potiphar. We have it again towards the end of the chapter. Verse 21, he's thrown in prison. And it says in verse 21, But the Lord was with Joseph and showed him mercy, and he gave him favor in the sight of the Lord. So once again, he's being given favor. It's it's the Lord doing it and acting and the the The Hebrew word there is he to give. That's not what we have here with Esther. Uh and here is literally she she arose favor. It's funny actually, the Hebrew word for to rise up is NASA, like uh the the like the government agency, NASA. They rise up into space. I'm I think that's coincidental. But the uh the the Hebrew word is NASA. She she rose, she she procured favor for herself. She was doing things to curry favor with Hegai and everyone who saw her. She's shrewd. She's smart. She's She's persuasive and she's pretty and she knows how to get favor from people. This is this is a young lady who is working her way up. We might literally say sleeping her way to the And so it says when that when the turn came for Esther, she knew what to do. She she followed the advice of the king's eunuch She didn't take anything else. She obtained favor in the sight of all who saw her. So Esther was taken to King Ahesurus verse sixteen, into his royal palace in the tenth month, which is the The month of Tebeth in the seventh year of his reign. So four years have now passed. The king loved Esther more than all the other women, and she obtained grace and favor in his sight more than all the virgins. So he set the royal crown upon her head and made her queen instead of Ashti Now maybe we cheer. That's what we're used to doing this story, but but I hope you can see this is not really something to cheer about. But the Lord is going to use this The Lord is the one who's truly sovereign here, and he is going to use Queen Esther, who's far stronger than wimpy King Ahasherus. He set the royal crown upon her head, made her queen instead of Ashti. Then the king made a great feast, the feast of Esther, for all his officials and servants, and he proclaimed the holiday in the provinces and gave gifts. And so we have this young lady in power She's gained it for herself by being disloyal to her God. I want to read to you a couple things by his name's Brian Gregory. He wrote a book about Esther, and it really he captures it here. I'm going to read a couple things. The truth is that at the end of the day, it's very difficult to avoid the most obvious reading of the text, however morally disappointing it is. The simple fact is that when she found herself in a hard place she did not resist, she compromised. And this is hard for us to deal with with our heroes, right? Let me tell you how you resolve that. Recognize that Esther and Mordecai are not the heroes of the story. Esther is not the heroine. You know who the hero is? It's God. Who's going to use our brokenness and our mess and our sin and our despicable actions where we compromise and say, well, I had to, I had no choice. God is going to override all of that. He's the hero of the story. He will be kind. He could write off his covenant people. He's brought them into exile. He's given them an opportunity to go back, and they're like, eh, I like it here in the world Too stringent over there. And yet still he's reaching out, using using broken people, sinful people, to accomplish his his means to accomplish his goals. Did not the Lord do this in the most important event in human history that's ever happened? The death and resurrection of Christ He used man's sin. He used the betrayal of Judas. He used the greed and the deceit of those people who strung up that kangaroo court. All of the false witnesses that participated, God did not offer their sin. He's totally morally pure, but he used it To to so that he could pin the curse of that very sin that's that is betraying and and murdering his son So he could pin that curse on his son, deal with the curse, vent his full wrath on that curse and on that sin. But he didn't he didn't vent the the his wrath out on the sinners, did he? He vented the wrath on the sin which was pinned to his son. And he consumed, his wrath consumed that sin, and that sin neutralized his wrath. At the cost of the life and the righteousness and the innocence of his Son, of Jesus Christ. And when Jesus Christ When it was all done, when he died, right? He said it is finished. There was no sin left, nothing left to keep in the grave. If you're not a sinner, you can't die. I don't know if you realize that. Read Romans 5. The laws of physics as we know them include sin, so that you can only die if you have sin upon your body. Now, one day we will our bodies will arrive. My grandfather, who's whose body is is uh is burned up one day will rise again because he is in Christ and Christ will raise up his body there's no sin left on it to keep And that's true for all who trust in Christ. That's what happened with Jesus. He walked out of the grave because there was no sin left. God brought about all of that using the sin Sins of some really wicked people. And he's going to preserve the line of Jesus Christ the Messiah So that he can come into the world through the Jewish nation. He's going to preserve him through the intervention, the actions of this immoral young woman, Queen Esther. I want to read another thing to you from from this uh this Bible commentator. Again, his name is Brian Gregory. The book is called Inconspicuous Providence, The Gospel According to Esther And any book in that Gospel according to the Old Testament series, I would wholeheartedly recommend. He says this. Perhaps, however, the trouble is not so much with the Bible. as with our expectations of it. Scripture is not a chronicle of great moral examples, ethical heroes, or spiritual giants. Instead it is the unfolding story of Humanity's brokenness, one sinner at a time, and God's redemptive grace in the midst of it. That's what we have here in the Book of Esther. We have God's redemptive grace in the midst of a really seedy, disgusting situation. And he's doing it at the most macroscopic of levels so that it impacts like a huge swath of the known world. I was about to give you a percentage. I know I'd get it wrong. So what is the message of all of this? What is the main theme of chapter 2, verses 1 through 18? Here's what it is God is faithful to work through his covenant people. Hear that? God is faithful when we are unfaithful. God is faithful to work through us, even when they sin again. Against him. God is faithful to work through his covenant people even when they sin against him. So what does that mean for you? That means that when you have failed, have you do you have a besetting sin that you you you're fighting against it and and and you sin against him and you just you just feel the weight of your sin. You feel like it's an epic failure and and and it is. It's Terrible when we sin against our God. But that does not mean that you're no longer of use to him. That doesn't mean we can't be disqualified from certain things. But the Lord does not write you off because you because you gave into your besettings. Sin whether it's a substance addiction or you just can't stop running your mouth, it's a deceptive thing. Whatever your besetting sin is, your your peer People pleasing in fear of man, whatever it may be, your lack of self-control, the Lord is eager to work in you and work through you. He is not done with you yet. Now, if you're not in Christ, this doesn't apply to you. This is this applies to his covenant people. If you're not one of his covenant people, become one. Jesus will receive anyone who comes to him. He says, I will in no wise cast out anyone who comes to me. Plead for mercy. Tell Jesus, be honest with him. Lord, I don't deserve. That's what we really need to see. I don't deserve your love. I don't deserve your forgiveness. And those are the people that God loves to save. He will not cast out anyone who comes to him. Come in your brokenness. Come in your mess Don't suppose you're too far gone. He used it he used Esther. He used her to to work an a a great act of deliverance that is remembered even today through the the very feasts of the Jewish people. God is eager to redeem you and to save you and to use you. You must repent. You must come to him. You must admit to your your brokenness, but he is eager to save you. You are not too far gone, and that is what this non-heroine Esther teaches us. God is faithful to work through his covenant people even when they So I want to I want to give us a few moments. It's I know it's not a communion Sunday, but I'm gonna give you a few moments before I close in prayer for us just to if if if we have Have sins that we have not yet confessed to our Lord. Do that now. And ask him to use you. Ask him to use you greatly. Ask him to give you great impact with your neighbors. With your coworkers, with your family members, you've perhaps you've squandered your testimony. You think that you've got I really can't talk to them about turning to Christ Just try God. Just try Him on this one. Ask Him to forgive you and ask Him to use you. And then be faithful. Don't suppose, well, there's really no point in remaining faithful to the Lord now. I may as well I'll just continue on the path I'm on and enjoy the fleeting pleasures of sin while I have them no. Be faithful to your God. He is always faithful to you. And he will work through you even when You're struggling with sin. Let's pray. Let's pray silently and then I'll close us. Heavenly Father, thank you that you're a God of grace, you're God of mercy. That in Christ and only in Christ, you make us whole and you make us clean. And we ask this room full of sinners be You would turn your long suffering and merciful side toward us and not write us off, but use us. Let us play a part in your evangelizing Of our communities and of the world. Let us play a part in your redeeming of the world. Let us really rejoice in being used by you. Father, we uh some of us have sinned this week in ways that we we've just given into our our besetting sin. Perhaps some of us have have sinned in a way that surprised us, scared us. So we come to you now. We know that Jesus died to give us power over that sin. Would you help us to walk in that power now, Lord? Please, Lord, don't write off your servants. You promise not to, those who belong to you and if If anyone here does not belong to you, we pray that they would turn to Christ to be saved. And then you promise to just keep them in your hand until the moment you take them to be with you. In your presence. Lord, thank you that we can trust you to work through us, that we have not screwed up your plan for our lives too much. Let us not believe those lies. Or suppose that we can't have a shot at a fulfilling Christ-honoring sweet life because of the sins that we have committed in the past. Lord, dispel that lie of the devil. Help us to walk joyfully with you as we leave the auditorium. in a few minutes. Lord, we love you and praise you. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen