What wonderful worship so far. What a blessing. Thank you for singing with us. I really want to thank George and Nina and also back at the sound booth. Uh John and uh and Hannah they've done a wonderful job in helping us to worship. Man, what a wonderful week we've had. Um Oh, I'm just being cued. We are going to be uh we're going to be cutting the live feed for a few minutes and then we will uh resume in just a moment. That allows us to um to make sure that the the the sound doesn't cut out. It's something that Facebook does. We're hoping to get off of Facebook soon so to make sure they don't cut off the sound in the middle of the message. And it also lets us just pray uh private for for private requests without it being broadcast all over the internet. So we'll see in a minute if you're if you're watching online. Anyway, it's been a really wonderful week. We had a A really, I think, encouraging week of uh of VBS. Uh we had uh less attendance than we were expecting or hoping for, but it ended up to be just a really sweet time with all of the kids. Uh people worked hard In fact, uh one family uh w had um kids staying with them the entire week and then bringing them to s to to VBS and then serving in VBS, so we're grateful. Grateful to the Winkerts for that. So but uh um the Lord gave uh opportunities for us to to share the gospel. Five nights a week. Uh four of those nights, uh, we ended up adding an extra Bible study for some older kids that weren't actually of the age of VBS, but we were able to, just kind of the borderline kids, we were able to to study through uh first John with them. That was a wonderful blessing. I know a lot of you are praying and I think the Lord is really hearing your prayers and answering those prayers. So I really want to thank you for for that. And on top of that, the Lord's just given a lot of opportunities for fellowship and an affirmation that the Lord is indeed working in and through through Grace Baptist Church. And I wish I could say more than that, uh, but uh uh simply the Lord is giving affirmation that uh He is giving us uh the opportunity for ministry, effective ministry, and uh let's keep on praying and asking Him to to uh uh to to to use us mightily uh that we might in eternity um rejoice when we see the the fruit uh that that we reap. you know, uh just just five or fivefold, tenfold, a thousandfold, uh and we want to uh we we want to ask that the Lord would give us give us much fruit. Amen. So we're going to uh go to the Lord in prayer. In fact, I need to uh grab my my sermon notes here just a moment, uh, and then we will be Uh and that then we will be in in Esther for the last time. Let's pray. Dearest Heavenly Father, it is a privilege to worship you and to sing these beautiful gospel songs. We say that all I have is Christ. And actually you've given us so many benefits beyond Christ Himself, but Christ Himself, our salvation in him, is greater than any of those other blessings. We thank you, Lord, that you you provide abundantly for all of our physical needs and our financial needs And you give us the encouragement we need. You give us friendship in the body of Christ and even outside the body of Christ. But it's it's the blessings in Christ. that eclipse them all or that are the source of of any blessing worth counting. We just praise you, Lord, for for your goodness in giving us your Son. And we just praise you and thank you that we can be called by the name of Christ if we are indeed in Christ. That we can rejoice, that we belong to him, that we are whole in him, that we can speak on his behalf. And Lord, I ask that you would speak through me this morning. You know Your son was and is a preacher, the greatest preacher, the greatest prophet ever to live. And to speak on your behalf, dear God, is a terrifying privilege. It's a wonderful privilege. And I think Thank you for it. But Lord, would you guide me by your Holy Spirit so that I would speak only what is from you, only what is Pleasing to you only what is true, only what is necessary for today, for what we need and what you have for us today. Please, Lord, would you uh make sure that I I do not speak my own message, but you I know that, Lord, I am not a prophet in the Old Testament sense, but I do ask that you would give me the right words to speak today, and that you would give us attentive hearts. that would receive those words and receive the encouragement uh intended. Lord, give us any rebuke that we need, though I don't think that this is a very uh heavy-handed message uh in terms of conveyance But please bring conviction by your Spirit to anybody that needs to confess sin, have it brought to the cross, and then see it Forgiven and removed and absolved, it was consumed by your wrath on and in the person of Christ on the cross. And let us rejoice at that truth Lord, if there is anybody who does not know you as Savior, they've heard the gospel preached several, if not many times. They know what the truth is in their minds, but they've not appropriated it to themselves experientially. Father, we pray that today would be the day of salvation. We pray for the youngest children here, and we pray for the oldest seniors here that no one would leave today. Hearing the gospel and not not repenting, not turning if if they've not been reconciled to you, but but even those of us who who do know you and and are rejoicing in the fact that we get to walk with you. So we get to we get to walk and have a a a two-way walking, talking, living, breathing relationship with the God of eternity who created the universe. It's amazing, Lord. Let us let each of us turn from our sin. Let each of us turn more fully and and boldly towards you that we would that we would delight in you as as we ought. Lord, when we find that we are satisfied by things less than you, it's it's an affront to you, Lord. I thank you for the gifts of sports and recreation and entertainment and the wonderful gifts of of friends. and family and and good meals that we'll enjoy after after uh church surely but lord let us rejoice Let our deep-seated source of joy be in Jesus Christ and the relationship we have with you and the fact that we can say, I have peace with God. I do not need to fear judgment, I do not need to fear death. It is conquered. I have conquered it in Christ. And I wait the consummation. I wait for the day that I see Christ with my own physical eyes. in my resurrected body that has no sin in it, not at all moved by temptation. Lord, we look forward to that day, and it's all available abundantly to us in Christ So Lord, would you help us to listen with rejoicing hearts even now, anticipating the truths that we're going to be I don't think too many of these are really new truths to those of us who have been been attending here for some time, but they are Sweet truths. And as we are reminded of them, would you please help us to anticipate that and help us to rejoice? We pray you'd be glorified by us rejoicing in you and in your son and in your spirit. So please, Lord, would you bless this day? Lord, we want to just lift up those who are who have who have burdens upon them. We lift up Barbara Masinchek as she as she mourns the loss of her brother while she's in, I believe, Texas for that uh that memorial service that was yesterday. And we ask that you would help her to rejoice in her Savior as she thinks of her brother rejoicing in your presence today. We pray for uh Judy. Uh, we're so glad that she's here today and that she's well enough to be here. She's having her first chemo treatment tomorrow. Would you gird her for that? Let her see your kindness and your hand And in just preparing her for this ahead of time. Uh and we know that it is your intention to use even things as as nasty as cancer, which is which is only temporary, it is only a part of the fall, it will not persist forever, death will not persist forever. But you are willing to use even cancer Cancer in order to to uh lead people to yourself, in order to show them the treasures of of comfort and joy in Jesus Christ. And we ask that you do that for her and that you'd give her victory over this cancer And we pray that the the chemo would only affect the cancer and not not but the rest of her body, not the good stuff, only the bad stuff. And we ask that you'd you'd uh encourage her, uh encourage her in yourself. as she goes through these these treatments coming up. Lord, we love you and we lift up this hour to you. We pray you'd be glorified in Jesus' name. Amen. You might be puzzled by my notes here this morning. If you see a laptop here or we are having an an issue with our printer, not a big deal. I'll ask you to turn with me to Esther chapter two. Esther chapter two. Can you hear me okay? The mic working alright? Good? Alright. Now you might be wondering why we're back in Esther after we got through the tenth and final chapter last week. You might especially wonder why we're turning into chapter two after being in the tenth and final chapter last week. I've spoken to you uh about the uh a lot about the the book of Esther, and I don't mean I've spoken to you from the pulpit, which indeed I have But I have spoken with a lot of you in private conversations and then in kind of public conversations at our life group on Thursday nights. I've spoken with you about the book of Esther, but also about the messages I've been preaching you preaching to you from it for the last three months. I'm hearing a couple things in common. In general, I think most of you are grateful for these messages, and and if you're being honest anyway, so I'm glad to hear that. But the second thing is that a number of you are feeling challenged. And those are both things I like to hear. I want to hear that you you enjoy the preaching and that the Lord is blessing you by it. But it's good to be challenged by it. It's good to be challenged by God's word. God Doesn't just fit his word into a box, does he? There are there are things that are hard for us to swallow sometimes, and that's because God is bigger than we sometimes suppose that he is. He doesn't fit into a a neat box, does he? And he challenges us on our thinking. And biblical preaching should both encourage you and challenge you. Sometimes challenges you to Give up a certain way of thinking, a certain of way of living, a certain sin. And other times it just challenges you on your conception of God and who he is and what he will do and is willing and able to do. as he unfolds his plan for for the universe and for humanity. But it's the challenges that I'm hearing from you, the things you are challenged by. with kind of swallowing that's causing me to preach this one last message from Esther. And it's not that you're telling me you're I I don't think you're struggling cognitively to understand anything, but it it's more like certain things are they're unsettling to you a little bit. And it's two aspects of the book of Esther that that specifically A number of you are telling me you're finding challenging, and I and I get it, and I I empathize with you. Here's what they are. Two things that we find in the book of Esther are hardest to process. One is simply that Esther is a poor moral example. And a number of us grew up thinking the opposite, that Esther is a great role model for young girls. I hope you're not teaching that too. Esther is a poor moral example. If you're following along your notes page, that's what goes in there. And it's not just Esther, is it? It's Mordecai Right? The book could probably just as easily be called the Book of Mordecai. There really are these two main main uh characters, main uh human characters in the book. And uh he is a poor moral example as well. In fact, he's the one that raised Esther and encouraged her to do certain things that we say, absolutely not. No Christian father should be encouraging their children to live that way. That's the first thing. What's the second thing? I think this maybe is harder for a lot of us, is that Mordecai gave the Jewish people the legal right to kill not just their attackers, I think most of us are okay with the self-defense side, but to kill the wives and children of their attackers. A number of you have told me that you're you're struggling with the fact that this is allowed in chapter eight. So I listened to these things and I realized, especially while while thinking about the first of these two points. That our difficulties in swallowing these facts and digesting them, I think they're answered by the gospel. I think they're answered in Christ. And so the purpose of this message is not to just rehearse the various themes of the book. And you'll see on the back side of your note sheet, there are some themes I give you, but there's specific explicit gospel themes. We're going to run through those pretty quickly at the end of the message. I just want to show you though how where the gospel is in the book of Esther, how it answers these These aren't objections you have, are they? But you're struggling with them. And I want to show you the gospel according to Esther, that we find Jesus Christ throughout scripture. I had a pastor who used to say he's on every page. Jesus Christ on every page. I don't know if I'd 100% agree with that statement. He's not on every page, but But we have things on every page that lead us to him, that point us to him. And when when uh if you're in preaching circles, there's a term Christ-centric preaching. Well, I would say this is maybe more Christ-ended preaching, that we we will reach Christ as our end. That we we find the gospel uh or at least our need for the gospel in on every part of scripture and and we find it here. So let me show you that. So let's deal with these difficulties one by one. We'll find the gospel message, the gospel theme for you to fill in on your note sheet as we get there. So I anyway, I will take you through some themes, but they're just going to be the ones that are that lead to the gospel, gospel-centered or gospel-ended themes. So let's deal with this first difficulty. Esther is a poor moral example. Let's read the first introduction of Esther here, chapter 2, verses 5 to 10. We get Esther and Mordecai. In Shushin the citadel, there was a certain Jew whose name was Mordecai, the son of Jar, the son of Shimeh, the son of Kish, a Benjamite. Kish had been carried away from Jerusalem with the captives, who had been captured with Jechoniah, king of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away. And Mordecai had brought up Hadassah, that is, Esther, his uncle's daughter, for she had neither father nor mother. The young woman was lovely and beautiful. When her father and mother died, Mordecai took her as his own daughter So it was when the king's command and decree were heard, and when many young women were gathered at Shushin the citadel, under the custody of Heggai. that Esther was also taken to the king's palace into the care of Heggai, the custodian of the women. Now the young woman pleased him, and she obtained his favor, so he readily gave beauty preparations to her besides her allowance. Then seven choice maidservants were provided for her from the king's palace, and he moved her and her maid servants to the best place in the house of the women. Esther had not revealed her people or family, for Mordecai had ch charged her not to reveal it. In other words, she's not revealing the fact that she's A Jewish woman. Now many of us grew up in the faith thinking of Esther as this upstanding moral example for young ladies. And then I pointed out to you that shrewdly she hid her Jewish identity. Mordecai's instruction, we tend even to see that that was a good thing, right? We say, oh, look at her, she's honoring her father. Yeah. With really ungodly advice that he gives her, right? If she hid her Jewish identity, that means a few things. She wasn't going to the synagogue. Do you see how many maidservants she has and how many uh eunuchs are watching her They don't know she's Jewish because she's not going to the synagogue. She's not following the Jewish dietary laws. She can't be. She may have, I might even say probably, worshipped the gods of Persia. Did you catch that? Her Jewish name is not Esther, it's Hadassah. Esther is her Persian name, and that is probably, or at least possibly, derived from the name Ishtar. You hear that Esther Ishtar, and Ishtar is a pagan goddess. And then of course there's the big one, the fact that Esther slept with a man she wasn't married to And on top of that, he wasn't Jewish, because Jewish law says that the people of God should only marry and really we would say today shouldn't even be romantically involved, shouldn't be dating someone who's not a fellow person of God Jewish people were only supposed to marry Jewish people. And we say today that Christians should only marry Christians. They might be Jewish Christians. That's wonderful. They might be of different ethnicities. That's wonderful. But we only We only marry, we only date other believers, those who who love Christ as we do. So Esther's not a moral example for young girls. Please don't urge your daughters and granddaughters and nieces to be like Esther. She was shrewd and she was immoral. And yet God willingly used her to deliver his people from state-sponsored genocide, and then had a book of the Bible named after her. Right? And I think that's where we start to struggle because we feel like the the people here, especially if the if they have a book named after them, that they should be our they're our biblical heroes. And we really shouldn't see moral defects. And if they are, they should only be certain ones. There are certain acceptable ones and certain unacceptable ones, right? And and it's one thing for them to be that way. Before God uses them, but after God uses them, or once he's using them, we we really struggle with this, don't we? Well, Mordecai's no better. Let's not forget that, right? He is the one who brought Esther up. She's following his advice. He's been blending in all these years as a pretty high, well-accomplished government official Which probably means he is publicly worshiping the pagan gods of Persia and Babylon as well And it's not until he tells some colleagues during the whole Haman fiasca, remember he won't bow down to him, and that's why Haman enacts genocide to begin with It's only during that fiasca that he actually reveals that he's Jewish. Now, that doesn't appear to be due to his religious zeal. He m uses it perhaps as an excuse and and perhaps the Lord is using it surely he's using this whole episode of the Jews becoming targeted to wake Mordecai up to the fact that he has not been a zealous Jew that he has not been loyal to the Lord. But it appears that though his Jewish identity may have been a part of that, he at least cites that to his critics. It appears that at least in part, it's pride and just pure old animosity towards Haman. That prevents him from bowing down to him. You get it, right? I mean, we see Haman and what what a what a terrible person he is, what an evil man he is. Of course he didn't want to bow down to him. We can't really blame him for that But it appears that there is there is pride going on with Mordecai as well. It's not purely religious zeal, because we know that he's blended in so well all this time, and religious zeal have no And yet by the end of the book, Scripture is praising Mordecai's greatness. Turn with me to Esther chapter 10. We were there last week. Now of course he's ch he's changed over the events of the book, the course of a year. His people have been targeted for extermination and and he's seen God kindly guide, of course God's not mentioned in the book, but he's so not mentioned that he's conspicuous in his absence Right? And Mordecai understands this, surely, or at least we we hope that he does, because he he really does seem to change. God exalts Mordecai in the eyes of the emperor in the middle of the book. That's what starts to show Haman's downfall and Mordecai's rise to power. He uses him And asked for together to legislate protection for his people. And then the Holy Spirit himself closes the book like this. Let's look at chapter 10, starting in verse 2. Now all the acts of his power and his might and the account of the greatness of Mordecai to which the king advanced him, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Media and Persia? For Mordecai the Jew was second to King Ahazuerus, and was great among the Jews, and well received by the multitude of his brethren, seeking the good of his people and speaking peace to all his countrymen. And we say, shouldn't that guy be a role model then? And we face these things down and we think through the sinful actions that these people that we want to hail as heroes did on the way to being put in God's service. We become confused and conflicted. And maybe the pastor's just not got it right. Maybe maybe that's the case. I think I've shown you in scripture that that So this is what's going on. These people are supposed to be role models and heroes and examples, and yet God uses them and their sin to achieve his purposes. Isn't that the gospel though? God is constantly saving people who don't deserve it, and He's using sinful people who don't deserve to be used. He uses sinful people as his agents. I realize that's not the case of Jesus, right? Jesus is the one who saves us and accomplishes our salvation He is utterly without sin. He is utterly unique in a class of his own. He is not just man. He is the God man. He is unfallen man. He is without sin, without imperfection, and yet, of course, he piled all of our sins, all of our fault, all of our guilt upon himself that we would be forgiven. I realized that he is the ultimate agent of salvation, but when you came to Christ, who did God use to bring you to Christ? I had family members share the gospel with me that I look back and I'm not even sure if they're Christians. Or I can see major, major faults in their life. I think the fact that God's use of immoral ester And immoral Mordecai shows us that we have a problem with legalism in our hearts. Can I say that again? If you're bothered that God doesn't use a morally superior, sinless heroine to save his people, that instead he uses this Less than virtuous beauty pageant winner. We might even call her sleazy or some other words, even worse. If you're frustrated that he uses someone like her rather than the moral exemplar that we supposed her to be Then maybe you have a problem with legalism in your heart. I know that I do. Because this is where God confronts us, right? He can use anybody to accomplish his goals. He doesn't need us to be morally superior in order to use us for his perfect plan, even in our sin. Whether it's that we're redeemed sinners but still have glaring faults, or even unsaved people, he will use them To deliver his people. He will use them to drive him to Jesus. He takes us as we are, and he implements us as tools in his hands, and all the while he's moving in our hearts while he's using us, right? While you're sharing the gospel with somebody, have you ever been doing this? You're sharing the gospel with somebody, or you're or maybe you're not, but you're trying and you're you're even praying for that person in a conversation. Lord, can How do I open the door to the gospel here? And as you're rehearsing what you'll say or as you say it to that person, you're thinking, oh man, I still there's There are parts of my life that I still need to yield to God. I fall so far short of what God has saved me to be. And while while he's using us for his purposes, good purposes, he's then working in our hearts so that we might repent of how unworthy we are to be used by him. God doesn't just save people who don't deserve it. I think we're all good with that, right? He uses people who don't deserve it to save people who don't deserve it. He uses family members who lean too much on truth and not so much on grace and mercy and patience. To drive us to the one who's both full of grace and truth, as John 1 says. He uses sinners, he uses preachers who wish they were more like Christ than they are. He uses coworkers with inconsistent testimonies to urge people to go on to Christ. He uses all of these sinners. Sometimes he uses just outright sinners, doesn't he? As as a cautionary tale to us so that we turn away. We don't want to end up like that. Imagine if God didn't use Esther's and Mordecai's to save his people. You know what that would mean for you? Pick up your Bible. If you've got a paper Bible, pick up your Bible and turn to the first page of the New Testament. Now grab the back page. The New Testament starts with the Gospel of Matthew. Just just find the Gospel of Matthew, right? And I've got a lot of a big concordance at the back, but Looks something like that, right? There's your New Testament. But if God didn't use Esters and Mordecaies to save his people, then you don't have Paul. Because he was a murderer, and he was in the process of bringing arresting Christians to be executed When God saved him and said, I'm going to use you to bring in so many more Christians, you won't even be able to count them. And there goes a 30-year New Testament if God won't use people like Paul. This would mean no Peter. It would mean no Mark. And by the way, John Mark in the book of Acts, that's most likely Mark, the Gospel writer, pretty much unanimous on that one. No sons of thunder, James and John. There goes two gospels and five more epistles. Right? No Book of Revelation. Definitely no con artist tax collectors. He wouldn't use those, right? So that eliminates the Gospel of Matthew. I don't know what I'll preach to you in the next few months then Because that's where the planet hung going. No murdering cowards like Moses. Whoop, there goes the first five books of the Bible, including our origins. No connivers like Jacob, no idolaters like King Manasseh. It was the greatest testimony of repentance in the entire Old Testament. Now, I'm not advocating that we be like these people, certainly not in their low points, but God used them to accomplish his perfect plan and he changed them along the way. How about in Daniel when he he uses a pagan king? Who has been repeatedly erecting statues and getting people to worship him to write a chapter of scripture? It's amazing. God subverts our expectations, doesn't he? All of Scripture attests that this is true, that God saves people who doesn't deserve it, and He uses people who don't deserve to be used. Look through these verses when we re- We're going to use rapid fire. Romans 5. 8, but God demonstrates his own love toward us in that we were while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. He goes on in that same block to say, while we were his enemies. Jesus laid down his life for us. He didn't wait for us to come groveling and asking for forgiveness. He made it possible so that we would run to him. And you who were once alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now he is reconciled in the body of his flesh through death to present you holy and blameless and above reproach in his sight. You were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope, and without God in the world. Ephesians 2:12 Previous one was from Colossians one. Or how about that entire block of text in uh in Romans chapter three? Me, it takes up almost half a column. Got it got the first one for you on the screen. I don't want to cram it all in there, so let me read out of my Bible. What then? Are we better than they? Not at all, for we have previously charged both Jews and Greeks. In other words, every human being, every nationality. They are all under sin, as it is written, there is none righteous, no, not one. There is none who understands. There is none who seeks after God. They have all turned aside. They have together become unprofitable. There is none who does good. No, not one. Their throat is an open tomb. With their tongues they have practiced deceit The poisonous asps, the poisonous snakes, is under their s their lips, whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood, destruction and misery are in their ways, and the way of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. And God chose to save people like that, and they're all in this room. What about from the Old Testament? Come now and let us reason together, says the Lord, though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be white as snow. Though they are red like crimson, they shall be as white as You hear how how stained we are and then how pure white he makes us. We don't deserve it. And then of course this amazing one, then they will look on me whom they pierced. A prophecy that says hasn't happened yet Jesus has been pierced by his people, but they've not yet fulfilled this verse. They will look on me whom they pierced. Yes, they will mourn for one as one mourns for his only son. And grieve for him as one grieves for a firstborn. This is when the nation of Israel repents and turns to Jesus Christ, their true Messiah, their true King, the offspring of David. Sorry, we'll we'll we'll hold here for a minute. Here's the gospel according to Esther. It's the story of God loving, complacent, idolatrous, undeserving people, and saving them despite themselves. He doesn't have anyone good to use, so he uses the ones he's got, Esther and Mordecai And he turns them into amazing tools, doesn't he? So such good tools that we've kind of convinced ourselves they were better than they were. So we have that problem. That's why we're struggling right now, right? Because God uses them so expertly in his hands, like a master physician, wielding up a rusty, dull scalpel. To give us a heart transplant. It's amazing. And he can use Esther's and Mordecai's and Paul's and Peter's and Mark's and Manassas, because all the while God the Father, who's outside of time, He's looking at the cross. While Esther is in the king's bedroom, he's looking at the cross so that he doesn't vent his wrath at her and consume her. He directs his wrath at his son. While Mordecai is blending in and not saying anything for his God, perhaps burning incense or sacrifice to a pagan god, God's looking at the cross. When you're committing lust in your heart, or maybe even with your hands, he's looking at the cross. He looks forward in time. He looks back in time at the cross. While we're sinning, he sees God the Son hanging from the cross Bearing the curse that fell on hum humanity back when the world was new, and he directs all of his wrath upon him. And you need to recog recognize that God can and will save you despite how awful you may have been, you have been. I know you have been. If you will confess that it's your own sins that pinned him there to the cross. If you will confess that you don't deserve his forgiveness, You're right there. You're ready to receive Christ. For that very reason, because you don't deserve his forgiveness, ask for it. Because he died under the curse for your sin. Say, God, I don't deserve your forgiveness, but I understand that you're eager to give it to me because your son died in my place. That's it. You believe and he does it. We cry out to him, we ask him. But it's not some magic formula that you have to say and get right. Just go to him. You can do it now. You don't have to wait for the sermon to be over. Ask him to save you, to forgive you I'm not going to have you walk an aisle, but I will ask you to come talk to me. I want to help you Jesus died under the curse for your sin and he walked out of the tomb on the third day, completely whole. Your sin was gone. It wasn't holding him in the grave anymore. He purchased your redemption, and now he desires to use you even before you're fully sanctified. While you're st you still got Tons of gunk and garbage in your life. He wants to use you to bring others to him and say others through you. Regardless of your your timidity, regardless of your besetting sins Regardless of the fact you've maybe had a less than stellar testimony at work recently or in the past, he wants to use you now. And if you will trust him, he will. Sometimes they'll use you even when you don't Now what about that second problem we have with the book of Esther? I think it kind of it'll roll right in with everything we've said, right? Run that back, several slides. What is that second one? Whoops Here we go. That Mordecai gave the Jewish people the legal right to kill the wives and children of their attack. Attackers, right? We struggle with that. I get that this is tough to pallot. So just to recap, after Heyman, the bad guy, has been executed, he's the one that enacted legislation that says everyone can just kill every Jew, man, woman, and child. They were encouraged to do so and they can take plunder. If you if you go kill a Jewish family, you can keep everything you find in their house. Giving them incentive to do so. Once he's been executed, Mordecai and Esther are given the authority to write legislation that will let the Jews defend themselves. And so let's read what it said again. So we're in in Esther. chapter 8. I know I've had you turning a little bit. Esther chapter 8, looking at verses 11 and 12. It says, by these letters, they they mail out letters to the entire Empire. By these letters the king permitted the Jews who were in every city to gather together and protect their lives, to destroy, kill, and annihilate all the forces of any people or province that would assault them, those little children and women and to plunder their possessions on one day in all the provinces of King Ahazuerus on the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month of Adar So the legislation puts the Jews on the same legal footing as their enemies. They are allowed to kill not just their attackers, but also their families, because their attackers were allowed to kill every Jew, man, woman, and child without provocation that the Jews still have the stipulation is only to be in self-defense, but you can go after the family members. But regardless of what they're allowed to do, they're given that equal that legal footing, that equal legal footing. Regardless of what they're allowed to do legally, it appears they don't do it It says, On that day the number of those who were killed in Shusha in the citadel was brought to the king. The king said, The Queen asked her, The Jews have killed and destroyed five hundred men. And Shush in the citadel. The Hebrew is quite clear, it's men, not the women and children. They do it again and again, it's just men. It's less clear with the provinces. But it's very clear they're not taking the plunder that they're allowed to take. It appears that the Jewish people, though they are allowed legally to do certain things, they don't They don't option those. They don't take their full authority up. They just defend themselves. They just kill the men, and only in self-defense they don't exercise their full legal right under the Persian law. But I've told you this already, and you're still struggling with it, right? It doesn't satisfy I'm guessing it's still not helping, so maybe this will. Let's suppose that Mordecai is indeed vengeful and bloodthirsty, and he doesn't represent God very well here. Let's suppose that's what's going on. He may or may not be, we don't know. But let's suppose that that's what's going on. Then is uh th then doesn't that just take us back to what we said before and that just adds to his list of sins? He's Does it surprise you he's not fully sanctified yet? He only had his turning point like a few weeks earlier. And if he and Esther are indeed bloodthirsty, isn't that just consistent with everything we've already said? And is that God? No, he puts his own son to death so that he wouldn't have to put us to death. And God uses people in their sinful state to accomplish his plans. Is that not what we've been saying? Is that not what the gospel is? But then God overrode it, didn't he? God worked in those two days of war so that his people were protected without seeking revenge or prophet, just self-defense, and then they have peace And they rejoice and they can freely have festivals that worship the God of Israel, this little vanquished power that no one in the empire should know of, know exists, and yet They're seeing Yahweh, the God of Israel, praised empire-wide. And this brings us then to the first of these gospel sub-themes. I'm going to breeze through them pretty quickly, right? The first one. Forgot we went backwards there. Okay, here we go. First of all, God saves people who don't deserve it, often using sinful people as his agents. I realize this is Oh no, that yeah, that this is really just a restatement of the main theme, right? I just I want to point out that this doesn't mean that everybody that God uses for his purposes will become a Christian. I hope that Esther and Mordecai were repentant. It appears that that's kind of the general tenor we have, right? But we don't know that. But but I I I I'm very hopeful they're in heaven now. But God used King Hajiaris in all of this too, and we have no reason to suspect that he is with the Lord. From what history tells us, he's not a repentant man. Now, there may be things we don't know that occurred in his heart, for sure, but it appears that King Ahazuerus is not in heaven, though Mordecai and Esther very well may be. We should rejoice though when God uses anybody to deliver us from a harsh situation. Perhaps an ungodly boss fights your corner at work. You weren't gonna die, you weren't gonna lose your job, but but he fought your corner and and you you were blessed by it. Or maybe he did prevent you from losing your job. You were blessed by him. He's an unsaved Person, he's ungodly, but he fought your corner. God used him. Or a bully at school boots up beats up your own bully, right? In those cases, I hope that out of gratitude you then share seek to share the gospel with your boss or with your bully. Tell them about Christ. But God will use unsaved people. Secondly, God, this is one of the great themes throughout Esther, right? God works great reversals. He brings life out of death, he exalts the lowly, he humbles the arrogant. The Jews had the death penalty pronounced on them as an entire race, and God reversed it. Ended up being that their enemies were the ones r eliminated. Didn't he do this, by the way, in the 1940s? He took his people from concentration camps and restored them to their homeland, which is now self-governing. God's always caring for his people and working reversals on their behalf. Mordecai was hours from execution, and then through an extraordinary, can we just call it coincidence that we know is not really a coincidence, but this coinciding of events Suddenly he's he's taken around the city by the guy trying to execute him and announce to the whole capital city, the empire, that he's the k the king's favorite person of the hour And then that guy, a few more, a few hours later, that guy who took him around, he's executed on the very gallows that was supposed to kill Mordecai. And it's amazing. This is the gospel. Christ was lying dead in a cold tomb on Friday evening. Sunday morning, he's walking around joyful and radiant. You and I are clothed in sin and condemned to hell. Jesus takes our place so that we can be robed in his righteousness and welcomed into his home in heaven. Finally, though hidden, God is sovereignly overruling people and circumstances according to his plan to redeem humanity. Though hidden, which is very obvious in this book, God is sovereignly overruling people and circumstances. According to his plan to redeem humanity. Jesus Christ's human ancestors would have been murdered in that purge. Do you realize that? There would be no Messiah coming into the world. Jesus Christ himself would still be the Son of God in heaven, but he could not have come into the world in the incarnation that we know. And it was vital that he be born a human, that he could die for other humans to redeem us. That could not have happened if Mordecai and Esther had not won their political cat and mouse game against Haman. And then legislated for their protection. This is how God ordained to save them and to preserve the line of the Messiah. It was always God's plan to bring him into the world so he could redeem not just Israel, but everybody, you and me. People from every tongue and tribe and people and nation. He saved his own people using sinful Esther and Mordecai so that he could save you some 3400 years later. Can we Pray. Heavenly Father, thank you that you use sinners. Thank you that you are willing to use us We don't deserve that. We're far behind in our sanctification, but you will use us if we'll if we'll give ourselves over to you, sometimes even if we won't. Lord, please use me more. Use me to bring sinners to you. And I pray that for everyone in this room. Save those of us who yet need to turn to you And then use us to share the joys of Christ with those who are dying and going to hell. Thank you, Lord, that Jesus died for his enemies, so that we can worship you now in safety and joy. We ask these things. We praise you in Jesus' name. Amen.