Sometimes it'll jerk on it and he'll cut his hands on the line. Do you value the Word of God? For you, you know what this looks like? Become a member of Grace Baptist Church. Do you want to know how many fish I I caught that day when I when I went to that bordering stream where everyone was just standing still? It's disgusting, but I like the rubber worms, and those seem to work for me. The Bible tells me that. and I drove out to the county line so that I could uh fish on the the bordering stream there where it was legal for me to start fishing for trout two weeks earlier than than I could in the counties where I lived. And then he's already got a mission board and he's going to go. And asked him about Jesus and how can I be saved. saying, after me shall come someone I'm not even worthy to loose his sandals, he says, and to wash his feet. It's the same word uh earlier where it says they were fishermen in verse eighteen. Thank you for calling us to new life, for giving us new life in you, in your death, and your resurrection. I Jesus, I love thee He can take one arm off, but not both, uh, in case he would lose that that gigantic fish. who need to be pulled up into our boat for safety, not that they would be consumed as food, but that they might find safety and safe harbor in Jesus Christ. And so as we ended in verse 17 last time with Jesus starting his preaching ministry with the words repent, we're starting that here so we have the full context. He's saying, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is drawn near, and it is the exact same message that John the Baptist, his his forerunner, the one who was And I want you to blow raspberries at her. We're not naturally right with him. Because I'm telling you I'm I'm telling you what not to do, I'm telling you where not to go, but that's not enough. And why don't you just come along with me? The baton has kind of been passed in one sense, and now Jesus moves on with his own ministry and his own wisdom with his own purpose. eager for heaven, and that's that's maybe all they think about, but they don't think much about how they're going to serve Jesus until he takes them to heaven. John wrote a gospel, right, the Gospel of John, and he tells us about another time that Jesus had met them. He's up by the s the Sea of Galilee or or the um the it's it's got a a couple different names, the Sea of Tiberias. to come with him. And Andrew and Peter have gone back home and they're they're back in their normal vocation, fisherman work. But then they go back to their their vocation, and Jesus goes back to them again and says, I'm not done with you yet. Jesus has not completed all his work. And I wasn't going to do hunting. fifteen years ago, there's a corner of the state where trout fishing comes in uh two months or sorry, two weeks earlier than the rest of the state. They're in your way. And you find a spot, and that's where you're able to pull the trout out. We must try it. But maybe in order for you to win a fish that the Lord has put in front of you, you need to take up an interest in NASCAR so that you can love that neighbor who loves NASCAR, or that coworker who loves NASCAR, so that you can to get getting a conversation with them so you can share with them the life-changing message of the gospel, which is so much more satisfying than NASCAR But he'd been traveling over the whole western half of the United States with his his family with some younger children or school aged children and his wife in a camper for weeks on end. is because there's really easy fishing out there. this story fifteen years ago, twelve years ago. What I'm saying is he was thinking as a fisherman, and he wasn't trying to do what was hard. I really thought about going there for a time because I thought, oh man, that sounds easy. Who am I missing that is is ready and open to hear the gospel? And because they know him, they follow him. Agape, self-sac sacrificial love. far from his harbor in Cuba, and he is waiting for the fish to just be tired out. Twice while he is out on the sea, a Mahi Mahi jumps into the boat and he's able to with his fishing knife uh pin it and gut it and eat it raw. eighteen through twenty-two. I keep saying it because it's true and because we need reinforcement. Because they don't want their latest scandals, and there are scandals. And so, of course, being the good Baptist that I think I am, I said, well, we don't baptize babies here because uh it takes more than water to wash you clean. We praise rebellion, whereas the Bible condemns it. That we've inherited from our first parents this nature from which we need to turn away. When he finally gets to where he's supposed to go, and he's been in the belly of the fish and probably stinks and has a very strange appearance having been bleached by the chemicals in that uh that fish's belly for Do you remember that not in the Gospel of Matthew, but in the Gospel of John, he says, I am the way. Then he said to them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. that question. Three of those four, uh, so take Andrew out of the picture for a minute, Peter, James, and John, they are Christ's inner circle. Now when I say disciples, there's a couple different senses used in the New Testament itself to refer to disciples, especially when you're when you're in the Gospels. We we know of at least one white color man among the twelve. John chapter 1, verses 35 to 39. And this time he says, I'm not done with you yet. Is is implied in this. Normally, if you wanted to follow a rabbi like that and you wanted to be his assistant, you sought him out and you say, Will you let me follow you? When you're le when you're reading Luke, we're in Matthew, we just read John. Had they met Jesus down in Judea or did they meet him up in Galilee? Let me say, oh, watch out for that rock there. Right. We go fishing for people who need to be reconciled to Jesus. They will be separated from God. of the Holy Spirit is that He makes some people into evangelists. We just may not be as gifted as other people, but it's quintessentially your nature as a Christian. And I'm going to give you several applications here before we conclude. I have the spiritual gift of preaching and teaching and of exhortation. So I went fishing with my father-in-law and with his dad as well, and I have some very happy memories of doing that. Maybe there's a neighbor or a coworker you rarely see who's not gotten a chance to nibble on any bait. You just try mentioning church, and if they start i if they warm to that, you can you can start reeling in a little bit and and giving them more of truth about scripture, truth about the gospel. Invite them to church and so that you can share the truth about Jesus with them. Uh he was who was being ordained to the gospel ministry. Just so joyful, so excited because they were going to go to Sierra Leone. uh to to remote churches so he can get support. survey trips. And he said, I g when I'm going to a store out there, I I leave the car and I'm walking into the store and on my way, he said on in one one occasion in the parking lot, three people recognized him as a as a white guy in in Sierra Leone. He says, you don't know what spirit you're of. People into wise, zealous leaders and evangelists and fishermen. Turn from your sin and follow him and then let him be the way. I pray that I might be able to reel that fish in or that that fish might just jump into my net. few days uh spent at sea by an impoverished but seasoned fisherman who's struggling to catch a marlin that's bigger than his own boat. Just so he has enough energy to be able to continue his fight and pursue his great goal. Because there are two sides. Now, I want you to think about then what Jesus is saying. Now he's Jesus is not just saying this to Samaritan women at wells at noon who are avoiding the crowds in the cool morning. What he's doing is leveling the playing field and saying, yes, those disreputable women of scandal need to repent. We are all, we have inherited sin. And after they have turned to him, they believed in him, he washes them clean, and then we put them in the water and we dunk them as a picture of what Christ has already done for us. You're born his enemy. Not to embarrass anybody. I never needed to say, now buddy, I'm going to tell you something, and I want you to do the opposite. When we read the story of Jonah, and I realize this is the second time in two weeks that I'm bringing this up, if you're familiar with the story of Jonah beyond just what happens with the fish. for multiple days. You have to walk in that way if you would receive that life. Now I want you to recognize, right, that in verse 17, he is imitating John the Baptist. Everything that he's doing is in continuity with what's been said. Those who have repented will follow him. Don't you tell me that I'm a sinner. Uh a number of them were, but not all of them. His initial disciples, the the twelve and and even the uh the larger number of disciples, he's he's stacking them with blue-collar guys The two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus. He can use anybody. They came and saw where he was staying and remained with him that day. Now when Jesus looked at him, he said, You are Simon, the son of Jonah, you shall be called Cephas, which is translated a stone. the Messiah. Several months later. means stone and he uses another word Cephas which also means stone or rock and so he uses uses one he's saying I I'm I'm gonna give you this new name and I'm I'm gonna transform you So we might say this is a very unique time because it's Jesus' own ministry. He's an itinerant speaker. A secular college or even at believe it or not Christian colleges, this has happened. struggling to line these up here. similar to this, where again they're fishing, but uh they're they're not in their boats, and Jesus actually steps into their boat. Somewhere in the middle there. Direction. And uh let's see, let me get back to uh whatever it was you were doing before you before you trusted him. Be fishers of men. I will make you fishers of men. Who will follow me? And no, he didn't use anyone intermediately to do that. You weren't called when someone said you need to be saved. then something changes in your nature. I went out there, I committed, but I but I w I didn't really work very hard at it. overgrown with brambles. Seasons of sacrifice, seasons of following after them, and putting bait in the water and pulling at the line and then letting it go. He was relocating his family. We pray a lot for people's bad hips and knees and livers, and it's good to pray for those things. But the other guys too, James and John, hey these guys guys don't like you. Fishers of men. Lord, help us to fulfill the purpose that you will leave us here on earth for, to share the gospel with the world. But we need to be asking God to heal the cancers of their souls a whole lot more. Second time in two weeks will be in verse 17. in Galilee. She didn't understand that doctrine. uh counted guilty. Now, surely Jesus was doing that in his earliest preaching. And doomsday prophets like Amos were saying over and over again, you need to turn away. So let's look specifically at some of the specifics in this story. So this is his first encounter with Andrew and Peter, and we find out that Andrew actually met him first, and out of love for his brother and excitement that he's found the Christ. And then he calls them again to follow him when he's done teaching. Standing still. Means we have to try things, experiment. Maybe there's someone you've just not been thinking of them as fish that you need to catch. A sacrifice of resources. Finally, if we are fishers of men, we must be given to prayer. I believe this doctrine, but I haven't turned away from anything to Jesus. They've been living life in a certain way, and they need to turn from that way because it is the wrong way to live. From Adam and Eve. It takes the blood of Christ to wash you clean, so we baptize believers who have been washed in the blood of Christ. Jesus calls his followers to serve him by saying, follow me. Going on from there, he saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebede and John his brother, in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets. He intends to lead you forward with purpose. The larger group of those who were committed to Christ were disciples. But then in another sense, we think of the twelve, don't we? And of those 11, all of them would go on to become apostles. Will open up the Bible as literature and start to try to poke holes in it. He's not commanding us here to be for us to be evangelists. Is that we be burdened for lost people. That's what he means by making you fishers of men. Because he was excited for the really easy waters in Sierra Leone, where the fish just jump into the boat. The cost, we just want to buy that rod, or we want to we want to hire that guide. I will keep serving you. for the next generation. Let him lead you into service. The fisherman named Santiago hooks the marlin early on, and he lets it drag him out to sea. You'll notice we were we finished in verse 17 last week. But what Matthew wants to emphasize is you must turn away from your sin in order to come near to God. You might memorize the gospels, but if there's no repentance and no turning in you, you're not actually following Jesus. They're not disciples, but those who are committed to Christ, today we would say Christians, it's right to call yourself a disciple of Christ. Paul himself, right? Religiously trained. Of course, they would spend their whole lives as apostles sent out by him working for him as their master. And when you see, it's not a command. And I would go out with him and I would go out with my father-in-law, and sometimes I'd go out with my uh on my own. I learned very quickly that when you're fishing for trout, you go along a stream and you have to go up and down that stream. We don't really have a positive or negative night here light here. But this passage is also given in the context of the preaching ministry of Jesus Christ as he starts it off. And his obvious he has an obvious food source all around him, fish. The passage before us this morning involves four fishermen, and it uses a fishing analogy for the sharing of the gospel with those He's not preaching only to tax collectors who engage in legalized thievery by systematically overcharging and pocketing the difference. The Pharisees who are known for respect going beyond the requirement of the law, they're the most righteous people. I am the one who embodies God and shows you how to live. And Jesus, walking by the Sea of Galilee, saw two brothers, Simon called Peter and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. It starts with repenting to Jesus and then we follow him in the direction he leads. And then maybe this is a little more rare, but perhaps you know somebody who is very much aware of their sin. If you're following along in your bulletins, that's what goes in those blanks there. That's pretty straightforward. But he's at the fringe of society because his job bore such a such a stigma. They said to him, Rabbi, which is to say when translated, teacher, where are you staying? This is the their first encounter with Jesus, and he's done it, he's worked a change in them. And so we can come across discrepancies like this. If anyone encouraged you to come to Jesus, and maybe you read a gospel tract or you read the Bible, and that was enough, and God saved you. People I've known who really are into fishing, they're thinking a lot about, you know what? We need to think of ourselves as fishermen. And his kids have been taken out of school during this time. And he transforms him into this gentle apostle known for love. I pray for the opportunity to reel that fish in, me or someone else here to lead someone to Christ. And so I want us to read together verses 18 through 22. Not everyone who was proclaiming on that first calm Sunday, Hosanna, were actual followers of Jesus. We would otherwise say this is the time they came to Christ. Even if it's just the person who gave you that tract, right? And then finally when he's at his ordination council, he's explaining these things and he's excited to go to Sierra Leone. And so Matthew, instead of saying it right there with his repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand, he illustrates it with the next story. Or they soon will be. No religiously trained men in Jesus' twelve disciples that he's starting to call here to minister with him long term. Again, the next day John stood with two of his disciples. Now I used to I used to fish for a couple years. I want to emphasize again, we must go where the fish are. But this is the example for us to aim for. He is preaching the same thing as John the Baptist. That name sometimes has connotations with it of another denomination that we wouldn't necessarily say is a great connotation, but it's biblically speaking, it's it's okay to call yourself a disciple. He intends to lead you forward after you've turned. And he was saying Sierra Leone, if if you remember they've they've been ravaged by by uh civil wars um uh s several uh uh c last last couple decades. We pray for those who perhaps heard the gospel for years, perhaps since childhood, and you've have never actually yielded their stubborn hearts to you. Well, if you're not there already, please turn with me to Matthew chapter 4. Jesus starts his preaching ministry and it is it is distinguished by a specific message, repent. That's how you access Christ by repenting. And then move forward in a specific direction. And perhaps they've not repented to God. And Jesus this is after his baptism, Jesus is apparently uh he he's had this encounter with him with them. It was overgrown on the on the stream. I want to remind you of the man in the opening illustration from Hemingway's Old Man in the Sea. Well, what's the response of these men? Now some are certainly slower to follow than these men. To follow him because he has died on the cross for you, and his blood will cover your every sin, it will wash you clean. Everyone was agreed that they were sinners. He first found his own brother Simon and said to him, We have found the Messiah, which is translated the Christ. Turn from that to me. Actually one third of the twelve, at least one third, are fishermen. He gives Peter a new name. When I got to that stream, there were a lot of people who have the same idea. He also doesn't have any food. Now, I was uh just speaking with somebody at our fall festival uh eight days ago who was saying she came from a Roman Catholic background and that she It's an amazing, amazing truth. We must be willing to fail. And so let's read about the first side in Matthew 4. And so now Jesus is he's taking that tried and true message, he's adding to it, you follow me. What does this mean for us? Christ means the Messiah. Kind of cool, isn't it, to see the character in the story now now see his writing in his own words. Now this is a different this is a different time, isn't it? And the quintessential nature of anyone who's come to Christ and been made new is that now we go fishing for souls. They need to repent. And when we take these together, the repent and the follow, that's really the message that we have here, the main theme of this passage is that when Christ calls you to turn from your sins, John th the the uh the apostle John, actually the the John in this story here, it is in James's brother. And so he calls them and he says, Follow me. That we we just want to go where the fish are. I could rightly look at the majority of the people in this room, I believe, and say, we are disciples. And that's what he's doing with them. Now this is normal in those days for um a a teacher who moved around like that. This is after they've come to know him and he's called them by name, now he calls them to follow him If you trust in Jesus, then you follow what it says and you are able to avoid pitfalls. He's saying, I will. I mean maybe on your soccer team if you call the Sun of Thunder or something. Look for souls to fish for. And so this is a very specific call. It's who I am. In fact, as Americans who have rebellion kind of wired into our patriotic DNA But Jesus is not like that. Do you believe that it's breathed out by the Holy Spirit? It means when you trust Jesus as your Savior, he's not done with you yet, because then he'll say, all right, now take my hand and let me just What kind of service does he call us to? I will keep following after the hard catch, the big marlins. There is the repent side, and there is the follow-me side that Jesus gives to his would-be fishers of men, as he calls them. He would have won a lot of support if those were the people that he was targeting, because the crowds who are not tax collectors but hate the tax collectors would be saying, Yeah, they should repent. But the doctrine that says that we are born with us in nature and separated from God, that is true. We're not inherently better than anybody because we are all sinners and we have to come to terms with that and believe that so that we may turn away. I don't want to get up early in the morning, 4 a. Now normally I would go up and down a stream trying to fish, but you really couldn't because there were so many fishermen you were going to tangle your line with them. Maybe if I can get in there and I can find a way to to cut through that, I'll take my knife next time. We're counted guilty before the Lord as sinners. Help us then to extend that offer of life to others. So Jesus, who changed these men in his earlier encounter, he intends to continue moving them forward. And if you're discipling them right, they will go on and they'll do the same thing. If we are fishermen, we recognize that all souls are worth pursuing. Paul, the Apostle Paul. He's the only one who'd gone to any equivalent of a seminary or something. If you've ever kind of been bothered by the way the English kind of shakes out there, they're fishermen, but we call them fishers of men. Lord, we love you and praise you. So we can see all of it in context. I never had to teach either of them that. Jesus is no longer with John. These two men, and James and John as well, have apparently, although they're from Galilee, they've been down where Jesus was. He wants them to be gentle. Thank you, Lord Jesus. And what she was saying, she she really didn't understand why uh why a baby should be baptized in order to to wash away that sin. And he's going to guide them for for the rest of life. It was very normal for him to have followers who went with him, who helped him, they were assistants, they learned from him firsthand. I encourage you to do so, right? I know I was a sinner as a toddler. He can use you. Don't fall off that cliff. Maybe you will have to take up an interest in something you're not naturally interested in. And then Peter's brother Andrew as well. But he has now it is finished. I tried different ty types of bait till I found out that the best kind of bait that I preferred. It's a promise. You were born that way. He's got the support. And you know what? He saw two men casting a net into the sea, and it says, for they were fishermen. This is not including the crowds, not the ones that would go out to hear him. He wants to transform them so that their lives are different and they become invested servants of his father. In fact he used the metaphor of fishing that that Jesus himself uses. Is it not possible that Jesus called them more than once? Did you catch that? Now not everyone is as gifted as other people at being evangelists. I had a number of days where I came back with nothing on my hook, but that's okay. And he said they've been ravaged by war and the people are just they're tired and they're thirsty for spiritual truth. This is the time maybe we would say they were saved, though they they don't really understand who he is yet, but they're believing he is the Messiah. And so if you have turned to him and you're no longer destined for hell, you belong to Christ. He's calling them to a life of service. Do you understand that's what he's saying? He said, The fishing is so easy there. He says, follow me. They leave, James and John leave their dad behind. And that's unusual, but perhaps that's the case. He brought just a little bit of food, really not enough for a day, and he ends up spending multiple days on the sea. So if we are genuinely in Christ and we're genuinely fishermen of souls, we must go fishing. He's going to go to Sierra Leone shortly. He was giving up his job. Get involved. He's beginning his public ministry by telling his listeners, you need to turn away, you need to turn back, something is wrong. That was his mission. Same word, two different languages. We need to think of people we meet as fish in need of jumping into a net. The twelve disciples. Well, this means if if these men could be used by God to, as the villains in the book of Acts put it, to turn the world upside down for Christ. Whoa, careful here, because there's there's a ditch on that side, right? I will make you fishers of men But all that time he's studying for his ordination council. God took this rough son of thunder. Repent, for the kingdom of heaven has drawn near, literally, the Greek says. We may be misunderstood, we may be misrepresented, we may be mocked for the belief that people are born with a sin nature, but it is 100% biblical. I I want you to go and find people who need saving, who need forgiveness, who are willing to repent and follow me. And I really couldn't do it. That sounds good. But look at what the Apostle John became. Now what he is doing here, he's calling them to serve him, to follow him in a ministry. The idea that a baby could be born and has not yet sinned, has not yet done anything, and yet is counted When you were probably a toddler, maybe still there, probably a toddler. Jesus says to these four men, follow me. You cannot separate the two from each other. Only God can judge me. It's all one and the same. We're actually told in verse 12, when Jesus heard that John had been put in prison, he departed to Galilee. But you don't become a disciple of Grace Baptist Church. He had been traveling, he he lived in Oregon, and he was being ordained at his home church. Help us. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Doesn't appear to be the same episode here. Well, he says right here, doesn't he? You need to figure out what works for you. And then we will, to extend the fishing analogy, we'll get our waiters on, we'll plunge into verses 8. He is the only apostle that we're aware of who was We don't know how many others, if you can even call him a white-color man, and that is the guy who wrote this gospel, Matthew. I'm not convinced I have the spiritual gift of evangelism, but all of us are called and are made into fishes of men. When I first got married, my father-in-law is an avid outdoorsman, more into hunting than fishing. He has various struggles. They they seem to live a lifestyle of that. If you believe that truth to be truth, you follow. Really, he's imitating the great prophets from before. Then Jesus turned and seeing them following, said to them, What do you see? Now it was about the tenth hour. You weren't called to become a member of Grace Baptist Church. m. I was translating this from the Greek early a couple days ago, and it is not an imperative. They didn't call call you or place that Bible in your your hotel room. He gives them the gift of evangelism. It doesn't matter about Nazcar. It's just just neutral. And so I call this gospel, I just call this message this morning the two-sided gospel. I had to teach them to obey, but I didn't have to teach them to disobey. And until you turn to Jesus, you are separated. Let him lead you. But so do the religious leaders, and so does everybody in between. Surely he was saying more than just repent for the kingdom of God is at hand. That is John the Baptist, not John the Gospel writer. When you're reading the Gospel of Luke, there's another call later on in the story, in Luke chapter 5, where we find Meanwhile, he's not only is he preaching and and raising support and m making all of these phone calls and driving these long drives. We're starting with 17 this week. But no, Jesus is taking aim at everyone, including the men who are held in the highest regard as righteous people. When he f when he stands up to speak, he says, Yet forty days and Nineveh will be overturned, and then he moves his milk carton and he goes somewhere else and he says I don't mean responsively, but I'm going to read verses 18 through 22. They recognize that they're broken inside, but they don't know what direction to go. , spray myself with deer urine, and sit outside in the cold. We need to start thinking like fishermen. Now of course he's had a previous interaction with them. We have inherited a sin nature from our parents and ultimately from our first ancestors. Of course, there are a couple other apostles who were not part of the 12 or the 11 who were who were added in addition. I wanted to. And so we don't think about And Lord, let me be a fisherman right now. Some some folks I I meet, it's like they're they're grateful for heaven. You turn from your sin to him. And so when you meet Jesus, don't just suppose, good, I'm a Christian now, I can check that off my box. And here where he says, I will make you fishers of men. Help me. Repent means to turn away from something. I never had to teach either of my children to disobey me But what he's saying is, I promise that I'm gonna turn you into a into a fisherman. Now, specifically what he's calling them to do is come with me and work with me. You know why? We're all into that border stream. I've made you into a new person. See, you can't trust the Bible. But normally when I would be going uh fishing for trout, I'd be going up and down rapid run. You should come too. We need to be concerned about souls more than bodies, and our role that we can play in leading them to the one who will heal them. 17, and we'll go right into it. And so surely he's saying more than just turn away And then we would even narrow it down because Judas was a false disciple, we would say the eleven disciples. We want to get that boat so we can go do some good, easy, bountiful fishing. And that doesn't mean they're not Christians. You want me to call down fire on them? He's making a play on words. He was he was known as a thief And this is the sort of thing that those of you who are not yet finished with high school and you might be considering college, and let's say that you go to a So they're driving around the United States trying to raise support so they can go to Sierra Leone. And he he saw it as this is the easy thing. That's a good thing. Jesus wants us, he came into the world to reconcile enemies to himself, to make us his friends, to make us his younger brothers and sisters. Okay. He was going what was easy and where the fish were. Let's pray. Lord, would you give me an easy one? And he can do that for you. Repent and follow. That is the call. I just wasn't wasn't able to. He can use you to serve his purposes Look for opportunities to share the gospel. That's what he says. It's one that he is going to extend to anyone who will trust in Christ. Because if they're not, they will suffer in hell for eternity. NASCAR is just a means. We should be praying and asking the Lord, Lord, would you would you give me one of those mahi-mahis that'll just jump into the boat? I am going to make you into someone who goes after not fish, but people who need to be restored, who need to be reconciled to their Creator. They taught me how, specifically uh Jamie's uh grandfather taught me how to trout fish. He doesn't just lead you into eternal life. We are naturally rebellious They immediately left their nets and followed him. You can't have just one of those. Jesus is stacking his assembly of disciples here with blue-collar men. Not the crowds, not all of the multitudes that would come out to Jesus. The story goes beyond that. He does elsewhere, but not here. They'll start fishing. If you are by nature a fisherman of souls, that means we must go fishing. It means we have to be thoughtful about finding fishing holes. The reason he's going to Sierra Leone, you want to know why? These people weren't great specimens. But we don't, of course, just repent away from or turn away from something. He is God Himself. I was at that stream, but I never did try further up where it got all They leave dad behind. But you you d you normally you don't want to be called that, certainly not by Jesus. Help us to be what it is you promised to make us into. The biggest being sleep deprivation. He goes and tells his brother, hey, I found him. So in in Matthew uh we we're s Well then don't let your faith be shaken when someone points out and says, Well, what happened here? I want you to follow me long term. I never really caught anything when I was on my own. That's how we need to be thinking Amen. I'm just following Jesus. And we were counted sinners at birth. But God is Jesus is stacking his You can guess. But he is so devoted to his one catch that requires his strength and requires that he hold on to that one hook. He's going to show them the right way. And yeah, we can go to 42. And you haven't tried sprinkling gospel bait into your conversation. And so in Luke, what's happened, they've already gone for a tour of service, as we might call it, with Jesus. Now, why do I bring all of this up, right? I'll take my machete. They don't want to be gossiped about by the other women in town who are going to the w well at the same time. First, we have the men, and they are fishermen. And now when he comes to them several months later, after John's been thrown in prison About twelve years ago, I met a missionary. But you don't need to go to college for this anymore because you can just open up YouTube or TikTok and find the same stuff. You give us new life. He's really seeking glory and not just that fish. When Christ calls you to turn from your sand Now follow me. You may not have the spiritual gift of evangelism. Matthew chapter 4. Turn away from that. Well, that makes good sense. And at least Where a teacher, usually in English class or philosophy, It's good to pray and ask God to heal people of cancer. Their dad perhaps gives his blessing, perhaps not. Over the course of a few days he keeps feeding it line. Those who follow will repent. John the Baptist stood with two of his disciples. Peter, or the Greek word is Petros, which is where we get Peter from. It's not a static thing. No, this is a life-changing message, and it's a life-changing commitment to follow Jesus. In fact, it's one of the spiritual gifts. It's just it's it's it's just your line Perhaps you have been hard-headed. Disciples would be in those crowds, and then so would others who were curious, others who were maybe affected by the message, but they they won't turn, they won't commit. He said to them, Come and see. What subject is he of the most associated with in most people's minds is love, right? Lord, I pray that today would be the day of salvation. And I ask, Lord, that as we are obedient in that, that you would use that to grow Grace Baptist Church, that we would continue. They're brokenhearted over it. So if we're genuinely in Christ, we're by nature fishermen of souls, then that means a number of things for us. And I got to be outside, and I got to be out in God's creation. He said, Man, when we go to Sierra Leone, took a couple He Jesus called them sons of thunder, and that wasn't a good thing He's a rough outdoorsman, right? It's called a parapatetic uh teacher, which is a very big word to mean he walked around. I will make you fishers of men. And everyone was just Lord, help us to be more zealous evangelists. But I would not be proclaiming to you the full gospel message if all I said was turn away from your sin. We're just going to do through 39. He's imitating what Isaiah said and what Jeremiah said so many times. Now we do believe that it was breathed out by God, right? He commandeers their boat their their boat uh without asking them at first. And we follow him and we read God's word, we read the Bible, and it gives us Big fat zero. And that when we when we recognize who we are, okay, I am a soul winner. And he so he thought he wasn't doing the hard fishing, he was doing the easy fishing And so he has no means to fish for for other fish. And that was true for you as well. I'm just following Jesus. Uh and No thank you. I'll see if I can get down further because I bet that behind that mess of rocks, there might be a good hole there where I can get fish And you know what he says about all of this stuff that he's done so that he can get to Sierra Leone. And when mommy tells you something, I want you to say no. I need to tell you which way to go, don't I? They'll start calling disciples. Some fish require They have turned to him He calls them both to turn away from the way they've been going, to turn away from what's held us in bondage, sin. And finally they follow him long term, right, until his death and beyond. You become a disciple of Jesus Christ. We should be praying for people's spiritual needs The Lord slowly, gradually transforms rough around the edges. He leads you into a life of purpose where you can call others to eternal life. And I'm sure you know people who seem to be trying to do the following without the repenting We let now live in a time where Jesus has has come and gone and we're waiting for him to return. You're not into NASCAR. They leave the family business. Dear Lord Jesus Which way should you go? It's possible you can say you're following Jesus without actually following Jesus. Lousy with lures. We need to consider ourselves fishermen so that that's where our thoughts go. The call to repentance was the same as John's Turn and follow Jesus. But whoever brought the gospel to you That's what he said. I pray, Lord, that if there is a a a fish that's perhaps been on my line for for a time while I've been preaching. He is he is following the same ministry of that man. And this is this is And so that's that's how this translates into your life. This is the same word. If you're not yet a member of Grace Baptist Church I once drove out uh in in Pennsylvania, there were there's a corner of the state, I don't know if it's still the same, but But they were also saying you need to turn back to the Lord, back to God, back to Yahweh, the God of Israel. Now I'm not saying that like you're not doing enough. One of the two who heard John speak and followed him was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother. You are his enemy. I needed help. And so I uh I took a half day off of work. They know him. Ernest Hemingway's acclaimed novella, The Old Man in the Sea, tells of an epic I know my my children as toddlers, they they were sinners then. Jesus is the way. And he brought him to Jesus. Continue to walk with me. But I'll go fishing But other w other weeks when I would go out and I'd go up and down the stream, you you might strike out for a while, but eventually you find a hole. Lord, show me where to go. Will you let me be your disciple? I pray, Lord, you might save someone today. We have four fishermen here, right? Now I want you to realize that this is not Jesus' first time meeting Peter and Andrew. And he's he's putting in the work of of studying theology and writing up a doctrinal statement. And I believe that this passage answers that. He's promising it He goes multiple days without sleeping. You walk. You keep moving forward. I didn't catch a single fish because I wasn't moving He said it's like the fish are jumping into the boat. I mean, how often did they fail? We'll be in verses 17 to 22. From that time, Jesus began to preach and to say, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. He called them, and immediately they left the boat and their father and followed him. They weren't all disciples. You need to try different strategies, and it's going to take a sacrifice of time And so all of the other stuff he didn't even think about it as a difficulty. You never had to be taught to disobey. They're his closest friends, they're his closest followers in the ministry. So I'll ask you to turn with me to John chapter 1. We found the Messiah. Now we're gonna see if you're reading carefully through the Gospels. I'm not a very good fisherman. So Jesus calls us to turn from our sin, repent. And I know you've heard me say this many times at this point. I don't have any sin, and I don't need to do anything differently. Literally, I'll make you fishermen of men, but that kinda kinda sounds weird, so we just say, make you fishers of men. He knows them. Disciple can mean a kind of a more general sense, what we would now today just say they're Christian. They've been in Judea, where John was baptizing. They are uh he he finds them again. A professional fisherman. I'm sorry, no, we'll go through 42. But what's very different here is that Because we value the Word of God. And that they need a savior. Evangelists. Now he's the truth and the life as well. And I'm just going to read from John chapter 1. I would use power bait, that would work pretty well. Let me show you. Jesus answers them. And looking at Jesus as he walked, he said, Behold the Lamb of God. They're repentant, but they just don't know where to go next. They didn't call you to become a Gideon. That doesn't mean that God's done with you. Please stand and join us for our last song. And so he says, follow me We need to be sold out, constantly strategizing. You aren't born into a right status with God. And I'll say more on that in a moment. We're Christians, we're followers of Christ. And you were destined for hell. I don't blame you. And they're going to follow Jesus in the way that he is directing them. I'm not going to not going to hell. Help us to look for opportunities. Those tax collectors who are here today as he's preaching. Did you see that in the theme there? So there's no contradiction, but that doesn't mean that there aren't par passages that hmm, how do they Not of their own, but of Jesus once again. It's four or five days in the end. He's a tax collector. He is not saying They they require a sacrifice of time. Doesn't it come naturally? Neither am I. Not not recently, but last couple decades recent to went to this We always point at Peter. Look for Other times he's he's pulling at it to test the th the the fish's endurance. Quite disgusting. And so that brings us to the second point. So he's in Galilee now. Peter, Andrew, James, and John, and uh Who needs you? Perhaps they've they've said they have, perhaps they even thought they have, and they're realizing. We don't quite see the word follow me, do we? This man seeks out his own disciples. Were they in their boat or were they not? We believe that it's breathed out by the Holy Spirit, right? It's a little bit unique in the lives of the disciples here. I want you, as my disciples, to make disciples. But You need something to turn towards. This is this is the quintessential nature of a Christian. 42. And uh but I I settled on rubber worms. You've you've missed the opportunity to serve him, but you can do it now. We pray for our children who don't know you. And it requires a great sacrifice. Check that off the list They didn't call you to become a follower of them. He's not only preaching to those kinds of people That's north of Judea. We need to be ready for this. We're made into evangelists And Ezekiel It sounded rather unpleasant. He went he was But we we s we see come and see. And this is kind of one of the last steps. He will call you to service. I don't like real live bait. And this guy was So you can get ordained. And He calls them.