Well, I will ask you to please turn to Judges chapter 6. If you have trouble finding that, and if it's easier for you to not follow along in the Bible, that's okay. Just listen. But if you have tr if you do want to find it and you have trouble finding Judges, it is the uh seventh book of the Bible. So just start at the beginning. Uh you hit Deuteronomy as book number five, then Joshua, then Judges. If you hit Ruth or 12 Samuel, 12 Kings, you've gone too far. Turn back to Judges. While you were looking for it though, let me read a very familiar, we even read this on Christmas Eve, a familiar passage that we all treasure. From Isaiah chapter 9, verse 6. For unto us is a a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government will be upon his shoulder, and his name will be called Wonderful Counselor. Mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace, of the increase of his government and peace, there will be no end upon the throne of David and over his kingdom. To order it and establish it with judgment and justice, from that time forward even forever, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. Do you believe this? Does this get you excited, this verse, this promise of what God will do, the coming universal reign of Jesus Christ, He will be a visible political ruler on the throne of Jerusalem across the earth. Someday soon. Does that get you excited? Maybe you even go back to this verse several times a year. to remind yourself of this wonderful promise or remind yourself of the deity of Christ, that God, that Jesus Christ truly is God in the flesh. He's your counselor. God is your father. He's your king. The world doesn't recognize it yet. The prophecy is relevant all year, but especially at Christmas time, and it tends to fill Christians with hope in Christ and the power that he wields But I wonder though, how often you pay attention to the verses right above it. Can I read verses uh verses uh three through five, right before the the verse we were It says, you have multiplied the nation and increased its joy. They rejoice before you according to the joy of harvest. As men rejoice when they divide the spoil, for you have broken the yoke of his burden, and the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, as in the day of Midian. For every warrior's sandal from the noisy battle, and garments rolled in blood will be used for burning and fuel of fire. fire. Now I said last Sunday that we would look in more detail at the events described here. Because I have a question for you, right, on on your bulletin if you're following along. And if you need a bulletin, you want to be able to take notes. You certainly don't have to, but they're on the music stand in the back there by the red table by the door. if you would like one of those. I have a question for you, right? I asked, why are we in judges for a Christmas or an after Christmas message? Because it's kind of an odd place. We'll be reading about Gideon and his his victory over the Midianites. Well, did you see that there in verse four where it says that God will break the yoke that's around the necks of his people and and the victory he has over their oppressor will be as in the day of Midian. Have you ever read that when you've been reading your Christmas readings, right? And you're like I don't know what that is. And then you maybe you keep just keep going. And get to the parts you do know. Alright? I want us to look at that part we maybe don't know so well. And I think for some of us, if if if you grew up going to Sunday school, you'll recognize this story. You might know it really well, you might know it a little bit. But I think for us to understand the fullness of God's Word and the fullness of this wonderful prophecy about Jesus, it's good for us to look at that original event that's being That is being referenced. So again, if you're not there already, feel free to turn to Judges chapter 6, or you can just listen along. But here's what goes in those those those blanks for you. Why are we in Judges for a Christmas message? Because Isaiah 9 verse 4 sets the story of Jesus' entrance into the world in the context of his. There you go. Gideon's victory over Midian. I always find it odd that Gideon and Midian rhyme, but uh uh Gideon is an Israelite general, we might say. and Midian are their enemies. And we're just going to read that right now. But let me tell you why this is relevant, alright? Because Sometimes for us, and may it maybe even at Christmas time for you, right? But sometimes things get pretty rough. Maybe they're very rough. Maybe right now you're going through a real season of discouragement. And it's possible it's even a season of chastisement from the Lord, but it's also just as likely it's not that reason, it's just simply life in a in a fallen world that is dogging you. Well, either way, sometimes our problems seem so enormous that it feels like God is not present in our situation. And that is the problem that you find in your bulletin there, the problem that is being addressed with this passage, with Judges chapter 6 and chapter 7. Sometimes my problem seems so enormous that it feels like God is not present in my situation. But the story of Gideon tells us That your situation will never be so bleak that God can't work an incredible reversal out of it. God is a God of reversals and He loves to do that. He loves to work reversals. Your situation will never be so bleak that God cannot work an incredible reversal out of it. Since he loves to do that, it's part of who he is as a deliverer. So I'm going to start reading through Judges chapter 6. We're going to soak in the story. We're going to go at a decent clip with a couple of long pauses. to zoom in on certain verses or events here. So starting in Judges chapter 6, I'm just going to kind of give you a running commentary as we It says starting in verse one, Then the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord. So the Lord delivered them into the hand of Midian for seven years, and the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel because of the Midianites. The children of Israel made for themselves the dens, the caves, and the strongholds which are in the mountains. So in other words, Israel has disobeyed, and as a result, God raises up an enemy. in order to get them to turn back to him and that the land's pretty much been overrun by barbarians. Why are they all running into the caves? Well, it's explains in verse 3. It says, whenever Israel had sown, meaning when they've sown their seeds and their crops are starting to grow. Midianites would come up, also Amalekites, and the people of the east would come up against them, then they would encamp against them and destroy the produce of the earth as far as Gaza. But Gaza is where the Philistines lived. So they didn't bother with the Philistines. They just hated the Israelites. They hated the Jews. And so they'd go all the way up to the Philistine border and leave no sustenance for Israel, neither sheep nor ox nor donkey. So this is a pretty miserable way for them to live. Their enemies are just constantly looking to destroy what they what they're growing and perhaps it's their own their own uh flocks they're bringing with them. Let's eat the early crops of the the Israelites, because not only will that afflict them, but it feeds our feeds ourselves and feeds our our flocks Pretty pretty nasty stuff that they're doing. For they would come up with their livestock and their tents coming in as numerous as locusts. Both they and their camels were without number. And they would enter the land to destroy it. This is not the only time that it will say that they are without number and that they're like locusts. I don't think we as Americans have ever seen I've never seen a locust plague, but they're those little cicada plagues that we get like every nine was it nineteen years or whatever. Um not been the biggest the last couple of times, but from what I understand they can be they can be, you know Crazy, right? And and I I do remember when I was graduate uh right after graduated high school, I think it was, um just driving along and all of the cicadas just popping on my windshield, right? And this is apparently much worse than that. You just cannot number them This is signific a significant detail for later in the story. So Israel was greatly impoverished because of the Midianites, and the children of Israel cried out to the Lord. This is actually what God wants. He wants them to cry out to him because he raised up enemies, not because he enjoys afflicting them, far from it. But we're going to learn here that there's something that they've been doing that is not good for them. And so it's better for them that they go through all of this terrible hardship. This physical hardship of of barely having food, that is actually better for them than the spiritual famine that they are giving to themselves. So let's look at this. And it came to pass when the children of Israel cried out to the Lord because of the Midianites. Right, we're going in verse eight now. That the Lord sent a prophet to them, to the children of Israel, who said to them Thus says the Lord God of Israel, I brought you up from Egypt and brought you out of the house of bondage, and I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians and out of the hand of all who oppressed you. He's just telling them their their national history, okay? They all know this. This is what I did for you. I delivered you from Egypt. And he says, I brought you here to this land. He said, I drove them out before you and gave you their land. Also I said to you, I am the Lord your God. Do not fear the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell, but you have not obeyed my voice. Now what does he mean, don't fear the gods of the Amorites? Well, what had happened is some 500 years earlier, God had said to Abraham, I'm going to take you, I'm going to plant you and your descendants in the land of Canaan, which we now know is the land of Israel. But he said, I'm actually not going to do it right away. Your descendants are going to go down to Egypt. They're going to be there for 400 years. And the reason for that is there are bad guys living in Canaan. They're called the Amorites. This is where we get the word amoral or amorality. Not immorality, but amorality. It means without morals, right? Uh and and the the the Amorites, I'm not ready to destroy them yet. I'm giving them time to to repent. But there will come a day where they're not going to repent and they're going to be so wicked that finally I'm going to drive them out of the land. I'm even going to use you in part, in part, to do it. And so they're now dwelling in the land. God gave them victory. They're living in a land that used to belong to the Amorites. He's saying, don't follow their gods, because they used to do really wicked things in their pagan worship of those gods. They're not real gods. They're either they're probably worshiping demons, maybe they're just total worship uh total works of fiction. But either way, it is bad for you to follow those gods. Well then he says, You haven't obeyed my voice. In other words, they are worshiping the same gods that God had deli ha had driven out those people for worshiping those gods, right? Now his own people are doing the same thing and it's harmful for them, it's bad for them, and it's And it's infuriating to the Lord, who has loved them and cared for them. And they're sinning against him. They've devised idols for themselves. So he's saying, don't worship those false gods that I hate so much. That's what he's saying. He's saying, that's why you're here in the first place, and the Amorites aren't here. Don't worship them. But they've been worshiping them. So God's response then is to bring in these Midianites to to afflict them. Now, think about it. The Midianites come in and apparently Amalekites and people of the East, whoever that is, maybe people from like Syria. And when they come in, the the uh Israelites have these enemies, who are they going to cry out to? Well, first it'll be those Amorite gods. Why are they crying out to the Lord? Because the Amorites got gods didn't didn't deliver them. They're useless. They're not gods And so even by them crying out to the Lord, this has started to work. They realize that those Amorite gods are not real gods at all. God's point here is, and he sends this prophet to tell them, it's not that he delights in disciplining us, but he is disciplining his people In order to bring them back to him. It's not good for you to worship false gods. And if you've devised idols for yourself, perhaps you're clinging to the gods of self. or achievement, or of your stock portfolio, or some politician or political movement, or some significant other, or even your education. Not all of those things are in themselves bad. But they cannot be your God. It is not good for you. And so God may bring into your life afflictions That might feel just as bad as this, or maybe not as bad. Maybe you say, well, he hasn't hit me that hard. Good, praise the Lord. But if you are facing a difficult circumstance It's possible, not necessary, but possible that the Lord, out of his love for you, especially if you call yourself a Christian and you have trusted in Christ as your Savior, Then the Lord will, if you're starting to drift away from him, he will do things to draw you back to him. It's actually the act of love. It's it's like a father spanking his children. It's not because he enjoys spanking them. And as as a father I can tell you it's horrible. I hate I hate disciplining my children. I love them. I don't want to speak sternly to them But sometimes it's necessary out of love for them to seek the right things. And that's what the Lord is doing here. So the Lord disciplines his people in order that and I'm sorry, I'm behind on the blanks. The Lord disciplines his people in verses 1 through 10 here. But it's it's so that in starting in verse eleven that he can plan a reversal. Now the angel of the Lord came and sat under the Terebinth tree, which was in Ophrah, which belonged to Joash the A a biasrite, while his son, Gideon, threshed wheat in the wine press in order to hide it from the Midianites. So in other words, he's He's been able to secretly grow grain and then he's going into winepress. Winepresses were often in caves in those days. In fact, they would actually carve out the floor of the cave and make like a channel in it or a chute. And they tread grapes in there. Don't need to do that today with modern machinery, but they literally tread the grapes in that like trough, and then it would flow down. And uh the the the uh Skins of the grapes would start to ferment in there and and you get it to all flow down. That was in case. Well he's not He's not doing anything with wine. He's taking his wheat in there, which is unusual. That's because if he doesn't, the Midianites are all going to destroy his his food. They won't have anything to eat. And what the Lord does here, he appears to him, and Gideon is depressed and he's discouraged. Let's read what happens here. The angel of the Lord appeared to him and said to him, The Lord is with you, you mighty man of valor. An angel appears to him, and look, it it's like he doesn't even look up. Gideon says to him, Oh my Lord, if the Lord's with us, Actually you can read there, if Yahweh is with us, that's the covenant name of God. That's the the name they know God by Yahweh. If Yahweh is with us, you might know the name Jehovah. Why then has all this happened to us? And where are all his miracles which our fathers told us about, saying, did not the Lord bring us up from Egypt? But now the Lord has forsaken us and delivered us into the hands of the Midianites. And can you almost see him not even looking at the angel? He's just so discouraged, and he's just going on about his threshing his wheat. Now I want to pause the story here because there's a good teachable moment here. It's not necessarily the theme of this message, but I think it's really important that we pick it up. Okay? I want you to hear what Gideon said again, right? He said, if the Lord is with us, basically, why are all these bad things happening? No, the Lord's not with us, he's forsaken us. Now have you heard any form of that question today? Because if you spend any time on YouTube perhaps looking at at anything with a religious bent to it. Especially if you like to look up apologetics videos. But even if not, maybe just your algorithm on the side of the screen is is suggesting these religious related uh Videos, right? And almost always you're gonna find in there somebody saying, especially if it's it's an apologist and some atheist or agnostic saying why they don't believe in God, they'll say it's bec for this I look at the world, I see injustice all all around the world, and I conclude there's no way that there's a God, because if there was, all this bad stuff wouldn't be happening. Does that sound familiar? You heard those those questions posed to you? I want to help you know how to answer that question because I want us to look up how how the Lord answers it and I want us to consider how we might answer it, right? It it's a very common question. It goes back to to uh Gideon's day and probably earlier than that. He's saying the same thing. I see all this justice. He's i injustice Right? And he's pointing to his own people. Other people say, Oh I look uh I look at at the war between Gaza and Israel, I look at Ukraine, uh I I see the the the terrible things going on in different parts of the world, even our own c country And I conclude there there cannot be a God. And then they ask the person speaking with them, right? Why why does why does God let this happen? Well, how does God answer that? We'll find out in a few verses, actually, that the angel of the Lord here is actually God Himself, the Lord Himself. Look at verse 14. Then the Lord turned to him and said, Go in this might of yours, and sh you shall save Israel from the hand of the Midianites. Have I not sent you? Did he answer his question? No, he didn't answer his question. All he did was continue saying what he was already saying. He just ignored him. Why would he ignore Gideon's question? Because he already answered Gideon's question up in verse ten, right? He sent that prophet. They cried out to God and they say the Midianites are afflicting us. And it might have looked like God was saying I don't care. But he wasn't. He was just explaining to them, look, I have raised up the Midianites. You have enemies, in order that you might turn back to me. You turned away from me. Now I'm I'm using them to turn the turn you back to myself He's already answered Gideon's question. Gideon supposes he's got a legitimate reason not to listen to God. When God has already answered that. And if you come up, perhaps if you are a Christian, and I'm not assuming that everyone here is a Christian, but if you're a Christian and you've tried sharing the gospel, perhaps at the workplace. Perhaps you've you've run into this, right? And someone says, well, why does God let the bad things happen that are happening in and they name somewhere, right? You can tell them gently, lovingly, tell them, you know what, God's already answered that. I think you already know the answer to that, my friend. Because chances are they the reason they've gotten to this place is because someone's tried to talk to them about God already. Perhaps they grew up in church. Or maybe it's you. You were sharing the gospel with them. You told them about Jesus. You told them that you were at a great Christmas Eve service. You had some wonderful carol singing or something like that. And and they they start pfft Right? And you you start to explain why Jesus came into the world and and they they bring up the injustice question, right? They've already heard why Jesus came into the world. It's because of the injustice they're complaining about. And they think that that's a good enough excuse not to believe him. And what you can say is, no, no, no, look. You've you you're asking a question that that I've already answered for you, or that someone's all else has already told you. That's already been answered. You're saying saying w how could God exist? God is doing something. He is doing something about it. That's why he sent his son into the world. And you you ex- they've they've heard the gospel, right? They've heard God send his son into the world to die under punishment, not for his sin, but for their own sin, for your own sin. They've been told that on the cross, Jesus Christ died for their sin, that he was counted guilty, though he was innocent, he was counted guilty of their sin. And he was put to death for their sin. They've been told that after that, after he was in the grave, he walked out. Because God had received his sacrifice on behalf of their sin. It's atoned for, it's gone It's done. And then they're told, you know what, you can share in Christ's resurrection. Jesus, who has life, he has the power to take his life up and walk right out of the tomb, he wants to share that eternal life with you. Now, God is doing something about the injustice you're complaining about, and He's going to put a full end to it, but along the way Will you or will you not partake of that? Will you let him make you a part of that? So that's what I suggest you say. You remind your opponent, hopefully your friend, that This is something that you've already answered, or someone else has already answered for them. Maybe you even take them to judges, pull it up on your phone and just read Gideon's question. Say, my friend, this is not a new question. Thirty-five or thirty-three hundred or so years ago, this guy asked the same question. It probably wasn't new when he asked it. God's already answered that question. He sent his son into the world in response to your very question. But the question for you is, turn it back to them. You're a sinner. Are you going to be a part of what God is doing? Because He will do it. And either you will be on His side and you will reign with Him and you will enjoy the justice, the reign of justice that's coming. Or you will be counted a transgressor as part of that injustice. You complain about injustice? Sin like the sin in your heart. That's why that's going on today. Turn your heart over to him first, and then you then you can help him in his quest to put all of this injustice to rest. That's what I suggest you say. Something like that. Well that was a detour. Okay? I hope it was a helpful, well worthwhile detour. And I promise to try to speed up here to get us through. So Gideon has said Yeah, but I I I don't see God working, and the Lord says, go in this might of yours. I'm giving you strength is what he's saying. Verse 15, then, Gideon responds, O my Lord, how can I save Israel? And he starts focusing on his smallness. And this is a theme we're going to see running through this couple of chapters, is the smallness of God's people, the smallness of Gideon. The smallness of the people who follow him, the bigness of their obstacles and their enemies, the the army in front of them. How can I save Israel? Indeed, my clan is the weakest in Manasseh. Manasseh is one of the twelve tribes of Israel. And I am the least in my father's house. And the Lord said to him, Surely I will be with you, and you shall defeat the Midianites as one man. You're going to fe you're going to defeat them totally. Then he said to him, that is, uh Gideon says to God, if now I have found favor in your sight, then show me a sign that it's you who talk with me. Do not depart from here, I pray, until I come to you and bring out my offering and set it before you. And he said, I'll wait until you come back. So I'm gonna speed up here, I'm gonna fast forward. Gideon goes and he prepares a sacrifice, he gives it to God. It says in verse twenty one, Then the angel of the Lord put out the end of his staff that was in his hand, and he touched the the the meat and the unble leavened bread. It's on a rock. It's just on a rock. It's not a fireplace. It's not a stove. It says, and fire rose out of the rock and consumed the meat and the unleavened bread, and the angel of the Lord departed out of his sight. Right? God has proved who he is, and look at how Gideon responds. Now Gideon perceived that he was the angel of Yahweh, of the Lord, Jehovah. So Gideon says, Alas, O Lord Yahweh, O Lord God, for I have seen the angel of the Lord face to face He's afraid now. He he believes who this who this is for real, and now he's afraid he's going to be destroyed. And verse twenty-five or verse twenty-three, then the Lord said to him, Peace be with you. Do not fear, you shall not die. So Gideon built an altar there to the Lord and called it the Lord is peace. To this day it is still in Ophrah of the Abiazrites. Now I'd love to keep on in the story here because it's really cool and it's really exciting, but we don't have time, and I want to get to the main point. So let me sum up. God says, here's what I want you to do next. Before you go and defeat your enemies, we need to deal with with the sin of the of your nation. that that I th the whole reason I brought these enemies in, right? He says, there's a carved image in your in your father's town. His father is apparently in charge. I want you to go and pull down that wooden image to Baal. That's the false God. And I want you to take the wood, I want you to split it up, and then destroy Baal's altar, build a new altar, and use the wood from that idol, burn it up, and offer a sacrifice of a bull in it. And he actually takes a bull, he uses a bull to pull down that altar, and he has ten men help him, and he offers the bull on the altar using that where he burns up that idol, so it's gone. He does it in the middle of the night because he's afraid. Because he's he's this weak guy. He's this small guy. And everyone wakes up in the morning now it we're told it was his father's wooden image. And everyone's angry that he pulled down how dare you defile Baal like like Baal has helped them at all with their enemies these last seven years. And his father, it's his wooden image, and his father defends his son and says, no, this is right, this is good. If Ba's really a God, let him avenge himself. In other words, he's not done anything to help us these last seven years because he's not real. And this is right that my son tore this down. He defends him Well, Gideon still doubts, and there's a famous incident here where he he asks God to do a miracle regarding water on a fleece outside. We're not going to read that. Uh but if you're familiar with that passage, I would just say to you, when you read that, don't suppose that that is a a textbook manual on how to how to get an answer out of God. It's actually Gideon is showing a great display of unbelief. He's already seen the Lord be faithful to him by first of all doing that miracle, making fire come out of a rock. That should settle it. Then the Lord has defended him when he has been obedient to him and and destroyed that uh it idol. He shouldn't be doubting, but he still is. Well the Lord proves himself. And we're gonna pick up now then. So we we've seen that the Lord plans a reversal. And now we're going to go into chapter 7. We see the Lord gather his army. The funny thing is, that's my word, army. As we read, you are not once going to see the word army applied to the Jewish people. Gideon does not have an army as far as the Bible is concerned. So maybe I shouldn't have used that word. Army only applies to the enemies in this passage. When you see that, look for that. Then Jeribel, that is Gideon, he's been given this new name. And all the people who were with him rose early and encamped beside the well of Herod, so that the camp of the Midianites was on the north side of them by the hill of Morah in the valley And the Lord said to Gideon, The people who are with you are too many for me to give the Midianites into their hands. Did you hear what he said? He didn't say, the army in front of you is too big, I can't defeat them What he said is, you've got too many people on your side for me to defeat the bad guys. What does that mean? What he's saying is, I don't want there to be any mistaking that you somehow delivered yourself. You won't, you can't. It'll be me doing it, but people will look at your army and suppose that you defeated them instead of Yahweh defeating them. He says, so we're gonna whittle down this army a little bit. I'll just read verse two here. He says, so to start again, the people who are with you are too many for me to give the Midianites into their hands Lest Israel claim glory for itself against me. Right? If he brought those enemies in in order to turn his people back to himself, but they think, oh, we're strong enough to do that themselves. Are they going to turn back to God? No, they're not. They're going to rely on themselves. And it's the new idol. It's the idol of self-reliance. Very common for us as Americans. Saying, My own hand has saved me. Now therefore, proclaim in the hearing of the people, saying, Whoever is fearful and afraid, let him turn and depart at once from Mount Gilead. And 22,000 of the people returned and 10,000 remained. So he has he was able to rally troops of 32,000 people. Two-thirds of them, a little bit more than that, have just dropped out. He's down to around about 31-32% of his original army. Look at what it what God says in verse 4. Like now can they go to go and fight the enemies? But the Lord said to Gideon, the people are still too many. Bring them down to the water and I will test them for you there. And the next thing that happens, you might you might know this story, you might think, this is kind of silly. And I think that's probably fair. This is kind of silly. Let's let's look at what happens I will test you there. Then it will be that of whom I say to you, this one shall go with you, the same shall go with you. Whoever I say to you, this one shall not go with you, the same shall not go. In other words, you're going to take them down to the water, and I'm going to show you who stays in your army and who doesn't. So he brought the people down to the water, and the Lord said to Gideon, Everyone who laps from the water with his tongue as a dog laps, you shall set apart by himself. Likewise everyone who gets down on his knees to drink. So in other words, there's gonna be some guys who who get water and they go like this and the and everyone else is gonna kneel down and they're just gonna drink straight out of the w straight out of the river. Apparently most of them just get on their knees, because look at what it says. The number of those who lapped, putting their hand to their mouth was three hundred men, but all the rest of the people got down on their knees to drink water. Now you might be thinking, what what does this have to do with anything? This is really weird. Well we'll keep reading. That's it's kind of entertaining. So three hundred are are doing this. The other nine thousand seven hundred are down on their knees. Which ones do you think he's going to get rid of? Just get rid of another three hundred, maybe? Then the Lord said to Gideon, By the three hundred men who lapped, I will save you and deliver the Midianites into your hand. You think it sounds silly? That's the point That God is is taking this silliness and and it's a silly number. 300 people. We've already been told that the Medea, what's the number? How many Minnesot? You don't know? Because he never said so, because then they can't be numbered. There is no census. There's no number of them. They're like locusts. Do you remember that? It's gonna say that again in just a moment. And it's silly that first of all This this general, what kind of general is this? He determines who's gonna be in his army by having them lap water? What what's going on? And and that tiny little number, the point is that if they win You think they'll win? If they win, then there's no doubt about it. It must have been God because he uses foolishness and he uses weakness and he uses smallness to overcome The things and the people we esteem as wise and mighty and numerous and big And so God is going to have his reversal here. Here he's gathered his army. So here it says, uh by the three hundred men who laugh, I'll save you, deliver the Minnesota into your hand. Let all the other people go, every man to his place. So the people took provisions and their trumpets in their hands, and he sent away all the rest of Israel, every man to his tent, and retained those three hundred men. Now the camp of Midian was below him in the valley. The Lord has gathered his army. Now the Lord is going to accomplish his victory. If you're following along in your bulletin, there are the last the last blanks for you. And you can just you can listen, take any notes you need to, but soak it in here. The Lord has whittled the army down twice, in contrast to those worthless idols that they've been serving. God is going to prove to his people only he can deliver them, not those false gods and not themselves. He can deliver them from any situation in every situation. And so now, proactively, the Lord knows Gideon, he knows he's a doubter, he knows he gets scared. And so he's going to do something to pacify him, to give him confidence, to encourage him. Because he's characteristically fearful. Look at verse 10. But if you are afraid to go down, go down to the camp just with one guy. Go with Pura, your servant. I'm going to summarize up here. He says, I want you to go just with one guy. You don't have to take the whole all 300 of you. Just go sneak down. And just give a listen. See what you hear. And he hears somebody from the enemy. And actually we do need to read this in verse 12. Now the Midianites and Amalekites, all the people at the east, were lying in the valley, right? They're in there. Sorry, I just unplugged the The lights behind me. There we go. They're they're uh they're they're they're in camp. They're ready to fight the the Israelites. And maybe they do know about the the three hundred, maybe they don't. Maybe they think they've got all thirty-three thousand. But either way, we're going to see what they're thinking. It says, they were lying in the valley as numerous as locusts, and their camels were without number. As the sand by the seashore and multitude. So this is the Bible writer telling us I I really don't know how many there were. There were too many to count. Well, we know how many there were on Gideon's side. There's 300. Tiny number in comparison to that innumerable number. And so he goes down and he hears this guy sharing a dream he had. He says, I've had a dream. To my surprise, a loaf of barley bread tumbled into the camp of Midian. It came to a tent and struck it so that it fell and overturned, and the tank tent collapsed. Now when someone tells you a dream like that, you know what I'd say? I was like, how do you even remember that? That's like the lamest dream I've ever heard. That's boring. You didn't have like a serial killer dream or something? Like a a a loaf of bread bumping into a tent? Why are you even telling me this Is that what his companion says? Then his companion answered and said, Oh this is nothing else but the sword of Gideon and the son of Joash, a man of Israel. Into his hand God has delivered Midian and the whole camp This is the enemy's talking. They have no reason to be scared of this guy. They're terrified. So it says, when Gideon heard that When he heard the telling of the dream and its interpretation, he worshipped. He returned to the camp of Israel and said, Arise, for the Lord has delivered the camp of Midian into your hand. And then it tells us his strategy and and uh we we're getting on for time so I'm not going to to read all this, but he he divides uh into three groups of a hundred, and the first group of a hundred uh goes in the lead, the other two go to the side. And they a at his command they they have a a a all of them have a torch in a pitcher. It's hidden. And then they have a sword. And they are to, on his command, they smash the pict picture so there's a sound, and then all and then the light comes out, right? Everyone sees these torches. And suddenly that is enough. Just that noise of three hundred pitchers, which such a large army on the other side, you think not all of them are even gonna hear it. And then seeing that light, that's enough to startle them so they start killing each other. No one touches an Israelite. They just start killing each other Then the three companies blew the trumpets and broke the pitchers and held the torches in their left hands and trumpets in their right hands for blowing, and they cried, The sword of the Lord and of Gideon! And every man stood his place all around the camp. Right. They're not doing anything. That's all they've done. They've yelled out and they've blown a trumpet. And the whole army, that's the other guys, the army is never referring to the to the good guys, only the bad guys. The whole army ran and cried out and fled. When the three hundred blew the trumpets, the Lord set every man's sword against his companion throughout the whole camp. They start killing each other. And the army fled to Beth A Beth Acacia towards Darrara As far as the border of Abel Mahola by Tabath. And the men of Israel gathered together from Naphtali, Asher, and Almanasseh. That's just the different tribes in Israel. And pursued the Midianites. Then Gideon sent messengers throughout all the mountains of Ephraim. Now he rallies an army. And then they go against the Midianites, and they slaughtered their enemies. And the rest of the chapter is simply detailing the uh the killing of those enemies. Now, what is the point of all of this? God won an impossible battle like 3300 years ago, and he's still fighting battles like that today. He's the same God today? I mean, how impossible is your situation at work? How difficult is the thing going on in your family right now? Or maybe the feud you have with your neighbor, or classmate, or co-worker? Maybe you've got financial issues and you you don't know it's impossible that you're going to be able to keep your house or it's impossible that you're going to be able to survive this Now, I'm not saying that God promises to actually reverse every bad situation. I can't make that promise. God does bring in hard things, and sometimes they go all the way But that doesn't mean he's not present, and it doesn't mean he won't work a whole reversal. But he, if you will trust him, here's what I can promise you: I promise you hasn't forgotten you. I can promise you that he will hear your your prayer if you if you ask out of trust. He does have a plan for this trial. He brings it in with a purpose. And he will bring good things out of it if you will trust him. Even if what you consider to be the worst possible outcome happens, he will bring good out of it. That's what he promises for those who love him. If you've attended this church for some time, and I realize we have visitors today, I'm so glad that you're here. But for those of you who have been here some time You have heard testimonies of your brothers and sisters here that have gone through some hard things, and you've heard them say, But the Lord was kind to me through all of it. You see that they're sweeter because of it. They say the Lord sustained us. They gave me peace that I just can't I just can't express it to you fully. Right? You've heard these sort of testimonies. I've known people who have gone down some some hard roads like that, and they're some of the more joyful and hopeful people people that I have ever known, even though they've they've suffered great loss. Because the God who led Gideon fought their battles too. We might be a tiny little barley loaf against some numberless army, but it doesn't matter if we've got God fighting for us. He's bigger than far bigger than the army. Now the people living in Christ's day, they knew this story about Gideon, and they knew Isaiah's prophecy. I want you to think about those hearing Jesus preach, right? It's very likely they made the connection between the two stories. They probably did, from Judges to Isaiah. I'm taking us back to the Isaiah prophecy. He shall be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Now think about when Jesus was preaching and working miracles. How much of a stronghold that Satan had there in God's own city and God's own country in Christ's day The demons were running amok. Why was he doing so many miracles? Because the demons were making so many of these people sick. Not every sickness, definitely not every sickness was demon. induced, but a lot of them we're told were. And tons of people were were possessed. It's like every every third person was possessed by a demon. In some cases, multiple demons were living in one person. Oh, it's horrible That's how bad things were in Jesus' day. Did it stay that way? Jesus came in and cast them all out. In one case, he cast out a legion of demons from two different dudes. And a legion in that the in those days, if I'm remembering right, using using the the Roman terms, that was the a Roman legion was like A thousand people? It's a lot of people. A lot of demons were inside those those guys. And he cast them out. One of them says, let me go with you. Let me get in the boat with you. I don't want to stay here. And he says, No, go and tell everyone how good your God has been to you. On top of all that, on top of the demon stuff, religious leaders are burdening the people with impossible legal demands? They're withholding the po the hope of ever being reconciled to God from them because they're saying if you can't do that law, then then God's not going to welcome you into heaven. And sin is reigning under this guise of self-righteousness. People have no hope. But in this gloom, the long-awaited Messiah steps into their lives and he gives them light. And then by his death, he gives them eternal life. Guess they'll just believe in him, not keep those rules. Right? If you suppose that Christianity is just a bunch of rules to follow, you haven't heard the gospel. Or we haven't internalized it. It's not, we do try to live differently because of God saving us. It's not follow these rules and God will save you. It's God saved you. Now live like Him. And if you have yet to be delivered from your sin and to feel the freedom of just following God because you can, not because you have to. Then please come and talk to me afterwards. Please come and talk to me afterwards. I want to help you understand this. Maybe we can set up a Bible study. We can just have a chat. And but if all you will do is believe Jesus and then ask him, we call that prayer, to save you on the basis of him dying in your place, he will. And I ask you, please come and talk to me after this. Text me, call me, send smoke signals if you think I'll see them. I want to talk to you about that. Now, will you trust this God? to fight the this battle for you, whatever it is you're going through. Perhaps it's to turn you to Jesus for the first time, or perhaps it's that you would continue Continue to believe that God, who has already done so much for you, will continue to fight on your behalf. Trust Him to be the Lord and Prince of Peace to you. Let your God fight for you. Let's pray.