I'll ask you please to turn with me to Matthew chapter 5. Matthew chapter 5. We're really into the book now. We're into the Sermon on the Mount. I've been excited for this, been eager for this uh for a long time now, many months, probably more than a year. Eager to preach the Sermon on the Mount. So you last last week kind of counted. Definitely counts today. We're starting the section called the Beatitudes And that sounds like a a funny word. It really is, it just means blessing. It's a state a statement of blessing. And though I don't think that we would be giving it enough attention if we were to try and do all eight or nine, depending how how you count them. Excuse me. If we were to try to cover all verses three through twelve today, we would not be giving enough attention. We would not be digging deep enough into these uh these Beatitudes. But I also think that if I were to try to do as as many preachers have done and do just the first one for you today, that that might be a little bit of overkill. Not necessarily for other preachers, but for me, and I don't want to uh uh test your patience. So uh we are going to do the first three together. There is there are s thematic similarities Of course, we see that these statements of blessing do overlap and intersect throughout, but these three, I think we're going to see a common theme. So I'm going to have us read through verses 3 through 12, and then we'll be focusing on just verses 3 through 5 this morning. In fact, we'll start with verse one because this is where Jesus is starting this this preaching. And seeing the multitudes, he went up on a mountain, and when he was seated, his disciples came to him, then he opened his mouth and taught them, saying Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when they revile and persecute you and say all kinds of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you We will be looking at these first three statements of blessing. I'm going to give you the overall theme that ties it together at the end. And so let's dive right into verse 3. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Now this is this is one of those I think probably you've heard before, even if you've not read through it. You may say that sounds familiar. I've heard is that where that's from? Yeah, this is where it's from. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. I think a number of these in this list, these statements of blessing. have become so familiar to us that we we kind of gloss over the whole meaning. So let's look at some of the keywords here. Blessed are the poor in spirit. What does he mean by poor, first of all? I'm going to start to give you these themes here. Recognize your poverty. Recognize your poverty, and God will cover you with his abundance. This word, uh poor, is pitokos in Greek. I'm sorry, I mispronounced that potokos And the lexicons say this. They say, it means so poor as to be dependent on others for support. It's the idea of being in poverty. The beggar Lazarus. Now there's two Lazaruses in Jesus' ministry, right? There's the brother of Mary and Martha that he raised from the dead. I'm not talking about him. I'm talking about the other one. Lazarus, he's contrasted with the rich man. There's the story of the rich man and Lazarus That bag beggar Lazarus, i he is called the tokas. He is called poor. He is he is utterly dependent on the rich man He digs through the guy's garbage, and um he is content to wait for good things in eternity rather than in uh the uh uh the the the present life. And uh he he is called he is called poor in that same sense, right? A couple chapters earlier than that, that's in Luke sixteen. In Luke fourteen Jesus encourages his people to invite people to dinner. Do you remember that? Invite people to a dinner party that can't return the favor. Invite really poor people, he says. That's the same word he uses there, potas. People that are so poor that you invite them over for for dinner and they can't return the favor. I think In 21st century America, we sometimes have a non-biblical view of poverty. I'm not even saying it's a wrong view of poverty. It's just it's not the way that the Bible speaks We live in a modern era where we have more conveniences, we have uh social safety nets that they did not have in Jesus' day. And so we what we think of as poor is maybe not as poor as the the poor people that Jesus is talking about. For instance, I knew a family that sacrificed financially in order to send, I think, two of their family members. They were a family of six, and they sent two of their family members overseas on a missions trip. out of their own kindness and their love for people. Now, they were not aware of what happened in the meantime. Uh but a a family was concerned for for them. Uh they loved them and they were concerned that that this family was spending the money on the mission trip, it meant that they couldn't have a family vacation. So they actually went to that family's church and said, Would you fund their mission trip so that they can have a family vacation? Because they couldn't conceive of the idea of not having a family vacation. To them Poor, poverty was not being able to afford a vacation. That's not what Jesus is referring to, right? Poverty here is you are utterly dependent on somebody else You have no resources that you can live on, or very little resources. It's not enough. Absolute poverty. And he says, blessed are those kinds of people, but specifically in spirit. So he's saying, I'm not talking about material poverty here. Doesn't mean that material poverty won't come into play, and I'll I'll mention that in a moment. But what he's saying is I am not speaking about material poverty here. I'm speaking about people who are absolutely destitute in their souls spiritually. He's talking about poverty in the spiritual arena. Now, if I were to start talking about you before you're in Christ, If you are in Christ now, you trust Christ as your Savior, but you think about who you were before you came to Christ, you probably agree with me. Well, well, that's me. I mean, that's everybody. Anybody who's not in Christ is spiritually impoverished. 100% true. So does that mean then that everybody who's not currently a Christian is going to be blessed in the sense that he says, For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Does that mean that that all lost people will be saved? No. That's not what it says. And we know that because It's very clear through other things that Jesus says that there's a narrow way, says it in this very sermon. There's a narrow way, and only very few will find it. Broad is the way that leads to traditional destruction. Other the the apostles say similar things. So what he's saying here are the blessed are the people who recognize that they are spiritually impoverished. They are spiritually destitute. Before you cried out to Christ in faith to save you. And and there's a sense, even now, when we're saved people but not walking in the Holy Spirit's power, walking in fellowship with God, we we feel our poverty then, right? Before you came to Christ, you had nothing to offer God. There was nothing that you could say, God, save me because of this. And this is something that people misunderstand. They think, well, I'm pretty good. I'm not perfect. I would never say I'm perfect, and I made some mistakes. But you know, I strive to to manage my money well, and I I'm kind to my neighbors. I in fact I give to the church, I give to various charities, uh I I rarely swear. I do a lot of good deeds. I'm honest. I rarely lie, right? And we suppose that that is the idea of a good person. But God see their hearts and he says, My goodness, that poor person is destitute. can't save himself. There's no way he's going to be able to atone for his sins and be made right with me because God is perfectly holy. And he sees all of our sins, and one sin would be enough to disqualify us, and yet daily we are sinning multiple times, at least in the thought area. And if you're struggling with this concept, you know I I don't know that the pastor is right on this, then I encourage you, keep on coming on Sundays so that you make sure that you don't miss the messages starting in verse 21 of this chapter, because that really gets to the heart of the matter and w and just how deep-seated our sin nature is And perhaps you understand you're a sinner, you've trusted Christ, but you can't really see that someone you love dearly is a sinner. Then make sure that you're that you read verses 21 through 30. Make sure that you hear those messages, but read it for yourself as well. You'll see that the Lord sees our hearts and he finds us wanting. We are impoverished. And only those who recognize their poverty and cry out because of it will receive the kingdom of heaven. Now, Jesus is calling us to recognize we can't save ourselves. We can't grow in virtue on our own. Many have tried. And then because of that, we are to cry out to the only one who can deliver us, who can share with us riches. I believe that these three verses in particular reveal a specific problem in the human heart. And it's a problem that is. Very pointedly shown to us in Revelation chapter 3. There the Lord Jesus is writing letters. Actually, he's not writing them, but he's dictating them for the Apostle John to write down and send to these. And he says to the church in Laodicea, he wants John to write this. He says, I know your works, but you were neither cold nor hot I could wish you were cold or hot. So then, because you are lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will vomit you out of my mouth. Because you say I am rich, have become wealthy, and have need of nothing, and do not know that you are wretched, miserable, poor, blind, and naked. I counsel you to buy from me gold refined in the fire, that you may be rich, and white garments that you may be clothed, that the shame of your nakedness may not be revealed, and anoint your eyes with eyesalve that you may see. Do you see that? That is the state of everybody before they come to Christ and see him as the solution to their destitution, their poverty. We we think that we're rich, we think we're wealthy, we don't think we really need much from God. We might not say we need nothing, but we don't feel like we need much. Just a little bit of help here and there. If you could just answer my prayer every so often, God, that would be great. No, he says you are wretched, miserable, poor, blind, and naked, and I would add to that hungry We need to come to God acknowledging our poverty, acknowledging our emptiness, and asking Him to fill us. Now what about you? Do you feel your own spiritual poverty? Maybe you've been a Christian for a few decades. In that case, you've grown in spiritual maturity. But I hope you hear in this short verse that it's still true for you. Do you realize that all of the progress that you've made in your becoming like Jesus, your sanctification, we call it It's only due to God working in you, right? It's only due to his spirit helping you to understand scripture and then helping you to profit from it His Spirit is producing good things in you. His word is giving you understanding. Your Father is directing your circumstances in order to stand down rough edges and make you more like Jesus. So that you'll cry out to him, so that you'll see your need, so that you'll see your sin. So that you'll so that he'll bring it in the light and that you can grow and leave those bad habits behind. The moment you were to become disconnected from God, you would find all of that spiritual progress start to crumble. You'd realize, wow, none of that came from me. Was I even saved? You start to walk away from him for a time. Or you just get out of the habit of being with God's people, of worshiping him week by week. And you and you think, wow, I've declined spiritually. None of that progress I'd made with God was safe, except that God was working in me and keeping it steady. Perhaps He'll let you see that decline in order to Scare you and bring you back to him. That's one of the what means that he does that. So I say to you, you read this and you think, well, that's not really for me, that's for unsaved people. No, that's not true. Recognize your poverty without Christ and stay in Christ. Recognize, feel that your poverty will return if you start to slack off with letting him renew your mind every day by reading scripture If you slack off with communicating with him, be a prayer. If you stop singing to him and worshiping him, do you sing to Jesus in your prayers during your quiet times? Your devotional time with him each day, are you worshiping him or are you only singing on Sundays? I encourage you to cling to him and worship him daily. So that you don't return to your poverty. Now, what about physical poverty? Right? We read this: blessed for the poor in spirit, and we think about poor in material things, right? What about material poverty? Let's say you do have nothing materially, that you are like that that beggar Lazarus I would say this. Believe that what is true about your bank account is also true of your soul. If you're going through a a period where you are feeling destitute, maybe it's not in material things, but you're going through a really hard situation. And you you feel like you're coming to the end of yourself. Believe that where you are poor, Christ is rich. That's true of material things, and he will provide your needs. Doesn't mean that he He'll cause you to win the lottery, but he'll provide your needs. But he'll provide more than your your material needs. He's eager to fulfill more than your material needs. He wants to fulfill your spiritual needs. He died in order to fulfill your spiritual needs. He's eager to settle your debts for you. Trust him to provide for you, not just financially, but spiritually as well. That's the most important part of life. So he calls us to recognize our poverty. And God will cover us with his abundance. And then, in a very logical progression, he calls us to mourn. And I will advance the slide in a minute, but I'm not ready yet. Now, I think there's a temptation, and I said this already, with a lot of scripture to take a verse out of context and use it to prove a point or to provide ourselves with guidance. But like with anything, context is an important part of the meaning of whatever you're talking about, especially with Scripture. You need the context, you need to know what's going on in that passage to really understand it. And that's true here in the Beatitudes. There's such strong, pithy statements. There's a real temptation, isn't there, that you see somebody who's, say, at a funeral? Mourning, grieving the loss of, let's say they lost a child. And you see someone grieving, and you just want to take that one verse, blessed are those who are mourn who mourn, for they shall be comforted. But then it can become hard to determine its meaning when we do things like that. So imagine that you imagine somebody, not even you, right? You see them, they go to a funeral, because that's where our mind goes when we hear mourn, right? We think of death and we think of funerals. You can mourn for other things for sure, but we tend to think of death. And so imagine somebody who's very well-intentioned, who loves the Lord, they go to a funeral, their friend is mourning the loss of a child. Maybe the the child died of cancer. And he waits in the receiving line and he gets to the end, and he's weeping for them, he's weeping with them. And he sees the pain in their face and he gives his friend a hug and he whispers in their ear and he says, Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be Comforted. That person really means well. They want to help. But that's that verse is probably not going to be a whole lot of comfort to his friend who's grief grieved deeply by the loss of his child, right? They might be thinking, well, I'm grieving now and I'm not feeling comfort right now. They need something more tangible than simply you will be comforted someday. Now that doesn't mean that the Lord doesn't comfort Christians who mourn the loss of a child or the loss of a relationship if you go through a hard breakup or a divorce. Or you have to abandon dreams, perhaps career plans that can no longer be a reality. God is present in those scenarios for sure, and he does comfort his children. But that's a different verse. That's not what this is talking about. Not primarily anyway. We have to take it in context, don't we? And Jesus has already told us in verse five, sorry, verse three, that he's talking about spiritual things Blessed are the poor in spirit. And there's a progression here that he's talking again about spiritual things. So when I respond to my sin, By mourning. That's what he's talking about. When I respond to my sin by mourning over it, there it is on the screen if you want to put that in your bulletin notes. God will comfort me. Respond to your sin by mourning over it, and God will comfort you. And the blessing comes on, the blessing on mourners comes after this blessing on people who realize their poverty of spirit. They see they have nothing good to offer the Lord. They see their sin. They see his righteousness, and they weep over it. Let me give you an example. I'm giving an example from a uh a current cultural trend is it's more than current, it's it's the evergreen. It's always been a thing Let's imagine a Christian young lady who's she's trusted the Lord to save her. She's been a Christian for perhaps a number of years. But recently she started to take her walk with Jesus more seriously. I don't have a specific person in mind here, right? This is fictional, but it's but it's true. And she's reading the Bible most evenings after school. Over the course of a few days, while she's reading, she becomes convicted of her vanity and her immodesty. And she realizes I've been obsessed with my appearance. I've been calling attention to my body or to my looks. And she realizes she's been calling people's attention to herself instead of to her savior, and she knows they need to be saved. She's convicted over her sin that she's making more of herself than of Jesus. And she starts to feel her poverty in spirit, and she thinks, oh my goodness, there's nothing good in me worth calling attention to. My a i i it's actually an ironic sin. I'm calling attention to me, the the sinner, and I'm revealing my that is my very sin when I need to be calling attention to my Savior who can save from that sin. And she thinks about how her wor worldview has been off. It's not just that she's maybe been been wearing skirts that are too short or been paying too much attention to her her makeup But then her whole attitude, her whole worldview has been off, and she starts to cry. And she weeps over her sin She's mourning over it. She's mourning over her sin. She's mourning over her immodesty and her vanity. And this is the type of mourning that Jesus is talking about. This morning pleases him. When you see the ugliness of your sin and the kindness and beauty and righteousness of your Savior, it ought to cause you to mourn. If you see it right, you will mourn. Now, I've talked about immodesty. We could apply this to any sin. You struggle with lust, that ought to make you weep, struggle with angry outbursts, where you can't control what you say about other people, constantly critical, constantly gossiping That should cause us to s to weep for our sin. You'll realize the sin that you've been doing, whether it's an attitude in your heart or actual actions with your mouth, with your hands, you realize that Jesus had to suffer, not just in general terms, he died on the cross to to save us all from sin. I've heard that a thousand times. No, you start to realize this thin, this attitude that I've been carrying with me without realizing this worldview for like 20 plus years. Jesus died because of that attitude in my heart. Because of that thing that I said to my neighbor, or that nasty thing I said about my coach. Three days ago, Jesus died for that, and you weep over it. Are you feeling low over a specific sin? Are you feeling mournful? Have you finally been able to weep over your ungratefulness? Your lack of thanksgiving? Have have you been able to weep over your critical fault-finding spirit? Or for dishonesty on your tax returns, or for visiting those websites My friend, the good news is that God, in all three persons of the Trinity, is eager to comfort you. Did you read the whole verse? Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. He will comfort you when you recognize that you're a sinner and you cry out to him. He will comfort you, not only that he forgives you and he saves you, but you've got to go on feeling lousy until you die. No, that's not how it works He will comfort you and he will say, I carried that for you. In all three persons of the Trinity, he's eager to comfort you. The Holy Spirit will assure you that he's near That your sin is not separating you from him anymore. He's right here with you. He'll continue to be with you as you seek to put things right and to overcome these sinful temptations and urges and inclinations. Perhaps you need to reconcile with somebody, confess your sin. He's with you as you do that, and he'll assure you of that The Son of God will remind you He's your Savior. He died for that because He loves you and He's already attained for it. It's already gone. In fact, he's pleading your case with the Father while you are mourning and while you are praying. He's saying that God, I know the this is a lousy prayer from a lousy sinner, but Receive his prayers and forgive him on my account. Hear her mournfulness coming from me. I'm mourning with her and for her. And as your adoptive father, he's easily convinced. He wants to assure his child, and you're his adoptive child, if you're crying out for him to save you. Or you've already done that, and now you're just you're mourning over a sin still in you. He wants to assure you that all is well between you and him. If you're a parent, you know what that's like, right? You see your your your child, perhaps they've sinned against you and they've hurt your feelings, and and you've you've actually seen that it bothers them, not that they got caught or got in trouble, but that they hurt your feelings. When I can think of at least one time as a more than one time, but one specific time where that happened to me as a parent, I was eager to, no, it's okay, it's okay, buddy, we're good. He wants to assure you that you're good with him because Jesus died for you. We said with the poor in spirit beatitude, right, that God uses material poverty to drive us to see our spiritual prop poverty. That's not the only way he does it. But but he can do that, he does do that from time to time. We could say the same thing about mourning, the scenario gave you of somebody mourning the loss of a child When you mourn the loss of someone or something important to you. That's not the same as mourning over your sin. It's not enough. That's not going to get you the spiritual blessing But God can use that loss and mourning to bring you to the end of yourself so that you see yourself and your sin as you really are. You see the God of comfort and realize you've sinned against him. And then you do mourn over your sin. He will use Physical morning or morning of physical things, temporal things, to bring us to the morning of spiritual things, which will give us eternal blessing. If you find yourself in mourning today over the loss of someone dear to you or the end of a relationship or the shattering of a dream, as I said, ask God, alright? Pray and ask him this. Say, God, this loss hurts and it stinks. Would you then please bring the most good possible out of this loss Don't just bring some good out of this loss. Lord, would you please bring as much good possible? As much as you intend to bring out of it. Bring all of it out. Let the mourning hurt so that I get the most benefit out of it. And that might sound counterintuitive, but it this is does seem like a counterintuitive blessing, doesn't it? Blessed are those who mourn. But they'll be comforted. And the comforting there clearly, if if it's a blessing, it doesn't just bring you back to zero. It takes you beyond. It brings you more comfort than you had before you started mourning. Ask God to bring the most good out of your loss, to help you go all the way and mourn not just your situation, but your sin. So that you can have deeper fellowship with him. Ask him to comfort you then. You don't just say, let me feel the most benefit out of it. Let it hurt so that so that I do benefit the most. Say, Lord, comfort me as you've promised. to comfort me. And he delights to do this. Finally, the third of these overlapping themes. As blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Now I'm not going to turn over the slide just yet, because again, I want us to make our way there, figure out what this means. The Christian author Rand Hummel, you may or may not be familiar with, he once spoke at a church that I used to attend earlier in life. And he told a story about a time that he was getting in in dinner on his own. I think he was traveling at the time. Uh getting dinner on his own at a restaurant. And there's a line forming. I think it might have been like a golden corral type thing. So you know you go in, you pay at the register, and then you go out go through the the turnstile and and then you can you're you're in a free-for-all for as much food as you can. you can possibly take out with you, right? A line's forming. He's further back, closer by the doors. Closer to the front, there's a woman with a teenage daughter. And He hears this woman say to her teenage daughter, be a servant. And then this young girl stepped back, and several people went ahead of her in line. Well, he was impressed. So after he'd gotten through the line, he found the woman and he said to her, You know, that that was really impressive, uh, what you what you said uh to your daughter. You told her to be a servant and you and then she let several people go by. And the the lady listened for a minute And then she laughed. She said, No. I said, be assertive. And I think that that sadly demonstrates just how the average American views the virtue of meekness. We need to define meekness, don't we? The Greek word is praus, and it conveys several related meanings. One other way of translating it is humble. Depending on the translation you have in front of you, you might have blessed are the humble. That's a good choice. I think meekness is the best choice because there are several ways to translate this word and it kind of c it's the one that kind of It's vague enough that it captures the meaning of all the others. So it appears four times in the New Testament. This is the first time. Three of them are in Matthew, one is in 1 Peter. Let me read just the New King James translation of this word in those three other occasions. Matthew 11, 29, this is where Jesus is saying, Come to me, all you who are weary. and heavy laden, he says, I am gentle and lowly in heart. If you like the book, Gentle and Lowly by Jane Ortland, very good book. I recommend it. It's all about the heart of Christ. That's where he gets the title, gentle and lowly. I am gentle and lowly in heart. The word being there, gentle. That is this Greek word praos. In Matthew 21, 5, that's where he's ridden the donkey into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday. And it quote uh Matthew quotes this uh this prophecy from Zechariah. And it says that Jesus is lowly and sitting on a donkey. Lowly there. So we've got gentle, we've got lowly, obviously we have meek. And then one other time it's com it's it's also translated gentle, and that's in 1 Peter 21, verse 5. 21. No, that's not right. First Peter, uh, it's either two verse five or one verse five. My my my apologies. Uh I think it's two two verse five. It refers to the uh the incorruptible beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit. Gentle again being the word there Well, let's look at it in context, see if we can understand a full, fully orbed uh understanding of this word. It took me Embarrassingly long to see how odd and how funny that this verse is as a whole. I have to read it pointed out by somebody else. This is a weird verse. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Talking about world conquer conquest Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. We're talking about world conquest. The meek shall conquer the world. That's almost what it says, isn't it? It says inherit, they'll receive the world. Okay. Think of all the great conquerors or would-be conquerors that you ever learned about in history classes in school. Do any of them strike you as meek? Whatever you think meek means, does Genghis Khan strike you as meek? If you know anything about Genghis Khan, he was not a meek man. He was a violent, mean man. Alexander the Great? Napoleon? Hey, do you like to be if you if you're Slightly vertically challenged. Do you like to be told that you have a Napoleon complex? Have you ever been told you have a Napoleon complex? It's not a compliment, is it? Right? Napoleon wasn't meek. He also wasn't actually short. It's a it's a m it's a uh misnomer. He wasn't actually short, but that that's beside the point. You don't want to be called Mefolian. He wasn't a meek man. He was a pugnacious dude. What about Hitler? Would you call Hitler meek? Of course not. That's absurd. It's silly that I would even bring it up, I guess. And Jesus says that the people that will take over the world, the people that will inherit the earth, and yes, earth can be translated land there. Doesn't really change the meaning. They're the meek ones. That's who's gonna take over. Not the militaristic ones, not the pugilistic ones I think it's it's important that we understand that this inheriting the earth, I'm not just being silly when I talk about world conquest, okay? First of all, Jesus is talking about a kingdom. Right? We read it two verses ago. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Turn back with me. Go back a chapter. Chapter 4, verse 17. From that time, Jesus began to preach and to say, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And his forerunner, John the Baptist, was saying the same thing: the kingdom of heaven is at hand. There is a kingdom in view. And you say, well, he's talking about a spiritual kingdom. Yes, he is. He's also talking about a physical kingdom. Let's jump over to Matthew chapter 6, still in the Sermon on the Mount. When he's teaching us to pray, verse 9, in this manner, therefore pray. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, or let your name be made holy. Look at this. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Right? How does Jesus reign in heaven? Well, he reigns He's king. He's over it. God is over it. I said Jesus. This is actually about the Father, isn't it? No dispute here that even while Jesus is on earth, God the Father is ruling all of heaven. And he's saying, let there be a day come when your will, which is over all of heaven, is also over all of earth. Subjugate the people so that you reign with a totalitarian grip on the world. I know that makes him sound evil. Of course he's not God intends to conquer this world. Have you ever read Revelation? Chapter 19? We we quoted it Together just a few minutes ago about this conqueror coming from the sky, riding a white horse, with his robe dipped in blood, and there is there is uh debate on whether that's his own blood or the blood of his enemies. And what we didn't read, because it's a little unsettling to read together out loud. uh in responsive readings, is that he will slay his enemies with his mouth. In fact, before he does that, there is a call that goes out to all of the carrion birds, all of the crows. Saying, come and gather together for this great feast. Feast on all of these corpses. Alright, there is violence. Because one day God will conquer his enemies. Who is going to be left to inherit that world? It will be His people who were saved, it's the meek ones that will inherit the earth According to Revelation 21, the kingdom of heaven will come to earth. There'll be a city descending from heaven, coming to earth, and heaven and earth become one, they're the same place. And so if Jesus is saying that the meek will inherit this kingdom and that they'll be reigning with him over the earth Meekness is a really odd way to receive it, right? Because Jesus will conquer and he will give it only to those who are meek That's the whole point. The meek won't take the earth for themselves. They'll receive it as an inheritance. The meek will inherit the earth. That means that the people who are going to inherit the earth are the ones that are are content or they must be they need to be content to wait for God to give them all these good things that he's promised. Truly meek people, biblically meek people, are patient people And I think that's something that often gets missed in the translations. There may be one or two that do say blesser the patient. These people aren't asserting their rights for two reasons. One, because they're mournful, spiritually poor people from the first two Beatitudes. Who don't believe they deserve any good gifts from God, let alone to rule over the world. So they're grateful and content with anything he will give them, and they'll say, Whoa, that's too much, Lord. That's the first reason. The second reason is they trust God to do what He said and they're not in a hurry. So working back from there and taking into account This Greek meaning of praus, meekness, we would say, is a combination of lowliness and gentleness and patience. It's the mark of a strong person who doesn't have to assert himself or herself to get what they need or what they want. They wait patiently on God Knowing that he will treat them better than they deserve. Here's what goes in your notes, all right? Embrace your lowliness. And paradoxically, God will raise you up when you embrace your lowliness. God will raise you up. He will give you that which you cannot get for yourself. We've seen how each of these three first three beatitudes build upon each other, how they all share this common theme of emptiness and lowliness before God. So it even becomes visible to other people. Let's sum up the the theme of these three verses together then. Alright? Are you done copying down this slide? Here's the message. Here's the theme of the whole the the three together. Acknowledge your emptiness to God. Acknowledge your emptiness to God. Cry out to Him. Him, who abundantly fills and strengthens those who will depend on him. He's calling for an attitude of mournfulness and dependence. Let me give that to you again. Acknowledge your emptiness to God. Emptiness goes in the second blank. Who abundantly fills and strengthens those who will depend on him. He has blessings waiting for you, but you will need to be broken first. And so he will use hard circumstances. To bring us to the end of ourselves so that we will mourn for our sin, so that we will see ourselves as He sees us. This is what he likes to do. Anyone who will humble themselves and cry out for deliverance, he will draw near to you and he will save you. He will unite you to Jesus. In his death, in his resurrection, and in his righteousness, he'll unite you to Jesus. But even before we cry out to him to save us, he helps us to get to that point. He opens our eyes to our sinfulness and our wretchedness. He brings us low so that we humble. So that he can fill us up. So he can lift us higher than we fell from. So they can make us into meek, humble, gentle people who help others come to Jesus. But it's important that you hear this warning, alright? You listening? Here's a warning. God fills and strengthens only those who recognize their emptiness. In fact, that was my first draft of the theme for this message. God fills and strengthens only those who recognize that they are empty. If you feel pretty confident in your standing before God, if you've never felt broken before Him over your sin, I'm not talking about someone else's sin. Lord, they really hurt me. They're such a sinner. Oh, I'm suffering. No, I'm not talking about that. Have you felt broken over your own sin, that you've offended him, and that you don't deserve to be saved? Maybe you do believe in the abstract that you're a sinner. In the abstract. You you get that you're a sinner in the sense that well everyone's a sinner. All have You can quote the scripture from Romans three, right? All have sinned and falls short of the glory of God. But when someone whenever someone confronts you about a specific sin, you say, Yes, I'm a sinner and I need Jesus to save me But what about when someone says, I need to talk to you about your bending the truth? I need to talk to you about your language. Do you realize that you've been hurting the people in my family? Do you realize that you're stingy and ungrateful? Now, there are better ways and and not so good ways to have those confrontations. But if you've never been wrong in those conversations, if you've never admitted that the things you say are sinful and offend God and offend people. You've never admitted to yourself that those thoughts you've been having are lustful and offensive to God. And you spouse. If you've never reckoned with the fact that you were proud and puffed up, you've never felt broken over it, you've never wept over it. And okay, maybe physical tears, maybe you're not a crying kind of person. But have you ever felt broken over your sin? If you have not Then don't just jump straight to his mercy and forgiveness. Don't just jump to the blessing part of these beatitudes. You have to reckon with his justice first. Before Jesus said it is finished, as in our our your sins, my sins are all atoned for. Before he said that, He suffered for hours on the cross, and God the Father turned his back on him. He forsook him. That was God's justice in operation. He had to atone for your sin before you could be forgiven. And that means you need to acknowledge your sin to him and ask him to apply Jesus' death to your account. And if the s things I'm saying right now don't give you peace about your spiritual state, like you're thinking, you know what, I believe this in the general sense, but I haven't actually come to terms, or I'm not sure if I actually come to terms. with my own sin, right? Then don't participate in communion in the next few minutes. Okay, I said that? Don't. I'm not saying that you absolutely should not, that you're definitely not saved. But if you've never been broken over your sin. And it's maybe only now hitting you that that's a big deal. Well, praise the Lord for that, but make sure that you are confessing your sin to him before you partake of that table. If you struggle with a besetting sin and you find yourself Perhaps on a weekly or more frequently than that basis, weeping that you failed again and you go to the Lord and you ask for help and you plead the blood of Christ. Come to the table and partake of the cup because his blood was shed for you. Partake of the bread because his body was broken for you. But if you have not confessed your sin to him, or you've only done it in an abstract way, I just encourage you, take this Sunday off, take this month off. And pray instead, and we will not think less of you if you let that plate pass you by You can if you want you can step out right now or during communion if you want. You can stay seated where you are or you can step out and sit on the couches in the lobby. Or you can go into the the the uh cafe. If my office door is unlocked, you can even go in there. It might be I don't know. But get along with the Lord and ask him to help you to see yourself and his son accurately. Ask him to forgive you on the basis of meek, humble Jesus. This Christ's death in your place. Let's pray