How many of you that was your first time singing that one? Yeah. It's one of my favorites of those newer ones. I haven't known it all that long myself, but I absolutely love that one. I might twist uh George's arm into us have giving it a second shot next week. But uh anyway, please turn with me to Esther chapter ten. We are going to be cutting off the live stream for a few moments so that we can pray kind of freely and then we'll be we'll be back in just a few moments if you are uh following on on the uh the live stream. Esther chapter 10. And we will pray in just a moment. I do just want to uh um encourage you, please be in prayer for VBS this week. We're excited for the opportunity. that we have really to share the gospel with anybody, right? And to sh and especially you get to share the gospel with children who are perhaps hearing these things for the first time while they have far more more tender soil. They've not had a chance to become jade. But they need Christ just as much as any adult needs Christ. And please be in prayer for the specific souls that the Lord would send our way that we can communicate with Pray that we each of us would not become discouraged if we don't get the numbers we're hope hoping for. Let's just be grateful we get to share the gospel with any child. And and let's pray for opportunities with their to share the gospel with their parents and their aunts and uncles and their grandparents as well. But uh let's uh let's be in prayer throughout this week. Uh I also just want to uh ask you guys to pray and we'll pray for her in just a moment for Hannah. Hannah's going to uh the uh she won't be helping us at VBS because uh there's the the Del Marva that our our our church is a part of that group of churches. They're having their their camp, their annual week of summer camp, starting in like a few hours, right, Hannah? And so she's going up right after the service in Mercersburg, Pennsylvania. And please be in prayer for the work that'll be done there as well. And not just for Hannah, but for all of the kids that she'll be caring for as a junior counselor and all the rest of the kids at that camp and the volunteers. So uh one last thing is we'll be praying for Shay because he he drove up to Philadelphia yesterday. Um he was very grateful for the gift that you guys gave. I gave him that gift yesterday. yesterday um and uh expecting to hear from him he said that he intends to write an email thank you um and uh but we'll pray for him because he starts classes I believe t well start not classes but orientation for medical school tomorrow So uh we're gonna pray for all of that, all of that. So uh let let's let's op open with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father Lord, let me say that again. Our Father who is in heaven, let your name be made holy. Thank you that we can call you our Father. And that when we say our, we're referring to those of us who have turned to Christ, that you are not merely our Creator, but also Our Father, our paternal figure. And we can call you our Father because Jesus Christ called you my Father. You are Christ's Father, and when we turn to Christ, he shares his status as your son with us. And so we say to you, our Father, just as we were taught by your only begotten Son, to pray. We pray that today your name would be hallowed, would be made more holy, seen as holy, more so by the end of the service than it was at the beginning, Lord. in each of us. And we ask that you would fill us with with joy and with fuel for the week that we would go out and and let let this message about. you reconciling us to yourself so that we can become your children by adoption. That would spill out of us and we would take that message. with us to everyone we come in contact with. And we lift up the children who will be here this week. Thank you for Vacation Bible School, Lord. Thank you for this opportunity to share the gospel with children at a young age. We pray that you would help us to communicate the gospel message with power to them. We pray, Lord, that there wouldn't be, that it would not serve to be just This Christianity shot that when they get older they they uh they turn away from it, they they are hardened from it. But we ask that you would take young children and their souls in your hand. and keep them and grow them to maturity uh not only physically but spiritual maturity. Lord, I pray for the children of this church. I pray for my two brothers boys, Zeke and Owen, for Teddy, for Penny, the two Benskin children. Lord, we pray for the other kids that are here. Here sometimes we we pray for uh Gabe, who comes with his grandmother and his older brothers, cousins uh E. J. and Raphael. We pray for Bella and May May and thank you for the blessing that they are. We pray for Aidan, who is uh boarding away for a few months, and we look forward to having him back. Lord, we pray for these children and teens. and ask that you would cause the seed of the gospel to really be taking root right now. We pray that we'd start seeing, especially in in those who have known you a longer amount of time, for those teenagers especially. that we would see crop growing and flourishing and we we look forward to seeing them become Christian women and Christian Christian men fully grown who love you and delight in you and who are telling others, urging others to repent and to be saved and to be repent. reconciled to their creator. And we ask that you'd be doing that work this week through a bunch of, Lord, we pray there'd be a number of children who don't go to church who can hear this message. and hear the true message of it. Not the falsehood that says that if you're good, you go to heaven, and if you're bad, you go to hell, Lord. The only truth in that is that we're all bad. We all deserve in hell. deserve to be in hell. But Lord, it's those who are in Christ that you make new and you make good and you atone for your son atones for our sin, their sin. It is not good go to heaven, bad go to hell, but all are bad, but those who are reconciled to Christ are qualified for heaven. And we pray that you'd help us to teach that to these children. Teach that to us again. Lord, we're going to be partaking of your son's table in just a few minutes, and we ask that you would forgive us for the sins we have committed. This week, this month, since the last time we partook of his table, let us partake in a worthy manner with a clear conscience. Lord, we lift up Hannah as she goes up to uh uh Delmarva uh camp this later this afternoon. Please would you keep them her and her mom and dad safe on the road? Um and Help her, Lord, give her grace to love these children under her care, to give, to, to share wisdom with them, to share, first of all, just the truth of the gospel, but also to give them wisdom. with the dilemmas that they they approach her with. And help her to just be ready and able to say, I don't know, the things that she doesn't know the answer to. And to point them to the right people. Help her to not put too much pressure on herself, but to rely on her teammates and ultimately to rely on you. We pray that you would deepen Hannah's love for you as a result of This week. We lift up all of the children who will be at that camp and all of the helpers seeking to honor you. Please, Lord, the things we're praying about, a a crop that would flourish and and and would be be Reaped unto you, Lord. We we we pray for that to take place in Mercersburg this week. And we lift up our dear brother Shea. He's been such a blessing to our church family over the last year and a half. And I thank you especially for the love he's had for the teams in helping and teaching them um at youth group and and meeting at least with one that I'm aware of. And and communicating love and gospel truth to them. Please would you bless his his academic career, bless his time at medical school, help him to do well tomorrow. Bless his time at church today. We pray he's able to make it out. If he wasn't able to make it out this morning, help him to get there for the evening, to put Christ first throughout all of his studies, make him a better doctor for us. Lord, we love you. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Would you please communicate your truth to us this morning? Help us to have attentive minds and attentive hearts and to receive your truth. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's go ahead and turn on that live live stream. Please turn with me if you're not there already to Esther chapter ten. Esther chapter ten. Now Jesus once told his disciples that every scribe or every Bible scholar who's instructed concerning the kingdom of heaven, he said They're like a householder or the owner of a wealthy estate. He says they're like a householder who brings out of his treasure things new and old. And in my study this week, I saw that playing out to be true. I sat down with the Bible and I found great treasure in Esther chapter 10. Because see, do you remember last week I told you this would be a recap message of the whole book, and then we'd be done with the book of Esther? It's not. Esther chapter ten, it's three verses long. It doesn't really add to the rest of the book. just this last little summary of of two characters, uh the King of Hasueris and Mordecai. And it's What I would do is I would I would read those verses so we could rightly say we got through the whole book, but then I'd just jump back to the the gospel through the book and the the various themes. of the book and and just review the message using chapter 10 as a jumping off jumping off point. But then I sat down and I read those three verses in my study over and over and over and in multiple translations. And I realize there's actually plenty of encouraging stuff here. Biblical truth to mine out and dig up. And so this morning that's what we're going to be doing. We're going to be digging up the last truths of chapter 10. And the next week we'll have that last recap message unless I'm proven wrong again. When I first read this chapter, I was struck like you probably are at how short it is. It feels kind of weird that It's broken out as a separate chapter, right? And and not just the last three verses of chapter nine. It it's an epilogue. It's an epilogue to the book. And the verse divisions were not, and chapter divisions are not original. They're not inspired by the Holy Spirit. They were given many hundreds of years later, um, just for convenience for us. Uh I don't think it matters uh whether it's uh whether these last three verses was his name that that when he put those verse divisions in there, he realized there was some truth that would get ignored if they were not included, as that, or rather separated, from chapter nine. But what I really ask myself, and I encourage you to ask this with any passage of Scripture, even when you think you know the answer, is why would God put this here? Well, why, for instance, does God talk about imposing tax on in chapter 10, verse 1? Why is that important for us? Why do we need to see that? What what is God doing here? Every word is inspired by God. It's all of value. That's what he says in Second Timothy. Not only that that it's It's given by God, but it is profitable for us, that it produces things in us. It's good for teaching us things, for correcting us, for for turning us back in the right way. And instructing us in the way we should go forward. That's what it says. So how? That's what I always want to ask myself. Why would God put this here What is he going to do to work changes in us through these three verses? So let's go verse by verse through them. Let's understand the message, and then we will principalize the message. And if you don't have a note sheet, I encourage you to get one from the back table there. But you don't have to do that. You can just listen along. So let's look at these first, I won't advance the slide just yet, but I will very soon Okay. Chapter 10, verse 1, it says, And King Ahazuerus imposed tribute on the land and on the islands of the sea. See. Now all the acts of his power and his might and the account of the greatness of Mordecai to which the king advanced him, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Media and Persia? For Mordecai the Jew was second to King Ahazuerath And was great among the Jews, and well received by the multitude of his brethren, seeking the good of his people, and speaking peace to all his countrymen. And that is the end. And we start chapter 10, we conclude the book really with this weird statement that the king is imposing tribute. Far and wide, right? Why? Well, first I want you to see that the word here It does not say tax. If you have ESV it says I I think ESV says that King of Hasueris imposed tax on the land and the islands, right? Or or coast. Coastlands is probably the better word, not islands. And the word there though for tribute is not specifically taxed. It works out that way, but it's specifically Specifically referring to labor. And I promise you there's we're moving towards understanding this, right? There's there's a purpose to all of this, okay? It's talking about uh obligatory service of various kinds, it can mean slavery It can mean slavery. This is a pagan king. That's not the only form. Think of like today, some some countries require mandatory military service. Israel does that. I don't know if Greece does anymore, but I had uh I was friends growing up with a family and the the the dad was from Greece and he had skipped out on his his mandatory uh uh military service because he moved to the United States as a kid. But his wife was scared when they were uh going back to to Greece for a vacation. She was afraid that he'd be detained because he didn't he hadn't served his compulsory military service. And so she contacted the consulate and he said, Well don't tell them that I'm gonna be there. Um He was fine, he moved over as like a ten year old. Um but I I know that that was that was a requirement for Greece. one point. It is a requirement for Israel. And tribute here has the idea of any form of forced labor or forced service. Now, it appears over and over again in 1 Kings. And it's specifically the most in the chapters of Solomon's rule. And we were studying that about a year ago, weren't we? The life of Solomon. During a season of busy construction, Solomon issued a draft, not for the military, but for his construction force, or specifically for his lay- for his uh his lumberjack crew. If you remember he they built the the temple, but they also built his palace and various other government buildings and they needed a ton of wood. And so he cut a deal with uh the the uh kings in the north in what is now present-day uh Lebanon, and he would send his own workers. Uh uh he wa he he conscripted a force of Now they were they would have been compensated and they worked in shifts. They'd go up for one month, they'd be home for two months, and then they'd go back and do it again. So they'd work like dogs for a month, and then they'd be off for two months And uh so he he split it into three uh three teams of ten thousand. Um That is one example of the tribute that he imposed on his own people. Then he would also of conquered nations, he sent them to work in the mines and in different places. Now in those chapters of of of 1 Kings, the author is showing us how magnificent King Solomon is. In terms of cult cultural and economic prosperity, Solomon was the greatest of Israel's kings, more so than David. David is the greatest in theological terms, in perhaps in military terms, but Solomon was the greatest when it came to peace. Some scholars have called his reign the the the Pax Solomonis, meaning the peace of Solomon. Economically they were absolutely prosper prosperous and they imposed peace upon other nations through economic means As much as we've seen some of our presidents, even our current president, trying to do that sort of thing. One of the ways that those chapters show how great Solomon was was by describing the tribute that he imposed on foreign nations and on his own people, the great amount of labor that he requires from them. When this verse in Esther chapter 10, it's kind of imitating what was going on with Solomon. It's sh saying how great King Ahazuerus was based on the fact that he could impose labor and and ultimately tax. on people from all the way from Northwest India present day out to Greece and or or or up against Greece, the Mediterranean world. And even distant islands or coastlands of the sea. And there are indeed islands that he imposed tribute on. For instance, the kingdom of Bahrain today. Bahrain was under Persian rule across that time. The Mediterranean islands he would have imposed tribute upon as well, and other foreign coasts Why is that important? Because then in verses 2 and 3, it attributes, it tells us where his greatness comes from. Is King Ahazuerus a great king? We've seen his character. As a man, as a person, is he a great man? No, we've seen he's a loser. Right? The guy only ever does what the people under him tell him what to do, and the rest of the time he's he's drinking himself half-conscious. The guy is not a good leader. He he abdicates responsibility. He gives he gives his uh signet ring that that signs the legislation, he gives it over to Haman. And when he realized that Haman's a bad guy, rather than recovering that responsibility and guarding it better, he just hands it over to the next guy who just so happens to be a trustworthy man, fortunate for for Hajirez. a good ruler. And that man is Mordecai, and that's who comes up in verses two and three. You see how it goes from Ahasuerus in one in the start of two, and then it goes to Mordecai. Now all the acts of his power. Still talking about Ahazuerus, right? who's imposing this tribute. All the acts of his power and his might, and the account of the greatness, of Mordecai to which the king advanced him And it says that he's written throughout the chronicles the history of their nation. He has one line in the chronicle because he prevented an assassination. Now the chronicles are looking like the Mordecai show. And Ahjuaris is made great because of Mordecai. Mordecai is the real ruler of this empire. And he has specially benefited the people of God while he's in power. And so that is our first of these two themes in this last little chapter is that when we see Mordecai, we should think of Jesus Christ the perfect King. Mordecai as a good beneficent ruler. Can I use that ten dollar middle school vocabulary word? You remember the the middle school vocab books you had to do? Can I use that beneficent? He points us to Jesus Christ as the perfect king. King. The line of David is preserved under Mordecai's own rule. He is not an ancestor of Christ, but Christ's ancestors are preserved from annihilation because of Mordecai's actions. And it says by the end of the chapter and the verse, it says he was seeking the good of his people and speaking peace to all of his countrymen. Everything he did was about advancing the people of God and doing them good. So what the author is doing here then is reminding his Jewish readers of the king that they have been hoping for. Because we don't see the nation of Israel in the book of Esther, do we? It's not mentioned. But During all of these events, when there's genocide pronounced upon the people of God, remember there's a large population living back In the Holy Land, in Israel and Judah, but now they're just provinces under King Ahazuerus. They're provinces in the the Persian Empire, they are not kingdom of Israel or Kingdom of Judah. Right? In in Jerusalem, there is a governor. We know one very famous governor, his name is Nehemiah. He has a book written about him. It's the book right before Esther. Those people are preserved because of Mordecai's actions. They're in Israel Wishing that Nehemiah was king. Actually they don't want Nehemiah, but they they would love a king like Nehemiah, but they don't they don't want him to be governor They want a descendant of David back on the throne. In fact, when they first went back from Persia to Israel and to Jerusalem, they went with the rightful king of Israel. His name was Arubbabel. But he wasn't king, he was governor. And they are longing for the kingdom to be restored to Israel. There are Israelis living in Israel today, that that is their ultimate desire, is to have a kingdom once again The people, the Jews in Mordecai's day are longing for the restoration. God made a promise to David that he would always have a descendant to sit on the throne. They're living there. The descendants of David are living there in Jerusalem, the rightful king, and yet they can't there is no throne for them to sit on. It would be treason for them to make him king. It would be rebellion against Persia But there's this Jewish guy who just a few chapters earlier was targeted for execution by the one whose position he now holds. The number two most powerful person in basically the known world at that point. Had tried to execute this man Mordecai, but now he's been advanced to that guy's position. That guy has been executed. And now Mordecai, a Jewish man, is calling the shots not just in Israel, but across like the known world. And so when we see The vastness of Persia. The book of Esther opens with that, doesn't it? In in chapter chapter 1, verse 2. It tells us, actually verse 1, it tells us who this Ahasuerus is, the king, right? This was the Ahazuerus who reigned. Look at how big it is. Over one hundred and twenty-seven provinces from India to Ethiopia. Now I mentioned west to Greece. I didn't say how far south it went. Went down into west and south, down into to Africa. You got Africa, Europe, Asia, this this mega empire. It's a snapshot of when The ultimate king, the descendant of David, his name is Jesus, when King Jesus sits politically on a visible throne in Israel. It hasn't happened yet, but it will He's going to be the visible political ruler of the whole world. Persia is the Persian Empire is not as big as the whole world, but it's pretty big. We see that empire, we should think of that that universal rule, that global rule of King Jesus. Jesus has come once He is now reigning. He's come once. He died, but he rose from the dead, didn't he? Then he ascended into heaven, and he's ruling as king from heaven. But not visibly, not politically, right? One day he will be, he will return. It's gonna happen soon. He's gonna return and he will conquer the world. That's described in Revelation 19. He actually comes as a conqueror. He will defeat his enemies, and then he will reign over everyone who's left here on earth, and his reign will be global. He'll have governors underneath him, just as King Ahazueras did. But the center of the world, the capital of the global empire, will be not in Persia, not in Shushan, but in Jerusalem, in Israel, in Judah. When we see Mordecai here as a good ruler benefiting the people of God over a huge swath of the world like this, it's pointing us to Jesus Christ. as the perfect king, and the vastness of his rule is a foreshadowing of King Jesus' eventual universal reign. Now, are you politically frustrated? Do you turn on NPR or Fox News or NBC or Some Christian alternative I like the pour over. I also use the 1440. I try to get as neutral as I can, but do you just you listen to it, you read it, you you watch it, and you just get mad You get frustrated and how is it that that more people can't see what's good and right and what is harmful for our country or for our world? Are you politically frustrated? Don't let the latest articles or the latest antics of our leaders in Washington, right, and Annapolis get you unduly riled up Right? Be a good citizen. Vote according to what you believe will do the most good for our s for our our our our counties, for our state, for our country, for our world. But recognize that one day you won't have to. You won't have to vote because Jesus won't be king, he won't be president Jesus, he'll be King Jesus. You won't have to vote. The great and perfect king is coming. And this stuff that probably should frustrate us to some degree, don't let it frustrate you more than it should. Because Jesus will put all things right. Be a good citizen and a good voter in the meantime. Pray about how you should vote. But trust that this is that the end is not here yet. When the end comes, it'll be a good end Because Christ will be reigning. In the meantime, we're waiting for Jesus to return. We're waiting for him to conquer. We're waiting for him to claim his crown and his throne. And the key word is conquer. We're told in in in Revelation nineteen that he will ascend from heaven on a horse, on a white horse, that he will come where the leaders and armies of the earth have gathered in a specific place and he will make war with them a great Very, very large army. He'll make war with them and all he has to do is speak, and the word of his mouth slays them. his his servants, the angels, call the uh the the carrion birds, like uh vultures and eagles and crows and everything. And they call them to come to this specific part of the world because there's going to be so many corpses that that they're going to be needed to pick clean. Now that doesn't sound very jolly, does it? But he's going to come and he's going to defeat his enemies And then he's going to set up the perfect righteous rule. You're going to want to make sure you're on the right side Jesus came once already proclaiming peace. The second time he comes, he's going to come in war. While he was here on earth He died in order to make peace with you. Do you understand that? He was put to death for your sins so that God might see your sin on the cross. Blaming him for it, right? And vent all of his wrath on his son, so that your sin is atoned for without you being touched by that judgment. But if that judgment was so fierce that it would that it would kill the Lord of life, as he is called, that it would kill God Himself, God the Son. If his wrath at your sin is that fierce, make sure that you are identified with Christ and that your sin is consumed. So that he does not make war with you, whether it's when he returns, we pray he'll return before we before we die, right? But whether it's when he returns or or Simply you die before he returns, in in which case you're gonna you're gonna stand before him one day. He will resurrect you so that you can appear before him. And then he will judge your sin. If it was not it If if you are not identified with Christ, then you will not stand. You may have been re raised in church. You may have a really good attendance here. You may believe in Jesus, but have have you embraced him as your king? Do you believe him to be who he is? Have you turned to him from your way and submitted your will to him? That's what it means biblically to believe, not simply an intellectual knowledge of him. Have you turned Because you don't want to be on the wrong side. You don't want to be his enemy. He came first proclaiming peace. He died in the name of peace, not just the name of peace. It wasn't empty. He died to procure your peace. When he died, he said, it's finished. I've done it. All that's left is for them to believe in me. Turn to Christ. Because if you don't do it now, you'll either appear before him at the judgment seat, or he will come and find you his enemy. You want to receive him as the Prince of Peace, not as your conqueror Now, just a few minutes ago, we read from Isaiah chapter 52 and 53. Let me read from that, just a couple verses from that again. Isaiah 53, verses 4 and 5, I want to read. It says, surely he has borne our griefs. Born as in bear, as in carry. Surely he has carried our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God. God struck him, he smote him him to use the old word, and afflicted, but he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities The chastisement for our peace was upon him, and by his stripes we are healed. We are celebrating that, or commemorating that for perhaps we should say, in a moment when we we drink that grape juice and and we're understanding it's symbolic of the blood that was shed described here. He died in your place. He was bruised and whipped and scourged and pierced with thorns and with with nails. That's what you deserve. He died in your place And if if you trust in him, then your sin is transferred to him, and his righteousness, he wasn't treated as though he was righteous, was he? He was He was condemned. He was counted guilty. His innocence and righteousness is transferred to you. And we call this substitutionary atonement. Big theological words to mean substitute. He took your place and you take his. Now, Jesus rose from the dead. He is alive. Your sin is gone, but he is still alive, and he shares his eternal life with anyone who will trust in him. And you may be thinking, the preacher's saying a lot about turning and believing and repenting and all these things, and I don't have it all straight in my head. I don't know that I can do that. All right, will you admit that you are a sinner? That you have done things, you even think things that you ought not to think. Do you understand that that goes against what God has intended for you? You were born a sinner, and so you do. You do think these things, you do do these things, you do say these things that hurt other people and that offend your God. And you don't have to understand all of what I'm saying. But do you we we do you understand that much that you do things that often you wish you hadn't even done or hadn't said those things? You wish you could take them back. All of that is because you're a sinner. Well you confess to God that you're a sinner. And will you confess that he is right? He would be right to condemn you to hell. He would be right to punish you. And that in fact it doesn't seem right that Jesus, who never did anything wrong, that He was that He was killed. Well, now you're starting to get it. And if you will confess to God that you're a sinner and you will ask him to forgive you. His son is alive, okay? He wasn't left in hell. God was good to his son who atoned for your sins. He will be good to you. If you will come to him and say, God, I deserve your punishment. I don't understand all of it, but I know I deserve to be punished with you. Will you count me innocent with your son? Will you count me innocent with Jesus? He will do it. He will forgive you right then and there. He will unite you to his son so that when God looks at you, he doesn't see your sin. He sees Jesus and He sees His righteousness. And you will not have to fear his judgment. You will not have to fear him returning and finding his enemy. You will not have to fear dying, passing into eternity, and appearing before him as your judge rather than your justifier. You will find Jesus as your defense attorney, not as the prosecuting attorney. Will you turn to Jesus? I'm tired of saying that I'm in the right. Jesus, you're right. I'm wrong. Forgive me. You died for me. I encourage you to confess some specific sins to him. But if you will confess that you are a sinner, And he knows if you're if you're he knows if you're not telling the truth, right? He knows if you're messing with him. He knows if it's just a fire insurance prayer. Lord, I I don't really believe any of this stuff, but just in case, right? That's not going to do anything. But if you will turn And you will admit. And he will help you to do this. I urge you, I encourage you, I beg and plead with you. Turn to Jesus, submit your will to his. And he will save you on the spot. And you will not have to fear that judgment. In fact, you will reign in King Jesus Jesus' administration. Can you believe that? Because we'll be resurrected too. And you will actually reign with him. You may be one of those governors that I mentioned. When Jesus returns, those who haven't embraced him as Savior will still be sinning, they'll still be his enemies. But those who have turned to him will be whole. And we will rejoice to have him as our king, as our ruler. There's one more thing here, and the last line of chapter three that I point you to. But when God gives peace and prosperity in our land, just as Mordecai did, we should praise him for it. And that is really, I think, the note that we should end on here. When King Jesus returns, everything will be perfect in his political rule. He'll be a perfect king. He'll act as a perfect judge who establishes justice for those who've been harmed. Do you ever read the outcome or watch the outcome of a major criminal or civil trial and you say, man, that judge got it wrong. Right? The P. Diddy trial, did you follow that at all? Right? Were you frustrated that not all those charges stuck? That he's gonna get like three years when he should be getting like life? for all of the evil things he did. Yeah, Jesus is going to establish justice. That's just not going to happen. Did he won't skate under Christ's rule There will no can you imagine a presidential s uh uh presidential administration without a scandal? I don't know if maybe maybe Washington and Adams did they manage that? But after that, like it's all been downhill from there. hasn't it? Well this king will have an administration without scandal. Can you imagine a perfect government with without scandal? That you're actually happy to bring your taxes to. Can you imagine that? Only a God king can do this It will be perfect, it will be that way for the whole planet. And his righteous reign will benefit everyone on earth. We're told here that Mordecai was great among the Jews, well received by the multitude of his brethren, meaning Those he's related to, the fellow Jews, seeking the good of his people and speaking peace to all his countrymen. If you're in Christ, you you're adopted into his family, you are counted as his countrymen as well. We don't have perfect rule today. We won't have it under under anyone except for King Jesus. We don't have it under Trump. Russia doesn't have it under Putin. Ukraine doesn't have it under Zelensky. Whoever is president after Trump, if Jesus even delays long enough for us to have another president, that president won't give us a perfect reign of perfect peace either But there are times when we glimpse that forthcoming time, aren't there? There are times when we get glimpses, we enjoy benefits like the ones that we enjoy under King that we will enjoy under King Jesus' right. And we need to make sure that we're grateful to God when we get them. Whether the president is a a a Republican or Democrat, whether you count the president as a good one or a bad one, I don't just mean the current one. I mean whatever president we have at any given time. If we enjoy freedom from persecution, for instance, as Christians, that we can gather here for all of the bad things we've said about earlier presidents, ones that we even said they hate Christians, right? We still had freedom. I'm not aware of any Christian who was arrested for going to church. Under Biden, under Obama, under Bush Right? For all you can say, when we have any freedom that we the that we do not always have. The Christians have not always had. We should praise God for that freedom If we have freedom from war, you may not like the current current president. There's a lot of war in this world, and we're not currently involved in one. I I don't know if it'll stay that way, but we're not currently Involved in a war. We should praise God. Don't praise Trump. Praise God for that. When God blesses us with any form of temporal peace in our land. We should be praising our God. Just as the Jews were praising their God. Mordecai wasn't perfect. We've seen throughout he is not the moral example for sure of a good Jew or of a good God-fearing man. By the end, he seems to have transformed. He's a good ruler. But under him, though he was a sinner, though he was imperfect, though he did some bonehead stupid things. God's people were blessed for it, and those who were not his people were blessed for it, and we should praise God. When even when we have a bad president. I'm not making a comment one way or the other on our current president. Everyone feels differently. Whether we have a good or bad president, a good or bad governor, a good or bad county executive in Prince George County. We should be praising God when we have any measure of peace, any measure of prosperity. Let's give let's give thanks to our God and let's pray for our leaders. And so as we anticipate the return of Jesus and his reign. So remember that what makes what makes it possible that we might be his subjects and that we might be members of his administration, it's the death of Jesus in our place. That Christ atoned for your sin so that you can be adopted into his family, and that you would be made to reign as princes and princesses alongside of him in his administration. administration. So we're going to sing to our king right now. And then we're going to partake of his table. And we're going to praise him for being not just our king, but for being our priest and our sacrifice. Let's pray. Dear Lord Jesus, great and mighty King, please return soon. But also, Lord Jesus, if there's anyone you yet intend to save and reconcile to yourself, please delay. Long enough to save everyone you intend to save. Have mercy. Thank you that you have delayed. We're yearning for you to return, but we're also yearning to see people we love turn to c turn to you to be saved. And we we just trust to your judgment, to your wisdom, to what is best for each individual soul and for the whole world on the timing of your return. But Lord Jesus, King Jesus, we look forward to your reign. And we love you. And Lord, we we confess to you that we have sinned. Recently. And for those of us who have trusted you as our Savior, Lord, we uh we yet want to confess our own failure. Failures in areas of of of wrath, losing our temper, of speech, saying things we ought not to, cursing. Slandering, gossiping, complaining about your goodness, lust Lack of self-control. Abuse of substances. Lord, we confess these and more to you. And ask that you'd remind us that your blood has already covered it all. But help us to confess these sins that we could partake in a worthy manner and joyfully turn from our sin and follow you, Lord Jesus. Would you bless our partaking? In your table. In Jesus' name, Amen