How many of you is that new to? I had not sung that version of Turn Your Eyes Upon Jesus. That was uh wonderful. I think that George has really done a especially terrific job uh this week, always does a great job, but just selecting songs that are are perfect and appropriate for a somewhat elusive theme that I'll be preaching from in just a moment. So this is really what's perfect. And I I I don't know how many of you guys realize that George is still battling pretty And so um we uh we're uh grateful for the Lord giving him grace and we're grateful for his servant spirit. Thank you, George. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. I do want to say happy Mother's Day. We really are grateful to the Lord who gives us moms. And we're grateful to each of you and those of you who are our mothers or grandmothers or simply maternal figures, aunts and teachers. The Lord has given you as a gift, and we're grateful that you're part of our of our worship this morning and part of our church. So let's uh anyway, with that said, let's go to the Lord in prayer. Dearest Heavenly Father. Lord, we need you. We are here this morning for two reasons. One, because of our intense need for you. We find wholeness in you and only in you. We're also here to worship you because you, and this is the bigger reason, this is the better reason, you are worthy of our praise. And Lord, I just thank you for the gift of the church For for all that it is, Lord, and there's a lot to it. But I'm just thinking of this one benefit. Uh which is probably not even the main benefit you give us the church for, but that is simply that we get to worship you together. We get to sing together and hear other voices along with ours. agreeing with us saying Jesus to you we lift our eyes you are the gl our glory and our prize and treasuring you together Lord what a gift what a blessing thank you for the worship we could do Together this morning. Father, we thank you. It is a day of the year where we recognize uh moms and their influence on us. Not all of us had good mothers. you Lord you blessed me with a wonderful mother but not all of us necessarily can s can share the same thing and some of us Mother's Day is just a hard day to be in church And so we pray especially for those people. Either they let they they uh they they lost a mother or they did not have Or it's it's someone who's is wishing to be a mother or or a father and and unable at this time and we know that you love them and you bind up their broken And you were eager to be there for them as the perfect Father, the one who gave us mothers. And I pray, Lord, for for anyone who's feeling the absence of a mother. Whether it's through not having a godly one or that they lost their mother or something like that. We pray that they would see that in Christ they have a perfect eternal father who will be for them both parents. But we do thank you for those who are good mothers and who are deserving of honor. Lord, help us to love our parents, to honor them, whether they are deserving of that honor or not. Lord, we thank you that you continue to remind us of that. How important it is to honor our mothers and our fathers, regardless of their deservedness of that honor, because that's what you do for us. That is the gospel. That we were your enemies, that we were vile, we resist your love, we deny your existence even sometimes. We know your truth and we choose to act Act opposite to it. We choose to disobey you, and yet over and over again you reach out to us, you show us an honor we don't deserve You love us, you reconcile us to yourself, you make your enemies into not only your friends, but into your adopted children in your own royal family. Thank you for loving us, Lord. And so we we lift up these prayers to you today on Mother's Day, but on the Lord's Day, that's what it is first. Thank you that it's Sunday. Thank you that it's This is your day. Thank you that we have the privilege of hearing from your word this morning. Thank you that I have the privilege of getting to preach it. But Lord, I need your grace. I need your spirit to do the preaching through me. Please would you take your word, bring it through me and through my personality and through my mouth That that your truth would be applied to our hearts and to our understanding. Give us ears to listen to and hearts to receive joyfully this message. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well again, I do say good morning, and before I start, I do just want to add to one of the announcements. Just again for those of you that didn't hear it, there is no youth group tonight. Kind of sad about that. We just got started with it a couple weeks ago, but we do want to give uh teens the opportunity to be with their moms and to honor them and to love them. That was kind of a a a late decision made last night, but I think it's the right one. So um though we're not meeting tonight, please, teens, kids, remember we will be meeting again next week. Um really eager to meet with you. We are we've started our our uh series through evelation and we'll be in chapter Chapter 2 starting next week. So we look forward to having you then. Please invite your friends. Alright, with that said, please turn with me to Esther chapter 1. Esther chapter 1, if you're not already there, we'll be taking the whole chapter this morning. Now, if you were to compile a list of the greatest power couples of the 19th century, who does that? What kind of introduction is that? You'd be a weird person if you did that. But if you did. If you did, towards the top of the list would likely be two names that are not yet lost to history even 200 years later. And those are the names, and I'm sure you could think of several if you if you know your history, but those would be the names Napoleon and Josephine. Napoleon was one of the greatest military leaders of his h of of his time, arguably of of all of modern history. He by his military br brilliance became the political leader of the French French people, though there was really otherwise no reason he should have risen the way he did it. It was his military brilliant brilliance and his his brilliance as a strategist that got him there. Uh and they had, at least according to the the the the the popular canon that has survived, had somewhat of an epic romance, novels and plays and movies have been written about their their romance and it endures to this day. But as much as Napoleon loved his wife, it appears that there the The affection was perhaps mismatched. And she was on numerous times, numerous occasions, she She was a source of great embarrassment to him. And I'm not gonna say why, because the details are pretty sordid and unimportant. You can look it up if you like, but please don't do it now. What's significant though about the fact that his great beloved caused him such embarrassment is that this great military tactician, this This powerful leader who was once poised to take over all of Europe. In fact, the world worried about this, or at least Europe worried about this. that he was going to destroy their status quo and take over all of Europe and unify it a century ahead of Hitler. He became a laughing stock to his foreign enemies due to the actions, the embarrassing actions of his wife. Her public improprieties and and the absence of respect that she had towards him boosted the morale of his enemies. and made him less formidable in their eyes and whether or not it was directly attributable to those those things on her part, he was defeated more than once. And did not go on to take over Europe. We're grateful for that. This world conqueror could inspire fear in some of the greatest armies and some of the greatest generals of the world at that time. But he couldn't hold on to his wife's respect or affection. And really that undermined his formidability. This morning we're reading a story that concerns the embarrassment of another powerful man. It's really kind of the ancient version of this. A very powerful emperor, a king of kings, if you will. embarrassed by his queen. This is King Ahasherus and Queen Vashti. And this unusual story which you may or may not be familiar with Contains some subtle humor, and it's the it's the way, it's really a a very odd way, we might say, that God chooses to begin the story of how he preserved and protected and saved his people from genocide In ancient Persia, it's a very unusual, unexpected which with the Lord we should expect the unexpected, shouldn't we Very unexpected way to start this epic story that we're working our way through. Now before we get into this story, I need to say a few things. First, just the obvious, this is Esther chapter one, and we won't see Esther, not until chapter two. So if you're waiting for her to show up in suspense, you'll be sitting here for a week. Don't expect Esther to show up today. This think of this as the the the prologue before the story really starts. It's it's the opening scroll uh before the Star Wars movie. The the yellow letters are going across the screen right now. Okay. Two Star Wars references two weeks in a row. My apologies. I'll I'll take a week off next week. Esther is a difficult book to understand when we get into the nitty Now I gave you an overview of the book last week. I tried to not give you the full overview of the plot because I wanted to preserve some of the suspense for those of you who don't know it. But I think I I generally gave the story, I gave the themes, and it's fairly straightforward. When you look at Esther macroscopically, you give it a bird's eye view, not that hard to understand. There's this It's clearly about the providence of an unseen God working behind the scenes. But when we get into the nitty-gritty details, and we too, right? Because we're we love the Word of God. We love God. We love Jesus who For me to stand up here and tell you, I love my wife, I just don't like what she says. I don't like the things she says. That would be that would be absurd, right? To love my wife is to treasure the things she says. Now my wife is not infallible. I hope she's not watching He says matters and we value it. And so because of that, we dig into the details of this this macroscopically simple story and we get we we start to get forest for the tree syndrome, right? And and we can get lost in the details a little bit and and it's hard to figure out well what's the Lord doing there? Or oh did he really work that way? Is that even right? Can he do that? And it becomes a little bit of a confusing Book to navigate when you go into the details. A big reason for that is that we have events narrated through this book, and especially in this chapter. where we're told things happening, but we're not told the motivations, the motives of the characters. I'm going to come to this later. Historically, when when this book has been preached or taught, at least over the course of the last hundred hundred fifty years or so, preachers and Teachers will often point to a character as a good or bad example and they'll say, so we ought to be like Mordecai and do this. Or we ought we better not live like Haman or Hashrus and do that. The problem with doing this is that in order to make someone a good or bad example, you need to know their motives. And if the motives aren't supplied by the text. Now you find yourself supplying the motives for them. You're saying you know what the motivation was of, say, Queen Vashti when she did what she did in this chapter. Or why King Ahashrus was doing what he was doing. And that can muddy the waters, and we end up saying something that the Lord's not saying. And more what that ends up doing here is that the Lord is trying to show us, paint a picture here, and he takes his time in Esther to do that. He's painting this picture, but we're looking over here. Because we've supplied these motives and now we're getting distracted from the main thing that God is doing. So I'm going to try very hard not to do that today, and I'm I'm going to show you In some cases, here's how it has been interpreted, uh this way or that way, but we're missing the point because Now I guess sometimes there are points where we can easily read a character as a bad example. We can see Haman's intent to murder all the Jews, and we can easily say, genocide is bad, don't do that. Don't let hatred consume you. That is obvious, but especially in the book of Esther, it's usually not. Haman would be the exception there. And we don't see Haman for a couple chapters. And my goal then this morning and in the weeks ahead while we're in Esther is to help us to cut out the speculation and just figure out what is the point that God seems to be making if we pay attention to the can the clues and the context. What is he moving us towards? And so I'll be saying things like traditionally preachers have said this. They might be getting it wrong though because when I do this, I want you to understand I I I don't assume that I'm a better preacher than the preachers of the past. I'm not doing this out of arrogance. I'm not saying that earlier preachers were dummies and I'm brilliant. But I do recognize, and this is worth you knowing if you pick up books from old preachers. There tends to be, or even in our own day, there tend to be trends that go in with with biblical interpretation. that will sometimes kind of take a whole generation or more where most of the Bible teachers in that generation, maybe the subsequent generations for a little bit, they'll follow it and it's not a sound biblical interpretation. and moralizing is one of them. And that's what this is. When you say be like, let's not even put Esther in it, right? Be like Daniel. Dare to be a Daniel, right? We have a song, an old hymn like that. Be like Joseph. Don't be like Esau. Be like well, please don't leave like Jacob either, right? When we do that What we're doing is called moralizing. We're taking the good example we see, or the bad example we see, and say, don't do that. But that tends to be divorced from the gospel. We need to get to the heart of who Christ is, and it's good to look at good examples and seek to follow them, but we need to understand why, and ultimately it will lead us to Christ. We've got to be careful that we're not just short-circuiting, ignoring Christ and saying, Well, see, you need to do this, not that. Be a Vashti, not an Esther. That doesn't help us to pursue Christ when we do that. And so that is something that especially in the last hundred or a hundred and fifty years or so has been the temptation when preaching I will do my best not to fall into that and uh I'll I'll trust you to hold me accountable, just just not right while I'm doing it, okay? You can talk to me afterwards. We're going to be extra careful with this book. So we're going to move together through this story inductively. If you're following along on the notes sheet and you certainly don't have to, do whatever is easy. For you, but you'll see that the theme is on the back at the bottom. We're going to lead up to the theme or the message. And there's even a dark box. Sorry, that printed out a little bit darker than I intended it to go. There is kind of a takeaway that I really want you to zero in on. We will not hit the theme until we get to the So after all of that long preamble, let's dig in. Let's uh start. We're just going to read slowly most of these sections as we go. Esther chapter one starting in verse one. Now it came to pass in the days of Ahasherus. This was the Ahasherus who reigned over one hundred and twenty-seven provinces from India to Ethiopia. Now let's let's talk about who this Ahasheris is. Depending on your Bible, and I'm sorry, the the correct pronunciation is Hasueris and old habits die hard, so I will probably float between those those two. uh pronunciations. But depending on your Bible, it either says Ahesheris or Hajweris or it says King Xerxes. And I realize those are two very different names. If you're most most translations, most modern translations say Ahesheris. I'm reading from the New King James. If you've got an NIV or an NL NLT in front of you, though, it says Xerxes. And the reason for that is that his Persian name put into Hebrew comes out as Ahesheris, and this was written in Hebrew. But the the his Greek name was Xerxes and he tends to be remembered in history as Xerxes and I suppose that must be why the translators of NIV and NLT decided to choose his Greek name over his Hebrew name, though it does seem a little odd to me. But that that's why you ha you might have a different name there. Now Ahesharus was known for a couple of things. First was his military campaigns. Egypt was under his was under the rule of Persia, and uh so was Babylon at the time that he as well. And right after he got the throne, Egypt decides this is a great time for us to rebel. And you can imagine Egypt is one of the great pa superpowers of the world. They don't like being absorbed as part of some other uh empire and being being a client kingdom. So they rebel. Well, in just two years, this young ruler, this young military leader puts that rebellion down, and he puts it down hard. Babylon rebels as well, and he puts that rebellion down. And he is about to launch a military campaign against Greece. If you've ever seen the movie 300, which I admit I have not seen, but the movie 300 about the the small legion of Spartan soldiers that fought down to the last man. That is a uh from what I understand the movie or the graphic novel it's based on is a a uh kind of fictionalized account of that of that uh story, but it is a true story. Well the bad guy, the Persian king fighting them and ultimately Ultimately defeating all of them, that's this guy, that's a Heshrus. So he's he's the bad guy from from the movie 300. He is getting ready to launch his attack on Greece. And and we're about to see this is in the third year of his reign, according to the According to uh to verse three. So it says, In those days when King Ahesher sat on the throne of his kingdom, which was in Shushan the citadel, then in the third year of his reign he made a feast for all his officials and servants, the powers of Persia and Media, the nobles and the princes of the provinces going before him. Now the reason for this gigantic feast It's for uh six months long, this gigantic banquet, is it's simultaneously a war council. He is trying to drum up support for his campaign in Greece. Now About four years after these events, it's over. But the book of Esther continues, it stretches over the course of twelve years. So the The Greek military campaign is going to go on, it's going to start, it's going to finish, and not even get mentioned here in the book, probably because it was an embarrassment to me. He went in three waves and he defeated the Spartans quite handily. He had two very successful victories, but on the third try He gets forced out of Greece kind of embarrassingly and and he just kind of on his own flees home. Surely he takes a guard with him. He flees home, leaves leaves the uh the war in the hands of a general um who ultimately failed because he was so disappointed in the way that it turned out. In fact the Greeks are so successful in repelling him that if you've learned anything about ancient Greece But after repelling Ahashrus they learned the power of teamwork and They actually formed this league and they would go on to become the great Greek Empire, but would then become the great Roman Empire that we know at the the start of Jesus' life. That's all because of them defeating a hell of a So he goes back to Susa here, to Citadel, and the man that we see later in the book is not the same man we have in this first chapter. He's defeated, and as a result, history tells us. He he takes life less seriously after that. Maybe we'd say he's depressed. But what he goes on to do is is basically become mired in partying and drinking and having extramarital affairs. It's a very sad and disgusting lifestyle he goes on to lead. When we read about this We're gonna see in in great detail in just a moment about this kind of party that he's throwing for six months long. We see the seeds there already, don't we? He this is the guy who likes to party. And given the wrong circumstances, a a guy who who ends up being quite discouraged and quite depressed, that leads into a terrible lifestyle of of uh drunkenness and sexual promiscuity. He uh was assassinated in his bedroom. We don't know by whom, but it is suspected that it was by a jealous husband. Not the kind of guy that you want to see your daughter get hitched to. And of course it's the heroine of this book that bears her name, Esther, who is going to end up married to this guy. So let's get further into this uh this Many days, one hundred and eighty days in all. And again, that is six months. Now I want you to see how extravagant this is. There's a lot of detail here. It reminds us kind of when we're reading about the tabernacle or the temple or Solomon's great kingdom. There were white and blue linen curtains fastened with cords of fine linen and purple on silver rods and marble pillars and the couches were of gold and silver and a mosaic pavement of pavement of alabaster, turquoise, and white and black marble And they served drinks in golden vessels, each vessel being different from the other, with royal wine in abundance, according to the generosity of the king Now it might feel like, why does this even matter? Like why is this preserved in the Bible? I think we'll see in a moment that it is these are important details. They do make sense. But let's see that this is a guy who is showing off because he's trying to curry favor, get support from people across this very wide empire. It's it's it stretches from modern day Pakistan all the way to Western Turkey. down down into northern Africa. It's gigantic. And he's trying to get all of these disparate ethnic groups and once powerful kingdoms So he's trying to impress them and to show that he can richly reward anyone who helps him to defeat Greece. a name for himself by not only invading Greece, but burning Athens to the ground. That's what he wants to do, and he's unsuccessful. In accordance with the law, the drinking was not drinking was not compulsory. According to each man's pleasure. Queen Vash he also made a feast for the women in the royal palace which belong belonged to King Ahashrus. So to boil all this down, there's a six month long feast. Where he's trying to get the support of everyone across the empire. When that's all done, surely everyone is tired out. And so he says, I'm going to do one more feast, a smaller one for only a week. I've never been to a party that lasted more than a day. I don't know about you, but this is still but this is nothing for him. It's a week long. And the idea is that just for those here in the city, anyone working in my administration in the palace, greatest to least, so this would include even the the servants. There's probably a little bit of a kind of a thank you going on here. But he's also trying to then finally rally the troops of his own administration, which we'll see in just a But at the same time, his wife has her own separate banquet going on. So we see three feasts going on. And feasts occur a lot in this book. at the end. It's even going to be the means by which the the villain is kind of undone. Be working towards, but it's going to be some time before we get there. So we have three banquets, these two much shorter ones. The king and the queen each throw one, and these are going to set in in motion events that, unbeknownst to anybody, will save the fate of an entire race of people. And so now I'll tell you what what that first point was. We have the background. We have a powerful king displaying his awesomeness. He wants to show how awesome he is. And now we're going to have the contrast. Let's turn to verses 10 through 12. On the seventh day, when the heart of the king was merry with wine, he commanded Mahuman, Bizpha, Harbona, Bigpha, Abagtha, Zethar, and Carcus Don't cross me or I will make you read those names in public next time, all right? Seven eunuchs who served the key the served in the presence of the king King Ahashrus to bring Queen Vashti before the king, wearing her royal crown, in order to show her beauty to the people and the officials, for she was beautiful. To behold. But Queen Bashti refused to come to the king's command brought by his eunuchs. Therefore the king was furious, and his anger burned within him. First we have a powerful king displaying his awesomeness. Now we have a flashpoint. A powerful king being humiliated by his queen Now I want I want to consider these events. So that the king, he's trying to get his war council going, trying to get muster support for this big invasion of Greece And he says to his his closest advisors, I want you to go over to the other banquet. I want you to bring Queen Vashti. She is beautiful, and I want her to I want her to to I want her her beauty to be seen by everybody here. Now, let me point out again, as I said already, we don't know what his motivation is. We do know this bin this war council, that secular history tells us that the narrator of this book doesn't tell us that It's possible that what he's trying to do is rally the troops and and uh promote patriotism. If you think about when Queen Elizabeth would make public appearances in in England. Even as an old lady before she died, she often would kind of r rally the the the the subjects of the of the you see people interviewed on the news when they're when they go and see see her make a public appearance and everyone's so excited. She she had an effect on morale. I'm not so sure that King Charles does, but Queen Elizabeth really did That could be what King Ahashrus is doing, that he's he's trying to use Queen Vashti as a point of patron. Patriotism to get everybody behind him what he wants to do. That could be what he's doing. But it's also possible that these are a bunch of people that have been drinking. Now, as it said in verse 8 You didn't have to drink if you don't want to, but but it was customary. In fact, in in Persia specifically, they used to It was it was a principle th they would make decisions while they were drunk because they believed and this is very much in line with the the ancient mindset, they believed that when you were intoxicated you were more uh kind of attuned to spiritual presences. You were closer to the gods, which of course would be demonic powers. This is a way of trying to manipulate the spirits. In fact, we're told in in the the next verse, I'm just going to peek ahead with us, uh verse thirteen, the king said to the wise men who understood the times, for this was the king's manner toward all who knew law and justice. The men who knew the times, this is referring to men, not just their their their wise, their shrewd They're good political advisors, they know current events. These are people who who are soothsayers and involved in different sorts of witchcraft that they that they think that they are able to see the the future and have some sort of forthelling going on. They're trying to manipulate demonic powers for their own ends. So this guy's very possibly very drunk. And then most of the men there are also likely very drunk. And so it's The other possibility here is that Queen Vashti is is knows this and she says, I don't want to be I don't want to be an object, I don't want to be leered at. I'm the queen of Persia for goodness sake, I'm not going to be leered out by what is my husband, but but all of these men who are all drunk, uh all these lechers. No, no, absolutely not. Whatever it is, she she does decline. Now there is actually a third possibility for why she does she declined. History tells us that her son was born not long uh so sometime that year, the the third year of of uh Ahesheris' reign. So she may actually be pregnant and the guy is so drunk he doesn't And it's not appropriate for her to come out. She's not able to get out too easily. We don't know. But the way that this has historically been interpreted is one of two ways One is, well, a hashrus is a drunk. You shouldn't drink. So first of all, the preachers say you shouldn't drink to excess. See what happens when you drink to excess Right? And and going along with that, well Vashti is courageous for standing up to that drunken slob. And we should stand up for women as well. Now that seems fair, I think. I think that seems fair. You shouldn't get drunk. The Bible is very clear that drunkenness is a sin, and that we should be in control by the Holy Spirit, not by intoxicating spirits. But that's not the point that's being made here, is it? That in fact nothing else is said of drinking after this. That really doesn't seem the point. Also, feminism is a much more modern concept. And it seems pretty unlikely that the 5th century B. C. author is not interested in 20th century A. D. feminist concerns Also, the the author doesn't cast Bashti in that positive of a light. It doesn't seem that this is the point. For me to just principalize, it's tempting. Easy for me to preach and say, don't get drunk, respect women and and and and let's all go home, right? Or I can do the other thing that that is done more more historical, the the the the the earlier interpretation, which is kind of ignore the drunkenness for a moment and just say, shame on Vashti. Wives are supposed to submit to their husbands And she didn't, and look what happened to her, and that's what she deserved. In fact, even Martin Luther, the great reformer, took this this interpretation. In fact, he he pressed it really far. Um so far that I don't even want to I I don't even tell you how bad he he interpreted it and applied it The text doesn't judge Vashti on these grounds. The narrator does not cast her in that negative of a light. Since he doesn't doesn't cast her in a that positive a light, he also doesn't cast her in that negative a light. We just don't have either of their actions evaluated by the spirit-filled and controlled author here. It doesn't seem that the Lord is trying to use either of these. You can get principles here, but that doesn't seem that that's what he's trying to do. He's just relating these events. Vashti is portrayed as neither good nor bad. This is simply simply the way things went. It's all the setup for Esther becoming queen. So how should we view it? What is the author's point? And that's what I kept having myself coming to my mind as I was reading through this, like, why why even tell this story? Why not just start and sound very Old Testament-y and be like in the fifth year, and so it was in the fifth year of King Ahasherus' reign. The king set out to find himself a queen. Why not just start there in chapter 2 and then introduce Esther in like the fourth verse? But that's not what the Holy Spirit chooses to do, is it? And it seems that there's a few things that he's doing. He's showing us what kind of king, what kind of man this is. I mean, the Persian court is a dangerous place. This queen is about to be deposed. And anything can happen. You're in a place of great privilege and great extravagance and opulence But at any time you could breathe your breathe your last because this capricious king could just change his mind and decide to kill you. In fact, he did do that. Usually it wasn't at home, it was when he was out on the battlefield And Persian kings were known for killing their own close friends if they disagreed with them for any reason. It's a dangerous place to be. This is a a dangerous man to be married to, and it's setting the tone in that way. I don't think that's the main point, but I think that's something that the Lord is showing us. I think that the perhaps the most important thing for us to take away, I've really already said, and that is that this king appears to be the most powerful man in the world. He is possibly the most impressive man, wealthiest man on the planet. In fact, when Alexander the Great from Greece will make his way to Susa eventually, like a hundred years later, even he was dazzled by how much wealth he found there in Susa, much of it left behind by Ahesherus himself. And yet this man is so powerful and so impressive and so wealthy, he has the power to kill anyone he wants on a whim, no consequences, no questions asked He is impotent before his wife. He is powerless next to his queen. And so this prepares us to see that behind everything When you have this kind of weird stuff going on, weird political and royal family power struggles that shouldn't really matter to anybody outside of there It turns out these these events do matter, and there is behind all of that there's a sovereign ruler, and it's not this guy Who does in fact wield that power and more? There is a real ruler in Persia, and it ain't the king or the queen. It ain't Ahris or Vashti. And of course we know that that is God. That is the Creator. He has a plan, and he will use even this silly thing, this silly domestic spat that shouldn't blow up like this. He's going to use this as the first link in the chain to save his people. And you'll hear me repeat that in a little bit. So the Queen's to to to catch us up, the Queen has just publicly disobeyed the queen the the the the king. Something is gonna happen. It's gonna highlight that there's wisdom lacking in the Persian court, and that makes it a dangerous place for the protagonists we haven't met yet. And that brings us then to the fallout. A powerful king publicizes the his embarrassment across his empire. A powerful king publicizes his embarrassment across his empire. I've already told you about these men who knew the times, so we'll jump into verse 14. It says that those closest to him being, and here's their their names, Karshina, Shethar, Adnatha, Torshish, Maris, Marcina, and Mam. Mukin, the seven princes of Persia and Media who had access to the king's presence. Just a little foreshadowing here, there are seven people that can come to the the king at any time, they have access to his presence unannounced. James's not one of them, and that's going to be important later on. And who ranks highest in the kingdom. What shall we do to Queen Vashti? he asks them, according to the law. Because she did not obey the command of King Aheshras brought to her by the eunuchs. Here's the dilemma. What are we going to do? The queen has disobeyed the king. Now let's look at how they reason. I don't know that I need to add a whole lot. Mamukin answered before the king. We're in verse 16 here. Princes. Queen Bashti has not only wronged the king, but also all the princes and all the people who are in all the provinces of King Ahashrus. For the queen's behavior will become known to all women, so that they will despise their husbands in their eyes when they report, King Ahashrus commanded Queen Bashia to be brought in before him, but she didn't come This very day the noble ladies of Persia and Media will say to all the king's officials that they have heard of the behavior of the queen. Thus there will be excessive contempt So, in other words, this guy's worried that his wife won't obey him because the king's wife didn't obey him. Logical, right? That makes sense. But then I think Maybe they blow it out of proportion. If it pleases the king, we don't want we don't want people to know about this. We don't want him we don't want anyone to get the wrong idea that that the the king doesn't have control over over his life. So here's what we should do. We should tell everybody. That's his advice. We don't want people to know about it, so let's make sure we tell everybody. Let's put it in every local language. We'll put it in in the language of commerce. We'll put it in the language of of our us ruling class. We'll make sure that everybody knows that Queen Vashti Disobeyed her husband. Because we don't want them to know about that. I hope you can see the humor in this, okay? We'll read it If it pleases the king, let a royal decree go out from him, let it be recorded in the laws of the Persians and the Medes, so that it will not be altered, the Vashti shall come no more before King Ahashrus. She's been put down. We don't we don't know if she was if she was executed, one historical tradition says that. Um but uh it's certainly not stated here. Let the king give her royal position to another who is better than she. When the king The king's decree which he will make is proclaimed throughout all his empire, for it is great. All wives will honor their husbands, both great and small. So his solution to the problem is just get it all out in the open and then say, but we're not we're not gonna we're not gonna go for this. Now, do you think maybe he's blowing this out of proportion a little bit that the the most common people in the far-flung reaches of the empire, like I don't know, maybe Israel, are going to disobey their husbands because some king they don't care about was disobeyed by some queen. they don't care about? Probably not. This is probably being blown out of proportion. And the reply, please the king and the princes, who were worried about their own marital relationships And the king did according to the word of Mamukan, then he sent letters to all the king's provinces, to each province in its own script, and to every people in their own language, that each man should be master in his own house and speak in the language of his own people. I think it's ironic because now everybody knows about it. What do we do with this though? What does this mean for us? I do want to point one thing out. Strangely enough The counselors aren't talking about how their enemies, especially the Greeks, will respond to Vashti's disobedience If they hear about it, it could cause the same sort of embarrassment that that would happen many years later to Napoleon, right? They're not thinking about that. They're thinking about themselves. They're thinking about their own authority over their wives Now, there's a temptation for me to say, wives, obey your husbands. That's the point of this passage. That is true. It is true that wives need to obey their husbands, need to submit. But that's not the point of this passage. That's what these men do. This is what they say, but that's not the point for us. Now I want to show you what the biblical truth is and see if we can contrast it, right? Here Submission to husbands is being is being forced upon them by law, right? This is this is a bunch of husbands being overbearing in their authority and trying to uh apply it to literally every woman in the empire. That's not what we see in the gospel. So I'm going to turn to Ephesians chapter 5, and you're welcome to follow with me or you can just listen along if you like. In Ephesians chapter 5, which I read pretty much whenever I'm doing premarital counseling or if I'm gonna marry somebody There's this beautiful passage that explains to us why wives ought to submit to their husbands, and it connects it to Christ. It connects it to the gospel. Here it says in Ephesians 5, starting verse 22, wives, submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is head of the wife, as also Christ is head of the church. And he is the Savior of the body. Therefore, just as the church is subject to Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in everything. So, in other words, because the church is presented as the bride of Christ. And the church needs to submit to, the church being the bride needs to submit to the the husband or the groom, which is Christ, then wives need to be mirroring that in their own relationships to their husbands. Right. Just as the church submits to Christ, that's how wives should be submitting their husbands. But then he goes on, and where we have three verses about wives, we have a lot more about husbands. Husbands, love your wives just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for her, that he might sanctify and cleanse her with the washing of water by the word That he might present her to himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she should be holy and without blemish. So husbands ought to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. No one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes it and cherishes it, just as the Lord does the church For we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones. For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife. And the two shall become one flesh. This is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ and the church. This is about Jesus. Nevertheless, let each one of you in particular so love his own life as In other words, how are husbands to gain the submission of their wives? by sacrificing for them. When when your wife is not honoring the Lord or is not treating you the way that you would like, you don't just become Come over it. She she before the Lord she should be submitting. Ladies, you should be submitting to your husbands. But men, husbands, we don't just do what these men in Persia did. And just lay down the law. No, we sacrifice more. We we lower ourselves. We lead. By the washing of water by the Word. How did God cleanse his church? By the shedding of his own blood. He sacrificed himself for his people, for his bride. And husbands, we are called to love our wives sacrificially like this. Now you can go back to Esther now. We're nearly done. I know you're eager to celebrate Mother's Day in just a moment. I want you to see this this Christ like sacrifice. That is not what is going on here. So What is the point then? What is the point of all of that? And I think then this leads us to the message all along. You ready to fill all this out? Authorities on earth. Like King Ahasherus or our own president. No matter how powerful they are, they are nothing. Authorities on earth, no power no matter how powerful, are nothing. I'm going to advance the slide now, so get this down if you want to. Are nothing compared to the invisible yet omnipotent king of the universe. Compared to God, earthly rulers have no power. And we see that exposed here by King Ahashrus unable to get his wife to do a simple request And then scrambling and doing these very odd, drastic things that gets the whole the whole empire in a bit of a tizzy All because he didn't have absolute power. There's only one who has absolute power. And it is your creator. And so, and I have a box for you, a big gray box on your on your note sheet there for you to fill in, if this is true, and I'm going to show it to you again, alright, if you didn't get all of that filled in, authorities on earth No matter how powerful or nothing compared to the invisible yet omnipotent king of the universe. Omnipotent means wielding absolute power. He has all power there is. Because of that, trust in the greater power. Don't be tossed And shaken by events in the world, like these people were shaken in the kingdom. Don't be shaken by what's going on in Russia or in Israel. In Ukraine, in Iran, in Canada. Whether you like our president or you hate his guts, don't be shaken by him. Don't be taken in by him. Trust in the greater power. I'm not seeking to be political at all. Whether you love our president or hate him, he is not the ultimate power in this country God is. Trust in Him. Whether you feel that Donald Trump is the worst thing to happen to our country or the best thing to happen to him, and maybe you're really grateful for some of the things He's done re recently. His power could fade in a moment. It could turn like that on a time. It could happen today. The guy could have a stroke and drop dead. But God won't. And He will protect you no matter how bad threats of nuclear war may be, like the stuff going on in India and Pakistan right now. Don't be shaken by that. Trust in the greater power. This greater power is the one who's using this specific, and I would have said otherwise seemingly insignificant event, right? to to the people in the day, but then it's it's blown up. I feel like this shouldn't have left People magazine, right? But but it ends up in sacred scripture because it's actually the Lord is is using this silly significant tiff between royal Brangelina to be the first link in a chain that will save his people from annihilation, from genocide. And by saving his people, you know what he's going to do after that? He's going to save the world. He's going to reconcile us, a bunch of people who are not, at least most of us, from the Middle East. I don't think any of us are from the Middle East. We're from our our our our ancestors are from far far away from there. And he has taken the gospel to every people group on earth. And here we are on what the Psalms call the coastlands. and far across the earth. We now can be reconciled to the God who created us because he started by working in the this silly Domestic dispute. And God is behind the scenes and He's working, He's working in your domestic issues. He's working in your workplace. He is on your side if you will turn to Him. If you will not turn him, you are his enemy. Do you understand that? You were born an enemy of God because you inherited a rebellion from our first parents, our ancestors, Adam and Eve. And he saves the world by bringing Jesus, his son, into the world to die under his wrath for what you have done and your refusal to Believe in him. He is angry about that. But you know how he deals with it? He deals with it not on you, but on Jesus. Jesus is our substitution. if we will have him be that. And the moment you trust him as your substitute, that he endures the wrath of God for you. And that he wrath rises from the death, fr from the dead for you, so that you can one day rise too. Then the moment that you trust him, he saves you And he reconciles you to him and he restores your relationship with him so that you do not have to fear. And then we can say whatever happens with the nuclear powers in In India and Pakistan and in Russia and here in North America, no matter what happens, I shall be my God who is sovereign flesh. My God, let's pray. Heavenly Father, we praise you for your power. We praise you for your wisdom. There is no wisdom going on in the Persian court in Esther chapter 1, but you are the God of all wisdom. And you're you're all powerful. You are able to save us. You are able to take these intractable hearts of ours and put down our rebellion and mold us so that we become like men. Meek yet powerful Jesus. Lord, conform us to your Son's image. Make us like him. Help us to trust in him and him alone. Lord, if there's anyone here who is not submitted to To you, that they're still in their own rebellion against you. They've not received Christ as their Savior. I pray that today might be the day that you turn their Help us to not be shaken by the scary things. They are really scary things going on in this world. Help us to remember that our God has overcome death in Jesus' name, Amen.