In October seventeen seventy, John Adams found himself in court defending one of the most hated people in North America. Two months later, he'd be doing it again for seven more people. The eight men total were soldiers of the Royal British Army. Perhaps you're racking your brain for the event that I'm talking about back from fifth grade history or or whatever. This is a Boston massacre I'm talking about The eight men were soldiers of King George III. They'd been jailed after firing shots into a crowd that left eight people dead, and they were being tried for murder. John Adams was the cousin, John Adams defending these men, was the cousin of one of the most notorious of the Sons of Liberty, most patriotic uh people at that time, Samuel Adams. Samuel Adams was leading the Sons of Liberty. He also led a very much dramatized funeral procession. uh for the the f the uh first four of these people who had died, uh trying to drum up hatred of these soldiers that had fired into the crowd. I can only imagine what Thanksgiving dinner was like for John and Samuel that November when he was between the two trials and he had gotten one of them off for murder. The defense attorney appeared on the surface to have a disregard for the plight of the colonies and the colonial people. His his own people. He appeared to have a disregard. He was successful in acquitting six out of the eight men of charges of of murder. Actually he was successful of acquitting all eight of them of murder. Six of them were were set free and uh counted as not guilty. Two of them were had their charges downgraded to manslaughter He appeared, John Adams appeared at the surface to be a loyalist, a sympathizer of the Crown and of their oppressors from England. He didn't appear to be with his people, the American colonists. His wife, Abigail, supported his decision to defend these soldiers. Perhaps you know the story. But she even acknowledged in supporting him that our family, that she's saying me and the kids, may be harmed as a result of John's actions to to defend these soldiers in court. Sympathizers to the crown were not tolerated in eighteenth century Boston. Perhaps you remember from history class, they would be tarred and feathered. That's that is their their clothes would be stripped off, they would be publicly shamed, they'd be ran out of a boar uh on a board and shouted at by a crowd, perhaps spat upon with hot tar scalding their skin. It was a horrible way to be publicly disgraced. It wouldn't kill you. But you weren't coming back. But despite appearances, John Adams was not a sympathizer of the British government. In fact, he was such an ardent patriot. that he went on to sign the Declaration of Dependence of Independence, as I'm sure most of you know, and labored for the cause of our nation's independence for the the the duration of the war, and later became not only the country's first vice president, but our second president of these United States He is celebrated for his patriotism and his essential Americanity. So then why did he defend those soldiers who were his enemies? If he was on the side of American independence, why didn't he just let them rot? Why did he come to their defense? Because he wanted to show the British Crown the Americans could administer justice and that they they could be left alone to govern themselves and that there might not need to be any war or further bloodshed He was actually working for the cause of American self-government by defending the enemies to that self-government. Ironically, Adams was perhaps a more committed American patriot to those American patriotic values than Samuel Adams, his cousin, and the violent Sons of Liberty. But it didn't look that way to those on the outside looking in. This morning We're coming to a passage of scripture where Jesus himself recognizes that he's in a position like John Adams. It appears to his hearers and certainly to his enemies who are drumming up opposition to him that he does not love God's law When in fact, he loves it more than any of his enemies, far more than any of his enemies put together, love the law of God. And so I ask you the question, why does Jesus say in Matthew chapter five, verse seventeen, do not think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets? Let's read through verse 18 here. He says, I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill. For assuredly I say to you Till heaven and earth pass away. One jot or one tittle will by no means pass from the law till all is fulfilled. Now this might seem like an odd thing to you if you're if you're working your way through the Sermon on the Mount and you get through the list of Beatitudes And then you have a kind of evangelistic section, right, where Jesus is telling us, let your light shine so that you would glorify your Father in heaven. In other words, go and tell them about Jesus. And let your lifestyle back your evangelistic message, your testimony. Let your lifestyle back that up. And then he says this, which might feel kind of Disjointed to you. Do not think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets. Now why does he say this? As I've said before, this is what his enemies thought. But why why might they come to this conclusion? Well, look back with me. Starting in verse 3 of chapter 5, Jesus gives what we call the Beatitudes, this long list of blessings. He says, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Says that again at the end of verse 10. Or sorry, the beginning of verse 10. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And in between, he has all of these statements of blessings, and he says they will receive this blessing. It's very much implied that this blessing is from God. That's what he is doing. He's saying these blessings are from God. He says, they shall be comforted. They shall inherit the earth. They shall be filled, they shall obtain mercy, they shall see God, they shall be called sons of God. And in none of these blessings does he say Blessed is he who keeps the law of God. Blessed is he who loves, who values God's holy law. Not once does he say that. Not once does he say, blessed is the Pharisee Who observes not only God's law, but takes it a step further. He doesn't say, blessed are the rabbis who put fences around God's law. No, what he says is, you will have the kingdom of God. You will inherit the earth. That is, you will rule over the earth as God says he will from Jerusalem. You will see God. You will be called God's child on the basis not of law-keeping, but basically God just giving it to you. Do you know what that is? Do you know what we call that? It's the name of our church. It's grace. Jesus has been preaching grace. That he will give the kingdom over to whoever is poor in spirit, whoever is mourning, and we look to that and learn, mourning over their sin. For those who Who make peace will be called sons of God. Those who are hungry for righteousness, not those who have filled themselves by keeping the law and made themselves righteous. No, no, no, no. He says, if you hunger for righteousness, God will fill you and satisfy you with righteousness. He doesn't say earn your way in. He doesn't say feed yourself. He says God will fill you. Can you see then why in a culture where the teachers of the law, the rabbis Have been saying you need to fulfill these laws so that God saves you Why they might think that he is ready to set aside and abolish the law. Depending on your translation, that's how it reads in verse 17. Do not think that I came to abolish the law. The word does truly say destroy, as we have here in the New King James, but in the context here, abolish is probably a better way to uh to translate that. Do not think I came to abolish the law. I didn't come to abolish it. I came to fulfill it. So you can imagine that he has these enemies saying That he actually does intend to abolish the law. And Jesus is saying proactively, no, no, no, don't believe what you hear. That I'm against the law, I'm seeking to abolish it. Nothing could be further from the truth. I'm actually here to do the opposite. I am here to fulfill the law. I'm here to bring it to completion. And what we're going to spend the next several minutes doing is understanding what that actually means. In what sense does Jesus fulfill the law? And what he's first teaching us here is that the demands of the Old Testament. He says, do not think I came to destroy the law or the prophets. So first we're talking about not just the law, but all of the Old Testament, when he uses that expression, the law and the prophets. He's saying all of the Old Testament cannot be fulfilled simply by Going one by one, keeping these these laws. It cannot be done. It can only be fulfilled by grace. And that is why he has given us these statements that Those who hunger for thirst for hunger for righteousness shall be fulfilled fulfilled with righteousness, shall be satisfied with righteousness. Now his enemies are not going to like the things he says. For instance, he said, Blessed are the pure in heart. Well, how do you measure purity of heart? His enemies The the devout lawkeepers, like the Pharisees and the scribes, the teachers of the law, they like something you can put in writing that is quantifiable That they are to set aside ten percent and give it to God. And that is it. That they will not boil the goat in its mother's milk, even if they don't understand why. But they will keep that. But how are you supposed to quantify whether someone has a pure heart or not? Jesus is getting at grace and the work that he would do in that heart rather than the things that the law cannot do. Now it's funny because you may have had conversations about this. Perhaps you've had a conversation as I have had. Where someone tells you you don't even have to read the Old Testament anymore. We really don't need to worry about it, and maybe read it like once just so you get the historical background, but you really don't need to worry about the Old Testament because Jesus did all that. He fulfilled it. Haven't you read in the Sermon on the Mount? Jesus fulfilled that. We don't even need the Old Testament anymore. Right? Does that sit well with you? Probably not. If you have the Holy Spirit who wrote it living inside of you, there's probably something chafing pretty hard at you saying, that doesn't sound right. But maybe you don't know how to respond to that. Well, they're right, Jesus did fulfill it. So does that really mean I don't have to worry about God's law? Thou shalt not murder? I feel like it's probably worth keeping Thou shalt not keep commit adultery. I that I like that one. It's good. Are you really saying that I shouldn't shouldn't worry about it at all? Now some people will of course say that. You only have to fulfill the things that are repeated in the in the New Testament. And others will disagree and say, no, no, no, no. Anything not in the y you you only look at uh the the New Testament in terms of what what's being superseded. If nothing's superseded, then everything's still still in effect from the Old Testament. So where do we go with that? There's got to be there's got to be a third option, right? A better way to understand this. It might sound persuasive on the surface that Jesus fulfilled it and now we don't even have to worry about being righteous people How do we resolve this dilemma? So then that means we have to come to this question: what does it mean that Jesus fulfills the law? Well, first, I want to deal with the the other side of this. That Jesus fulfills the whole of the Old Testament. That He fulfills not only the law but the prophets. We're in the book of Matthew. Matthew, of all of the gospel writers, was especially concerned of showing that Jesus is the fulfillment of the Old Testament. We see it right in chapter one in in the birth of Christ. I was going over this in Sunday school with uh our elementary schoolers today. It says in Matthew chapter 1, verse 22, After the angel had come to Joseph, so all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophet, saying, Behold, The virgins shall be with child and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated God with us. Scripture that was given eight seven to eight hundred years earlier was now being fulfilled. Down in chapter 2, verse 5, says that Jesus would be born in Bethlehem, for thus it is written by the prophet. But you, Bethlehem, and the land of Judah are not least among the rulers of Judah, for out of you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. And over and over again, we see Events, people, and Jesus Himself being the fulfillment of this fulfilled prophecy We have the forerunner to Jesus, John the Baptist, being prophesied and then it being fulfilled in chapter 3. We have Jesus coming and giving the gospel in Galilee and being the fulfillment of the land of Zebulun and Naphtali. Galilee of the Gentiles sitting in darkness and receiving great light. We have Jesus entering the city of Jerusalem right before he's killed on a donkey in fulfillment of the scripture given by Zechariah. We have Jesus on the cross, stripped naked, dying while Soldiers gamble over his clothes predicted literally like a thousand years before he was born. Over and over again, we see Jesus being the fulfillment of the prophets. So that's easy. And I'm going to rattle these off for you so that you can so you can just jot these down and you check them later. Chapter 1, 22 to 23, Chapter 2, verses 5 and 6, Chapter 2, 17 and 18, Chapter 3, verse 3, 4, 14 through 8 verse 17 12 17 to 21 13 34 to 35 21 4 to 11 21 verse 42 26 55 and 56 And 27 verse 35. And that's just in the Gospel of Matthew. Jesus fulfills the prophets. He fulfills, though, the whole Old Testament. And a huge part of the Old Testament, which we talk less about when we talk about Jesus' fulfillment, don't we? We talk less about him as fulfilling the law. as we do fulfilling the prophets. So in what senses does Jesus fulfill the law? There are a couple different senses that we understand it. First of all We understand that Jesus came into the world to explain the law to us To explain to us, here's what God the Father meant when God the Spirit delivered my law through Moses. When he said you will not commit adultery, it went deeper than that. It went all the way to the heart. When he said you shall not murder, it went all the way to the heart. So that even that impulse of of being angry with somebody, even that impulse of wanting to smack somebody, or say something rude to them, even that was what God meant when he said, You will not murder And over and over, Jesus does this during this sermon. And perhaps you're familiar with this. Because everything that comes after verse 20 here, through the end of the chapter here Is going to be examples of how Jesus fulfills the law in this way. You've heard that it was said to those of old, and then he talks about murder. You've heard that it was said, it talks about adultery. You've heard that it says about divorce. You've heard that it was said about telling the truth and telling lies. You've heard it said about administering justice And how you ought to feel towards your enemies. And Jesus is going to show us over and over again. Here's exactly what God meant. He came to give a full exposition of the law. But when he says he fulfills it, that is one sense in which he fulfills it, but that is not the ultimate sense. To take that further, not only does he reveal the full spirit and intent of the law, But then he lives it out and he completes it. And Jesus, who is not a sinner, is able to actually every single commandment. Keep it. Not only to the letter, but also all the way to the heart's intent. But that too is not the ultimate sense. That's an important sense because it has to do with our own atonement of our sins. That's not the ultimate sense in which Jesus Fulfilled the law. He fulfilled the law by completing all that it expected. Jesus Christ came into the world Where there is a hole in the law waiting for Jesus to fill it, and he set himself in that hole. And so in some ways, he was our ultimate example. He explained what the law meant, and he Lived out an example of how we ought to do that, how we ought to keep the law. But in other ways, where there's an expectation and there's a hole and it's saying all of this is pointing to one figure, he completed it for the sake of then. Setting it aside, not abolishing it, but it's done. It no longer needs to be observed or repeated. Because it could only be fulfilled by one and that has now been fulfilled, it has now been completed. And those would be the ceremonial laws and the entire sacrificial system. Now I hope you'll listen up to this point, because if you started to drift, this will be helpful to you. Because if you're like me and you spend any time online watching videos and you ever ever your algorithm gives you people trying to attack the Bible, right, and say that it doesn't matter, right? They th they will they will often come on this point. They'll talk about the law and they'll say You s you you try to force your morality on me in the areas of of sexual morality, but then you're wearing garments. that have two different materials in them. And you're like, what? What are you even talking about, right? Because there is a law that says you shouldn't wear a garment that is made of two different materials. I'm going somewhere with this, all right? There are three different parts of the law. There is the ceremonial law, which is where that belongs. There's the civil, or we maybe say judicial law. And those two are very much intertwined. The ceremonial law is one that pointed forward to Christ, but at the same time showed the nation of Israel that they should be very much separate from the nations around them. That there should be no mixture between them and the worldly nations who are worshiping false gods. And so he says, symbolically, I don't want you to even wear clothes that are of two different fabrics. And that's where that that particular commandment comes from. And someone will say online, well you just pick and choose which ones you fulfill and and No, we don't. Jesus already fulfilled that for us. It has been completed. It is on the shelf. We look at it and we praise God for it. And because of that, that is not something that we keep. It has been completed in Christ. But there's a third component of the law. It's the moral law. And that is where God ha where Jesus himself has said, speaking as the Son of God, who authored that law Says, here's what God really meant when he said this to Moses. Amass all of the stuff that follows later in the Sermon on the Mount. Do you realize that there there were multiple sacrifices required in the law? We tend to think of only one. We think of the Passover lamb. And that Jesus is the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world, as John the Baptist said, just a couple chapters earlier, right? But there are a lot more sacrifices than that. There are sacrifices of turtle doves There are sacrifices of bulls, there are sacrifices of grown sheep, not just lambs. There are sacrifices of grains and oils and wines and produce like fruits and vegetables. vegetables. And all of these, all of these were pointing forward, it was a whole system designed to say this is temporary, it will all be completed in one figure. And that figure has come and he's preaching this sermon, not this sermon, but this three-chapter sermon right here. Jesus has come to fulfill that. It was always set aside. It was always intended to be temporary. Now, bundled up with that is the fact that The law was given to Israel as their national constitution. Do you realize that? We love to talk about our constitution and the Bill of Rights, the first ten amendments, and then of course we value the other amendments that came after it as well. But Israel's constitution, ancient Israel's constitution, was the law. And that's why they have punishments given for, say, children who disobey my pa disobey their parents and they're they're to be stoned for it You will never hear me saying you ought to stone your children when they disobey you. I'm not going to do it myself. Because Jesus has has completed that and the nation of Israel is Set aside, we're waiting for them to come back into God's plan, but that is no longer a valid governmental system, certainly not for us and and we would I hope never a never um campaign for using some of those laws in our our own constitution or our own uh governing of America or the state of Maryland. Who came and lived as a perfect law-abiding Israelite, and yet he would die as a lawbreaker. So all of these things that He proclaims to us and shows us how we ought to fulfill them, He fulfilled them perfectly without sinning. All of the ceremonial and judicial laws, Jesus completed it perfectly. But then all of the wrath demanded in that that civil judicial law was then concentrated on Jesus when he was executed. Which, by the way, do you realize that when he was executed, the people who executed him broke the law in doing so? Do you realize that? It was an illegal form of execution to hang anybody from any piece of wood, whether it's by the neck or impaled on a spike or through your hands Had Haman, the enemy of the Jews in the Book of Esther, been executed in Jerusalem, it would have been an illegal form that he was killed. It wasn't illegal in Persia. So he was. But it would have been illegal for him, he would have had to be stoned to death instead for his execution in in Jerusalem. And so when Jesus was not stoned to death, but Hung on a piece of wood, whether it's a live tree or a piece of wood doesn't make any difference in the Hebrew. When he was hung there for all of the world to see with with with signs over it saying, This is the king of the Jews in three languages, so the whole world would know it Jesus concentrated all of his wrath on that one figure who actually completed the law. And yet he fulfilled it by not only keeping it. But by fulfilling all of the terms of its punishment, Jesus concentrated his kingly and paternal wrath on his son. Why? So that all of that wrath has a it has a place to go. It goes to Jesus. If it doesn't go to Jesus, you know where else it goes? To every single human being on the planet aside from the one who kept the law. And instead he diverts it to his son so that if you will but trust in him, you say, Jesus is enough. Not Jesus plus rosary, Jesus plus confession in a booth. Jesus plus go to Mecca. Jesus plus be really nice and give money. None of that. Jesus died. He said it's finished. It's enough. Jesus was enough. God full God concentrated all of his wrath and fulfilled his justice on his son and it was done. And his wrath is gone and it's satisfied and it is it it's it's consumed. As is your sin, because on the third day Jesus walked out of that tomb. That sin was gone. There was nothing to keep him dead, nothing to compete keep him in the grave or in the tomb. And so he walked out And he ate fish, and he preached, and he hugged Jesus ultimately fulfilled the law and the prophets. He fulfilled the whole sacrificial system and he fulfilled all of the curses that are written. If you ever spent time reading the book of Deuteronomy You'll see over and over again as all of these curses, the whole nation were to stand on two opposite mountain slopes and sing to each other and proclaim to each other The blessings of law over here, and then several yards over there, they're to stand on that slope, the two two sides of the nation, and they're singing the curses back. And they did that, these two different mountains, and Jesus fulfilled not only the blessings, but the curses that the law pronounced upon anyone who breaks it. And Jesus, who did not break it, nevertheless fulfilled the law in its entirety, even in its curses. He fulfilled the moral law too. He didn't commit adultery adultery. He didn't commit idolatry. He didn't commit murder. He was counted guilty of all of that. He didn't covet. And all of those things still apply to us. Why? Because the moral law that God wrote on our hearts. In fact, that was one of the prophecies that God gave, that Jesus was fulfilled, right? He says that I will make a new covenant with you. He says, in that new covenant, I will write my law on your hearts. And that's what Jesus has done. When we observe the Lord's table right over here, and we'll do that again in two weeks, right? I stand here, right? And we pass out the place. And you receive the bread, and you receive the cup. We get to the cup, and I read scripture, don't we? We pray, we pass it out. Then I read scripture before we drink it. Do you remember what I what I read? I read where Jesus said, this cup is the new covenant. The new covenant in my blood It was ratified with his death. He fulfilled that too. He he ratified the new covenant. And as we trust in him, his law gets written on our hearts. And so we do fulfill the moral law because we're following Jesus who fulfilled the moral law. And so the Apostle Paul, writing about that, said this in Romans chapter 8. He says, For what the law could not do, and that it was weak through the flesh. This is verse 3. God did by sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh on account of sin. He condemned sin in the flesh. You ready? Chapter 8, verse 4. Romans 8, verse 4. He condemned sin in the flesh. that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. Jesus fulfilled the law so that then that law would be fulfilled in us. And that is why we say, yes, Jesus completed the law, and it is done, and I will now follow it, not as a means of salvation. No, no, no, no. Jesus purchased our salvation by fulfilling the law in our place. By dying under the law's curse in our place. He saved us. And we're not going to worry about what kind of fabrics we wear or whether or not you boil a goat in its mother's milk. We're not worrying about that. We don't have to worry about the Those laws that were just intended to act symbolically for a finite amount of time, like, yeah, a thousand years, that is a finite amount of time. World's been around much longer than that. Jesus has been gone much longer than that. I said a thousand, more like fifteen hundred. But that that finite period of time is done, and we don't worry about the fact that we But for a while they weren't supposed to eat pork. They did before, we do now afterwards. We don't set aside the Old Testament like it doesn't matter, because it all tells us about Jesus who fulfilled it all. We don't set aside the morality expressed not only in the law, but in the lives of God's saints and prophets. And kings. We don't set that aside, we treasure it. And that's what we come to when we get to verse 18 here. But Christ so loves God's law that he delights in completing it to the utmost. We would ask this question in this next verse, Jesus says, not one jot or one tittle Sorry, I've lost my place here. For assuredly I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one tittle will by no means pass from the law, till all is fulfilled. And Jesus loves God's law so much that he completes all of it. He completes it to its utmost, even in the tiniest details. So what does he mean then by this whole jot or tittle thing? Now, this phrase here is naming the smallest letter in the Greek alphabet, and then even a piece of a letter. Now people tend to get a little too interested in the precise translation of this phrase and they will debate about it. It gets complicated because it The New Testament here and is is written in the Greek language using the Greek alphabet to talk about a law written in the Hebrew language. And I could spend the next five minutes explain the various ways that we could translate and understand it, but it really all amounts to the same thing. So I'm just going to cut out five-minute discussion and express it in English in one way that works. You could express it other ways. Here's one way Neither the dot of an I nor the cross of a T will pass away from the law. Not one jot or tittle, not one dot of the I, not cross of the T will by any means pass from the law till all is fulfilled. He is saying he cares about the law to the finest minute details. And he will fulfill it, and yet he will still tell people that are that are Trying to tithe mint and cumin. Do you remember that? He's saying, you are you are caring about the tiniest pieces of the law, but you're missing the bigger parts of the law, like caring for your parents and practicing love. And hospitality. You're missing it. Jesus can say that because he actually did fulfill that tiny piece and that really big intent of the law He cares about the law and so he fulfills all of it. Now if you're interested in a more technical discussion of this Greek sentence, there is nothing wrong with that. I am not telling you that you are wrong for wanting a more technical discussion. But not all of us want that. So I'm not going to do that here. That just means that your brain works in such a way that that this is interesting and it works the way mine does, because I kind of like that stuff to you. So if you want to have a nerdy language discussion, talk to me after the serve. I'd love to have that nerdy discussion with you. Well that's all I'm going to say about the translation here. So when we read things like this, what it's showing is that God cares about his own word. Specifically the Son of God, Jesus Christ, cares about his own own word. It holds great value to him. If God says it, it's worth reading, it's worth hearing, it's worth spending time and concentration to make sure that we understand it properly. We dare not take it out of context. We dare not treat it flippantly like Jesus fulfilled that. What are you doing in Exodus, man? It carries authority. If God says it, and God cares about it, and Jesus took the excruciating pain of fulfilling all of it down to the minutest letter, then we need to obey it. Not that we obey it as a means of salvation. We trust in Jesus. Not that we obey every piece of the Old Testament, but that we seek out God's intent in giving it. You know what the law is in the Old Testament? It's an expression of God's character. So we don't need to worry about the exact details that were given in that historical context. What we care about is tell me about the giver of that law. When he said that you shouldn't muzzle the ox while it treads out the grain, what does that tell me about God? Well it tells me that he values work. That the the work is valuable to him, that the worker is valuable to him. It tells me that he gave food so that we would enjoy it and so we'd be nourished about it. It tells me all sorts of things about this kind. God who calls himself Father. What does it mean that he says you you won't wear those those double fabric clothes? It means he cares about purity. We we pursue purity and we express purity differently today, but we care about the God who loves purity. And so we pursue it in our language. We stop the crass joking, we stop the complaining, we don't slander, we tell the truth as much as we can, because God desires purity in our language We honor God in our sexual activity by valuing marriage because God desires purity. He values purity We treasure the law and we seek to fulfill the spirit, though not the letter of the law, because we love Jesus, who loved the law, who is the fulfillment of that law. Again, Paul said that once he's fulfilled that, he intends for the law to be fulfilled in us, the rec the righteous requirement. Would be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. We don't fulfill the law, but we fulfill the righteous requirement of that law. Because we have been made new in Christ if we're trusting him. Now, have you trusted Jesus? as the one who drank all of God's wrath for you. Are you trusting in Jesus now? Are you relying on some some sort of law-keeping of your own? Because that will not make you right with him. He intends for you to be a righteous person outwardly. But he must make you righteous inwardly first. He does that the moment that we trust in him. He declares us righteous and he starts to do a work inside of you to make you inwardly righteous And then we walk in it. We follow his example. We read what he says in the Old and New Testament. Not so that he'll save us because he's already done it. If you trusted in him, he's already done it. Now do you care about righteousness? Like, do you actually value it? Not are you doing it so God will be pleased, but do you actually care about it? Because that's a mark of someone who has been made new. If you don't care about the righteousness of of God's word, maybe maybe you you try to keep it because You you know you should and and you don't want him to to be mad at you or you you fear condemnation. No, if I'm talking about it, do you love it? If you don't love the righteousness of the word That might be a sign that you're not actually born again. You need to be born again in order that you would love his word. and love the righteous requirement of it. And so God calls you to stop trying to keep this on your own and trust in Jesus who fulfilled it for you. Throughout the New Testament, we see Jesus died to make us pure. And pure people live out the character of God that was expressed in the law. And so he can say to us, I did not come to abolish or to destroy that law, but to fulfill it. And now he seeks that we who are called after his name, who have trusted him to make us holy, to now live that out in holy. Holiness, let's pray