To the book of Esther. As I often do when I start a new uh series, we're going to be working our way uh through looking at the overview of the message of the book of Esther. This is a unique book and one that will probably be new to some of you and a little bit different. But I hope that it's exciting to you. We're just going to look at the overview of the themes today. And I trust that you will enjoy it, but we will be jumping around a little bit. We won't be looking a lot at the text of the book of Esther. I hope to give you the uh the general feel for the book, the themes, and then we will work our way through the book starting next week Let's open with a word of prayer. Dearest Heavenly Father, thank you that we get to worship you this morning. Would you help us to, Lord, would you fill our hearts with joy? Joy at your truth, at the fact that Jesus Christ has died for us to reconcile us to yourself. At the fact that he has risen from the dead, he is alive, and we are alive, we have life in him. Lord, please help us to respond to that truth by delighting in you, by rejoicing in you. Lord, would you please bless this time as I take us through this exciting, very different book, a somewhat unique book in all of your Bible, all of Scripture that you've given us, Lord. Would you help us to see the beauty of Scripture and even to see Christ in this often forgotten, often neglected book? Would you bless this time and And cause our hearts to sing, light our hearts on fire, just as you did for the disciples on the Emmaus Road, as we behold your beautiful word in Jesus' name Amen. Ten years ago, I'm going to sound like a total nerd. Ten years ago, I was still in seminary, and some of my seminary buddies and I uh celebrated the end of our fall semester. Um so it was it was uh early early December. Uh we celebrated the end of our our fall semester by going to the movie theater uh to see a new sequel to some of our favorite movies. Um We were very excited that Star Wars Episode 7 happened to come out uh the night that we had all finished our final exams. We'd finished them during the day and then it was it was out that I think it was like a Thursday night. Um the seminary I went to was quite conservative. We weren't allowed to go to the movie theater during the semester. But that rule did not extend uh to winter break. And so the moment that finals were done, it was okay to go to a movie theater. We were very excited about that. And it happened to be for Star Wars Episode 7. Now as a child I had enjoyed the the original three Star Wars movies, episodes four, five, and six. They'd all come out before I was born. Later as a teenager and in my early 20s, some of you remember in the 90s and early 2000s, episodes 1 through 3 were released. So you had 4, 5, 6 first, and then 1, 2, 3. to give it a sense of depth. And I enjoyed those as a teenager and in my early twenties as they came out. But I never expected to see the return of the original cast of characters from the movies from the seventies. and 80s. They weren't in that those those newer movies. So in 2015, when a new movie with the old cast had been announced and was released, I was over the And episode seven, uh Star Wars The Force Awakens. I won't spoil it for you if you haven't seen it, but starts with a a bang, uh is introduced you to uh the the three main new main characters in a blaze of laser fire um before it got to reintroducing the original character And uh so then finally when Hans Solo from the original cast finally boards the Millennium Falcon for the first time in like forty years. People in the the theater actually cheered. We we actually cheered in the theater when he when he arrived on the deck with Chewbacca. Not long afterwards we saw him reunited with Princess Leia. Not quite as many cheers that time, but still a lot of excitement. Uh I love the movie. I think it's a great movie. But there's something that is notoriously and conspicuously absent from Star Wars Episode 7. You know what it is? Some of you don't care at all. But some of you maybe do, right? It's Luke Skywalker, the main hero of the original trilogy, isn't in the movie. Han Solo is, Princess Leia is, Chewbacca is. Luke doesn't show up. He's the hero who destroyed the Death Star, and he's missing from the film. The actor's name is on the credits, it's on the movie poster. There's behind the scenes features of him reading Reading the script in front of the rest of the cast, and he's not in the movie. I guess to justify those misdirections, he technically shows up in like the last fifty or twenty seconds of the film, but with no lines, not even any actions, he doesn't move. He just kind of stands there with an odd look on his face. And then the credits roll, and it's all queued up for episode eight, but the hero of Star Wars is not in the the start of this new trilogy. And despite all that, it's still one of my favorite movies, not just favorite Star Wars movies, it's favorite movies. Luke Skywalker is conspicuously absent. There is a surprisingly exciting book, I bet you can guess which one, in your Bible, that also contains a conspicuous absence. You may or may not have read Esther before, and when I say exciting, an exciting book in your Bible, I mean that in a normal sense of the word. I don't just mean Like if you like theology, it's exciting. I mean exciting in the normal sense of the word. If you've never read the book of Esther before, I encourage you, if you can today, be wonderful. Set aside like an hour, maybe a little little more, a little less. I'm a slow reader, so I maybe need an hour to seventy minutes. You might not even need forty-five. But set aside some time where you can sit down and just read the book of Esther. It's ten chapters, it's really nine because chapter ten is like three verses long. It's not that that long. Read it in a single sitting. That's how I first did it. And truly it was fun It was fun to read because there's there's a lot of suspense, there's some excitement, there's some surprising reversals of fortune, there's good guys and bad guys, there's even a couple of red herrings And this book is exciting, but there's this big conspicuous absence. Do you know what or who is missing from the book of Esther? It's God. God is not mentioned once in the book of Esther, which makes it quite unusual, quite unique. His name's not mentioned, not as God, not as Yahweh, not as the Lord The the Hebrew word there would be Adonai. He's not once mentioned. Also, even prayer is not mentioned. Not prayer to God or prayer to any other gods. Prayer is not mentioned. Fasting is mentioned, but prayer is not. And it's funny because due to this odd, conspicuous absence, there are places where you would really expect him to be mentioned and he's not. And then the reader can't help but feel and notice that God really is there. That had to be God. It's like his absence highlights his presence. And that really leads us to the main message, the main theme of the book of Esther. As I said to you before, I want to show you kind of the main themes, not everything. There's a lot I could say, and I'm gonna have to limit myself. And we're we'll be celebrating uh uh the Lord's table in a moment so I don't want to go too long. And I want I want to I'm going to do my best not to reveal too much of the book so that you can still read it and enjoy it if you haven't read it before. But I I'll probably give you some space spoilers. But I hope you can still enjoy it. But I will give you some of the basic themes and some of the s the basic message of what we see in Esther and hopefully whet your appetite for what's going to come next Okay. Here's here's the overall message. God hides himself. And though he hides himself, he is sovereignly working out I know I need to give you time And you can add there in parentheses, and the world for the The whole world. He is working out his good and perfect will for his people. If you want to see that on the screen again, I'll give it to you one one more time. So he hides himself. God is sovereignly working out. Working out goes in your second blank There. I want you to hear those words. The things that God is doing are good And he has a perfect will. He is moving the world towards it. He's especially working out good for those who are his people who trust in Jesus Christ. But at times it doesn't feel like a good will. At times it doesn't feel like God's there at all. We notice his absence more than his presence. And that's why I think there there are there's a special thing about the book of Esther that it is the most like real life of all of the Bible. The Bible is real life, right? It describes things that really have happened. There is no fiction in the Bible. But we read the Gospels and there's a miracle on every page, right? And And we recognize that that's not the world we're living in now. And the Bible tends to spotlight those periods more than the periods like ours where there aren't miracles. it tends to zero in on those miracles, or at least our brains zero in on them, right? And and we get a picture like, well, that's how it used to be, but it's not that way anymore. Esther lived in a world where God was not present. Not visibly. He was present, sorry, but he was not visible. He was conspicuously absent. And what the writer of Esther is doing here, under inspiration of the Holy Spirit, is showing us that God is absolutely there while we don't see him. We live in a world just like Esther did. So I want to take us through the whole book over the next few weeks. And I think you'll enjoy it. And today we'll just get that overview of the book, this core message, the supporting themes, the gist of the story. And so let's look. In order for us to understand what's going on in Esther, we really need to understand the story thus far. Sorry, I gave you one more blank, didn't I? Theologically, we call this theme providence. When we don't see God, but the truth that he is working out his will for the world and for you, he has a will for your life. We call it providence. But I want us to look at the story thus far. How do we get to the events in Esther? They don't look like the world we see in the rest of the Old Testament. They don't look like the world we see in in uh the New Testament, in the Gospels. That's because it takes place in the kingdom of Persia. It takes place in the same place where we find Daniel. But Daniel, it's called Babylon, and when we get to, actually at the end it's called Persia. When we get to Esther, it is called Persia. So I want to take us through the events in Israel's history. Last year we we worked through the life of Solomon, didn't we? And we saw that at the end of Solomon's life he had a very ugly l legacy because of his his idolatry, his disloyalty to the Lord, the kingdom was split in two. There was a united kingdom of uh the the whole land of Israel, all of God's people, and then God separated it so that there were two kingdoms, one still called Israel in the north, one called Judah. And we go from two kingdoms, or we go from one kingdom to two kingdoms, then we go back to one kingdom. But it's not that It's not that God reunified the kingdom. No, it's something much sadder. See, God has punished his people's idolatry. They continue. to worship other gods. Now, if you're going to be trying to jot down every bullet point, I encourage you, if that's going to prevent you from receiving the message and hearing, I encourage you to don't don't try to get down every word. If it helps you to have every word, fine, but but try to listen, okay? I I I I'll be telling you what's on the screen anyway Okay. So God's punished this people's idolatry. They've been worshiping our other gods, foreign gods. And he promised far back when he before he brought them into their land, that if you depart from me and you serve other gods out of my love for you, because it's bad for you and it's bad for the world I'm going to I'm going to discipline you and and if I have to keep disciplining you, I will actually drive you out of the land for seventy years before I bring you back. Now that first of those northern kingdoms Is taken away into captivity. They are kidnapped and deported to other countries. What would happen back then is you'd you'd have a superpower would come in, and the empire of Assyria, it was called Assyria. at the time, not to be confused with Syria, just a Syria. They come in and the Lord raises them up to to to discipline his people so that they will turn back to him. They come in. They destroy the capital city of of the northern kingdom, which is called Samaria, and they take the people away. Why do they do that? Well what they do is they're this mega empire that's just sweeping through these nations. They're evil. And God says, I'm not I'm not afraid to use these And they they sweep into all of these small nations, these small kingdoms, and And they they pull them in under their own umbrella. Smaller kingdoms. You have one king who's over all these other kingdoms. And often there's other little kings underneath And as they go in and they conquer an area, if they think this is going to be a problem area, they pull the people out. 'Cause they don't want to have a red dawn scenario. They don't want to have people trying to win back the homeland and and and trying to fight against the the the new army all the time. So they just l they pull them out. Alright, let's go And they haul them away to another land and they put them there. And they they take people from that land and they put them somewhere else and they shift all these people around. So you have this mass migration going on And other people are living in the land that once was promised to Israel. Now that happened early on. Then it happens again because the people in the southern kingdom keep Keep disobeying God. They they they serve other gods instead of God Himself, instead of the Lord. And so He warns them For many, many decades before he bring before he brings the discipline in. And he ends up doing the same thing. And so this time a different empire has risen up. You have Assyria, but then a bigger army called Babylon defeats Assyria, gobbles them up. Now they're this even bigger empire. It's like this big superpower that just keeps gobbling up uh one empire and it gets bigger and bigger and bigger. Babylon comes in and they take the people away and they take them back to Babylon this time. But you know what happens to Babylon? Well they're gonna get defeated too by Persia, and now you have an even bigger empire, and it goes on eventually it's gonna be Greece is going to swallow up Persia, and then Rome will not be as big as Greece, but they they'll they'll kind of take Greece's place. You keep going for this larger and larger uh Empire, the the bad guys we might say. God has punished his people's idolatry by deporting them to enemy lands When he did that, he said, you guys are going to be gone for seventy years. He brings in the king of Babylon, his name's Nebuchadnezzar. We know that name from the book of Daniel. and from other places. And he actually comes three times. God promises his people will be 70 years, and then I'll start to send you back. The clock starts when he first comes in and deports the first people. That is probably when Daniel and his friends, you know, sh they weren't called Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego until they got to to uh Babylon, but that's what that's how we We remember them, right? They were probably deported that first deportation. The clock starts on the seventy years, but then there's a second wave and a third wave, and on that third wave, the temple gets God removes his presence from his people. Well, seventy years do pass, not seventy years from the temple, but seventy years from uh the first deportation. And we care about the seventy years because pr God promised it would only be seventy years. And then the Persian Empire Emperor, which he names, he names him 150 years before he's born. Isaiah prophesies a man named Cyrus will set them free. free. And so the Persian Empire Emperor liberates the Jews. He says, you guys can go back. Now he says this about all of those other people groups as well. You guys who were move the Arabs and And uh all the different people, the Aramaeans, you can return to your homeland. Go. He has a special decree for the Jews. He says, go and build the temple back up. And funnily enough, about 70 years will pass between the destruction of the temple to its final rebuild because uh people go back. Jews go back, but not many. Less than 50,000 initially go. Few more will go later. But still only about fifty thousand, not many, uh in terms of what we what we see in Scripture. And they don't build the temple right away. They start to, they get way laid, the their enemies tell 'em not to, and Eventually they do. And again, seventy years pass. And so now you have sacrifices restored to Judah and to Jerusalem. You have uh them back in the land. They're trying to rebuild. More time passes, and most of the Jews do not return to their homeland. Most of them remain in the Persian Empire, many of them right in the capital city of Susa. Others of them spread out throughout the Persian Empire, some as far as as as Greece or what becomes Greece. Greece. They remain in Persia's empire. Now let me read. We were in the reign of Emperor Ahesherus, or Xerxes is the Greek name you might have. I usually say Ahashrus. Old habits die hard. I won't be saying Ahasuerus. So Ahashrus or Xerxes. Let's read verses one through three of the book of Esther. Ready? Now it came to pass in the days of Ahasurus, this was the Ahasherus who reigned over one hundred and twenty-seven provinces from India to Ethiopia. In those days, when King Ahashrus sat on the throne of his kingdom, which was in Shusim the citadel, that in the third year of his reign he made a feast for all his officials and servants, the powers of Mer Persia and Media, the nobles and the princes and the of the provinces being before him And we're going to stop there. This third year of his reign would be four hundred four eighty three BC. He became emperor in four eighty six. Three years later, it's about four eighty three. Their calendar doesn't quite line up with ours, so sometimes And this is where the events start. They actually start uh ver with a very mundane way, it feels like. It starts with a Petty squabble and that rolls the events into motion that are going to lead to the the big conflict in Esther. I want you to see that this is a real place. These are real people who actually existed in history. You can look up their He was a real person. Queen Esther was a real person. This happened in the the capital of the Persian Empire in Susa. This is a real place in a real time. You can read the Book of Mormon and you can re You can read all of these different pla these different events that didn't happen in places that don't exist, where archaeology has not found a single one of those cities. But when you read the real Bible, the Old Testament or the New Testament, you always have places that exist that we found, archaeologists affirm is right there. We find real historical people. And we have living in the in the land of Israel at the time, 50,000 Jews, but the rest are back in Persia. Those who are seeking to honor the Lord, they're offering sacrifices, they're obeying him. The Lord does not dwell in the temple like he used to. But they're still following out the covenant commandments and seeking to enjoy the covenant promises. But what about What about those who stayed in Persia? Does God still care for these exiles who refused to return? Now, why didn't they return? Why are they still living back in Persia instead of going back to their homeland? Well, you know why? Because it sounds terrible, doesn't it? That they were oh they were they were carried off. How could God allow that to happen? They were carried off, taken from their homeland. Well, you know what they got to the to the new place? The new place was pretty nice. They they went on to to establish businesses and get good jobs and have their families there and build their houses. A lot of them rose pretty high in the government, Daniel, right? And there's a character in in the book of Esther called Mordecai who rises pretty high in the government. They're successful. There's not a lot of persecution until we get to the book of Esther Against Jews at that time. And so when the command goes for people to return to Israel and rebuild the temple, most of them are too Too comfortable to go. But now there's this question, especially as the events of Esther start to unfold, as they start to see enemies who want them gone Want them eradicated. Does God care for us or is he just done with us now that we have disobeyed him? Is there any hope for those of us who stayed? For those of us who are not walking in covenant obedience and obeying the laws and delighting in his promises? And some of them do continue to delight in his promises, even though though they're in that foreign land. Daniel, for instance, doesn't go back. And he delights in the promises in Scripture. But what does God have for us? Does he still care for us? And that is the burning question for the people of Esther's day. And so it's at this point that in order to answer that question we need to consider what the what these themes are So to give you the basic gist of the story, and I really want to encourage you to read it, even if you read it before, read it and enjoy it in a single sitting if you can. I'm gonna try and minimize spoilers, but here's the gist of what'll happen. There's going to be an enemy rise up who decides for a really stupid reason That he wants to kill all of the Jews. He hates one guy whose name is Mordecai. Because he hates Mordecai, and Mordecai is Jewish, he just wants to kill all of the Jews. And because you have this super mega powerful empire that that stands east to west much further than than the United States today, it's huge. Because you have such a large land mass with Jews in throughout, possibly in all 127 of those provinces that it mentioned. Because you have Jews spread out, that means that they are able to that this enemy is able to attempt to exterminate Jews everywhere, including in their homeland. And they have a lot of enemies in their homeland. These events are taking place, if you want to place it with what's going on at other times in the Bible If you find the book of Ezra and you read through chapter six, when you get to chapter seven there's a break and then the the kind of whole new time period. starts. You have the first people who returned up in chapters 1 through 6, and then chapter 7, it's many years later, Ezra returns with a small group. The events of Esther take place between chapters 6 and 7 of Ezra, in case that helps for you. And those who are in Israel at the time are going to experience persecution from many enemies around them They've been trying to rebuild the uh the temple, and they have enemies that want to prevent it, that want to exterminate them. And now they're gonna have an opportunity to attack them and legally commit genocide And what we learn, of course, is that, yes, Israel has human enemies, but they have a satanic enemy who is motivated. He's going to try and turn it into an act of genocide. And of course, we know that that has happened other times in history, don't we? But what we see is that God is sovereignly working, theme number one. God is sovereignly working through what appears to be coincidences There's a lot of coincidences in the book of Esther, and it's what what points out to us the reader without us having to be told that This can't be a coincidence. This has to be something going on behind the scenes. God is doing something. And it starts with with some rather petty things at the beginning. There's a feast And the king wants wants his queen to come out and show everybody how beautiful she is. And surprisingly, she won't do it. Now you can understand a modern woman would say, Well yeah, I'm not going to parade for my husband. I'm not going to afraid for my my husband's buddies, but this is a rather unusual thing for the queen to fight against the king publicly like this. It's surprising. And then it just so happens, coincidentally, that there is a Jewish man who's been raising his cousin as though she's his daughter, and just so happens that he puts her forward to go in the running for to become the new queen. The queen doesn't get killed, but she is dismissed. And there's there's a basically an empire wide beauty contest to see who's gonna be the next uh the next queen. It gets a bit seedier than that, but that's essentially what happens. And he says, Why don't you why don't you try out? He's a man in the government. Why don't you go up for it? And she just so happens, this Jewish woman who's told to conceal her identity, just happens, coincidentally, to become the one chosen out of all of those those young ladies to become queen. Well once the the the feud starts between Haman, that's the bad guy, and Mordecai, that's the Jewish man, who to put his daughter up for to to become queen. Once that feud starts, this this man decides I'm going to I'm gonna roll the dice and see We ask the gods of fate to decide who or w when is the best time for the Jews to be exterminated. And he's he's going to call for a law that says it is legal on this day for you to exterminate all the Jews, it is illegal for the Jews to defend themselves. And so he rolls the dice. And it just so happens coincidentally that it that it it the the dice say you should do not not one month. He rolls over and over again each month, is this the month? Is that the month? Is that the month? He goes through the whole calendar and he finally gets to twelfth month, a year away. And it happens to be he get that that it leaves an entire year, the furthest possibility out, so that That the Jews can prepare to defend themselves, can prepare for the day of their extermination. Just happens to be that way. That God gives them a lot of time. Sorry, I'm not supposed to say God, right? He's not there. It wasn't God, it's just a coincidence, right? Well, as as this feud grows over the course of the year, he continues to be angry at this Jewish man And he continues to get more and more honor sheeped upon him. And he says, I don't care how much honor I have as long as Mordecai doesn't bow down to me. That's how petty it is, right? He knows he's going to be killed by the end of the year, but he doesn't care as long as he doesn't bow down to him. It's not enough for him to just be killed. He wants him to humiliate himself at Haman's feet And so he decides with with some really wise counsel from his friends, why don't you just build a gallows and and have them executed? Go to the king now and tell him. So he builds a gallows. That's what you we where you hang them people from, right? And and he goes to the king, and it just so happens as he's about to ask permission from the king to have Mordecai executed, the king can't sleep that night. And it just so happens that he says, you know, br bring out bring out the the records of the recent stuff that's happened in the kingdom. Bring out the recent chronicles. And just so happens that he reads Something very good about Mordecai, and he decides he wants to honor him. And it just so happens that as he's trying to decide the best way to honor him, that Haman walks in to request that he can kill. Mordecai. And it just so happens that the the king misunderstands. A and and Haman actually, the king speaks to him first, and Haman misunderstands what the king's saying. And it just so happens that Haman And there is coincidence after coincidence piled on each other. In fact, when even when Haman meets his ultimate end, it's because of another misunderstanding. Because the king just happens to walk into the room at the wrong time. Over and over again, consequent circumstances piling up Because God is working behind the scenes. There is no such thing as a true coincidence. And he is working his purposes through what appears to be a horrific circumstance at first: genocide. And it will result in the opposite of genocide. It will result in them getting victory over their enemies that are seeking to destroy them But we don't see God there. We just see this stuff going on. So we love to read this story and see the stuff unfold. But for them living in it over the course of that year, it would have been exc What is God doing? Has he written us off? We didn't return to the homeland. Is he done with us? Is he exterminating us now? What will happen to his new temple, what will happen to the covenant promises? Has God cut off the world from his love? We don't see God today, just as they didn't see him then. But he is behind every circumstance. He's behind the hard things. He's behind the even the bloody things. He will work together. Not that he's the author of those bad things, the author of that sin, but he will take that sin And he will work it out so that he brings good out of it for his people and ultimately for the world. That's how Christ came into the world. And had Haman succeeded, Christ's line would have been cut off. He never would have come into the world But think about this. Jesus Christ came into the world, took on human flesh, lived like us, right? Do we believe that to be true? Then that means he ext Experience the same stuff we do. Like where we don't see God. Right? They they weren't having a lot of miracles. They weren't having miracles when Jesus arrived. It's only after he had been in the world for thirty years that he started Doing these miracles. John the Baptist, the greatest of all the Old Testament prophets, as far as we know, didn't do a single miracle. And here Jesus is Being the only begotten of his father, unable to see him, and having to, like us, kind of figure out what is God doing. Now of course Jesus is unique and he has he he must have had some communication with God that we don't know about and and some some understanding that we don't know. But it's still true that Jesus Himself was left not able to see God, just as we are unable to see God. He pulled out from us being able to see him and his operations clearly in the world when we sinned against him in the garden. And Jesus experiences this feeling for us, this feeling of kind of being lost and not knowing what God's doing. He steps into your life and experiences that alongside of you. He experienced the hiddenness of God just like you do. He had to reckon with the conspicuous absence of his father just as we do. And so we can follow him, we can trust him, he knows what it's like to live in this world and not know what God's doing, and grapple with the silence of God. So that's our first of these sub-themes: that God is working through what seems like coincidence, what seems like chaos, to work out his perfect plan. He's sovereignly working in a special way as well. He's sovereignly working great reversals. There are a number of major reversals in Reversals of Queens. We go from Queen Vashti to Queen Esther. The reversal of enemies, nemesis, ham To Mordecai, Mordecai gaining victory. We have an edict that allows genocide, and then one that allows defense and even victory There's reversals of other things too. They go from sorrow to rejoicing. They go from injustice to justice, from pride to humiliation, and the other way around, the Jews who are humiliated Have victory and they rejoice. But what we see over and over again here is that pride is a problem. We have this foolish king, and history does not remember him well. He loved his parties, as we see at the beginning here in Esther. This foolish king who was puffed up with pride, and instead of seeing to running an empire, he wants to he get he gets a little drunk, he wants to show off how beautiful his life is. And so he ends up sparking a a conflict that that Causes a real problem for the Empire. And they end up having to change change leadership, get a new queen because he was prideful. Involved in that too is Queen Vashti herself being prideful and unwilling to do whatever what her husband asked and and creating an international incident. We have the problem of pride in their in in in their Conflict. We also have Haman, who has a wounded pride that someone won't bow down to him. And it sparks genocidal aspirations. And then possibly Possibly. We don't know. We don't know the heart of this man, but I think it's very likely that Mordecai himself has pride issues. Now it's it's typically said that the reason that Mordecai would not bow down to Haman is because he was a Jewish person who would only bow down to his God. Yeah, okay, maybe. Maybe. But he wasn't asked to work And perhaps he even used that as an excuse. We're just not told in this in in the text here. We're not told in the scripture. What we seem to have here is again a prideful man who says, I'm not humbling myself before that guy. And as a result, he ends up provoking a lunatic, a homicidal, genocidal lunatic, because of his own stubborn pride. Well, God is going to reverse that pride in these people. And He's going to bring about humility. But of course, finally, what we see in the book of Esther, which is central to the gospel, they have the death sentence hanging over the entire people of God. And out of death we get life, not just life, but victory. Is that not what Jesus came to do? Did not Jesus die and bear the curse of your sin and the wrath of God upon himself And then, to everybody's surprise, even though we predicted it like three times, he rose from the dead and didn't just have life but victory? Did that not happen? Do you realize that if you're trusting in Jesus And you're trusting that your sins were dealt with because he died in your place as your substitute. Do you realize that if you're exercising faith in him, Do you have the same victory over death? And we're told in First Corinthians 15 that the the power of death, the sting of death, is so sin you have victory over your sin and death just as Jesus' body had victory over the death of his body The same spirit that raised Jesus from the dead, we're told in Romans, lives in you if you're trusting in Jesus. And you have life when you should only have death. And that's something that we see through the providence of God working through this whole situation of death. So that God's people would rejoice over their enemies. Turn with me to Esther chapter 9. Oops, lost my place here. Again, I'm trying not to give you too many spoilers. I realize I've given a few But we're told that there was there was a great reversal and that they they had the sentence It says in in chapter nine, verse twenty three, so the The Jews accepted the custom which they had begun, as Mordecai had written to them, because Haman the son of Hamadatha the Agagite, the enemy of all the Jews, had plotted against the Jews. Should return on his own head. Meaning Haman would get what he intended for everybody else, and that he and his sons should be hanged on the gallows. And so they call it these days pure MF Weirdly enough, this this book seems to be explaining the uh the origin of a Jewish festival. Two Jewish festivals celebrated today that aren't in the the Jewish law. One of them is Hanukkah. Most of us are familiar with Hanukkah. I've never celebrated it, but I at least know roughly what it is. And that that wasn't in the Jewish law, neither was the feast of It's usually celebrated mid-February to mid-March, depending on how the calendar falls. We just recently saw it in our our own uh our own calendar. And uh this is explaining how this came to be because this man cast the dice to try and destroy the Jews and instead they ended up having great victory over over their enemies that wanted to exterminate them. God brings us victory. He is working in your life It might feel like he's not there. It might feel like he's he's not answering your prayers the way that you want him to, the way that you're asking him to it might feel that there's enormous setbacks and you can't see the promises of God unfolding and coming to pass. But the book of Esther and the gospel itself teach us that God is very much present. Continue to trust him though you don't see him. Look for his hand, as we can see it in Esther. Perhaps you want to start making a record of your prayers, make a prayer journal, and then when when you ask them and then when they're answered, so you can look back and see God's working in your life that if that might help you A lot of people find that helpful. Look for God's hand and trust that the things that He has promised you, like He will never leave you for nor forsake you, that He will keep you in his hand if you just trust in him. That you cannot be snatched out of his hand by Satan. You certainly can't get yourself out of his hand. He's stronger than you are and he's stronger than Satan. That he will keep you. Trust in him and he will keep you. And now live like you believe it. Are you living a life of repentance? Are you turning from the the The things that you know offend your God. Yes, Jesus died because he loves you so much. He also died because he hates your sin. He hates that thing that that pulls you away from him. He hates that like a like a a father who hates the illness that is harming his child if you think of a terminally ill child or child with cancer or something The father and the mother too hate that illness. They would love to put to death that illness so they would have the life of that child. That's how God feels about your sin. And so he took your sin on himself. Jesus died under the curse of your sins so that you could be made right with him. Are you living like you believe that? Are you living like you believe that you have life in him? And you can conquer that sin for which Jesus died, then I urge you to trust Him and keep Rejoicing in God who gives you victory. When you fall, get back up. Confess your sin to Him, and He promises to forgive you of it. Can I encourage you to share the truth about that with your neighbors? Look at our church. We're not that big. We love one another. We're a wonderful church. And and I realize there's we're usually a lot more of us here than than today. But maybe it's the rain, I don't know. But share this gospel message with your neighbors, share it with your family members, share it with your friends, invite them to come and hear this. Invite them to come and hear about the life of Esther and this this exciting st true story. Pray for me as I preach it. Because this is this is kind of a difficult book to preach. Pray for me. But share this message of life. And the hidden yet sovereign God who works all things together for good, share that with your neighbors, share that with your co-workers, share it with your teammates. And invite them to come and be a part of this that God's doing here in Grace Baptist Church. Let's pray. Dearest Heavenly Father, we praise you that though you are hidden, You are very much alive, you are very much acting. Helps to believe these things you've told us. It's hard sometimes when when we we feel your silence, we feel your hiddenness. And we ask that you would reveal yourself. Pray for those who are struggling, that they might might feel your presence as they spend time with you in prayer. And in reading your word, that you might be palpably present to them. You are present, let them feel your presence. But we understand that's not how you how you normally do things. And help us to continue to trust in you, to walk by faith when we don't see you, because we have a firm witness that you are indeed Acting. Help us to trust in Christ who entered that situation for us and walked with this hidden God in order to bring us to you. In order to just bring us to him. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.