According to who you are, according to your worthiness, what you deserve, what your son deserves to be proclaimed the name above all names The King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, He laid down His life for us. He is raised to your right hand. He has conquered death. And Lord, we praise you. We praise you for your wisdom that enables us to be declared righteous while you remain just. Lord, we praise you for all of these things. We thank you that we can come into your presence this morning. Not the building that we're in, Lord, is not the church. The people that we are among is the church, and your spirit is present in a special way when we gather together. Lord, I lift up To you, those who are not able to be here but today because of sickness, we ask that you would strengthen them, encourage them. Lord, if there is any sin keeping anyone from uh church Today, we ask that you would, by your Spirit, lovingly convict them of sin, that they can turn from it, and that they can Turn back to you. Lord, I ask that you would help me as I preach, that your spirit would do the preaching, that you would take these words and Make them like arrows into our hearts. Lord, convict us of sin, but let it be a good hurt, like a deep tissue massage. And would you uh encourage us even as we are convicted Convicted of sin, those of us that belong to Christ. Those of us that don't, Lord, if there's anyone here who has yet to yield their heart to you, then we we lift those people up to you and ask that you would open their eyes of understanding so that they would receive the the word that is preached, that they would respond as you intend them. for them to respond as as you tell us to respond in your word. Lord, help us to love one another with a Christ-like kindness. to be a help to each other today. And we pray, Lord, that all of the worship that that has gone on so far, we pray it's it's been pleasing you, but we especially pray that we can now worship through listening, worship through receiving your message. And that the worship, the singing that goes on, the acts of kindness that go on after this message, the fellowshipping that goes on, and then the teaching Lord in the next hour at the at uh youth group. We pray, Lord, that all of that would be a greater, greater act of worship, more pleasing to you because we are responding to your word. Lord, we love you and we ask for your special blessing on this time together. We pray that your spirit would be, we know he's present. Lord, would you give us a special understanding of that, special assurance of your presence? We ask that you do special works in hearts this morning. We ask all of these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Hannah has been kindly, patiently uh waiting to to do something with camera here because I never made my normal announcements. Sorry about that. Have we cut the have we cut it off yet? Okay, great. So welcome back if you're uh viewing us online. Uh please turn with me to Matthew chapter three. Matthew chapter three, I'm happy to plunge back into this chapter with you. We started it last week. We did the first six verses. We're now in the next six verses. If I say to you the name Teswa, I wonder what image jumps into your brain Is it a cyber truck? Those things are becoming more and more iconic, aren't they? They are everywhere. We used to drive Zeke to school and we were convinced that the Verizon lot as you turned towards his school was full of cyber truck drivers. We finally learned that it was a l a lot leased by a Tesla dealer to keep their excess stock. So man, they pay them a lot at Verizon Maybe if I say Tesla, you you think of an EV car. Or of an EV charging station. Or maybe you just picture the face of Elon Musk. That is the image that comes to you when you hear the name Tesla. Those things are not what I think of, not first, when I hear the name Tesla. They're the second and third and fourth things that I picture. You want to know what I what I think when I when I hear the name Tesla? It's very silly, all right? Because I'm a child of the 90s. Specifically, I am a nerdy boy of the 1990s. And when I was growing up for a narrow window in the late 90s and the early 2000s, for whatever reason, M all of my popular entertainment and the popular entertain entertainment of my friends, male friends, cartoons, video games, comic books, even the occasional movie It was oddly popular in the 1990s, and if you're close to my age, you'll know what I'm talking about, for all of them to include one specific invention of the great 19th-century inventor, Nikola Tesla. You know what it was? It was the Tesla coil. All of my popular entertainment in those days had the Tesla coil. Do you even know what the Tesla coil is? So If you're around my age, you grew up when I did, then you probably have a vivid image in your head and an idea in your mind of what it is, though you may not actually know what it is or what its purpose was If you didn't grow up then, you might actually have a better idea than I do what the Tesla coil is, but it wasn't ubiquitous for you like it was for us. You don't have its image burned in your brain. A Tesla coil was one of Nikola Tesla's less successful inventions, and it was intended to convey electricity between two points without wires connecting them. So you'd have a coil of wire here, and it'd be a on a tall pole with a coil at the top, and then over here you'd have another one and this this tall coil. And the idea was that you would You would run such high voltage electricity up through that coil that it would like arc a jump to the other one. Incredibly dangerous. If you're a young boy in the 1990s, really cool and the absolute symbol of a mad scientist. Like there was no purpose for it except to keep the heroes out of the bad guys' land. That was, to us, that's what the purpose was of a Tesla coil. There may even be more to it than I just described. Um but I never cared to to find out. None of my friends did. All we knew is what we saw week after week after school on Nickelodeon, the Cartoon Network, and on my brother's Nintendo 64, that If you saw a Tesla coil, that meant that dwelling inside of there was a bad guy. And they were everywhere for some reason in young boys' entertainment at that time. It's a silly thing. And it's an image I can't separate from that name. Tesla, in my mind, will always be followed not by truck, but by coil. When we open our New Testament and we think of the man that we're reading about today, we never think, we usually don't hear either, of John the son of Zecharias No, his name is always followed by the Baptist, like it's one word, right? The Baptist. John the Baptist. Like Nikola Tesla, John had an image associated with him, and so much so that in his name, right? And but like childhood me, who really didn't know what a Tesla coil was and what its purpose was, still don't really understand. Couldn't tell you the pre the purpose or the practical use of a testicle to save his life. Many people have a picture in their minds of what baptism is, but they have little to no idea of the significance of it. They really don't know what it stands for. They don't realize that baptism and the man most associated with it was and is all about repentance. Specifically, repentance. And so this morning, as we dig further into Matthew chapter 3, we're going to be talking thoroughly about repentance. We started it last week. It's a continuation of that. But it's self-contained. I don't think you've missed anything. If y you you should be able to follow just fine if you weren't here last week In three sections of two verses each, we're going to see first the call to repentance, then the obstacles to repentance, and finally the Lord of repentance. And so we start in verse 7. With the call to repentance. I'm going to read verses seven and eight. So we're again we're in Matthew chapter three, starting verse seven. But when when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism, he said to them, Brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Therefore bear fruits worthy of repentance. So we're second weekend in this chapter, and in verse 2, the first thing that John the Baptist is recorded saying is: Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Now that was probably a direct quotation, but serving to summarize kind of all of his teaching, and the most the most important message that he had was that you all need to repent is what he said. Because the kingdom is coming, it is drawn near, literally, is what it says. Well now, if that was the summary of all of his teaching, here are some of the specifics about what repentance is and why we need to do it. It says in in verse 7 that many s Pharisees and Sadducees were coming to his baptism. If you have a New American Standard Bible in front of you, it says they were coming for baptism. That's not actually what the Greek says, just that they were coming to the baptism. specifically his baptism. So they may or may not have been getting baptized. They're certainly there to watch. They may have been getting baptized. They're certainly there to witness what's going on. And the Pharisees and Sadducees were very different groups of people. But they were both in power They both had uh significant sway. Pharisees tended to be more common people, but they were especially, we might say, pious. Uh they were known for their outward holiness. And they tended to add a lot to the law of Moses to say that this is what a true worshiper of Yahweh looks like. Like Sadducees were we would call them the theological liberals of their day. Not pol I'm not talking about politics, not political liberals, but theological liberals. In other words, they didn't take the Bible seriously They didn't believe it literally. They held to it with uh with uh with a love of heritage, but they didn't believe, say, in the literal resurrection of the saints Today, they wouldn't have believed in the literal virgin birth of Jesus Christ. They they took it figuratively. They had kind of inward spiritual experiences, if you want to call it that. But they were mostly focused on maintaining their power. Most of the priests came out of the Sadducee class, and they were the aristocracy. Pharisees were more uh commoners. They hated each other. But John saw these two parties as essentially the same. They were all opponents of the truth. One kind of Mystified everything away and said it's all figurative. The other one added to God's word. There's nothing new under the sun. If people do that today, they did it 2,000 years ago. And so, even though one's very legalistic for externals, the other's aristocratic and compromising, John just saw them through the same lens. He saw them as vipers. Strong words, right? Is that what you expect to hear when when you go to a baptism service? Someone's gonna call you a viper? Now, don't let this be an excuse to you to be rude in the name of truth, which too many people do, especially in our current politically charged era. This is not an excuse, this is not a license to be rude in the name of truth. But on the other hand, the idea that Christians just always have to be nice. and can't say anything strong when confronting visible evil. And it is evil to set up Something that says this is the way to eternal life when it will actually lead you to hell and far from God, that is evil To expect that we would never say anything with strong language when confronting evil, that idea is up and is here. Jesus called the same groups of people by the same epithet. He called them vipers. brood of vipers. He is linking them essentially to the first serpent, the first viper. Sometimes the Lord would recur refer to them as children of Satan. Because that is who he is linking them to. A viper, of course, is a poisonous snake. They're dangerous. And that was John's point. This is the same kind that in Acts twenty-eight, uh Acts twenty-six bites Paul on the hand, the Apostle Paul, when he's on the island of Malta. You remember that? He's gathering sticks for the fire and as he puts them on the fire the heat drives a viper out and it latches on his hands. These particular uh uh vipers in the Mediterranean world um were quite small and apparently when when they were still they just looked like sticks and so it was easy to do that. You gather them up with with your your brush to start a fire, and next thing you know, you're getting bitten. It was very dangerous. And John is confronting them, his first words are confrontational. But he's alerting everyone else to the danger that these men pose. They were dangerous because they suppose that they're pleasing in God's sight, and they tell everyone else that that's the case when they weren't. They prescribed a certain way to please God. They taught them wrong things about how to enter the kingdom of heaven. People trusted them, followed their teaching, and it would lead them away from God, not to him. But look at the question he says, right? It's a question. It's not you vipers, right? He says, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? There's it may be rhetorical, it may not be rhetorical. He's saying there is wrath coming against your sin, and it's right to flee from it. Who warned you? Now that part is probably rhetorical. It's possible that these Pharisees and Sadducees are there without any false pretenses. They're curious, they're hearing things, there's some work of conviction going on, they recognize that the way that they've been living has left them empty, even though they profess to know God And they feel far from him, and that some of these are actually coming because they are ready to hear heart-piercing truth and turn their hearts To God in a way they haven't before. They may be on the cusp of giving that all up He's not saying they're not, but he's giving them this warning, and he's giving a warning to everybody else. And what he says is, right Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Therefore, regardless of the answer there, there is wrath coming. Therefore, bear fruits worthy of repentance. And what he is saying there. Alright, let's take a w take away the scribes or the Sadducees and Pharisees for a minute. Let's just talk about ourselves. You may feel sorrow and regret when you sin. You may have a moral failure. That others know about or that no one knows about, and you feel sorrow over it, and you feel regret, and you hate that it happened. That in itself is good, it's a good start, but that in itself is not repentance. Now you may have resolved in your mind that you will do differently going forward, and that is good And repentance is literally a change of mind. That's what the word means. To turn your mind. It is a turning, it's an action of turning. And and it's sp it starts in the mind, but look at what he says. Bear fruits worthy of repentance. It doesn't stay in the mind. It's not just some good resolution, and you had a good cry about it, and you prayed and you confessed it to the Lord, and now your life doesn't change Keep going from there. John says you'll know you've repented when your behavior changes. Now, from exper that certain sins we repent of and we feel sorrow for it and we ask God for help and we we determine we're going to do differently. And maybe you come up with a strategy, and I urge you to do that. It is all good. I'm not throwing that aside. We come up with a strategy and we ad we start to follow it. We try to follow it. We still fail, right? Well then what do you do? You get up and you repent again and you implement that strategy or you tweak it. And again, you you confess your sin to the Lord. You believe that his sin, sorry, that your sin is covered by his blood. And you and you go on again, and it's a lifestyle of repentance to which we are called So just because you you find yourself in a besetting sin and you keep stumbling, but you get back up again, that does not mean you've not repented. But a life of repentance looks like the man who keeps getting up, the young lady who keeps getting up and and turning back to Christ and and Recognizing this is sinful, it's not right, I don't want to stay here. Lord help me, give me grace. But the truth of the Christian life is that God doesn't tend to just zap you so that you no longer have a desire for that sin anymore. I'm not saying he never does that. I've heard stories that he does that. Haven't experienced it myself. For me, repentance has been slow and man, it's been painful sometimes. And those desires to sin or those habits that lead to sin do eventually diminish. But we're called the fight. And it's from fighting that battle with the grace and the strength that the Holy Spirit provides, because we're united to Jesus by him. Holy Spirit, that's how we live a life of repentance. And he's saying, bear that fruit. Bear that fruit that is worthy of repentance. And if you're following along in your bulletin and you want to write some things down, here's what the call is. It's behaviors that prove a change. Change of mind and heart. Your your your works, the the things you do as a result of repentance, that proves that you were repentant. That is not the repentance in itself. That's not what makes you right with God. But the change of mind will result in a change of behavior. It's the result of genuine repentance. So what are fruits that are worthy of repentance? What does that look like in our lives? Here's a few. There are more, but here's a few ideas. Let me give some specific situations that we might find ourselves in when we want to repent, when we need to repent. The man or or woman who truly repents of lust. You struggle with pornography. It's a common struggle. If you're truly repentant of that, you'll seek someone to hold you accountable. You'll get software on your phone and on your computer. that blocks your access or at least reports your access to somebody who's holding you accountable and talking to you about this and helping you. You change your work to your route to work, perhaps. Or you stop going to the gym if that's where the source of temptation is. I had a friend who was very, very much into uh bodybuilding. He's a personal trainer, and he found that there were it was just too tempting with the the the uh outfits that women were wearing in the gym, he canceled his gym membership. It was costly for him, it was hard. And he had to build up a home gym. And didn't really have the space or the money for it, but he did it. It was costly to him because he valued purity Such a man's willing to endure inconvenience, embarrassment, cost, because he desires to be pure out of love for his God. Another example, a teenager who's convicted of sin, the sin of gossip Before she can stop gossiping, she realizes I've got to stop listening to gossip. And so she starts walking away whenever her friends start talking about it, or if she can't walk away, she asks them, hey, can you not talk about that in front of me? And that's costly, isn't it? She knows I can't at least I can't repeat what I don't hear. But there's a cost to it because she knows she's gonna be the subject of the gossip. And they're gonna assume she thinks that that she's better than them that she doesn't. She's gonna be subject to gossip for a while now. She's gonna lose time with her fellow gossips that she calls friends. But she's willing to pay the cost because she she wants Jesus. And I've said she, she, she, men do it too. Boys do it too. Then of course there's the person who keeps losing his or her temper. Well first he or she stops blaming the people and the things that set them off They start to realize the fault is not, not that there's no fault, but there's the fault is not ultimately in that person who said Or that thing that tends to get under my skin. Those things exacerbate what's already here. They look deeper. They assume themselves to be the common denominator and they start keeping a log of all the times they lose their their temper or or nearly lose their temper. And they start looking for patterns so they can strategize the defense. They may not have immediate fruits. They may not have immediate results. But there is a genuine change of life going on because of that change of mind. They repent of their sin and they do all they can by God's grace, relying on him To put it behind them, to turn from it. If someone is convicted of thievery that they did in the past. They return the money. They might have spent it a decade ago. And they don't have the money to give anymore. But and it's embarrassing to tell the victim, hey, I know you na you blamed it on that neighborhood kid and I'll let you do that. I'm the one who stole that thousand dollars from you, not the neighborhood kid. It's embarrassing And maybe they have to take out a loan or they they start paying back that person in installments. But man, you want to see someone have an opportunity to share the gospel about the late life-changing nature of Jesus Christ? It's when the thief returns the money they stole so they could buy drugs. And they say, I'm a follower of Jesus now, and this was wrong, and I'm sorry, and will you forgive me? I know it was twenty years ago, but I want you to know that Jesus Jesus has changed my life. That is a fruit of repentance that people listen to. And people tend to listen when you explain the gospel even if they don't want to, if they're getting paid for it. We stop blaming other things and other people. We we don't minimize it anymore. We confess our sin to the Lord and the people we've hurt. We confess it to them. That's what some fruits of repentance look like. They look differently for each person and each circumstance, but there's usually a cost. And there's a tangible thing you can look at and point to and say, that person's repented. You and I are all called to repentance. You need to repent and turn to Jesus for the first time that He would save you. But if you've done that, you still need to keep on repenting when you sin against your Lord. He forgives you because He shed His blood for your soul. That's what cleanses you, the death and resurrection of Jesus. And as a result, we keep on endeavoring to honor him. And so we keep on repenting. We keep on turning to him and from our sin. We are called to repentance. It's how we access salvation. We repent of sin to Jesus. We turn. But now John's going to address typical objections or obstacles to genuine repentance. That never got changed. I apologize. Let's just say obstacles, the obstacles to repentance. The obstacles to repentance Verse 9 continues what he was saying. He says, Do not think to say to yourselves, we have Abraham as our father. That is a common objection, and that's a common obstacle to genuine repentance. These people, the Pharisees and the Sadducees. Suppose that they could inherit a righteous standing from God based on their their biological descent from Abraham Do you realize it's foolish to say, well my mom and dad were Christians? Actually my my grandpa was a pastor. Do you know how many I have no idea how many people's grandpas were pastors It's like every other person I meet. My grandfather was a pastor. I don't know what that is. And people seem to think that that means that they're right with the Lord. It's not dad, it's never dad, but grandpa for some reason was always a pastor. And they seem to think they've like inherited righteous standing with God based on grandpa. Or based on mom and dad, or based on the fact that they were exposed to church early on. But that's not repentance. There's no turning. Do you realize you're born separate from God and you need to turn to Him? You need to turn to Jesus to be made right with Him. Because Jesus came into the world and he didn't sin. And he he came with the purpose of dying. Of obeying and dying. He obeyed God's word perfectly, all of his commandments perfectly. And then he laid down his life. In a manner that is illegal to die or illegal to be put to death for in the law of Moses. You realize that? To die hanging from a piece of wood is illegal in the Jewish law. That's why the Pharisees, that's one of the reasons why the Pharisees and the chief priests and scribes didn't stone him, and why they had to do these extra trials, is because they wanted him crucified. And that's a Roman form of execution. It's illegal by the Jewish law. Now it was illegal for them to put someone to death anyway without getting Rome's approval. But specifically they're choosing Crucifixion rather than stoning, which was allowed in the law. It would have been wrong for them to stone Jesus, but that was allowed in the law. Jesus died with God's full curse, all of his wrath Upon him because of your sin and my sin, and we turn to him and from our sin and say, please leave my leave my sin on the cross. Let it be dragged down to hell and count me righteous with Jesus. And what happens is his righteousness gets taken off of him and put on you. Just as your sin is taken off of you and put on him. And God the Father exerts all of his wrath and all of his anger, all of his justice. That should rightly be aimed at you, he still takes it out on your sin. That's the amazing thing, the wisdom of the gospel He vents all of his wrath on your sin, but he punishes someone else who willingly dies, the only one who can die in your place, because everyone else is guilty too. And when when you turn to him You're leaving your sin with him so that he can atone for it for you. This is why the resurrection is so important, right? That means there was no sin left to him pinning him to the grave. We're told in Romans that it it's sin that causes us to die. The wages of sin is death. If you don't have any sin, you don't have any death. So the fact that Jesus could walk out of that Tomb with no s we with no death clinging to him means that all of the sin was gone. It was consumed by God's anger. His anger is satisfied. He doesn't wield it against you anymore if you turn to Christ. But we can intellectually assent and say, yeah, I believe that. I know that happened. With no intention of leaving our sin behind. You've got to leave it at the cross. Or else you're you're holding on to it, you're retaining it. Leave your sin behind. Now, John goes on to say this kind of funny saying. So he says, do not say to yourselves we have Abraham as our father, meaning their ancestor. For I say to you that God is able to raise up children of Abraham from these stones. What he's saying is You're Jewish people, and you're the most Jewish of all Jewish people, because you are Pharisees and you believe in the law and you are following it to the T. You're even adding to it to make sure that you're righteous by the law. And he's saying you are relying on your Jewishness and supposing that that makes you right with God, and he's saying God doesn't need Jewish people. He doesn't need descendants of Abraham. He can take them out of the rocks. In fact, he doesn't take them out of the rocks. What he does is he takes them out of the coasts of North America. And Africa and India and the Far East, people who are far from Israel, they're Gentiles And these people thought of themselves as, we're the only ones right with God because we're genetic descendants of Abraham. He says that doesn't matter. God will make children of Abraham out of people who are completely unrelated to Abraham. And we've got a room full of such people right here. I don't know for you individually, specifically, if you are one of them, but Christ has saved numerous people in this room who are not Jewish people. And if if you are not one of them, then he invites you to be one of those. He raises right out of the rock. You do not need Jewish heritage. Now Jewish people are saved too, okay? I don't mean to sound sound anti-Semitic in the least I love Jewish people because they're related to Jesus. How awesome is that? They're they're they're blood relatives of Jesus. No, I I don't I don't discount that, but that's not enough to make someone right with God, just as You can't inherit Christianity from your parents. You can be exposed to it, but you have to turn your heart to Jesus just as much as they did. Your genetic heritage does not matter. Turn to Jesus, that's what matters, and he makes you into a new person What are the other obstacles? That's the only one listed here. What are the other obstacles that tend to prevent us from genuinely repenting? Well, it's the things I mentioned before. It's the cost and the inconvenience. The measures I'd have to take, the privacy I'd have to lose, the inconvenience, the cost, it's not worth it, just so I can be pure. It's not worth it just so I'd lose my temper a little bit more. But those are manifestations of the truth that you're separated from God. And if you're not, in fact, separated from God anymore, his His blood cleanses you, why are you not doing all you can to live outwardly what is true of you inwardly if you've indeed been purified by Christ? Sometimes it's the love of the sin. I feel bad about that, but not so bad that I'm willing to give that up. I've been under conviction of things in the past, but it took me a while to give it up. Don't hesitate. Turn from it. And it's not worth it. It's not as good the temporary pleasure you have of that sin. Or keeping that company with sinners, it's not worth it. It doesn't compare to knowing Jesus and the joy and the closeness you can have with him. And if I'm saying that and you're thinking, pfft, I don't know about that. Maybe you haven't tasted and seen that the Lord is good. Maybe you don't have a relationship with him where you let him speak to you through his word and you pour your heart out to him in truth and in prayer. Because there is a joy and a satisfaction comes when we will sustainly delight in him and listen to him. And consider what he says, not read it so I can check it off for the day and be done, but think on it and the implications for my life. The Lord slowly seeps in joy that will consume you. That's better than the sin and the pleasure you might have. Sometimes we just we figure we've got other things going for us that make it okay, like our heritage from our parents. Or you should see how much I tithed this year. Where I used to pastor in West Virginia, it was not uncommon, it wasn't all the time, but it wasn't uncommon for me to do just have somebody walk up that I'd never seen before with a huge check for the church and give it to me and walk away before we could have any conversation. And what I think, I can't know, but what I think was happening in those those cases was somebody had a guilty conscience and they felt that if they they did something costly like that and they wrote a check to the church that that somehow made them right with the Lord. It doesn't. You owe a debt you can't repay. Only Jesus can repay it for you. Money cannot Repay that. Maybe you just figure out, look, I'm I'm really spiritual and I'm growing in other areas and I'm having some really good quiet times with the Lord. And that that thing, that thing right here deep down in the crevice of my heart. It's not really that a big deal when I'm growing in these other areas, is it? Now I trust that if you really are growing in those other areas, then in time you're going to realize, yeah, it's a big deal. And you need to turn from that too. Unfortunately, the Lord is kind to us, isn't he? Like you if you've repented before and you've grown in sanctification, you recognize like the Lord dealt with me there and he gave me victory. And I was pretty much blind to this sin over here. And he gave you victory in several sins before then he says, all right, so you've dealt with the bad language, you've dealt with the lust. Now let's deal with the laziness. Now let's deal with the gossip. And you've been just slowly holding that back. The Lord is kind and he doesn't bombard you and crush you where all at once you have to have full victory over everything. He helps you one at a time. But we need to be willing to turn those other corners of our heart over to the Lord as well. And often we just use the fact that Jesus forgives as an excuse to keep And while that may appear logical, it's not biblical, and it's not theological. That's not how a regenerated mind works. Jesus forgives me, therefore it's okay for me to sin. That doesn't work for the person who has the Holy Spirit dwelling in them. It might work to justify your sinning in the moment, but afterwards you regret it, you regret it hard, don't you? Because you bel you realize not only did I commit that sin, but I cheapened the grace of Jesus. But these are the obstacles that prevent us from coming to Christ repentantly. Whether we are to come to the Lord for the first time or for the thousandth time. These are the obstacles we find with repentance. Well, verse ten then refers To Israel once again, even now the axe is laid to the root of the tree, still talking about those genetic descendants of Abraham. Therefore, every tree which does not bear fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Israel as a nation were not faithful to God, and they were not bearing good fruit, and so John said That's soon gonna be gonna pass away. And in fact, all of those people who don't repent and turn to the Lord are going to be judged by fire. And we have in three verses in a row, three mentions of the word fire. He's talking about hell. John preached about it. Jesus preached about it often. I've often heard it said that he preached about hell more than he preached about heaven. I've never gone through and counted those up. I don't know if that's true. So I don't assert that. I think it's probably not true. But he certainly preached about it a lot. If it turns out if I count it up and I realize I'm wrong, I will tell you that I was wrong, okay. But he certainly preached about hell. And here at least two of these mentions of fire are about judgment, possibly all three, probably two. That those of us who do not repent in this life and will not overcome those obstacles will be separated from God and will feel the pain of following We're not just consumed by it and gone. Jesus tells us, in one place, he tells us three times. The worm does not die, and the fire is not quenched. It is a continual punishment for sin because Jesus could atone for your sin in an instant. In well, it wasn't an instant, was it? It was several hours. And it was excruciating. He as the Son of God was separated from his father. He could atone for it in a finite amount of time, just a number of hours. He's an infinite being, but we're not. And we have offended an infinite being. For a finite person who's offended an infinite being to pay him back, it would take an infinite amount of time and therefore hell lasts infinitely. It lasts for eternity. I wish that weren't the case because I'm sinful. But that is the that is the the case, that is the truth, and that is why God sent his son into the world, so that none should have to perish, but that all could have eternal life. So I call on you, repent. Because hell's a real thing, and it it doesn't go away. And so that brings us, yes, the obstacles to repentance are can be summed up as self-righteously I apologize for the wrong blank there. But the message that that he's getting at all the way through here, the message of repentance, here's what it is. Turn away from all forms of self-reliance. You can insert self-righteousness if you want. These people were relying on something else, just as all of us do I'm better than Steve down the street. I'm really spiritual. Jesus forgives anyway. Without actually turning from that sin. We need to turn from all forms of self-reliance. Any reliance is not on Christ, so that we rely on mighty Christ alone, and he is mighty And so that brings us from the discussion of repentance to the person of repentance, the Lord of repentance, in verses 11 and 12. And I promise I'm nearly done. John says, I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance, but he who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. His winnowing sand is in his hand, and he will thoroughly clean out his threshing floor and gather his wheat into the barn, but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable Now, water baptism, as as John says here, it signifies repentance and cleansing. It's not that the water itself does the cleansing. Jesus does the cleansing. His blood, his death does the cleansing. And then we we submit to baptism, we get baptized, and it's a picture of that cleansing that happened when we yielded to Christ In fact, Jesus enables you to repent. He's the one you repent to, you turn to Him. We don't just repent away from our sin and from our life. So you can't turn away from it without turning to somewhere. And it's this someone, it's Jesus. We repent towards Jesus. And so John then emphasizes Christ's greatness, first of all, right? Let's not miss that. I baptize you with water unto repentance, but he who's coming after me is mightier than I. He has more power. He can defeat your sin. He does more than just a baptism that signifies you're turning away, you're being cleansed. He causes the cleansing. He is greater. He is mightier than John. And John, while saying how great Jesus is, he's showing himself to be humble. He says, I'm not even worthy to carry his sandals. It was a normal task of a servant, which in Greek word the Greek world and with the Greek word, you could just say slave. They were kind of one and the same thing. We like to differentiate between slave and servant because of uh our own nation nation's own history with slavery. But they were one and the same thing. A slave, one of his tasks was to carry the feet of his carry a feet, carry the shoes of his master and wash his feet. And he's saying, I'm not even worthy to do that. to to to wash the stinky feet of my master. And Jesus' feet would have gotten smelly. I'm not worthy to do that. He's showing himself to be humble. Now, when we talk about Jesus, do we do it in a way that makes us look better? Or do we do it in a way that is genuinely humble? Because a repentant spirit is a humble spirit, and we see that in John. And he says that this man who is mightier than I will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. And this is referring to the first coming of the Holy Spirit and the ongoing presence of the Holy Spirit now. that after Jesus ascended into heaven, he was alive, he'd come out of the tomb, and he walked around for 40 days before he went into heaven. He went into heaven and A few days later, the Holy Spirit came upon people, and there were outward manifestations, sign gifts going on that people had indeed missed the coming of the Messiah. Those signs, like the speaking in tongues and fire resting on people, those are called sign gifts. They don't continue anymore. But the spirit Who gave them does. And whenever anyone turns to Jesus, the Spirit comes and dwells inside them, lives inside you. He actually is the one that unites you to Christ so that you are counted as clean and righteous before the Lord. That's what John's saying. The one who's coming after me will give you the Holy Spirit, who will make you clean. He gives us assurance of forgiveness. He convicts us of sin. He enables us to keep on continually repenting, and we grow in holiness because of the Holy Spirit inside us. Counseling us, guiding us, urging us, convicting us, sometimes twisting our arms inwardly, right? Because he's present and he's there and he makes himself known. He is the one producing the fruits that are worthy of repentance. Now, this next thing, though, it says that he's going to baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. There's disagreement on what this means. And a popular understanding of this, and some great commentators say, this is referring to believers will be baptized by the Holy Spirit. Those who do not believe will be baptized by fire, meaning judgment. the things that I just preached to you just a few minutes ago, it it's it's he's speaking to two types of people in the audience That's convincing and I I like that argument and it makes sense to me. The problem is the Greek grammar doesn't doesn't allow for that. Because grammatically speaking, this is a single baptism of The Holy Spirit and fire, not two different baptisms. So fire has to mean something else there. Now, if we take that idea of the fire being being a judge a flat fire of judgment. A judgmental fire. I think that that does make sense then if we see it as part of a believer's baptism, because believers' works, we are told by the Apostle Paul, will be tried by fire. We will not be tried by fire, but our works will undergo fire. We will not undergo hellfire, nothing like that. But this the fruits That we produce these fruits worthy of repentance, they will be tested. And they'll either turn out like wood and straw and stubble and they'll get burned up, or they'll be like a precious metal that is purified. And made to look more glorious. And that will happen not this side of eternity, but when we go to be with the Lord and to be in eternal eternity with him. Our works are purified. All the bad stuff is burned up. And I think that that that is more likely the fire that is in view here. Then he gives a different metaphor and he he he uses an agricultural metaphor to say he says his winnowing fan is in his hand and he will thoroughly clean out his threshing floor. This is a wheat farmer. Very common to these people. They understood what it meant. They had a a place on the farm where they would thresh. It's called a threshing floor if you've ever read the book of of uh Ruth, they did that with barley, they have the thrusting season, that's when uh kind of that the climax of the story takes place. And what they do, they take all of this uh all of the crop whether it's uh uh wheat or barley is some other grain and they'd throw it up in the air and they have a fan and and the wind would separate out the the little bits of like casings and and uh the stuff clinging to the the the crop that isn't actual you can't eat it, it's not good crop. That just kind of the wind takes it and it it just This metaphor is used over and over again in the in the Old Testament, in the Psalms and whatnot. But the good stuff, the wheat, the heavier stuff, the barley, falls to the ground and and it is Separated from the bad stuff. That chaff is re is reserved for unquenchable fire, he says. It's not just going to drift away. It's going to be burned up, but not the good not the good crop. And so all the way through he's got those fruits in view. Your fruits, your works do not save you. If you're ready to quote to me, by grace we're saved through faith, not of works, right? You're 100% right, but keep quoting it. Or why don't I read that to you and we'll conclude from there? Ephesians chapter 2, verses 8, 9, and 10. Many of us remember memorize, perhaps in Iwana, that's how I did it. For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves it is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast. And for some reason, my Iwana leaders never had me memorize verse 10. Not of works, lest anyone should boast. Verse 10, for we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which Christ prepared beforehand, which God prepared beforehand. that we should walk in them. You are not saved by your works, by your fruits. You are saved for them. You are saved to do them. And he has to specific things he intends for you to do. And he saved you so you can do them. Bear fruits worthy of repentance. Brothers and sisters, let's bear fruits that are worthy of the name of Jesus And let's set an example that others will want to follow. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for giving us your Son to save us from condemnation in hell. He laid down his life so that we would be counted righteous, so that we could be purified. So Lord, would you cleanse anyone who has yet to turn to Jesus? Cause them to turn to you. Cleanse them in Christ. Lord, I pray that we could have a baptism here in the next couple months. of somebody who has given their life over to you. We ask these things in Jesus' name, Amen.