Good morning. Please turn over me to Esther, chapter two. Chapter two. We're going to be uh uh pausing our live broadcast just momentarily, so if you're watching online, it's gonna cut off and then come right back on. Uh I think it's pretty cool that we are able to worship uh the Lord uh with songs from the twenty-first century and from the sixteenth century. And was that was that twentieth century, that the last one? Twentieth or twenty But uh the Lord uh when he when he adopts us into his into his family, right? He adopts adopts us into the church. We belong to one That even includes people who lived in uh the 1500s, like Martin Luther, who wrote that uh second hymn that we sung. Um And we we're getting this whole rich history that includes the very, very newest songs and uh some of the very oldest. And I I think uh George we're having conversation about about stuff yesterday. I didn't know that song very well, the last one we sung. But we have solid uh solid worship from multiple centuries. So praise the Lord for that. And I hope you're enjoying the worship this morning. Uh let's open with a word of prayer, and then we'll dig right into uh Esther. Dearest Heavenly Father, thank you. It is a privilege that we get to uh worship Worship you together. You have made us to worship you. We are fulfilling our purpose when we worship you. And uh Lord, we are we are weak. Some of us do not perhaps know Jesus Christ, belong to you, uh have his blood applied to our hearts, and we are unable to fulfill fully fulfill the the purpose for which you created us us. We pray for for anyone here who does not know you, who has not been born again and made new in Christ, we pray for salvation to come to them today, that you would open the eyes of their hearts. hearts that they would receive Christ. Perhaps they even have supposed that they are they are Christians, but they have not yielded their hearts, yielded themselves to Jesus. We pray you bring about a repentant faith today. But Lord, for those of us who do know you and belong to you, again, we ask that you would help us to receive your word with open hearts today. open ears, thoughtful minds, attentive minds. And I know, Lord, it's easy to get distracted from time to time. And when I'm sitting uh in a sitting in a pew, Lord, I I I uh I can struggle myself to pay attention as I ought. Um but would you please give us minds that that come back to the come back to the message? Uh we ask for your help uh in in paying attention and receiving the message you have for us. Give me strength, Lord, to preach. Help me to preach today. Lord, I'm I'm excited. I'm eager to preach. I I'm c Confident in this message. But Lord, let me let me have confidence only in ultimately in your spirit to preach this and in the truth of what I'm preaching, but not in my own ability, not in my preparation. So Lord, I ask that you'd help me to rely fully on you that you would preach this word to our hearts. Father, we just sang a few minutes. Ago, did we in our own strength confide? Our striving would be losing. Let me not strive in my own strength to preach this message. I ask that your spirit would do it. Worship as we receive your word. Let our listening and any note-taking that we do be acts of worship in themselves. Let us go away from here changed, whether it's that we trust you Jesus Christ for the first time and they're entering into a new relationship with you through it, or that we're just once again continuing to trust in Jesus Christ for the ten thousandth time or millionth time. Lord, we pray that you be glorified in our responses today. We lift this this day up. We lift this hour up to you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Again, if you're not there already, please do turn with me in your Bible to Esther chapter two. We'll be starting in verse 19. We'll go to the end of chapter 2, and then we'll go all the way through uh chapter 3 as well. So a lot of ground to cover. And I feel a little bit like we're we're adventurers. scripture reading. We're like adventurers slaying a dragon and taking the horde of treasure. There's a lot of treasure to uncover here. So we're gonna we're gonna dive right in. The only kind of preliminary thing that I will say is this, all right, to explain what we're gonna do. So we're gonna do that. We're going to take kind of two passes through the passage. First one, we're just going to keep with the flow of the story. We'll work our way through the passage from start to finish. There will be a couple of uh of times where we turn back in the Old Testament to uh see well we're already in the Old Testament but further back uh to see other things, other truths, um, and how they they inform the story in the present. Um but otherwise we're just going to go straight through to the end. And I'll just kind of explain and, as we call it, exposit the passage or or uh expound on what's going on. We'll get to the end, then we'll get to the main theme. So I know that that's at the top of your notes page because just makes sense to put it there, but it'll be after we get to the end of the passage that I reveal uh that in its fullness. Um and then this then we'll do a second limited loop through. assuming that we have the time to do so, where we'll just selectively uh go to specific verses and make applications on those. specific points in the story. Are you ready? Dive in? Yes? Okay, good. It wasn't rhetorical. Alright, Esther chapter 2, starting in verse 19. When virgins were gathered together a second time, Mordecai sat within the king's gate. Now Esther had not revealed her family and her people just as Mordecai had charged her. For Esther obeyed the command of Mordecai as when she was brought up by him. We're going to have most of our exposition kind of front-loaded here. At the end of chapter two, here, especially in like verse one to And then it'll flow a little bit faster once we get through kind of these preliminary details. So Apparently, Ahasurus is gathering virgins together again. Now this could refer to, if you remember in chapter two, he was gathering the most beautiful young ladies in the kingdom, and he was kind of auditioning through them to see who would be queen, and he finally Finally, uh after uh going through that, he uh arrives at Esther as his chosen queen. This second gathering of virgins could simply refer to those who who have not not entered the harem as as coming. Concubines that are still there and they they didn't make the cut. He's chosen uh Esther. And that there's this gathering together to kind of um honor Esther. It could mean that. It could also mean that Ahesheris is up to his old tricks. He's being a pig. passions. He was pretty disgusting. Um we're reminded that here in verse twenty that Esther is concealing the fact that she is Jewish. That's what it means by she had not revealed her family and her her people just as Mordecai, remember this is her cousin who's effectively her adoptive father. He's adopted her as his daughter, though he is her cousin. He was the one that said, Don't reveal your family to them. Don't reveal that you're a Jew. We're being reminded this because it's going to be really uh important to the story in just a moment. Contrast to this. Now the now a piece of action happens. We get uh intrigue and uh and well we don't get bloodshed, not yet, but but But it's it's it's ramping up. Let's look at verse 21. In those days, while Mordecai sat within the king's gate, two of the king's eunuchs big And Teresh, doorkeepers, became furious and sought to lay hands on King Ahashrus. So the matter became known to Mordecai, who told Queen Esther, and Esther informed the king, and Mordecai Mordecai's name. And when an inquiry was made into the matter, it was confirmed that, and both were hanged on a gallows, and it was written in the book of the Chronicles in the presence of the king. So here's the first bit of excitement. Mordecai learns that there is an assassination attempt being put together on the king's life And he foils it. It's his information. He passes it to his adoptive daughter. She makes sure that the the FBI is involved or or whomever in those days. And and they get to the bottom of it. They confirm this is true. They execute the bad guys. And uh it it's a victory for the state. Um you might be wondering a little bit about uh Mordecai sat sitting with within the king's gate, maybe you're just picturing like a big gate and uh I I always think of uh like a a a a castle, you know, the port cullis, that that kind of like grate that would come down. Probably not what's going on here. This would be the gate probably refers to, uh this is consistent with Persian architecture, uh uh a building right inside the gate. So we might call it a gatehouse or something. And that was often where um the speed of power was kind of located. Um if you remember maybe way back to the Book of Ruth, if you're familiar with the Book of Ruth It would talk about Boaz sitting in the gate. That was where it was understood that the uh the the power that that was a small town, it was Bethlehem, they wouldn't have had a big Gatehouse, uh but that would be where the leaders of the town would gather together. Um that's the same sort of idea here, but this is uh an imperial power. And so So this is a proper designated uh building for this, and there's probably a lot of people there. And as he's working in the administration in that building, that's what it's referring to. He's not just hanging out on a nice day. outside the gate. He's he's uh he's working and he just he uncovers this plot. And we would expect, because this is what happened in the Persian Empire, when this sort of thing happened People who benefit the Emperor like this, or perhaps through some monetary uh gain, they would expect to receive very lavish rewards. He he gives a tip like this, it's expected that he's going to be well compensated. for saving the king's life. So let's keep reading and see what happens. Actually let's back up and kind of reread it again, the end of chapter 2, and then we'll go into chapter 3, verse 1, and see how he gets compensated. Ready? When an inquiry was made into the matter, it was confirmed and both were hanged on a gallows, and it was written in the book of the Chronicles in the presence of the king after these things, chapter three, verse one, after these things King Ahashur has promoted Haman. Haman, not Mordecai? Who's this dude? We haven't even seen him yet. Shouldn't he be promoting Mordecai? Right? If you're reading it right, that's what you're expecting. Um Mordecai has just done this great service. to the emperor and he's he's saved his life and uh what some other guy gets promoted Thus this isn't right. He discovers an assassination attempt, FBI investigates it, find it to be true, execute the assassins. Make a special record of it right in front of the king. Did you see that? They're writing it down in their official uh chronicles, the history, and instead of honoring Mordecai, there's some other guy we haven't even heard of yet. You see how the writer is inverting our expectations here? It seems logical for Mordecai to get that promotion. And then it's a surprise reversal. Some other guy gets honored instead. And it's it's not even just that Mordecai is is ignored and not compensated, it's that someone else seems to get the honor due to Mordecai. Now if you're reading right reading it right, you'll see this. Maybe you didn't see this reversal, and probably the reason for that is we get distracted by the big number three in the middle of this story And it interrupts, right? We have these chapter breaks. And if you're if you have a normal Bible, anything like mine, you've got all these headings on it as well. I've got italicized text. At the beginning of 19, above 19, it says Mordecai discovers a plot. At chapter 3, uh right above verse 1, it says Haman's cons conspiracy against the Jews, I've got big paragraph breaks, I've got all these numbers, and sometimes we miss the flow of the story. I hope you understand that that um the the chapters and verses and all these breakdowns, they were added uh just a few hundred years ago, but this was written over two thousand years ago, right? This This is like four four sorry, twenty four hundred years ago or more that this was written and there were no chapter and verse uh divisions there. If you want to deal with that problem so that you don't miss the flow of the text, there's a there's an easy fix. If you read the Bible on a on an app, like on your phone or tablet or on your computer and I realize it's not ideal for a lot of us. We prefer to have the paper version. But if you do read it on an app, a lot of those apps will let you turn off the the div verse divisions. I use Logos Bible software and there is a free version for for that and that will let you turn off those chapter and verse verse divisions. And I encourage you to do that, especially when you're well really when when you're reading scripture through your devotions, maybe you figure out where you're going to read to based on the division and then uh mark it and then turn it off so that you can just get the full uh the full flow of thought better. Just a suggestion. If you'd rather do that with a with a paper bible, there are paper bibles that do that. Crossway put out a good ESV version. moves all those divisions. Anyway, just a digression that might be helpful to you. Ignore it if it's not. Anyway, Mordecai has not gotten the honor he deserves. And it's important that we recognize that this will get payoff. If he got honored here, there wouldn't be the deliverance likely that comes later. So this is really just laying the foundation for what's going to happen. But there's more. Because it gets worse. So it says, after these things, King Ahashrus promoted Haman. We don't know who that is, but it's going to tell us the son of Hamadatha, the Egegite. Well, what's an Egagite? You might know this one. If you do, it's because you you know your Old Testament. If you don't know, I'm going to tell you what it means, alright? An Agite, Agagite, refers to King Agag, about a thousand years before the events of King Ag Esther, probably more like eleven hundred actually. Agab was the king of the nation of Amalek. So Israel's first king, not David, Saul, was commanded to execute King, Agag. You you may remember that story. You remember he's he's supposed to execute Agag. He destroys the the Amalekites. So Amalekite is the name uh Am Amalek is the name of the A the nation. Agag is the name of the king, right? He's a he's Agag is the head of Amalek. The Amalekites do battle with the Israelites um and uh they win and they they kill most of the people that But they don't kill the king, and they don't s they they don't destroy the livestock and the things they were supposed to to uh destroy. That belongs to the Lord by by putting it putting it down. Instead they take the riches They take all the spoil for themselves. And Saul is duly punished for that. That's not the important thing. But what it is what we do need to know, what is important, is that Agag was an e Evil, bloodthirsty king. And God was using Saul to deliver his justice against Agag for all of the people that he had murdered. And done brutal things to. And Saul would not dispense the justice that God had entrusted to him. So, because God is just and he demands justice Since King Saul wouldn't dispense justice, the prophet Samuel, who had given him the command to begin with, he goes and does it, and he literally hacks to pieces King Ahag. King Agag, sorry, uh showing that God's showing God's attitude towards evil and bloodshed. Now that's Agag. He was so evil he was hacked to bits by God's representative. And Haman here is named an Agegite, implying that he is a descendant of him. And if you think, well, they were all wiped out uh at that time, well no, because we find that much later in uh the books of Samuel uh David uh is going to war with the Amal uh the Amal Amalekites, some other part of the country as well. So it does check out. Uh King uh Haman apparently is a descendant of King A If we were to just turn back, if we're here in Esther chapter 3 and we turn back just a few verses to chapter 2, verse 8, let me read that to you. Esther two verse eight. So it was when the king's command and decree were heard, and when many young women were gathered, uh I'm sorry, I've got the wrong the wrong verse here. I'm sorry. It's verse five. I'm sorry. Here we go. In Shushin the Citadel. Esther two five, my apologies. There was a certain Jew whose name was Mordecai, the son of Jare, the son of Shime, the son of Kish, along with Lineage, a Benjamite. We've got Mordecai the Benjamite. A few verses later, we've got Haman the Agegite. And Haman, we get a little bit of his lineage. We get his dad's name, and then his his ancient uh ancestor, we get much more of a lineage for uh for for Mordecai, don't we? But it would imply that Mordecai is superior, he's more important. We get through to his uh not not just his dad, not just his grandpa, but his great grandpa, and then his ancient ancestor as well. We've got the Benjamites and the Agagites. King Saul was a Benjamite. King Agag, obviously, is an Agagite, and now we have another Benjamin going against head to head with this Agagite. So the re reader here is being told to anticipate a conflict. The earlier readers would have understood that. Benjamin Benjamites and Agagites are enemies. And more than that, all Israelites, all Israelis we would say, are enemies of Agagites. Now, let's go back even further. If we were at we were at Saul, now let's go back another 500 years Before Saul and Agag, we have the nation of Amalek first becoming Israel's army. We're not going to turn there, but in Exodus, well, I will read just a little bit. But uh we don't need to turn turn back there. In Exodus chapter sixteen, the Amalekites attack the Israelites. This is this is the first time that they are attacked after crossing the Red Sea. So Egypt pursued them. They're the first enemies to to go after them and they're drowned in the sea, right? But then they get to the other side, they're wandering around without much food or water, and while they're they're in the wilderness Unprovoked, the nation of Amalek comes and attacks uh Israel. And from that moment, God names them, they are mortal enemies. Because he attacked his people unprovoked, and they're the first ones to do so. They're mortal enemies, second only maybe, to Egypt. So here's what happened. Uh the the the Amalekites attack. Israel goes and fights with them. And you may remember this story. Moses goes and sits up on a hill where he can see the whole battle, and he raises his hand. This is what God tells him to do. It might sound funny, but raises his hand. As long as his hand's in the air, his guys are winning. The Israelites are winning the battle against the Amalekites. But what happens when you hold your your arm up for a while? Uh you're you're Fingers get tingly and your arm gets weak, and you start to droop your arm, right? And whenever he would droop his arm, then the Amalekites would start to win. And do you remember what happens? He has two friends, one's his brother, one's a friend, and they hold up his arm so that he so that he has their help to hold it up and he doesn't droop it. And they win the battle. They destroy them. And God says after that, I'm going to read verses fourteen through sixteen for you from Exodus sixteen. It says, And the Lord said to Moses, write this for a memorial in the book. Count it in the hearing of Joshua, that I will utterly blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven. And Moses built an altar and called its name, the Lord is my banner. For he said, Because the Lord has sworn, the Lord will have war with Amalek from generation to generation So God has promised that he would always protect Israel from Amalek, that he counts Amalek as his own enemies because they're his people's enemies. And he will make war with them, he will fight against them So to the Jews reading the book of Esther, they're familiar with this centuries-long battle. That God has promised to protect them from Amalek. He's angry at Agag and his descendants And here we have a descendant, not just of Amalek, but of King Agag himself. And it would generate a question in their mind. Those Jews living in Persia, they're thinking. Will God keep that promise to make war with Amalek? He's always kept his promises, but even the bad ones, when he said that he would carry us away into captivity, he did. That's why we're here. He's always kept his promises, but we haven't kept ours. We haven't kept our end of the bargain because they had a two-way covenant. So for us Jews living in the empire And perhaps living secularly, not returning to Israel to live under Yahweh's law, but living like everybody else, will he keep his promise? Will he protect us from this Agagite and this this evil heir to King Ahag? Agag. Why do I keep saying that That's the question generating tension for us. Well, let's look at how it goes Verse 2. Well, let's finish finish verse 1. After these things, King Ahashrus promoted Haman, the son of Hamadatha the Agagite, and advanced him and set his seat above all the princes who were with him. And all the king's servants who were within within the king's gate bowed and paid homage to Haman, for so the king had commanded concerning him. But Mordecai would not bow or pay homage Then the king's servants who were within the king's gate said to Mordecai, Why do you transgress the king's command? Now it happened when they spoke to him daily, and he would not listen to them, that they told it to Haman to see whether Mordecai's words would stand, for Mordecai had told them he was a Jew. Now, this is gonna generate tremendous trouble for all of the Jews in the empire. You may know that already. Let's see what see why. Let's see why that happens. So the traditional interpretation here is simply that like why uh we're we're trying to ask answer the question, why is it that that Mordecai is refusing to back The traditional interpretation is that Mordecai refuses to honor Haman because he believed only his God, that is Yahweh, the Lord deserved the type of honor that a that Mordecai and everyone else is expected to give to Haman. Basically, it's seen as a situation like the one in Daniel. Actually, there's a couple similar in Daniel, but I'm specifically thinking of the fiery furnace story. You know that story, right? Daniel's not present, but his three friends, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, all loyal Jews, and they've already proved that they are loyal to the Lord. They are commanded to commit idolatry, to bow down to a statue of the king. They refuse to do so because they say no, we only worship the Lord. Worship God. And what is their penalty for that? They're to be burned to death. They're to be thrown into a furnace. Of course, if you know that story, it doesn't take. God protects them from the heat. And they're brought out, even though the guards who threw them in uh w were destroyed, they were not. We kind of assume that that's what's going on for Mordecai, that he is expected to worship this man as though he's a god. And so he's saying, I can only worship my God, the Lord, that way. It violates my conscience. It violates the law of God Is that what's going on here? Now so far when we've been going through Esther, we've been examining these traditional interpretation of Mordecai. So the two possibilities, I've really explained the first one, right? That basically this is the type of worship being expected that goes against the law of God. Or if not, it's at least what Mordecai thinks and his his conscience is troubled. Now the evidence for this, and I'm going to give you the other possibility and the evidence for that one as well, okay? The evidence for this would be We saw it at the end of uh verse four. He has revealed that he's a Jew, right? We saw it at the end of chapter two. He's the one telling Esther, don't let anyone know you're Jewish. And that brings in all sorts of problems because that means that if if they're able to blend in this way, then they're not honoring the law of God. We saw the Esther's doing a number of ungodly things, uh ignoring the the law of God. Presumably Mordecai's been doing that, but apparently at some point he feels like I can't cross this line. I'm not gonna honor the Sabbath, I'm gonna I'm gonna violate the dietary laws. I'm gonna encourage my daughter to marry a Gentile. But I can't cross this line. I can't worship someone other than God. And the the evidence for that really is that it says that now he's gone and revealed his Jewish identity. identity. You see that it's saying that they were constantly they they were they keep pressuring him, they keep asking him, why is it that you won't honor Haman? Like they're they're actually maybe being patient. Uh but hey you really ought to order but or you o really ought ought to honor the king's order and honor Haman. Why aren't you doing this? Why aren't you doing this? Why aren't you doing this? And Eventually breaks down eventu I can't. My conscience is captive to the Word of God. I cannot worship anyone other. I'm Jewish. I can only worship Yahweh. That is presumably that that's that's what this possibility is. It's it's implied though. It's not it's not stated as a fact. It's not stated for certain like it is in Daniel Presumably he did this under duress because he recognizes that as much as he's concealed his identity, this is just a line he couldn't cross. That's possibility number one. Possibility number two. Is that it doesn't really have much to do with honoring the Lord. Mordecai just doesn't like Haman. Mordecai's prideful. He was supposed to be honored for serving the king as well as he did and preserving his life and instead Not only does he not get rewarded, someone else does, and and not just anyone, but this guy? Hey, presumably he's known Haman for a while, right? They're they're both uh officials in the government and Haman's risen higher than he has, faster than he has. That guy, that's the guy you choose to promote? I mean obviously Heyman is a pretty nasty guy, right? I mean, this is the guy who's going to go on and reveal himself to be a genocidal maniac. He's a bad dude, and and Mordecai doesn't like him, but there could be a lot of pride in Mordecai's heart as well. Here's the evidence for this view, right? We're not told, for one, what exactly it means to pay homage to to uh Haman. Uh bowing is is normal uh to to show respect in a lot of cultures. We don't know what what the significance was attached to the bowing or the the paying homage. We're not told anything about the the homage and the respect he's So it's un it's unclear what exact significance that gesture has Perhaps paying homage is ten amount to worship, but if so, scripture doesn't say so. And the the author of the book is silent on this, just like he doesn't say a whole lot about um Mordecai's loyalty to the Lord either. And we're kind of left wandering a little bit. Now, I'll point out something else. No one else is refusing to bow to Haman. It's just Mordecai. The spotlight's on him. Surely there were other Jews in the court? I mean perhaps not, but we've got Mordecai, we've got Esther. We know that Daniel and his friends they rose to prominence in the Babylonian government, and this is just really the the the next Next phase. Jews could do well in the government and they proved themselves to be very good politicians. So it is curious that there's no other Jewish person Refusing to pay homage to Haman in this way. Finally, there is the fact that Haman got that promotion that Mordecai didn't gap. So there's possibility that this is pride, right? So which is it? Text isn't totally clear, is it? Perhaps God wants there to be Some ambiguity here to show that Mordecai is maybe making the right choice, but not with all of the right motivations. Here's the way that I'm inclined to interpret it That there really is a genuine hint here from the author saying he's revealed his Jewish identity. His refusal, it seems to be pretty strongly implied, though not explicitly stated. stated that his refusal to bow to Haman is linked to his identity as a Jew, as someone who who belongs to God. But he's not a very good Jew. He's not been very faithful. And he's also somebody that when you're not walking with the Lord and honoring his commands, other sins keep Pr they they they creep in, don't they? And pride doesn't need much help to creep creep in. This is a this guy's a climber. He's he's ambitious, just like Haman is. He would like the position that that Haman has. And there's probably a lot of pride mixed in with this genuine desire to worship only God. And that both of these things are true. That seems to be, with all of this ambiguity here, seems to be what the what the author, the human one and the divine one together are showing us. The Mordecai is not a guy to imitate here, but he's at least got one thing right, that only God should be worshipped. Mordecai apparently doesn't exactly have a pure loyalty to his God. There is ego going on. So let's take Mordecai as he's presented here, not just as the sinless hero, and Esther's obvious uh uh uh often seen as the sinless hero. And that's just not correct. We should take him warts and all. He's a secular Jew with a lot of ambition and ego. But there are lines he won't cross, and perhaps this is what it takes for him to turn his heart to the Lord and be a loyal Jew. He he'll sin in a lot of ways, but he won't worship someone else But he also won't stand up and urge his fellow Jews to honor the Lord. Apparently, he won't show that he's set apart to the Lord by the way he lives and eats. There's a lot of self mixed in with his obedience. And we would say he has an inconsistent testimony. He probably wouldn't be leading the singing in our church. He probably wouldn't be a deacon. Now, is this not what we are like so often? We honor the Lord in one area of our lives, or multiple areas of our lives, hopefully, but we're greedily self-centered. in other areas or just in a certain context. We'll stand up against glaring sins of our culture. It's Yeah, in a lot of ways, especially surrounded by other believers, really easy to stand up against the murder of unborn children. Because it's obvious that murdering children is bad. Duh. But on the other hand, he's gonna stand up against genocide. I mean very Very similar. It's also very easy to stand up against things that are just so blatantly against the Lord, like transgender ideology. But, on the other hand, we'll indulge in sins that get us ahead and the workplace, like you know, laughing at the crass jokes because it's just easier to blend in than show that you belong to a God who hates that. Or getting drunk at the Christ the company Christmas party So that you can be one of the team and make sure you get a promotion. You're not a hero in those cases either. And and neither's Mordecai. And as we conclude in chapter two, that God is the hero of this story. It's not that that Esther's the hero, and Mordecai is not the hero. And so I would say, you come to this, if you If you would honor Christ, don't be like Mordecai. Honor him consistently. Don't just omit the most glaring sins. And don't just stand against the biggest sins of our age, but commit those small daily acts of faithful obedience. So that when you do have to take a Mordecai type stand, when you do commit that big act of faithfulness, I'm standing against this, I'm planting my flag here in this soil. It'll be consistent with the trail, the life that you've lived up to that point. There are Christians who have lost legal battles saying, I will not bake a cake for that wedding. When they've been w baking cakes for for plenty of people who are who are violating purity standards according to according to Christ's commandments. And so then they lose a court court case because they say, well, you didn't apply it there for this couple living together, but you apply it there for this homosexual couple Right? Be consistent in your testimony. your Lord consistently. Alright, that's that's that's a an application along the way. Okay. Let's keep going. Then we have Mordecai plotting to destroy Mordecai's people. I'm sorry, Haman plotting to destroy Mordecai's people. It says in verse 5, when Haman saw that Mordecai did not bow or pay him homage, Haman was filled with wrath, but he Disdained to lay hands on Mordecai alone, for they had told him of the people of Mordecai. Instead, Haman sought to destroy all the Jews who were throughout the whole kingdom of Aheshras, the people of Mordecai. So far, in the earlier chapters, chapter 1, chapter 2, even when We've been homing in on the fact, haven't we, that although his name is never mentioned, God is throughout this book. We see him here hiding in this detail and that detail, and it's so awkwardly worded that obviously God's the one doing that, right? And there's this passive wording to say this happened. It's clear that God's God's behind it Right? Everywhere we see that God is hidden, but he's there, he's present. But what we haven't talked about is yeah, we have the hidden hero and the hidden sovereign power in Persia. But here in verse six, we see someone else hiding, don't we? Call your teeth. Attention to the title of this message. It's called The Hidden Enemy. We have the hidden sovereign, the hidden God, the hidden ruler. We also have this hidden enemy. There is an enemy power motivating Haman's genocide. What else could explain the sudden jump from I'm mad at Mordecai because he won't bow to me to let's kill every single Jew in the 127 provinces? It's an absurd jump, is it not? How do you get from there to there? I'll tell you why. There's a satanic power behind it. Influencing him. Seizing upon his pride and his other many character flaws, surely, but Satan is motivating this. This is why the Holocaust happened in the nineteen thirties and forties. This is why Israel constantly has enemies trying to exterminate them as a country and an ethnic group. This is why Hamas attacked Israel in 2023. And it's why that that murderer shot two those two embassy workers in DC last week. Satan behind this anti-Semitism. For our scripture reading, we read a little bit of a, if you're not familiar with it, a pretty cryptic, puzzling picture. Israel. Some people think it's the Virgin Mary. It's a good guess because she gives birth to the Messiah, but this is actually the uh the nation of Israel, the twelve stars being, of course, the twelve tribes of heaven. And uh we have Satan cast out of heaven. It says in verse 7, war broke out in heaven. Michael And his angels fought with the dragon. And the dragon and his angels fought, but they did not prevail, nor was a place found for them in heaven any longer. So here we have for the first time in Scripture actually a connection being made to Genesis chapter 3, the serpent in the garden, to Satan. And it's here in Revelation chapter 12, right at the end of the It says he deceives the whole world. Of the angels in heaven with him, we call those angels who were cast out demons. There are demonic powers on this earth, and one of the things That they do. There's a lot of things that they do. One of the worst things they do is persecute God's people. First, they try to kill the the nation, the woman there. They try to kill the nation. That is going to bring forth the Messiah into the world. That's what Satan is trying to do with Haman. If he can successfully implement genocide here, this would include the people living in Israel. He wants to kill every Jew in the Empire. This is what Israel is in the Empire, and he wants to kill all of them. Because if he can kill all of them and all of the other Jews That destroys David's line. And God has already said that the Messiah, his anointed one, who's going to destroy Satan's power, is going to crush the serpent's head. He's going to come from a descendant of David. And if he can successfully get the whole empire of Persia to eradicate the Jews, God can't keep his promise The Messiah cannot come into the world, right? That's what's going on here. Now he didn't he didn't succeed. Spoiler alert. And and we're told that here in Revelation twelve, that uh in in verse five it says, She bore a male child who was to rule all nations with a rod of iron, and her child was caught up to God in his throne Then the woman fled into the well wilderness where she has a place prepared by God. Let's look at verse thirteen. We're still in Revelation twelve. Now when the dragon saw, this is Satan, when he saw that he'd been cast to the earth, he persecuted The woman who gave birth to the male child, right? Jesus has already come, and he couldn't stop him from being born. He couldn't k kill him. Well, he sort of did, but then he rose from the dead, right? He couldn't defeat him that way, so he's angry. So what's he gonna do? He's just gonna kill Jews. But the woman was given two wings of a great eagle that she might fly into the wilderness to her place Where she is nourished for time and times and half a time. Don't get don't get uh hung up on that from the presence of the serpent. So the serpent spewed water out of his mouth like a flood after the woman that he might cause her to be carried away by the flood He is trying to destroy any Jew and any Christian. Verse 17 The dragon was enraged with the woman, and he went to make war with the rest of her offspring, who keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus. Jesus Christ. He wants to kill Jews and he wants to kill Christians. And the stuff going on in this world, even this past week, is evidence that there is a hidden enemy in our world who wants to destroy God's people. Now I have several more pages left in my uh my outline here. I have a lot more left to say and I am seeing that And so we're going to do this in two parts. So I apologize that we have not gotten uh to the end here. Um so I'm gonna ask you to to not uh fill in all of the blanks that I gave you on your sheet. I'll give you a fresh one next week. So let's we're just gonna jump ahead to uh one of the the applications here. I'm gonna skip over the the uh the the the message um because uh I want us to to just jump to the um the appropriate applications. So close your eyes or something. Bev I know you're trying ah there we go. Alright, I know you're trying to get them down quickly, Bev. All right. First of all, we'll get the first two applications. Christians must be wisely responsible when they disobey authorities. Haman is choosing to disobey the authorities. And whether he was right or not in doing that, he did, right? And the Lord will honor that. There are times that it is absolutely right for us to disobey governmental authorities or maybe not just governmental authorities, authorities in school, uh authorities in the workplace There are times where you must do that if you'll be loyal to the Lord. But make sure that you're right. Because your actions will impact your fellow believers. It will impact Make sure that you're right. Make sure you're consistent. If you'd be inconsistent with your testimony before, that doesn't mean don't be loyal to the Lord now. Be loyal to him. Can I encourage you to be faithful in the workplace and in public now? So that it makes sense when you take a stand in the future. But be responsible. Think of the impact that your actions will have on other believers. Is it right? But don't be a wimp. Do stand up. You are representing Christ. Honor him and honor him consistently. I would call your attention to Romans 13, and we're not going to turn We are told that we should always be obeying the proper authorities, and the context there is specifically the government. Always obey them unless they're commanding you to disobey God. That means that when we are commanded to disobey God and we need to disobey the governmental authorities, that doesn't mean that you you stop paying your taxes. That doesn't mean that you stop uh obeying the traffic laws. You disobey the laws that contradict God's word and y while being a good citizen and and a An obedient Christian and all of the other things are commanding you to do that don't contradict God. You are honoring God, you are obeying God when you obey the authorities put over you. And if that authority tells you to do something, that disobeys God and dishonors him, that's the time that we in a Christ-like loving manner disobey. Make sure you do it, but do it wisely, be responsible about it, consider how your actions will impact other Christians. That's application number one, or A. Application B is the Christians must recognize that they have a spiritual enemy more powerful than themselves. We can get cocky sometimes. And we think we know our Bibles and that we can we can stand up to any temptation Sometimes that if someone's spiritual is good, right? uh because it's of a spiritual uh origin it must be good, it must be of God. Well no not necessarily, right? Because demons are spirits and they can they can give you prophetic information as well. We're told in 1 John to test every spirit. Do they confess Christ? Does it accord with godliness? Does it accord with your Savior? and and the doctrines regarding him. Anyway, there is a spiritual enemy. There is a demonic enemy behind much of the human opposition that we see to God. And so that has a lot of implications for us. Pray that your human enemies recognize that there is a greater power behind them. Have pity on them. And pray for them that they might be delivered from the That they might be ransomed just as you've been ransomed to Christ. Recognize and believe that you're less powerful than Satan. Don't be cocky because that's when you're going to fall. But be encouraged. You're not greater than Satan. You are less powerful than him. But God isn't. God is far more powerful than Satan. Satan will fall. He will be cast into the lake of fire. God will win. We sang it a few minutes ago in in uh Martin Luther's hymn, Mighty Fortress is our God. He will fell him with a single word. The word that comes out of Christ's mouth will destroy Satan and he'll throw him into the lake of fire. And that's the end. So trust in your God, not in your own Bible knowledge, but keep running to the Bible that it would strengthen you and encourage you and give you wisdom. And keep running to the Lord in prayer. Protect yourself by going to your protector. God will make war on all the Agegites. He will make war on all of your enemies. Make sure you're trusting in Him and not in your own strength. There actually is another one that that we should talk about. Well no, we'll wait for next week. We'll wait for next week. But let me encourage you, why is it that you can have Confidence that God will fight for you against the Agegites, against his enemies. It's because you've been marked by the blood of Jesus. You belong to him. It's the blood of Jesus, it's the death of Jesus that guarantees that you You will be protected. Now, that protection might not extend to your mortal body. You might be killed. And that is the worst thing. That's it. That's all. That's the worst thing that anyone can do to you Is get you to Jesus quicker. That's the worst thing they can do, right? God will protect you by the blood of Jesus. The worst thing they can do is unite you to Him sooner. Not a bad deal. All secured for us in Christ. If you're not trusting in Christ, if his blood is not protecting you, Then none of what I said applies to you. You might be swept away by the demonic powers themselves. You are his enemy. Jesus came into the world while we are his enemies, Romans tells us. We were his enemies and he died for us, saying, Yeah, he's a swine, he's filth, filthy, but he's mine. I'm dying for him, I'm atoning for his sin. Your sin was placed on Jesus Jesus when he died. When you trust in him, his death under God's wrath is being accounted to you so that you've already you've already died the sin. You've already been your sins already been punished on Jesus And you will not be punished. You will get his full protection. Because Jesus died under your sin, he rose again, he's dealt with it, it's gone. God's wrath is satisfied against you. He's no morat for you, but he does for his enemies. And he will fight for you against your enemies. They are his own enemies. yourself that you're under Christ's protection. Can I encourage you when you're this next week, right? We're ne a week from now, we'll be about to, a week from this moment, we'll be about to partake of communion. Right there. Be meditating on this. It's the blood of Christ that protects you. When you're getting ready for communion, over the course of the week we should be preparing ourselves, not just five minutes before praying through those last few cents, right? Be doing that this week. Meditate on this. It's the blood of Christ that secures God's protection for you so that He will fight against your enemies. He makes your enemies his enemy. Let's pray. Father, we praise you that there is so much in your word that we can't get through it in one plan sermon. Thank you, Lord, that there is so much to mind here. Help us to meditate on it, to grow from it. We pray you'd be glorified in all of this. Lord, help us to hate our sin all the more. Jesus died because he hates our sin. He died because he loves us. He died because he hates our sin. Help us to confess our sin this week. Help us to fight against our sin as you fight against our enemies. And we pray that we can all with a clear conscience, knowing we belong to Christ, and that we're honoring Him by your grace and strength. That we can all participate in communion next week. Lord, would you bless this week? Would you help us stand up to our enemies and to pray for them? that they might be won over to Christ. Help us to go forward with the gospel, even with those who are hostile to you and to us. In Jesus' name, amen