Not seen it, but it looks atrocious, so I I have not seen that one. But it is uh I think it's twenty eighteen it was released, twenty seventeen maybe. Um it's uh CGI uh and it's uh if aimed at a modern audience. Um it's a really good one to invite your friends out to. Uh it's a good all-ages movie. It is good for kids, but it's also good for adults. I think probably adults would get more out of it, but kids would enjoy it for the the funny parts and the the epic feel So please, this is an opportunity for you to invite your neighbors, your friends, your family members to come and Hear the gospel, but to see it provis presented in a fresh way. I will say a small little bit of things by way of introduction and conclusion. It's just gonna be a fun time. We'll have snacks, we'll have a meal, uh, and those of course are optional, and we will have the the movie. Uh please be Sharing that we're we're uh starting to promote it online as well, uh but be sharing that with your uh with your your friends, your coworkers, your neighbors, um, if you've got family in the area. Invite them to come out to it. It would be a lot of fun. Um I've actually shown this in a uh in a previous church where I pastored. It was a it was a big hit and it gave us good opportunities with our neighbors. So really want to encourage you to do that. That's October 17th, 6 30 p. m. And if you can't get here right for the start, no big deal. Come for whatever part you can. So we'd we'd love to have you. With that, let's go to the Lord for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we're humbled when we read the words that we just read together a few minutes ago as a Congregation, Lord, to think of all of creation and us being a part of that, worshiping you and declaring your worthiness to be worshipped, Lord. Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, who was and is and is to come. Worthy is the Lamb who is slain to receive power and riches and wisdom. and strength and honor and glory and blessing. Blessing and honor and glory and power be to him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb forever and ever. Lord help us to mean those words. Help us to Feel those words. Help us to think ahead to the day that we actually say them in heaven and sing them in heaven. Alongside powerful angels and fierce, frightening cherubs. The whole of heaven and earth come together to praise and to worship you, even those who perhaps do so unwillingly, praising Your son, the Lamb, who was slain since the foundation of the world, Lord, he is the only one worthy to receive from you blessing and honor and glory and power. And uh we meet together today in his name. It is the Lord's day today, and we ask that you'd help us to hallow it and sanctify it and to make it special. Lord, we're going to have a meal after this. uh uh after this service. We'll have communion where we will uh celebrate our our union that we have with you. We will have a a meal uh together ourselves but also with uh the church across the parking lot, Lord. People's church. We're excited for that. And I pray, Lord, that all of the time spent together, and especially this time where we're receiving your word preached to us, that you would use it to Draw our hearts nearer to you, to make us repent of sin, uh, to cause us to value you more highly. And And uh to make us more effective, uh kinder people, more effective witnesses and emissaries of Christ to our our neighbors, our uh colleagues and classmates and and And our family members and friends, Lord, make us better witnesses, ambassadors of Christ to them. Lord, meet our needs where we are, where we have perhaps failed you in the last week. or the last month. Show us where we what what sins we need to turn away from and forsake that we may have the pearl of great price who is Jesus Christ. Lord, would you do some spiritual heart surgery on us today and help us to go away perhaps feeling, ooh, that hurt, but it's a good hurt. uh help us to go away closer to Christ as a result. If there's anybody here, Lord, who has yet to turn to Christ as their Savior, we ask that today would be the day of salvation. Salvation. Lord, we want to lift up those who are sick and not here today. And we especially want to continue to lift up to you, Judy, Janelsma, and ask that you would uh heal her of uh the cancer that has been uh harassing her for a time. We thank you that the doctor is is happy to say that that she does not need further treatment. She's a actually cutting it off early. We praise you for that, but we know she's been made very weak by the chemo. And we ask you to strengthen her again and that she would see that this is the work of God being kind to her, warning her of her need to turn And we ask that you would work in Judy's heart and draw her to yourself. We lift up the the whole Gardner family to you. We lift up Aiden as well. I know that uh uh that Janelle is unwell today, um, but I I don't see Aiden as well. So we just lift up the whole family and ask that you'd uh draw them nearer to yourself. Lord, we ask these things in Jesus' name. Please help me as I preach your word. Please help us to receive it as your word. In Jesus' name, amen. Well, if you're not there already, please do turn with me to Matthew chapter 3. Matthew chapter 3. Most of us are pretty familiar with the plot of The Wizard of Oz, one of the great classic uh movies from the Golden Age of Hollywood. A young girl is serendipitously transported to the magical world of Oz by a tornado. And to get home, she's told she has to speak with the wizard, the wizard of Oz, the the one that the movie is named after. He will be able to help her, but there's no way home otherwise. Of course, she picks up three companions along the way, and they all have a different reason for wanting to see the wizard. I'm hearing that song in my head right now, are you? The whole way through the movie, right, we keep hearing about the Wizard of Oz. They're anticipating their meeting uh with the wizard as as the force of makes his way along that long yellow brick road, our anticipation keeps building. And it takes a long time before we finally see him, doesn't it? It's not till the very end of the movie we finally see the Wizard of Oz, the title character, and we barely see him And he is a total letdown, is he not, if you've seen the movie? Total letdown of a character. This morning we are introduced to a figure that the Old Testament whispered about. The Jewish people anticipated his arrival, but they were unsure what to expect. Sometimes they actually confused him with the one he was supposed to prepare us for. They confused the forerunner with the Messiah. And so when this man appears for what is by design, by God's design, a very short ministry. That was meant to point his hearers to Jesus Christ. Many felt let down by his meteoric rise and fall. It was just so brief, and there was no staying power in the eyes of. The people who heard him. This enigmatic figure of course is John the Baptist. The other gospel writers, we're in Matthew. The other three Gospel writers, Mark, Luke, and John. all tell us more about John the Baptist's ministry than Matthew does. Luke probably gives us the most information. He's the one who tells us about John's parents, Zacharias and Elizabeth. how he was conceived miraculously by this couple who were way too old to have a child. He tells of John moving out to the desert in his later adolescence or later childhood. And Matthew tells us a little bit about John the Baptist's ministry here in chapter 3, and then he'll tell us about his death in chapter 14. Matthew, more so than the other three gospel writers, appears far more interested in the message than the man himself. And really, that's the way it should always be for us uh when it comes to any any messenger of the gospel. We should be more interested in the messenger than the person uh who is giving it And and so what Matthew gives attention to here in chapter three is the message. That we'll be looking at. So today and the next two weeks, we're going to be looking at that message and how it transitions to Jesus Christ. So let's look at verses 1 and 2 then. The message of John the Baptist. In those days, John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea and saying, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Matthew tells us about the start of this other man's ministry, not Jesus' ministry, but a different man's ministry during the days that Jesus is living in Nazareth. At the end of chapter two, it says about Jesus, he came and dwelt in a city called Nazareth, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophets. He shall be called a Nazarene. And then chapter 3, verse 1, in those days John the Baptist came. So it's while Jesus is living in Nazareth that John the Baptist comes onto the scene. And he gives him some understated honor in how he introduces him. Matthew is aware that this man is worthy of honor. He gives it in an understated way. First, he gives him a title. Luke calls him John the son of Zacharias, but Matthew gives him a title. He calls him John the Baptist. Mark does that too. Now, when he says that he came or he arrived, he's actually using a different word than the normal word that, especially that Matthew would use, but that other ones use to say that someone came. Instead of using the the normal word, which would be, by the way, I'm going to use some Greek words. I'm not trying to impress you with my Greek vocabulary, but it's just for reference, okay? I'll try to not use too many of them. But the normal word to say that someone came or someone arrived is erkemi in the Greek. But Matthew uses a more formal word, paraginemai. And this word is used more often to speak of an official arrival of an important figure, like an emissary from a king would be given this This word to describe their visit, their ambassadorial arrival. Now, this is how Matthew introduces the Magi, the wise men, in chapter 2. Verse 1. Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men from the east. It's this more formal word. And that word itself is a composite word. It takes The normal word genomai, which just kind of means to become, and it elevates it with a prefix. Now Matthew only uses this particular word, this paraginemai. Three times. Other writers use it more, but Matthew only uses it three times. He uses it obviously for the Magi. He uses it here for John the Baptist. And can you guess who else he uses it for? to introduce Jesus. So each of these characters, as he introduces them for the first time, he uses paraginemai and he never uses it again. And so Of course, Jesus, his is the last time that Matthew uses that word. His is the most important time. But to use that same word to introduce John the Baptist and the Magi, it's a very special thing. Matthew is showing him honor in his own way. And by the way, that's chapter 3, verse 17. The end of this chapter is where we have Now I don't know about you, but I find the statement about John the Baptist to not quite meet my expectations. Here's what I expected to say. In those days, John the Baptist came Baptizing, not preaching, baptizing. That's pretty much what Mark says when he introduces John the Baptist. John came baptizing in the wilderness and preaching a baptism of repentance. He doesn't call him John the Baptist, but he says he comes baptizing. As we read on in Mark's brief description, the emphasis is far more on the baptizing than on the preaching. But not Matthew, he mentions baptism, but from the start, his emphasis is on the fact that John is preaching And the word used there is one that means to proclaim or even to herald, because this man, as we're going to see in a moment, is a herald of the king. He's going before him, saying that the king has come. He is heralding this message. And then, of course, the content of the preaching is repent. Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand, or literally has drawn near. The kingdom of heaven has drawn near. And what uh what Matthew's doing here is John preached many times in many messages, but he's summaring up summarizing up the theme of what he said is simply repent. That's how it can all be summed up. And it's exactly what Jesus says when we first see him preaching. Look with me at the end of chapter four, or middle of chapter four, chapter four, verse seventeen. From that time Jesus began to preach and to say, Repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Word for word, the same. Repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. That's what John says. It's what Jesus says. Exactly the same message summarized that Now this word for repent, and I'm done using Greek words, don't worry. But it is a Greek word, because it's written in Greek. It contains the Greek word for mind. It literally means, repent literally means to change your mind in the Greek. But it goes deeper than that. Now in Hebrew thought it had more to do with actions, and we see that reflected. I don't want to tread too much ground for next week, because I still need a sermon to preach next week. But drop down with me real briefly to verse 8. Look at what he says. Therefore bear fruits worthy of repentance. Repentance is a change of mind that results in a change of action, a change of behavior. You are going to live differently as a result of how you think differently. Change your mind so that you can change your behavior. And don't try doing the one without the other. You can try and change your actions without ever really turning your mind or your heart to Christ. It's not going to work. And that that's legalism. That's not the gospel. God must change you inwardly so that you can be different outwardly and live differently outwardly. So we see that here's a group of people down in verse 8. There's a group of people known for the sin of self-righteousness, and he says, bear fruits worthy of repentance. You're going to have to have a change of mind, but it's going to have to result in a change of behavior. We get so used to saying, believe, don't we? We tell people to come to Jesus, believe in him, trust in him, put your faith in him. That we forget the biblical sense of what believing means. And so if believing is a mental activity, and it is, I think it's more than that. There's a heart trust that goes on, but but it's not less than that. If believing is a mental activity, well, so is repenting. They both take place in the mind. They both affect change outside beyond the mind And a genuine Christian has both of those going on here inside of him or her. And I would argue that Repentance and belief are actually the same thing. And I'm going to stop using the word belief or believe right now because the biblical word, right? For faith. In the Greek, they use the same word that we translate as a noun faith. It's the same word just in verb form that we say for belief. So Instead of saying believe in Jesus, a better, more biblical way to say it is just faith in Jesus. You need to faith in Jesus. And of course we said so then we say put your faith in Jesus. But that is the word. But the word is put your faith in Jesus. And if belief, if faith is a turning of your mind to Jesus, well repentance is a turning of mind away from Jesus. We're looking at the same thing just from two different angles. You can't come to Jesus without turning away from something And and so here's the main message of this of this passage, the main theme is that God's prophets here, in this case John the Baptist, Jesus as well, and it's right in line with the prophets of the Old Testament. God's prophets assume us to be people who need to turn to God. They assume us to be people who need to turn to God, and so unilaterally, they call us to repent. Let me show you those one more time if you're trying to fill them in. God's prophets assume us to be people who need to turn to God. They assume you need to turn, and so they call you to repent. They call all of us, unilaterally, everybody needs to repent. And so when we're when we're bel when we say that we're believing or coming to Jesus, that's what we're saying. We're saying that we're turning from a competing worldview, a competing ideology that was incompatible with Jesus. There was a time when I did life, you did life a certain way. You had values that were different from Jesus' values. I did things he hates. I saw certain ways about him that were incorrect and or maybe even offensive to him. And maybe you cared about Jesus, but things were think other things were a higher priority than having him or or knowing him or honoring him. When I put my faith in Jesus When I faith in Jesus, I surrendered my previous priority list and my previous way of seeing the world and viewing life. I surrendered my sins. I surrendered my values and my value system I didn't know all the things that would need to change. And this is true of a f of like a five or six year old. I was five or six when I trusted the Lord, but it's true of someone who comes to the Lord in their in their teens or twenties, in their forties, in old age. But basically, we we don't know all of the things that need to change, but we're submitting ourselves, we're submitting our will to his will. I turned from Rob's way to Jesus' way. Over and over again, I would try to take up Rob's way again, and I would have to repent again. I would have to turn back to Jesus' way. And of course, Jesus himself tells us in John chapter 14 that he is the way, and that means he's the only way. So we all need to recognize that the way that we access Jesus' salvation and Jesus' forgiveness is by placing our faith in him in such a way that we are turning from these other ways and we we we are submitting our will to his Essentially, we are submitting, we are saying to God, you have the right to intervene. You have the right to tell me how I need to change. You get the first saying in my life on all of these things. And you might be hearing this, and you might be thinking, yeah, amen. This is a message for people to become saved. I'm happy to hear it. It's not a message for me, because I'm already saved, I've already repented, but I'm glad to hear this. And you're not wrong. If you are already a safe person, you're not wrong. You've already repented. You've already placed your faith in Jesus. Then yes, that means that you're saved. Praise God for that. Let's not gloss over that. He's brought you to the life-saving message of the gospel. He's you you've heard it and you've you've actually listened and you've actually heeded and and you've you've turned from your sins. He's saved you He saved you from the power of Satan. He saved you from the power of hell. He's given you freedom to obey him. You couldn't do it before, not freely. Now you can. That's awesome. Let's praise him for that, but recognize he's continuing to worship, sorry, he's continuing to work out salvation in you I am constantly picking up on the things I want to do and I think should come first, and I have to submit those to Jesus. Often on a daily basis, and sometimes more often than that, and say, nope, sorry, Lord, you are right, I am wrong, and I turn back my my Sinful flesh keeps wanting to turn away from him. I have to grab the wheel and turn back towards him. The life of faith is a life of repentance. Just as we continue to trust Jesus, we're gonna have to keep repenting. Do you understand that? That if you are a Christian, the message of repentance is still relevant to you. Because there are things that perhaps you need to repent of. Now, we think about repentance and we think about sin, and that's the way I always present it, right? There are sins yet in your life that you need to turn away from. And perhaps the Lord gave you, when you were younger in your faith, he gave you great power over certain sins. For for me, very w when I started really walking with the Lord, I I trusted him earlier, but I but I was not walking closely. I was I was a child, but then as I as I kind of got through adolescence, uh in my very early days of college, I started walking closely with the Lord and Very quickly he convicted me of the words coming out of my mouth, specifically swear words, and he gave me the power to overcome them very quickly. But then there were other sins that later on they were slower to go and that that I would continue to wrestle with for a longer amount of time, and there are still sins in my life I need to turn from, I need to to yield to the Lord. We think of repentance in terms of sin and we need to. But I think that maybe for if if you're a more mature Follower of Christ, you've been walking with him for some amount of time. And perhaps perhaps you haven't. Perhaps this part is not so much for you. But if you are a more mature believer then maybe it's less about what you're you're repenting from and more simply about who you're repenting to that that consistently you need to turn back to Jesus so that he is priority number one And that the the responsibilities given to you, they come first. Not the things that you'd like to do or that are still important, but you're you're not quite thinking clearly until you read the Bible that morning or on your lunch break that morning. day or or in the evening and you're not quite thinking clearly and and as you read the word and he renews your mind you recognize Ah, I've had some things out of order. And you're simply repenting to Christ. Maybe we can't point exactly at a sin other than the general selfishness, which is essentially the essence of sin anyway. But you but you you just need to continue to repent to Jesus so that he continues to be to have top billing. And that was something that as I was meditating on this message this week, And thinking about those of you who are further along and you have been walking with the Lord for longer than I've been in this world, that perhaps it's less about specific sins all the time, though certainly I I have no doubt that you do sin. But sometimes on and on the daily basis it's simply putting Jesus first, and that is a form of repentance as well. We have to keep redirecting our attention and our priorities to the Son of God who deserves top billing. But there are certain sins that perhaps you need to repent of. But you commit in the past week or the last 24 hours. Now, a few minutes, we're gonna be partaking of the Lord's table. We're going to be celebrating the fact that we have communion with Jesus. And when we celebrate our communion with Jesus, we don't want there to be sin in the way. It's sort of like when you have a a a fight with a with a close friend or with a spouse or with a coworker. If you've ever had a fight with your boss or disagreement with your boss, when you come in the next day, it's awkward, right? And you want you want to put things right pretty quickly. Well, we don't want it to be awkward between I'm I'm not necessarily calling God our boss, though Jesus is our master. But it's a it's a better relationship than boss to employee. But we do need to put things right with him that we take away that awkwardness. We're about to celebrate communion. And he tells us not to partake in an unworthy manner. So I want to give you just a few moments. This is not going to be a long-drawn-out prayer time. But a few moments right now, we're going to pause and we're going to pray and we're going to confess our sin to Him. Don't just do it with lip service, only do it if you mean it. The Lord knows it if you're faking it. But I hope that you can submit yourself to Him now. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come in Jesus' name and ask that you would just hear our prayers of confession for the next few months. Uh, Thank you, Margaret. We can Keep short a counsel with you that you always hear us. You always forgive us if we're in Christ, because his blood washes away our sins. Amen. We have prayed repentantly at the message of John the Baptist. We have understood what his message is. It's a message of repentance. But who is he really? And that's what the next two verses tell us: the identity of John the Baptist. First, we have the message of John the Baptist. In verses 3 and 4, we have the identity of John the Baptist. For this is he who was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah, saying, the voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make his path straight. That's verse 3. This is the man who is promised to prepare God's people for the promised man. That's who he is. He's the man promised to prepare us for the promised man. Now, the quotation here in verse 3 is part of a longer quotation from Isaiah 40, verse 3. There's also another very important prophecy of John the Baptist in Malachi chapter 3. And because it's so easy to turn there, right, you're in Matthew. And Malachi, that's the first Matthew is the first book of the New Testament. Malachi is the last book of the Old Testament. So just turn back a few pages, pass that uh that dividing page between Old and New Testaments. Just scroll up a little bit on your phone. And we see in Malachi chapter 3, verse 1, Behold, I send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me. And the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple. And he goes on. He says that he would send his messenger before him. And he will prepare the way before me. John himself takes the one not from Malachi but Isaiah, and he says, yes. That one, that that man, the voice crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make his path straight. That's me. I know it was given 700 some years ago. I am that guy But in doing so, he's telling them the the r that his role is not to call attention to himself but to the person who's coming. Now, can you see how this initial prophecy, Isaiah's prophecy, came quite a ways before Malachi's prophecy, a a good three hundred years before Malachi's prophecy. Can you see how that prophecy, and even the Malachi one, might have been misunderstood by the Jewish people? I mean, think about it, right? So If this is someone crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make his path straight. Old Testament Jews, they thought that the Messiah was to prepare them for the coming of the day of the Lord when God will set everything right. And and he will judge the Gentiles, the nations, and put Israel up on top over the rest of the world. And that that will happen. That will yet happen. But they're expecting that the Messiah, the anointed one, is the one preparing them for the Lord. What they don't understand is it's better than that. The Messiah is the Lord God Himself. And so God sends a messenger ahead of the man who is the Lord Himself. You see what I'm saying? Instead of just sending a man to prepare us for God, he sends us a man to prepare us for the God man. For when God actually comes in the flesh and tells us who God is and makes a way for us to be right with Him So, what this is, it signifies that God's coming to his people. This man is saying, prepare for God's arrival. And heralds in ancient days would go ahead of the the king when he's coming to visit a city, especially after a conquest. So, like the Emperor Constantine coming in to Rome to take the kingdom, the entire empire for himself, he would send a herald ahead of him. Well, often the herald would have a team of people with him who would literally go in and fill in divots in the road so that it would be a smooth path for the king to get there And so this man, his ministry is to say, let's smooth out the road so that God can come to us, so that our God King can come to us. Well, how do you prepare for him? How do you make that road to your heart smooth? How do you make it straight? How do you make it so that he can get to you by repenting? And that's John's message. It's consistent with Isaiah's message. It's consistent with Malachi's message. It's consistent with Jesus' message. If we are to receive God and receive salvation through Jesus Christ, it means we must repent. And it's not some additional work. It's a work of preparation that comes at the same time as belief. We believe in him, we we faith in him, and we and we turn to him. We turn from and we turn to. We repent of our sin, we repent of our way, we submit our will to him, we trust in him, and the Holy Spirit comes into our hearts and unites us to Jesus. Who cleanses us of our sin. That's who this man is. That's what he's doing. He's calling us to repent to prepare us for the man who is about to come. And verse 4 tells us then of his his unusual appearance and a very unusual lifestyle. Now, John himself was clothed in camel's hair, with a leather belt around his waist. And its food was locusts and wild honey. There was a popular song when I was in my teens, and I'm not going to quote it, but it it actually started with a rap, and I don't like rap music. But I but I committed the bat the route to memory. Maybe in a moment of weakness you might see me do it if you ask nicely. Won't be from the the pulpit. Where where uh they they they tell the story of John the Baptist that he was a man in the desert and uh he slept there, he made his life there, and he even he ate wild bugs. A very odd thing. He in appearance and in lifestyle he matches very similarly Elijah. And Jesus will later on say that Elijah's already come. And and Matthew tells us, yeah, he's speaking about John the Baptist, and they all understood that. Matthew tells us that that that uh John the Baptist came in the spirit of Elijah. He's not Elijah himself reincarnated like some people say seem to think like it like like Elijah, not reincarnated, but like Elijah would come back from heaven in the flesh, but he comes in the spirit of Elijah. And if you think about John's ministry, right, uh he he lived like Elijah out in the desert. Elijah did uh did that a lot. for many years, and he was eating torn meat given to him by scavenging birds. This guy's not doing that, but he's eating wild locusts and honey. Elijah passed out of sight and left his office to someone greater than himself. And that is what John the Baptist did. Now he didn't he wasn't taken up in a chariot of fire like Elijah was. He he died in in ignominy. He was beheaded. Off camera, uh away from the the the the nation who that that they could mourn him. He was taken at a at a cocktail party for the king And he g left his office over to someone greater than him, the Lord Jesus Christ. This is the man who comes in the spirit and power of Elijah with the message that in order to prepare ourselves for the coming of the anointed one. We must repent. That's his message and his identity. Well, now how do the people respond to him? Verses 5 and 6. Tell us that, the response of John the Baptist, you know, I can describe his message, but it would be incomplete if I didn't tell you or if Matthew didn't tell us how they responded. And at least initially, he apparently had a good response. We have a summary statement here, and we'll get a more comprehensive description of the various people in the next six verses, but here's what it says. Then Jerusalem, all Judea, and all the region around the Jordan went out to him and were baptized by him in the Jordan, confessing their sins. Now perhaps there's a little bit of hyperbola here to say, All Judea, that is the the area. surrounding the the the tribe, the province surrounding uh Jerusalem. And then apparently the the areas close to the Jordan River where John the Baptist was baptizing. You had people coming from all over. You had a lot of people coming perhaps out of curiosity, perhaps because they recognized that this is the fulfillment of Scripture. They came for different reasons. Some people perhaps with self-righteous reasons So they came to hear his message and to see who he was. Now, can I take like 60 seconds? I have to, I'm a Baptist pastor. Okay? Let me take 60 seconds to do the stereotypical Baptist thing. All right? Someone can put it on a stopwatch if you want. Ready? Go. John was baptizing in a river. That's because it takes a deep place to do a baptism, especially for taller people. In fact, in in John's Gospel, so different different John, John the Evangelist, John the Gospel writer. Tells us of a different occasion where he's baptizing at a slightly different point on the river. And it says he chose the place he did, quote, because there was much water there. Now baptism requires immersion. And he performed this immersive baptism, he immersed them in the water on those who've confessed their sins. So John was not sprinkling babies. And neither was Jesus, and neither do we. The people who get baptized are the ones who are confessing their sins, and they're getting baptized by immersion, not by a sprinkling. You don't need to go to a river. To just sprinkle water on somebody. Did I make it within the sixty seconds? I think I saw well at least one with your phone out. Okay But that's what that's what verse 6 says. They were baptized by him in the Jordan, confessing their sins. And I'll stop focusing on the mode of baptism, but let's look at that confession part, right? That's what the response was. Confession and baptism to signify that they're turning from sin. I think baptism speaks for itself in many ways because it's such a clear picture. Quite clearly, it is conveying a message that the person in the water is clean now. Everyone's watching this person go down and come up, and he's been made clean. And if you want to get baptized here in this church, you'll have an interview with the church leadership. That's myself and the deacons. And if you're a lady, and just for for comfort's sake, we'll gladly bring in a couple of our wives. so that you're comfortable. And then we will look to we'll interview and we'll just look to confirm that you do understand the gospel and that Jesus has indeed saved you already. We don't believe that the baptism saves you. It's not that the water has some magical powers to it. You are You are um when you get into the water, Jesus has already saved you. He saved you when you repented of your sins. He saved you when you trusted him for salvation At the moment you trusted him, the Holy Spirit has united you to Jesus. He's made you clean, and now you get in the water as a picture of what Jesus has done in your heart. Baptism is a picture of the cleansing that happened in your heart when the Holy Spirit came into your life. It's you saying I'm a sinner. Up until recently I was filthy, but Jesus has made me clean. Your baptism is a picture of all of that. And so I encourage you, if you've trusted Christ as your Savior, you need to get baptized. Really, you should get baptized shortly afterwards. Because it's actually listed as the first act of obedience for a believer. And especially us Baptists, and especially me as your pastor who wants to who gives an account to the Lord. I'm especially careful. If I have a child come and say to me, and parents say to me, our son or our daughter trusted the Lord for salvation just last week Can they get baptized? I tend to be on the wary side because I don't want to put someone in the water. who is not actually safe, has not been cleansed from their sin. They mean well, but it's a young child and They didn't really understand what they were saying. So you'll see me question a child. I don't want to get give them a false sense of security that they're right with God if they're not. But on the other hand, it's the first act of obedience for a believer, so I mustn't forbid it too much. And so you'll see me be careful with your child, and you'll see me questioning them And try to not give real leading questions. But on the other hand, I do want to get them baptized if they have trusted the Lord, because it's wrong for me to prevent them from obeying the Lord in something that He's commanded them to do. If you have trusted the Lord as your Savior, but you've never obeyed that first act of discipleship. Well that's something that's important for you to do, and I encourage you to come talk to me and we'll talk about baptizing you. I would love to do another baptism. It's been a few months. Let's do another baptism We were commanded to be baptized. And that's a way that we can show our friends and our family. It's a great way for you to invite your unsaved friends or friends that you're not sure if they really know the Lord. Come and see me get baptized. See my testimony of what Jesus has done for me, that I'm cleansed now, and you're holding yourself accountable then to those unsaved people and to those saved people that you belong to Jesus, you represent him now. And your actions will reflect on him. It helps you to pursue your sanctification in that way as well. Brothers and sisters, we are called to continue repenting until the Lord takes takes sin's presence away from us and puts us in his own presence. If you have not yet repented and turned to Jesus Jesus from your own way. Let's do it today. Submit to him now. Perhaps you've not quite understood the gospel But you get it now, and you don't know all of the things you're explicitly, you'll be explicitly repenting of certain sins you know are in your life. But then there'd be some other things you're just implicitly repenting from, and you don't quite know what they are, but you're s you're taking your first step in submitting your will to Christ. He will save you and he will lead you the rest of the way, and he will be gentle. in how he does that. I urge you to turn to Christ today for the first time or the millionth time. Let's pray. Dearest Heavenly Father, we praise you for the saving message of the gospel. Help us to turn our hearts to Jesus. From our sin, yes, from our own way, yes, Lord, but to Jesus. Thank you for this message. And Lord, I pray that there might be someone who gives their life over to you, who commits to you, who obeys you in discipleship by getting baptized. And very soon. Lord, we lift uh these things up to you in Jesus' name. We ask that you help us to be ready now for the special celebration of the communion we have with Christ. Amen.