Please turn with me to Matthew chapter five. This morning we are facing The start of one of the greatest sermons ever preached. I'm just going to go ahead and call it the greatest sermon ever preached, because if it's not this one, it's another one preached by Jesus But I'm willing to take a bet and say that this is the greatest one. I don't want us to just plow straight into the first verses of the sermon. I want us to take a moment to admire it from a bit of a distance first. This, of course, is preached by Jesus Christ. And it is beautiful, it is quotable, and is often quoted, it is wonderful, it is full of hope, even as it brings about condemnation. We call it the Sermon on the Mount because it was preached on a hillside in the hill country on the edge of the Sea of Galilee. It's more of perhaps a sermon on a hill than on the mount, but that is the name that it's been given over time. It's three chapters long. And so with such a large amount of content, we run the risk of missing the overall message and all of the beauty of it by going straight into the details. So, you know, to borrow the phrase missing the forest for the trees, I want us to not go straight into the forest. Not go straight up against the trees for a hike right away. I want us to fly by helicopter over it and see the beauty of the forest. at large before we go right in. So today will be this overview of the Sermon on the Mount. Starting next week we will go in verse by verse. Of course we will pause at Christmas time. We're not going to take a long time over of Christmas messages because we already had a bunch of those in September, didn't we, when we were working through the early chapters of Matthew. But we will have a brief break at Christmas and New Year's. And then we'll be right back to going through the Sermon on the Mount and then of course the rest of the Gospel of Matthew. So we are going to this morning, we'll look at verses 1 and 2 of chapter 5 to see the preliminaries before the actual sermon starts. We're going to look at the four emphases of this sermon. And we'll pull out the theme of each of those. If you're following in your bulletin, you'll see that there is a space for you to write about each of those four emphases. And I will give those to you on the screen. In just a moment. Now, people have misunderstood the Sermon on the Mount over the centuries. And today, even, people will take pieces of the Sermon on the Mount out of context And they will use that to justify wrong doctrines and and wrong agendas. And we see this by very conservative evangelical brothers and sisters that we would love and gladly call brothers and sisters and yet we might say they they might be in danger of doing that. And then of course Uh liberal theologians, what we call progressive Christians. Now I'm not talking about liberal conservative in the terms of c politics. I'm talking about how we interpret scripture. But we see it on both ends. The progressive Christians have they can be called that. And then the very conservative ones will will take pieces from here as they will with the rest of Scripture and try to build something That the Sermon on the Mount does not support. And so we want to be very careful. And that's why I want us to get the whole context today. Politically minded people will do this, right? Right now we see it happening with conservatives, wanting to see our country's culture become more moral. And become more conservative. And so they will try to force Christ's commands on people politically. But it doesn't work because the people they're governing aren't yet changed and not yet able to do what is being legislated. On the other hand, progressive Christians, if they can be called Christians, will take the social elements of The Sermon on the Mount, and they'll say, This is good for society. We need to do these behaviors that Christ uh is telling us to do, again, without changing hearts. But what we see the Sermon on the Mount be all about is about the heart. There has been much disagreement on how to understand the Sermon on the Mount in the past, and one of those things, one of those faulty ways of understanding it. is to say that this is written for people living during the millennium. After, let me explain that what what that is for those of you who are not familiar. We're pre-millennial church. That means that we believe that Christ will return before initiating his reign over the whole world. He will be the visible political ruler of this earth. And he will do so for a thousand years before bringing in the eternal state. And we say he returns prior to the millennium. Well, one way of interpreting this Body of literature, these five, these three chapters, and it's the wrong way to interpret it, is to say that he's really writing to people who will be living in the millennium. He's not writing for people today. So really that would mean there's very little relevance, if any, for us to for me to preach through this for the next several months If it's only meant for those who will live in the millennium. The problem with that view is that it deals with things that will not be present during the millennium, or barely present. For instance In chapter 5, verse 10, it says, Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake. But there will not be persecution in the millennium, perhaps at the very, very, very, very, very end. Right before the Lord devours his enemies with fire. But for that reason, and for many others that I'm not going to take time to go into, This is not aimed at people living in the millennium. This is aimed at us now. His audience was understanding this to be relevant to them now, and it's relevant for you, it's relevant for me now. And that's why we don't build a political doctrine out of it. It's why we don't build a social program out of it. Jesus is talking to us who need our hearts changed. And then we can follow him in his example. You with me so far? Praise the Lord. Okay. No matter how good or admirable someone's motives may be, taking Scripture out of context is never good. It's never the right way to fulfill those good motives And so we are going to look at this whole thing in context. If we love Jesus, we we will love the things that he says and we'll seek to understand it the best that we can. So we're not just gonna uh quote isolated verses to set an agenda. We're going to look at the whole overla overall context so that in the next weeks ahead we can understand what King Jesus means when he makes difficult statements or confirms. So just a few general things to know about this sermon before we set off I want to remind you what we were what we were working through at the beginning of this year. You remember we were in uh the book of Titus. Before we were in Esther, right, we were in Titus. And we got to the second third of chapter 2. And I said that this is this is the heart of the gospel, and that it explains exactly what the gospel is and what it what it affects what it does in a person. And I'm just going to read Titus chapter 2 verse just verse 14 to you. It says that Jesus Christ gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from every lawless deed and purify for himself his own special people, zealous for good works. Well, in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus is telling his own how his own special people will live and what their good works will look like. That is what he is doing. But he must make you one of his people first. He must change you. He must give you new life. That's what the gospel is. It's making you a new person because he forgives us. And he cleanses us. And he transforms us so that we can now fulfill these impossibly high standards that he lays out. in the uh the Sermon on the Mount. The great Welsh preacher, Martin Lloyd-Jones, and if you've ever been in my office, which most of you have, if you ever wondered about the the funny black and white picture that I have on the wall, actually two pictures of this man. They're a little bit blurry. They're of Martin Lloyd Jones, the one of my heroes of great history, uh, of church history. Uh and Martin Lloyd Jones was a Welsh preacher in London in the mid-20th century. And he explained the message of the Sermon on the Mount like this. He says, we're not told in the Sermon on the Mount, live like this and you'll become a Christian. He said, rather we are told, because you are a Christian, live like this. Do you hear the difference? He's going to lay out, Christ is going to lay out for us. How we live after he saved us, what it is he enables us to to do and to live out. Christian. He says, I'm going to make you a Christian. I'm going to transform you. I'm going to make you new. I'm going to give you a new heart. And then you will live like this. These are the marks of the Christian life that He's going to show us, but not requirements for salvation. If they were, none of us would have any hope. Now I think we could sum up really the content here with another very well-known verse. And that is, for we walk by faith, not by sight. In other words, if you believe the Bible, and specifically if you believe Matthew chapter 5, and Matthew chapter 6 and Matthew chapter 7 to be the Word of God. And that it really was spoken by Jesus, who really is the Son of God incarnate in the flesh. If you're trusting that Jesus saved you when he died in your place on the cross, Then you'll do what he commands. That is the mark of somebody who's been saved and transformed by him. You will live out what he commands. You'll follow his examples. So I want you to look at verses 1 and 2 here in chapter 5. 1 and 2. It says, and seeing the multitudes, he that of course is Jesus. Went upon a mountain, and when he was seated, his disciples came to him. Then he opened his mouth and taught them saying. Now, right before this in chapter four, we have a we have a discussion of and a summary of what Jesus has been doing throughout his ministry. Matthew gives us kind of in general terms what his ministry looks like up there in Galilee. That's the northern part of Israel. Uh and he says that uh people are coming to him from all around, from well outside of Israel, from up uh up in Syria, the the Roman province of Syria. They're they're coming all the way perhaps From Antioch, which would become like a second capital of the church early in her lifespan. They're coming from all over Syria, perhaps as far as Damascus. Oh, with sick people to be healed. And they're coming from Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria and from the Decapolis. They're coming from all over and all around Galilee as well. And they're they're seeking healing, and he's working miraculously to heal them. And on one of those particular occasions, so that's in general, but now on one of those particular occasions, it says he saw the multitudes, and so he went up on the mountain. Now, as I said, this is a hilly region in general. The traditional site of the Sermon on the Mount is a place that's been called the Mount of the Beatitudes, and the Beatitudes And it i if if that is is a correct site, uh then it's a very hilly area, uh right coming up against the the Sea of Galilee. He sees this large crowd and he goes higher up the mountainside. It wouldn't perhaps be right to call it Re- truly a mountain. It's more of a hill, an elevated place than they're already elevated. Why would he go higher Well if you think about it, if he can go just up the hillside a little bit, and perhaps there's a what what Tolkien might call a hillock sticking up that he can sit on, uh then he can speak down. Now that he's speaking speaking down on them but but his voice will carry and in a time with no modern amplification that there were there's good acco acoustics. I've never been there but I am told there are good acoustics in in that particular region And so he preaches down so that they can all hear. Now, when a rabbi taught When he sat down, that's his way of saying, all right, my formal teaching is about to start. He would, while he's standing, he would perhaps have informal teaching Casual teaching in the form of conversation. But when he sits down, that's when he's about to preach or to teach. That's not how it works today, is it? I'm not sitting down. I'm standing up. Right? But in Jesus' day, he would sit down. And when he sits down, his disciples come up close to hear him. Now, I know it appears. Let's look at that again. So it says Seeing the multitudes, he went up on a mountain, and when he was seated, his disciples came to him. So it it looks like, right, that maybe he went away from the multitude. And then the disciples came to him and he he spoke to four, maybe twelve people, maybe a few more that are counted disciples, though not the inner twelve, because he's not named that yet. But then we find out at the end, if you were to turn with me to the very end of the Sermon on the Mount, that is the end of chapter 7. In verse 28, so Matthew 7, verse 28, it says, And so it was when Jesus had ended these things that the people were astonished at his teaching. Now that word there for people. The people were astonished. They've been listening all this time. The people were astonished. Well now go back to chapter 5, verse 1, right? Seeing the multitudes, right? That word people and that word multitudes, that's actually the same word. If you have a different translation, you'll see it's it's translated crowds or or both have translated multitudes. So it seems we have kind of a two-tiered audience here. We have the multitudes who in general do not know the Lord personally, intimately as Savior at this point. And those who are his disciples who knew who are following him closely. Probably what happens is he sits down and his disciples who are ministering alongside him and under him, they're like, Okay, this is what I'm here for. And they and they hurry up and they get uh ringside feats, so to speak. But the rest of the multitudes, they can hear just fine as well. And so we have kind of two tiered audience, it's important we recognize that because there are certain things that he says that are very evangelistic, that must have been heard and must have been intended for those general multitudes. But then there are also his closer disciples, those who perhaps have already put faith in him, that he is speaking more intimately, more closely to them that some of these things can be realized in their lives even at this point. And so we have these these two audiences. Now let's go ahead and look at the four different themes that we see in this this sermon, we could identify more. And I'm going to give you general kind of a general breakdown of the different topics in this sermon. I'm not giving you verse by verse from here to here is this division and then that division and this division and that division stacked on each other. Rather these are these are general themes and some of these kind of weave in and out with each other. Okay? The first of those is in the what we call the Beatitudes. I've just written it on your in your notes as the blessings, because that's what we see it as, right? If you turn with me to Matthew five, verse three. It starts with Blessed are the poor in spirit. And then you look at verse 4. Blessed are those who mourn. Verse 5, blessed are the meek. Verse 6: Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. And over and over we have these statements of blessings. And the big theological word for that is the Beatitudes. A beatitude is a statement of blessing. It's not just the ones found here in Matthew chapter 5. That's what we tend to think of. But there are statements of blessings all over in the Psalms, aren't there? And other places. Any of those would be considered a beatitude. And specifically, we have a message here in the blessings that the way of blessing, or the way to blessing is often counterintuitive. Because look at what he says. Look at verse 4. Blessed are those who mourn. Now in itself, does that not sound contradictory? Do you feel blessed when you're mourning? When you were last at a funeral of someone you held dear? Or you were there because someone had lost someone dear to you had lost someone dear to them? Did you feel blessed? Did you feel like they were blessed? When they were going through tragedy and grieving. And yet Jesus says, counterintuitively, blessed are those who mourn. And then he explains, he said, For they shall be comforted. When you were last at a funeral, perhaps you put your arms around somebody to give them comfort or or to gain comfort for yourself. And that's true. We we are comforted by our friends, by our family members Perhaps even by our co-workers or classmates when when we're mourning. And we can mourn things aside from death, can't we? But what he's promising here is a special type of blessing that comes from being comforted by God Himself, and that those who belong to Him and have a special relationship with Him will be comforted, and that is a s in itself a special blessing that you cannot get through any other means. That when when God will comfort you in distress and in mourning And that is a particular type of comfort he only gives you when you're mourning. Perhaps you have mourned and been brokenhearted over your sin. Or perhaps not even over your sin, but over the effects of your sin, that you have done something foolish and wicked, and it has hurt people close to you. You've suffered loss because of it. When you mourn with a genuine heart of repentance, the Lord provides you with comfort that he doesn't give at other times. Not that he won't comfort you in other times. or draw near to you in other times, but this is a particular type of comfort, and that in itself is a special blessing. Let's look down at verses 11 and 12. Blessed are you when they revile and persecute you and say all kinds of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceedingly glad. I'm going to pause right there. Have you ever been slandered? I mean, well and truly slandered. Not someone just got something factually wrong, but someone has intentionally twisted truth and intended to malign your character. Don't raise your hand. But if someone has spread a falsehood about you and intended to harm your reputation, then you know It hurts in a way that you can't understand until you've gone through it, right? And he says that as painful as that is And indescribable to people who have not gone through it when that happens. And he says specifically when this is for my sake, he's talking about when you are maligned, not not because of Something that you actually did wrong, right? But but when you have sought to honor the Lord and as a result you've been miss misunderstood, misinterpreted, or just plain old slandered. because they don't like it. When for his sake you are slandered, you are blessed. There is a special blessing for you And he says, it is so special, more than the ones above it, right? He says, rejoice and be exceedingly like you picture people jumping up in the air. Yes! People are saying these awful things about me! Woo! Right? It seems absurd, right? If you've ever gone through it, it feels absurd. It's hard to do. Almost impossible to do. And yet he's he's saying there is a special blessing here that should cause you to leap and woo-hoo. And then he says, because there is a reward in heaven waiting for you. For you. They persecuted the prophets before you just like this. Jeremiah and all the awful things he went through. Isaiah, who may or may not have been sawed in half. For being loyal to the Lord. Yeah, they did stuff like that to him too. And if Jeremiah and Isaiah were treated that way, you're in good company, man. And and if they were rewarded, uh doesn't it s feel funny to talk about being rewarded in heaven beyond just, well I get to be with Jesus? He's saying you you have a sp specific blessing, a specific reward waiting for you because that has happened to you. And we say, this is counterintuitive. This is contradictory. I would not expect blessing to come to me this way. And this is what God does. He takes broken things, twisted, perverted things, and he brings blessing out of them. Now, what is Jesus doing here starting his message this way? He's upending our thoughts, right? He is, he is, for his hearers, he's upending their thoughts on what blessing is and on what they deserve. Most of the listeners, as we said, are not disciples, and so they're not able to live the way that he's about to say is the right way to live. He's preparing them for receiving that. He's aiming to break them of this idea that they have in their minds that they deserve God's blessing based on who they are, genetic Israelites. Children of Abraham, they deserve blessing from God because I'm a Pharisee, because I work extra hard at my sanctification. I am a conservative, Bible-believing Christian in 21st century America, and there's only like 10 of us. And I'm in an elite class, right? We can think that way too And he's trying to show us that the blessings that I that I intend to give you, he says, are not the things you think you deserve, but they're the ones that come through hardship. He says, I'm going to bless you when you humble yourself and when you go through humiliating things. Because the problem that he's confronting throughout this whole message is that his hearers, and that includes you and me, We refuse to believe that any positive thing that God gives us is undeserved. We have this default setting, don't we, that we deserve blessing from God. And so he starts this message by inverting those expectations. And then he goes and he capitalized on it and he doubles down in his Second major division in this sermon on the law. And his message on the law is that Christ himself fulfills God's perfect standards for you. And then he calls you to follow them. Sorry, he calls you to follow him So he's just inverted the expectations as to what blessing is. He starts to break our feeling of entitlement, and now he's going to crush our pride. He's going to crush our self-righteousness. by showing us how far and distant we fall from God's own righteousness and holiness. Look with me at chapter 5, verse 17. He says, do not think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets. I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill He says, I'm going to be talked about. People are going to say that I'm telling you not to honor God's law. That's not true. I did not come to destroy it, but to fulfill it. And then he says a lot more about it, and we will save that for when we get there. But now jump with me to verse 21. He says, You have heard it said, you have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not murder, and whoever murders will be in danger of the judgment. But I say to you that whoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment. And whoever says to his brother Raka, or in ever in other words, if you call if you ever called Another Christian idiot. Or your own brother, your genetic brother, idiot. Have you ever done that? You shall be in danger of the council, but whoever says you fool shall be in danger of hellfire He's saying that you're guilty of murder and worthy of hell if you have ever called someone an idiot or a fool or been unjustly angry with them. Jump down to verse 27. And I know this is familiar to a number of you. So we're taking these at rapid fire right now. You've heard it was said to those of old, you shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that whoever looks at a woman to lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. And so we come to verses like this, and we have nowhere left for self-righteousness. Because we all stand condemned under probably just these two That in our hearts we have had sinful, evil attitudes. I've just very recently been reading the account of Johnny Erickson Tada. You familiar with that name? She was a young lady who grew up not far from here up in Baltimore and in the the late 60s she had an accident uh jumping into the Chesapeake Bay and she was rendered a quadriplegic She wrote uh a memoir in the 70s, just called Johnny by her name. Uh J-O-N-I. Looks like it should be Joni, but it's Johnny. And she's d she's describing in her her time of anger against the Lord for her her accident happening. She said she decided to kind of get back at the Lord by in Intentionally sinning against him. And she said, what she discovered, and I know that's a horrible thing, and she's very humble for writing about it, what she discovered was she said I was able to sin against him even though I ha I didn't have use of my hands, I didn't have use of my legs I couldn't go and do the sin, but I learned how wicked and sinful I was. She said that she would imagine sexual fantasies because she knew that it offended God And she said, I realized my own attitudes. Her bitterness was condemning her and was rooted in her. She had such evil in her, and then of course the lust. That she didn't need to have use of her hands or her feet, and she is still alive today, and she still does not have use of her hands. But she recognizes that she is fully able to sin against the Lord and fully worthy of condemnation, despite being unable to actually put those sins into practice. Now, if you have use of even one foot You have more ability to sin outwardly than Johnny Erickson Tata has. And if she is condemned, then so are you. I don't want to go through the whole we don't have the time, it's not not the scope to do this to go all of this section of the law, but I want you to look look at one more. It says in verse 33, Again you have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not swear falsely, but shall perform your oaths to the Lord. But I say to you, do not swear at all. Neither by heaven, for it is God's throne, nor by the earth, for it is his footstool, nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king, nor shall you make nor shall you swear by your head, because you cannot make one hair white or black Now we read these and we say, all right, I need to think about if I am ever in court, whether it's right for me to put my hand on the Bible and swear under oath. And then we miss the point of what he's saying. Look at what he says in verse 37. But let your yes be yes and your no no. For whatever is more than these is free from the evil one. In other words, those who follow Jesus, those who've been transformed, the the righteous standard that God has is that you keep your word. And someone who's been transformed by Christ ought to keep their word. And yet so often we flake out, don't we? And we are under condemnation. For our being flaky and not not letting our yes really mean yes. And if you recognize, you know what, some people would say I'm not the most reliable. I'm not the most trustworthy. This section of scripture condemns you Now, can you imagine inviting a neighbor over to your house to do a short Bible study with you The Sermon on the Mount is such a powerful tool for sharing the gospel with your coworkers, your classmates. Family members, your crazy uncle that you saw at Thanksgiving this week. Because it'll show us in Christ's own words why we need his righteousness, because our own just doesn't cut it. Invite your neighbor over, whether it's that family member, your classmate, your teammate, your coworker, your neighbor down the street. Invite them to do a short Bible study with you and take them right here. Just take them straight to Matthew chapter 5. Let's say that in the first week, you did where we've been so far, right? That you do the Beatitudes And you show them what the Lord says about true blessing, and it and it it's thought-provoking, isn't it? And it gets them thinking and it it it kind of wets their appetite, gets them wanting more, and that's that's week one. And then maybe perhaps on on week two you even you skip over the stuff that we've just looked at and you look at the Lord's Prayer. And you say, here's what Jesus said about how to pray, and you show them the context. And that's probably a touch point for most people living in our culture. They've they've heard at least parts of the Lord's Prayer. They've probably seen it in a movie They've maybe been at a at a wedding or a funeral where they've they've recited it. It's somewhat familiar, and it draws them in further. But man, week three You say, all right, we're going to go back to the part we skipped. And you take them to verse 17, chapter 5, verse 17, and you show them Jesus fulfills the law. And then you show them how condemned they are. Have you ever been angry? Unfairly? Have you ever thought lustful thoughts about somebody you saw on television? You ever flaked out on your word And they find themselves just crushed by the law. And then you say, and I'm saying to you now, Jesus fulfilled it. He fulfilled it for you. Let them feel the crushing disappointment that they don't measure up to God's perfect standard. Let them feel it. Don't let them stay crushed for too long, because then we have this hope. That Jesus Christ fulfilled that law, and then he died on the cross as though he had broken it. And God vents his full wrath at His son for breaking that law. When he didn't, you did. And he's there in your place. And you tell that to your neighbor. And you say, look, do you feel crushed? Do you feel beaten down? Do you feel like there's no hope for you? Well, so do I. But I found hope in Jesus because He bore all of God's wrath for me. In my place, you and I, we do deserve hell. We do deserve to be tormented away from him for eternity, and yet he took all of God's wrath. And he died under it, but in that process, our sin was all burned up. It's gone. His wrath satisfied on the death of his son. And because it was all gone, and if you've heard me preach before, you know I'm going to say this, there's no sin left to hold him in the grave. So he walked out of the tomb. That's what the resurrection means, that there's nothing left holding Jesus in the the the cave. That's why the stone was rolled away, not so he could get out, but so we could see he wasn't in there And when you share this with your neighbor, when you share this with your teammate from the soccer team, hammer the fact. That he fulfilled the law for you before he got on the cross. This is powerful stuff, guys. Let's make sure we believe it ourselves. Do you have some spiritual pride in you that's causing you to talk or at least think like you're better or more spiritual or more deserving? of Christ's grace than anybody else in the world? Maybe you don't think that you're better than other people who go to church with you, but you do think that you're better than that that really vain girl at school. school, or that pothead, or that that womanizer that you work with, or that drunk two blocks behind your house. You think that you're better than them? Then you need to come back to the Sermon on the Mount and read it slowly, not quickly like I'm doing, but take time with it and ask the Lord to help you see your Accurately, first according to the law and how it condemns you, and then second according to how God sees you now That you would see that it's his righteousness that makes you anything at all. But that in yourself you don't actually deserve any grace. If you did, it wouldn't be grace. It's unmerited. It's undeserved. We need to spend more time using King's Great Sermon as a mirror, and then we need to confess our sin to him and ask him to help us walk in more humility. And so that really makes now a good time to see what Jesus says about prayer. And I'm going to speed up a little bit because I realize we're getting on for time. Jesus' message regarding prayer is this. God is pleased to meet your needs. God is pleased to meet your needs as you ask him out of trust. So you might just say, as I ask him trustingly. Jesus has humbled us with the demonstration of the law, and now he's going to give us hope by showing us what God, showing us that God is eager to answer our prayers. So we move on into chapter 6, and the Son shows us how to ask the Father to meet our needs. With the model prayer. He tells us first, when you pray, don't try to put on a show. Don't try to show off to everybody. And this is going to be significant because it comes up again. Go in quietly, talk to the Lord, and here's how you do it, he says. And then he gives us, which many of us are very familiar with with reciting at different services we've been to, our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven, and you could probably keep going. But I hope you understand he's not saying every time you pray, that's how it ought to be. Rather, he's giving us kind of a model or scheme of of what our prayers ought to be about. That in humility we're we're ask we're asking God to assert His sovereignty over the world and over us. We're reminding ourselves that he forgives us, but that we need to forgive too. We're asking for forgiveness. And we're asking for help. We're asking for him to meet our needs. And he tells us how to ask the Father to meet our needs. But then he says, right, I want you guys to think and pray with a heavenly perspective, that you understand that God knows what you need before you come. He says this numerous times. Right, like he says don't let everyone see what you're doing. It's not about other people seeing you. It's the fact that Jesus sorry, God the Father already sees. He already knows these things. Opening the chapter, he says, don't do your charitable deeds, the good things that you do to love your neighbor. Don't do that for the world to see. Just be content that God sees it. And then he says that your your Heavenly Father knows what you need before you ask. He says this at the end of the second half of chapter 6. He says, I say to you, don't worry about your life. What you'll eat or what you'll drink, nor about your body, what you put on, is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing He goes on to say he the the the birds aren't asking and he feeds the birds. The lilies aren't asking and he's clothing them beautifully. They they look more beautiful than than the the best clothes that uh the m the money could buy and Solomon had all of that money and he never looked as beautiful as a lily He says in verse 31, Therefore do not worry, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For after all these things the Gentiles seek. For your heavenly father knows that you need all these things. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you. He goes on to say that God delights in giving good gifts. He is a father. And if you wouldn't give a stone to your son when he asks you for a loaf of bread, you know that God can do better than that. Because you're evil and he's good, he's righteous, and you're condemned, he's going to give you better than you ask for God sees all. He responds according to what he knows is genuine prayer. So believe that God will take care of your every need. Ask him trustingly. Ask him believing that he'll do it. And he'll do it. You see, he's going from condemnation to hope now. So you think through the condemnation, and you think through your struggles with lust and with anger and with not making it to places on time. And you say, Lord, I need wisdom, I need help. Ask him for wisdom and he'll give it to you. Jesus' own brother would go on to encourage us in that regard in the book of James. Well, then that spills right into human relationships, and here's what he has to say about human relationships. He says, honor God by extending to others the grace that he's shown you. Honor God by extending the grace he's shown you and in the wisdom that he promises to give you. You ask him for wisdom, believe he'll give it to you. Doesn't mean you have it yet, but walk in wisdom. Now I say that because we get some really difficult, almost contradictory statements in chapter 7. Judge not that you be not judged. We need wisdom if we're to judge not, and yet in verse five, be able to help our our brothers and sisters. Sin in. Look at verse 5. Hypocrite, first remove the plank from your own eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother's eye. We need wisdom if we're to be able to balance Judging in terms of discernment so that we can help others and deal with our own sin, versus condemning that sense of judging. There's more than one sense of judging. We need wisdom if we're to judge not, and yet be able to snip out a false teacher. In verse 15, beware of false prophets who come to you in sneak in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves. You will know them by their fruits. See, there's a different type of judging going on in these different scenarios. And we need wisdom if we're going to navigate that. We need wisdom if we're going to implement the things that Jesus says because he ends the sermon say the sermon saying Be the wise man who built his his house on a rock. You know what that means? Means you heard what I said now, do it. Don't hear what I say and not do it. Because that would be foolish, and it's like building your house on sand. All it takes is one big wave, and it sweeps the foundation out from underneath, and the the house caves in on itself. We need wisdom if we're to do the things that he Exhorts us to do. Now, this last part, let me go ahead and read that so we have it in Jesus' words and not mine. We're in chapter 7 now, verse 24. Therefore, whoever hears these sayings of mine and does them, I will liken him to a wise man who built his house on the rock, and the rain descended, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat my house. And it did not fall for it was founded on the rock. But everyone who hears these sayings of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. And the rain descended, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, and it fell, and great was its fall. Now I remember Reading and hearing these things as I was probably seven, maybe eight years old. I remember thinking that's me. I'm I'm the wise man. I'm a Christian. I'm the wise man, I built it on the rock, and I really didn't listen after that. And I've thought that numerous times through the decades, I'm ashamed to admit. That I think of myself, well, I am a Christian, so it's saying I'm the wise man, right? And so I I I would I kind of gloss over this last little bit. Yep, chat got that one. I might not get any of the others, but I got that one. Well that's the point, isn't it? I if I don't have any of the others, I don't have that one. Right? This is the call to you. Even if you're a Bible-believing Christian and you're born again and you've been baptized and and you you You've grown in your sanctification. Don't blaze over this. He's saying, pause. Listen. Don't just assume because you're a Christian or because you think you're a Christian. That you have listened to all that he has to say, that you have obeyed what he said. Don't be dumb like me. As a seven-year-old or as a twenty-seven-year-old, don't be dumb like me. Slow down, listen, and make sure that you actually do the things he says, not so that you'll be saved, but he's saying that those who have been saved, those who have been transformed by Jesus We'll live this way and will live differently. Make sure that you are living differently. What does all of this combine together to say? What is the overarching message of the Sermon on the Mount? I'm sure we could sum it up different ways, and people have. Here's mine. Love Jesus by following his instruction. Because he has pleased God in your place, or knowing that he pleases God in your place, even as you fall short. So while you're failing, while you are sinning, Jesus has already pleased God in your place. That doesn't mean go on sinning. Of course not. The whole point of this is that we turn away from it, we do differently, that we that we build our house on that rock, isn't it? But understand that Jesus has gone before you, he's fulfilled the law for you, he's fulfilled the curse for you, and now you are free to love him by following his instructions. And so he says simply later on, you are my friends if you do whatever I tell you. If you love me, obey my commands. Let's pray. Dear Lord Jesus, thank you for coming to this world, humbling yourself, living as one of us, as though you had sinned. You hadn't, but as though you had. You fulfilled the law for us, and then you died as though you had failed the law. You died in our place. And so, Lord, we ask that you would help us even as we fall short to follow your instructions. Lord Jesus, thank you for loving us. Thank you for dying for us. Thank you for rising again and giving that life to us. Help us to trust in that. Lord, if there's anyone who needs to repent of individual things or to repent for the first time to be made new and whole in you, Lord Jesus, please would you affect that in that person's heart today. Jesus name Amen