I am really glad and grateful and excited to get to uh preach to you today and then to uh uh observe the Lord's table with you in a few minutes. I hope that you been thinking of that over the past week, uh preparing yourself for when uh you will be partaking of the Lord's Supper and uh enjoying communion with him. You can go ahead and and kill the feed there, uh Hannah. We're just gonna uh we'll re restart the feed in just a moment. Um I've been uh yeah I've been excited to preach part two of this message to you. It's it's not often that I do this in two parts. Um I think the Lord went behind me in a uh sorry, went before me in a number of ways, um, making it possible uh for me to have a uh uh a week where I was at a a Bible conference, uh a pastors conference in the last week. And I really do thank you guys, thank the church for providing for me to be able to go to that and to be refreshed. And I really have come back refreshed, ready and eager to preach to you. you but uh wasn't entirely sure how I would be handling uh the preaching duties. And uh the Lord went before me uh in in making this So that it became a two-part message. So I appreciate you bearing with me last week. And I've given you a a notes page that uh fills in if you look on the second ha second side of your notes page. It fills in the part one stuff, the stuff that we answered in part one, and there's still yet stuff to get to. So that's for your own completeness sake and and keep the context context and everything for you there. But we'll so we'll be following along with the same notes. It's pretty much the same PowerPoint slides. We're picking up where we left off. Um but so we're gonna we're gonna open with a word of prayer. Um I uh we'll just ask one thing. Um the the mic feels a little loud to me. Can we turn that down Down a little bit. We'll open with prayer and then we'll get right into the message. Ready? Dearest Heavenly Father, thank you so much that we are your people. You have made us your people, you have brought us near by the blood of Christ, you've adopted us into your family, if indeed we've trusted in Christ. And I know, Lord, there are some here who may have yet to trust in Christ alone. uh in in your grace alone had to to truly repent and turn from their own way to the way that is is yours is the narrow way. And I pray, Lord, if there's any such person here today that That they would be converted, that they would turn from their own way to Christ who is the way. Help them to see. Help each of us to see where where there are yet parts of our lives we need to yield To you. And we pray, Lord, we can come to the end of this message nourished and eager to remind ourselves of the perfect union with God. we have with Christ, the communion we have with Christ. Lord, would you speak through me? Would you would you preach by your Spirit in power? Lord, any good that comes out of this message is of you. It is not of me Lord, would you help us all to have a tent of minds? Help us to not have any issues with paying attention or with with hearing clearly. And Lord, we pray that we can just offer our attention spans at the altar, Lord, that we can we can listen and receive your message as an act of love. worship. Thank you, Lord, that I get to deliver this message. Help me to receive it as well. We're talking about a serious theme, a sad thing, and yet ultimately we have victory in Christ. over that. Would you help us as we consider the enemy of our souls? We love you and lift these things up to you in Jesus' name. Amen. You know, Jesus said that uh every scribe uh who is instructed in the Word of God and the things of the kingdom is like a uh to use the King James word, a a householder, a a He is uh someone who is his bring who is uh entrusted with the treasure of a great house or of a king. And that they are bringing out treasures, he says, new and old from the treasury. And I've really been seeing that with Esther. I think you've heard me say that. I've taught through it, but I've not preached it before. It's a difficult book to preach. It is different to teach and to preach. But I'm seeing more and more like it is taking me longer to get through than expected. I thought this would be a pretty quick series. We would be doing multiple chapters at a to at a time in big gulps. And we may speed up as we as we go along, but uh the Lord is showing me how much treasure is hidden here, and we're being reminded of things we already know, old treasures, and also some new ones. And I trust that it's been that way for you. It certainly has for me. So I'm going to kind of bring us back up to speed, remind you where we were a week ago. in the middle of uh Esther chapter three. We started at the end of chapter two, where we we saw that um Esther has become has become queen and uh sometime after that her basically her father her adoptive father her cousin but he's adopted her as as his daughter, uh, uncovers an assassination plot. And now that the book really gets exciting, right? It gets interesting. And he acts to protect the king. He he shares the information with Esther. She makes sure that that Mordecai gets all the credit and shares it with the king. The king's uh guard successfully prevents the assassination attempt. They uncover everything and they execute the two people responsible. And then as a reward, he he promotes not Mordecai. He promotes probably the worst dude in history to get a promotion, Haman, instead of Mordecai. And what I I want to make sure that you hang on to there is that that is an unresolved dangling plot threat that will be picked up on in a couple chapters time, right at the perfect moment. And I try so hard not to give you spoilers, but I hope you've read the whole book by now. Like this is a cool book. This is an exciting book. There's really no book like Esther in the rest of Scripture. I think it's the one that is the closest to feeling like a contemporary novel. It's too short for that. It's a short story, if you will. But if you haven't read through it yet, just take Sunday afternoon. And enjoy it. You can read through it in an hour, 70 minutes, easy. I'm a slow reader, so you can probably do it more in like half an hour. Read through it in whole. Even start at chapter one, even though we're in chapter three here. I encourage you, and I say stuff like this a lot on purpose, because we sometimes put the Bible in its own category and like we can't like we can't enjoy it or we we enjoy it differently as spiritual food but we don't think of it as as Entertainment. And the Bible is certainly more than mere entertainment. But we we fill ourselves, don't we, so much with entertainment, with fiction, or with riveting nonfiction. with sports, with movies, with music. But sometimes you can just sit down with the Bible. And it will thrill you, even if you're not looking for spiritual benefit. I mean it it always comes forth uh it the the Lord says it does his word doesn't return void. It it causes growth in us. But even if you're not looking for the spiritual benefit, just enjoy it. It's an exciting book. I realize it's not the most fun to read through Leviticus. But when you're reading through Esther or Nehemiah, full of assassination attempts, the book of Nehemiah. I encourage you just to enjoy the Bible for what it is. As the Word of God, some of the most exciting stories ever. written. So again, I don't like to give spoilers, but I soon need to give real spoilers in this book. So if you're if you're trying to preserve the that sense of suspense, please read it so that I don't have to give you spoilers, alright? I'm trying here. This dangling plot thread that Mordecai should have been rewarded for his act of valor in protecting the king. It it hasn't happened yet, and and it's unsatisfying at this point, but the Lord knows what he's doing, and this will be resolved in in the perfect timing. We go on, we hear that this this other guy, Haman, this evil dude, gets promoted instead of Mordecai. And He uh we find between him and Mordecai a struggle of pride and power. Haman uh gets this prominence that Mordecai does not get. Perhaps Mordecai, we don't know. But we we see a lot of clues here that that Mordecai there is some faithfulness in him. We've seen pretty much no faithfulness in him up until this point, but there seems to be a line he just won't cross when it comes to uh what he perceives as worshiping someone else. else. Whether that's actually what it was or not, it the Bible just isn't clear, is it? We we looked at this last week, so I'm not going to go deeply into this. I'm just trying to catch you up. But it is not a hundred percent clear whether this is truly intended to be worship or simply honoring a man uh who is in a position worthy of honor. He's not himself worthy of honor, but the position is. But but Mordecai probably in a mix of both pride and devotion to God, uh very limited devotion to God, but he's finally reached this line he won't cross, and he says, I will not bow down to Haman. hints of that. This is why he finally reveals his Jewish identity that he told Esther to protect. Don't reveal that you're Jewish. He reveals it because he won't bow down to Haman. And so Haman, as a result, uh comes up with a plan. I'm not just gonna I'm not just gonna destroy Mordecai. No, why not just destroy every Jew in existence? And this is really where we catch up. Haman manages to turn a personal affront Into an entire ethnic grudge. And so we'll pick up in verses 5 through 7. Let's go ahead and read Esther chapter 3, verses 5 through 7. Esther 3, 5 through 7. When Haman saw that Mordecai did not bow or pay him homage, Haman was filled with wrath. But he disdained to lay hands on Mordecai alone, till they had told him of the people of Mordecai. Instead, Haman sought to destroy all the Jews who were throughout the whole kingdom of Ahazuaras, the people of Mordecai. In the first month, which is the month of Nisan, in the twelfth year of King Ahazuerus, they cast Pur, that is Lot, before Haman, to determine the day and the month, until it fell on the twelfth month, which which is the month of Adar. He manages to take the fact that this one guy won't bow down to him. and decides that he's going to destroy every Jew, every person that's of the same race of Mordecai. Does that not seem absurd to you? Well, you know by now the the message title here for two weeks is The Hidden Enemy. And we have we have emphasized very much. the fact that in the book of Esther, there is a hidden God. There is a hidden sovereign. Yeah, you've got a king on the throne. He's a king of kings. He's an emperor. That's what a king of kings is, right? Ahasuerus, king over, we're told, 127 provinces or satrapies. over stretching from Iran westward to Greece down towards not just Israel but towards Egypt and Africa. It's a great kingdom of kingdoms. But he's not the real king. He hints over and over again he doesn't really have power. And then God pulling the strings so that he's really just like a puppet to him. So that God will accomplish his purposes for his own people and for the whole world. We see that over and over again, but there's another hidden figure. It's the hidden enemy This is the reason that we still have anti-Semitism persisting today. I mean, when I was in school, I thought that that was pretty much done, right? That that after the failed attempt of Adolf Hitler to annihilate all Jews, that we were done with anti Semitism, that the Holocaust was was not o was not only a horrific act, but it was at least a victory in the sense that we saw how bad it is, we will never persecute Jews again. And yet it's happening today, right? And I don't seek to get political But the fact that there are enemies continuing to wage war not only against a nation, the nation of Israel, but also over ethnic Jews, even just down the road from us. today after we've after we've seen such a horrific active attempted genocide less than a hundred years ago. To me that was unthinkable when I was a kid. teenager. I imagine you maybe had similar thoughts. How is it that for twenty five hundred years we've had multiple mass plots of genocide? And there were other plots I believe in the nineteenth century To annihilate the Jews. Why? Because there's a hidden enemy. He is nothing compared to the hidden Ultimate sovereign power, God. But there's this hidden enemy, we call him Satan, lurking behind the scenes, so that he can take Haman's anger at one guy and his puffed up pride, and and you put him in the wrong position, a position of power he really ought not to be in. And Satan will manipulate that as he manipulates the king to attempt to annihilate an entire race. And of course we've seen genocides of other races in more recent years and it is it is horrific. And the Lord hates violence and he's rapidly bringing this age to an end. He's He's delaying so that more and more people would be saved first. But there will be a day when when we no longer have have violence, we no longer have attempted genocide. That's why Haman does what he does, because he is ultimately under the influence of demonic powers that want God's people And were they to s to succeed, and we'll see the events in a moment, what what carries out, we'll see that the The people in Jerusalem and in the land of Israel where ultimately Jesus Christ, the Messiah, prophesied for thousands of years, even at this point in the story. He will come out of there. He's supposed to come out of there. And Satan is doing his best through Haman. And Hazueras to make sure that the Messiah will not be born. And we would not be commemorating the Lord's table. Had he been successful, we would not know of the God Yahweh, the God sovereign over all the earth, sovereign over these one hundred and twenty-seven provinces of Persia and beyond. We would not know about him Had he not thwarted his enemy's plot. So let's look how this comes out I want to remind you of Revelation 12. We read that last week, and I'd like to read it again to you before we move on in Esther here. Revelation 20, uh chapter 12. Uh it is the last book of your Bible if you're having trouble finding it. Um, right in the middle there. Chapter 12. Right after the halfway point. Now I could uh preach through this and I may preach through this very soon, possibly even next week. I'm not going to take the time now to exposit it in detail and tell you how we arrive at these conclusions, okay? This is shorthand. Ready? This is the nation of Israel. She has a garland of twelve stars. This would be the nation of Israel, the twelve tribes. Then being with child, she cried out in labor and in pain. And another sign appeared in heaven. Behold, a great fiery red dragon having seven heads and ten horns and seven diadems on his head. His tail drew a third of the stars of heaven and threw them to the earth, and the dragon stood before the woman who was ready to give birth, to devour her child as soon as As it was born. You know what this is here in Revelation 12? That's a commentary on Esther 3. This is commentary. It's a spiritual picture of what's happening in Esther 3 and throughout history. Before this male child, this child is the Christ, the Messiah, the one that God is going to use to reconcile all the world to himself by his own death. He's trying to prevent that child from being born, ready to devour that child before that child can lay down his life voluntarily. Says she she bore a male child who was to rule all nations with a lot of iron, and her child was caught up to God and his throne. Then the woman fled into the wilderness, and so on and so forth. We read later on, though, in that chapter, this dragon is cast out of heaven. It says When the dragon saw that he had been cast to the earth, he persecuted the woman who gave birth to the male child. But the woman was given two wings of a great eagle that she might fly into the wilderness to her place, where she is nourished for a time and times and happened So the serpent that would be the the dragon the a dragon is a reptile, right? It's a serpent, it's a snake. The serpent spewed water out of his mouth like a flood after the woman that he might cause her to be carried away by the flood. This is the ongoing persecution of the Jews that still happens. He's trying to, even though he was unsuccessful, to To prevent the Messiah from coming into the world, he still hates the people of his race. And so he's still today trying to destroy them. But, verse sixteen, the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed up the flood which the the dragon had spewed out of his mouth. And we see today still, don't we, Jews flourishing everywhere, but kind of blending in. kind of absorbed into the the greater culture. They're not faithful to the Lord most of them. But they're surviving. So the dragon was enraged with the woman. So not only those who are Christ of Christ's ethnic lineage. But those who are the spiritual offspring of Christ, who are keeping the commandments of God, sadly, the nation of Israel as a whole is not today. But those who are keeping the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ, well, whether Jew or Gentile, they're called Christians, aren't they? So this is our enemy as well, not just the enemy of Mordecai, not just the enemy of the Jews, not just the enemy of Christ, but the enemy of all of Christ's people. If you bear the name of Christian, if if you have trusted Christ, if his blood is on you, this is your enemy too. And that's who we're reading about, the power behind the power here. The power, the satanic power behind Haman. But there is a greater power that dwarfs that lesser power, that dwar dwarfs Satan's power. And that really is the the story of of Esther and everything that goes on to undermine and overthrow this plot. Now let's see how he goes on about this plot. Verse 7, this might have sounded weird to you, okay? Let's read it again. In the first month, which is the month of Nisan, right? It's a different calendar. It's the Jewish calendar for our own ease. Let's call it January. Let's just call it January. Okay? It's the first month In the first month, which is the month of January, in the twelfth year of King Ahazuerus, they cast pur, that is the lot, before Haman to determine the day and the month until it fell on December. So it fell in the twelfth month, which is the month of Hadar. Let's call it December, right? It for all intents and purposes, the start of the Jewish year, right? It's uh and uh the and a Persian calendar. This is call it January. And what what's going on here? This might seem weird Weird, but this is a man who still has a spiritual leaning. It's it's a secular society, but not secular doesn't mean to them what it means to us, right? To us, secular means basically atheistic Right. But you take take any spiritual component out of things for the most part, right? Everything's explainable by science, which is true. Everything is explainable. by science. But there are spiritual realities that that science has not yet caught up with. So true science will will uh include spiritual Modern science has not yet caught up with that. I have no doubt that in in in the reign of Christ in the millennium, in the future, that that science will improve the But in in Mordecai's day there was a lot there there were a lot of spiritual things going on, but they were demonic. They were it was not good. sometimes think of spirit good, physical bad, which is a lie. Uh there are plenty of sp bad spiritual things. And so he tries to do sooth saying, right? He tries to figure out, okay, asking the spirits, what is the best way? Trusting in luck to decide. Luck being a spiritual force or a spiritual person, uh what is the best way to annihilate Jews? What is the best time to do that? And so he rolls the dice. A lot, a purr, another word for it. This This whole story is is uh explaining the origin of the feast of the Jews, one of the one one of the few feasts that's not included in the law. It's called Pureen. This is explaining the no the the origins of it. Pur or PUR, I'm not quite sure how to pronounce that, is is just another way for saying a dice. A die, right? A dice. multiple. And he they would roll them. They're very similar to our own own dice, right? If you've ever played a board game, right? You know what dice are. And he's rolling them to see when's the best month. And so he says, is it January? And he rolls it. And the answer is no. Is it February? And he rolls it. So I want you to imagine to when you were kids, and I'm curious, kids today, is the magic eight balls still a thing? Is Magic 8 ball still do you know what that is? Okay, it's not, apparently. You who are laughing, you know what Magic 8 ball is, right? Is that at least if you were maybe Xers, they still had it when I was when I was a kid. Right? You have this black, uh like an eight ball on a on a pool pool table that has some little multi-sided, almost like a dice inside, right? Multi-sided crystal suspended in a fluid, and you shake it. Most of you know this, right? And and it comes up and has a message on each side, right? And so you shake it and you say Does the girl of my dreams like me? And and you shake it and you look at it and it says, Don't count on it. Every time, right? Will my mom let me eat an extra cookie after dinner and you shake it? Ask again later, right? I don't want to ask again later, I wanna ask again now right and and sometimes you get a yes, sometimes you get a no, and humorous answers really a lame toy, right? But we enjoyed it. And then when you get frustrated with it, you can throw it at your brother. Speaking from experience So imagine Haman here with this magic eight ball saying, I want to destroy the Jews. Is January a good time? It says, don't count on it. Alright. Is is February a good time? Ask again later. All right. Is March a good time? Try again, right? And he goes on and on and on. This might seem silly, right? Well it is silly, but it's important. He goes all the way. He gets to December, right? It's January He's saying, hey, what if we just annihilate them real fast? He's so angry at them, but he trusts to the gods of fate, right? It's not going to be January. Well isn't that good for the for the Jews that they don't they're not going to suddenly be attacked by like all of the Empire's resources next week? Isn't that a good thing? They've at least got till February. And God, who is sovereign over the gods of fate, which of course are demonic powers Overrules it so that he they get a full year practically to prepare for this, or at least eleven months, right? And it's not until December or the month of Adar on their calendar That finally will deploy their resources to destroy the Jews. That gives an awful lot of time, relatively speaking. For them to have deliverance. This gives time for a deliverer to rise up, doesn't it? God is sovereign over this foolish plot. Even right from the beginning. And so there's a whole feast on the Jewish calendar named after the lots, the the pure, the dice, the feast of dice. Now they're not celebrating dice rolling. Celebrating the God who's sovereign over it. And that will be all summed up at the end of the book. So now let's keep going. So Haman takes his plot and his his his rage against Mordecai and the Jews, and he takes it to the king. And we here, I think I've been point plant painting a picture for you, as has the scripture, right? We've been seeing that Ah Ahjuweris is just very much he's kind of vacant, he doesn't care about other people. He's he's very much consumed in his own lusts and they will ultimately be his downfall. They'll be why he gets gets assassinated at the end of his life. He doesn't care about other people. He's very cold. So verse eight. Then Haman said to King Ahazuereth, There's a certain people scattered and dispersed among the people in all the provinces of you k your king kingdom. Their laws are different from all other peoples, and they do not keep the king's laws. Therefore it's not fitting for the king to let them remain. If it pleases the king, we're in verse nine, let a decree be written that they may So the king took his signet ring from his hand and gave it to Haman, the son of Hamas And we've heard him called the Agagite, right? The mortal enemy of the Jewish people. And now we have this additional appellation, this additional title, right? He is the enemy of the Jews. We're going to see it one more time. at the end of this book. And the king said to Haman, The money and the people are given to you, do with them as seems good to you. Alright, do you see this king? Haman doesn't even tell him who these people are. A Hasueres could care less as long as he can go on drinking and having his dalliances with the various women at court. And so Haman uh you might be wondering here in verse nine, it's saying if it pleases the king King, let a decree be written that they be destroyed, and we're going to see that decree in a moment. But he says, I'll pay ten thousand talents of silver into the hands of those who do the work. It's not a hundred percent clear what he means here. If he's talking about his he's actually gonna take up his own wealth, very rich man then, uh to fund the genocide of the Jewish Or more likely he's talking about let's annihilate them and then we'll take their personal property and we'll pay that into the treasury. So there is a way of motivating the king here, most likely. To say, don't worry about the cost of this. I'll take care of it. And he's intending to plunder all those people he kills. He's going to keep their property. Now then the king says you can have a a signet ring. Maybe you've seen it on an old cartoon or something. This is where the king has a ring and they'll dip it in wax to seal the different things that the different And so it's literally on his finger, and he would take it off, dip it, dip it in the wax seal to say that it's a legitimate act of the king. King. He just takes it off. Very flippant with his power. Yet, I really don't want to be bothered. Genocide sounds like a lot of work. Sounds like you got everything taken care of. Go for it, buddy. Doesn't care who they are Doesn't care that there will be all sorts of bloodshed, as long as he can go on about his business. So then we have the Persian government not only enacting but sponsoring this genocide of an entire race. Verse 12, then the king's scribes were called on the thirteenth day of the month. And a decree was the thirteenth day of the first month, and a decree was written according to all that Haman commanded to the king's satraps, to the governors who were of every province, to the officials officials of all people to every province according to its script, and to every people in their language. In the name of King Ahazuerus it was written and sealed with the king's signet ring. Everyone in the the empire here is encouraged to murder the Jews. Look at this, verse 13. And the letters were sent by couriers into all the king's provinces to destroy. To kill and to annihilate. Do you need any more comprehensive language than that? Destroy, kill, annihilate all the Jews, not just some, right? Not just the problematic ones like Mordecai Not just the ones in power that you want to get out of the way like Esther. All of them. Look, both young and old, little children and women. One day, on the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month of Adar, we said December, and to plunder their possessions. See how wicked this is. But did you catch one When this is happening. Okay, it's happening on the thirteenth of we'll call it December. But look, this all goes out. The couriers go out on the thirteenth day of the first month Do you know your Jewish calendar very well? What happens on the fourteenth day of the first month? That's Passover That is the most important holiday on the Jewish calendar, isn't it? This is the day they're celebrating God's deliverance from Egypt. This is this is the day that they're celebrating passing through the Red Sea, but but more More specifically than that, kind of more importantly than that, this is when God's wrath, in the form of one called the destroyer, went through the land of Egypt. Do you remember this? And and And killed a firstborn in every home and every stable in the land of Egypt. And when he got to someone who had the blood of a lamb, a Passover lamb smeared on the doorposts and on the lentil up there. The Jewish people were commanded to eat this lamb, and they would, after they ate the lamb, they'd dip a piece of Hyssop which is a a common um like herb or or kind of nuisance weed that they would dip in the in the in the blood of the Lamb and smear it on doorposts on the top bar there, close the door as the destroyer comes through. And if that destroyer saw the blood on the house, he would pass over that house and go on to the next Egyptian who didn't have that on his on his home. That's why it's called Passover. God's wrath passed over them. And this is the day They're celebrating the deliverance of God. This is the day. The day before they're told they're going to be annihilated in less than a year. This is like 9-11 happening on December 24th. Or on the day between Good Friday and Easter Sunday, it casts the Pall over Christmas or over Easter, over the most holy holidays on our calendar. A copy of the document was to be issued as law in every province being published for all people in every language, right, that they should be ready for that day. We've seen how this goes before they this is Vashti, every local language, everybody want you to be on alert to kill these people. They're a problem. And so there's There's going to be a great lamentation, a great cry goes out for deliverance on the day that they celebrate deliverance. It is distributed. absolutely everywhere. And do you think anyone's going to sell the Jews weapons to defend themselves? No, it's law. You can't do that. You're to help people exterminate. And then finally in verse fifteen, we see a cold and clueless king just kicking back with the genocidal maniac. So the king and Haman sat down to drink, but the city of Shushan was dip was perplexed. He kicks back with the beer after a good day's work, right And he's just going to celebrate with the guy who's gotten all of this done. Now there's a confusion in the city. Shushan, or sometimes called Susa, in the same book. There's there's a lot of confusion in that That city. And that suggests then, doesn't it? Wait, hold on a second. We're supposed to kill who? Jewish people. What's wrong with Jewish people? There's some confusion here. And perhaps they're offended by the thought of the violence. They they would wage war, but in in foreign lands they're supposed to murder Jews here. They're they're not okay with this. They're confused. It suggests that there hasn't been a whole lot of anti-Semitism up until this time in the capital city of Persia. But Haman does his best to resuscitate that. And we'll see that by the end of the book, Haman's act is stirring up a lot of enemies there. So much so that there'll be a second day of what was meant to be destroy destroying the Jews. And so while the Jews are in mourning, the local Gentiles are confused, Haman and the king grab a beer together to celebrate. Can you see there the bad guys? Really a Hazueris, a Hesheris, however you pronounce it. He's a vacant suit. He does what what his advisors tell him about Vashti, I get rid of it. He does what uh his other advisors tell him, yeah, yeah, let's find you a a queen, but don't don't worry about she's intelligent or politically expedient. Just try find a pretty girl. Oh yeah, I'll do that. That sounds good. Now Heyman says, Hey, uh you busy in December? 'Cause I was thinking we could maybe just just do a quick bit of genocide. Yeah, okay, whatever. This guy is a vacant suit. Anyone can turn him. That's good news for us because there's gonna be a h be a hero who turns him the right way eventually. Uh at least long enough to save his people. Spoiler alert, Heyman doesn't win. Sorry. Sorry for the spoiler. He loses spectacularly. It's really satisfying how he loses, so I encourage you to read that in your free time. But really if we have if we want the full message of this passage, we have to relate it to the stuff that comes later in the book. And that's that he will fail spectacularly. God will and does to this day protect his people from Haman, from Satan, from all of our enemies. We attract attention from the enemy when we seek to honor God and when we imitate Jesus Christ. And so that brings us to our second pass-through. I want to bring us to these applications. Now, last week We saw well first we need the message, don't we? We we need the the whole theme here and that is that when you conform yourself to God you seek to follow him to to walk in step with him to imitate God when you conform yourself to God he will fight for you God will fight for you while his enemies fight against you. You see this? You can't stay neutral. Either you'll be one of the enemies of God, or they will be your enemy. You can't stay neutral. And when you trust Christ. As your Savior, you will attract the attention of enemies. Have you attracted any opposition for being a Christian in your workplace, in your neighborhood? With your family members? Do you have some awkward conversations at certain family gatherings, maybe at Thanksgiving, when you're trying to share the gospel with them Now we saw last week the Christians, these are already filled in for you. You don't have to worry about this is just just recap. This is to help you to put it in context. We need to be responsible when we disobey r authorities. We need to be wise. There are we absolutely must disobey government authorities or or authorities in the workplace or schools. There are times when we must do that if they contradict our God. But only then. We want to be wisely responsible about it and not not draw unnecessary pressure upon our fellow believers. Our brothers and sisters in Christ. We do it wisely. That's the first application. The second, again, we saw. We need to recognize that Satan is present. We have a spiritual enemy. He's more powerful than we are. But not more powerful than our God. This is where we need to be now, is that Christians must stand out as different from the surrounding culture. So I ask you again Have you ever encountered any opposition? I don't mean has anyone tried to kill you and your whole family because you trusted Christ? Praise the Lord. I'm pretty sure the answer is no. That's unusual for us in our in our Day and age here in America. It's not unusual for some of our brothers and sisters in other parts of the globe, like in India, where Hindu extremists are trying to be a Trying to destroy Christians, annihilate them. By the way, the Persian Empire of Ahijuare was in India as well. So it's it's very much a An ongoing thing for them. In the Islamic world, there are Muslims who will cut off people's heads for worshiping Christ. And yet still the gospel is going forward. Even in Canada, people are being imprisoned for their faith. There's an underground church in Canada, as of COVID. You may not have experienced that sort of persecution. It's possible we will, in before the end of my lifetime, it's possible. before the end of your lifetime. It may not happen. But have you experienced any form of persecution? Have people mocked you? Or canceled you to use the the popular term for standing for truth. I would encourage you not to be like Mordecai and wait until there's absolutely finally a line you won't cross. But speak out for Christ. Now, does your lifestyle set you apart? Did you hear what Haman said? He wasn't entirely wrong, was he? He tells the king There's a certain people scattered and dispersed among all the people in uh among the people in all the provinces of your kingdom. They're everywhere. And he says, their laws are different from all other peoples. Now it's not true that they didn't keep the king's laws. They might flaunt one or two of those laws because It's against God, right? But that was that was a lie. It's not that they they disobey all of his laws. But did you catch that? They have a different they have different laws. The Jews did have different laws So do we. As Christians, we live according to a higher calling. We have a higher king than President Trump. Our King is Jesus. Our King is God. And sometimes we have to do things that are counter to our culture. Some of you felt that during COVID time where where you felt that you you had to violate your conscience in one way or another. There's more than one way that that happened. There were there were churches in There's at least one church in California that that had a lawsuit against the government because of them being told they could not obey the the the law of God that says gather with other Christians together Some of you felt that in the form of the the vaccine, and I don't wish to take aside on that, but in your conscience, you felt that you were being you were being told to violate it and and not honor the Lord. Has that happened, you know, maybe before COVID? Has that happened since then? Do you live differently than the culture in your work? Do you do you do you refuse something that your boss tells you to do because it would be dishonest? Do you Do you go quiet? Do you go noticeably quiet? Not trying to stir anything up, but when they're being crass and when they're making those nasty jokes, you know the kind I'm talking about Or do you blend in and a harmless chuckle won't won't matter. Or a trip to the strip club, you just have to. Are you honoring your God? Or you blending in. Christians must stand out as different from the surrounding culture. Now those are kind of obvious examples, right? Sometimes simply a gentle and quiet spirit will cause us to stand out as different and labeled weird. Because you're becoming more like Jesus. Can people see you in Jesus well enough to know that you're worth persecution? Have you ever been the butt of someone's joke? If you haven't, I would urge you to examine your life and examine your loyalty to Christ. Can this is a an an a dated reference now, um but it used to be said during the Cold War that if if the Soviets were to take over, right, the the parent paranoia of the Cold War. And they were to hunt Christians from door to door, would there be enough evidence to convict you? We were in Titus not long ago, right? And we saw that when the grace of God that saves a Christian comes into a Christian's life, it teaches them certain things. Teaches them to deny ungodliness. It changes them. It causes us to live soberly and righteously and godly in the present age. You will stand out if the Spirit of God is operating within you. Those things don't save you, but after God saves you, He brings those things out. Now you may be a brand new Christian, you may be a baby Christian, and so those things are not so obvious and evident in you. If you say, I have been a Christian since birth, I've been a Christian all my life, then you ought to have trouble blending in, quite frankly. The Holy Spirit should be sanctifying you and changing you so that our enemy, he will put his target on you eventually. Not to the same degree, hopefully, as Haman did with Mordecai. And you can do better than Mordecai. He's not a role model in this story. He took a long time to be loyal to his God. Don't you be I can. Will you let the grace of God change you? Are you taking in the Word of God daily so that it will transform you and make you more like Christ? Is it making a difference in you? I don't mean to make you feel guilty And so this leads to the next one. If you are drawing the attention of the enemy, or if you yet to do that, but you want to honor God, you you kind of have you ever been there, by the way? Have you have you ever had someone be unkind to you and you're like Finally. I've been persecuted. I know that I'm honoring Christ now. Good. I needed that reminder. Good. Thank you, Lord. Right? The apostles rejoiced. When they would suffer. We're told that in Acts chapter 4. They rejoiced that they were counted worthy to be persecuted like Christ was. When you are persecuted like Christ is. Then we need to remember that Christ's blood guarantees our ultimate protection. I shared this with you last week. I'm giving you the blanks again because I think it's important we remember this and that we conclude with this You have been, if you are a Christian, you've been marked by the blood of Jesus Christ. But just as the blood of that lamb marked the homes of those Jewish people. The blood of Christ marks your heart. Whether you are acting like Jesus or not, you are under his protection. If you've trusted in Christ, you've turned to him. Have you not been acting like him? Is there not enough evidence to convict you of being a Christian? Repent. Walk with him. Seek him out. Steep yourself in the Word of God daily so that He will transform you and make you like that. Right? Christ forgives you. Not only does that protect you from You ultimately from the enemy, it protects you from God's wrath, just like it did originally uh in Passover era Egypt. God is Is not making war with you anymore, but he does expect you to be transformed. And he does that by look by what's going on right now. If you're feeling conviction, that's just God doing what he says he will do. That's proof that the Holy Spirit's in you and or at least working through the preaching here so that this is one of the means he uses to make you so that you will become like Christ Because you belong to Christ, it's a priority to you to go to church, and there you hear the things you need to hear, so that He will uh transform you. He uses the Preaching of the Word of God to do that regularly. It's a normal way that He makes us like Christ. The Christians that are regularly submitting themselves to the preaching of the word stand out from the Christians who don't Because they are warned and they are instructed and they are encouraged and they are rebuked when necessary. Corrected so that they can be more like Christ. So I encourage you to continue. To seat yourself under the preaching of the Word of God. This blood of Christ sets you apart, and it will get the attention of the enemy. The one whose birth Satan attempted to prevent has shed his own blood and given you his own life so that you not only get forgiveness from God, but you get Adopted into God's family, and you are protected from the enemy. You can be certain that God will not allow your enemy to defend And if you don't understand that language, what I'm saying is the moment you trusted Christ as your Savior, God adopted you as His child. culture says only those who belong to Christ and have the blood of Christ applied to their hearts. Those are God's children. Those are God's people. All people are God's creation, but we're not all his children. He adopts those who are covered by the blood of Christ. And that blood ultimately will protect you from the attacks of Satan. That doesn't mean he won't kill you, but the worst thing he can do is get you to be with Jesus sooner. That's pretty a good deal. That's the worst thing he can do is bring you into the presence of the Savior that hopefully you cherish more than anyone else, anything else, sooner. We're about to participate in communion. It's a symbolic picture of the closeness that we have to Christ, that we're consuming his blood. Not literally. Nothing magical happens there. It doesn't become his blood in your mouth. What it's showing is we have union with him. Have you ever thought about that word communion? Co, right? It means with, right? Alongside. We have union with the living God. We have union. Alongside together one another. When we practice communion, we are celebrating both our union as a body of Christ together, one another, and also our our Ultimate union to Christ. We are united to his death and to his resurrection by the blood of Christ, by the death of Christ. And we have victory over Satan right now in the present. We have victory over him. Because Christ has shed his life for you. He's protected you by his own righteousness In the future, when Satan attempts a violent coup and in almost in bodily form, where he designates his own anti-Messiah to stand in for him. Satan will ultimately lose that battle. He'll be imprisoned. He'll be let loose. He'll be allowed one last time. He'll deceive many, but all those who trust in Christ and have his blood applied to their hearts. will be protected. He will be cast directly into the lake of fire, never to return. Jesus said, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Esther and Mordecai were not under the new covenant. They were under the old covenant. The covenant made with Moses, they followed, well, they didn't follow. The Jewish law, the law of Moses. We have a better covenant, a new covenant inaugurated in the blood of Christ. That's what we celebrate. We're going to celebrate the blood that unites us to Christ inaugurates a new era where we have God's law written on our hearts, where we're alive to God, not dead. You should recognize that Satan throws uh proposes a threat so you're not flippant and stupid, but he will not rob you of your joy. But don't be so fearful that you're fearing him instead of God. God will protect you. He fights for you while your enemies fight against you. And you cannot have one without the other also being true. If you will identify with Christ, you will draw enemies, but the blood of Christ protects you from that. All of this is our victory we have over the Hidden enemy in Christ. Over God's wrath in Christ. He's not our enemy now. We were his enemy. Now he's our father by adoption. I want to close with a time for silent confession of sin. Sin. So I want to encourage you, repent of your sins, whether it's the first time where you say to God, you were right, I'm not the good person I've supposed myself to be. Christ died for me, and I ask that you'd apply his blood to my heart. Lord, count me righteous in Christ, not in my own actions. If you need to pray that for the first time, do that now. But if you've been walking with the Lord, then I encourage you during the silent time, confess. So it's it's not that awkward thing like like when when you've offended a family member or they've offended you and then you go to the first family reunion. The first Thanksgiving meal after that happened, it hangs in the air, doesn't it? You ta c cut the tension with a with a knife. It needs to be dealt with. You have to say sorry, right, to restore that relationship. Do that with the Lord now. You haven't lost your relationship with him, but But it's awkward. You need to confess the sins you've you've committed against him in the last month or more recently than that. Let's take a moment to confess our sins to him. And I'll close this in prayer. And then we'll uh We'll go I I guess do we have one more we have one more song and then we'll go into communion. Ready? Heavenly Father, we thank you that you love us enough to give us your sons so that we can be made right with you. We were your enemies. Yet you sent your son into the world, and he willingly gave his life. You sacrificed your son, he sacrificed his life, and his innocence, his righteousness. To bring us to you because you loved us first. Thank you for loving us. When there was nothing lovely in us, you assigned value to us. Thank you. Lord, we confess our sins to you today. We've confessed numerous sins. Lord, if there's anything that we've forgotten, bring them to mind. Forgive us. Forgive us, Lord, for our pride and presumption in the past weeks, or hours even. Forgive us for our lusts. And Lord, for those besetting sins that we We just seem to keep falling into. Thank you that you're faithful to forgive us each time. We confess our recent failings. And we plead the blood of Christ. Thank you that we have an advocate with the Father. Father, forgive us for our bitter spirits, our grudge holding, our unforgiveness. Help us to relinquish these things to you You to forgive others that we may be forgiven. Lord, if there's anything else that's not yet come to mind, Lord, we just plead the blood over all of it and help us to to be mindful of it so that we can confess it and know it's out of the way. Thank you, Lord, that we do not need to fear the wicked one. He can rob us of our joy, he can rob us of our assurance, and we pray you'd help us not to sin, so that we would remain joyful in Christ instead of sorrowful under the eff under the The impact of Satan and under the influence of our sin. Give us freedom over our sins, Lord. We desire to run to you in just a moment to the to the communion table, Lord. We don't want to partake in an unworthy manner. We desire to run to you and and and just taste, literally taste and feel and see that picture of our acceptance with you. If there's anyone here who is determined not to repent, and they may have repented of Certain things today, but there's that thing niggling at the back of their minds, lurking in their heart, saying, I'm not giving that up. That one's what that's fine. I know what the Bible says, but that's fine I'm hanging on to that. Lord, I pray that that person, those people, I pray there's no such person here, but if there is, I pray that you would just restrain them from partaking of this. Cup and of the bread in an unworthy manner because it would harm them. But Lord, let us, if we've been struggling with a besetting sin, let us confess it to you for the 490th time or even the 491st time today, knowing that you promised to forgive us the 7 million and the first time Knowing that you will forgive us. And to enjoy that peace we have with you. That union we have with your son, and help us to go and sin no more. Lord, we ask these things in Jesus' name. We pray you'd be glorified by the taking of communion now. In Jesus' name, amen.