I'll ask you to please turn with me to Matthew chapter 4. Matthew chapter 4. We're picking up in verse 12 here. That means last week we went through verse 11. That's what they send you to seminary for to know what comes after And in the story so far, Jesus has been baptized by John the Baptist, and then he was He received a public commissioning, even an actual anointing by the Holy Spirit for his ministry, which was about to start. The Holy Spirit descended on him in the form of a dove. God's voice actually came out of heaven, God the Father, saying that he is well pleased in his son. Amazing things But then the Lord's ministry that he's just been anointed for does not start because he goes out into the wilderness and he's led by the Holy Spirit so that he would be tested. By Satan himself, called the tempter. And he wins that battle, as we saw last week. He annihilates the temptation. He overcomes it. And now his public ministry finally starts. What we start looking at in verse 12 here. Before he does any miracles or healings. Which we'll see later in this chapter, but not here. Before he does any miracles or healings, he starts with preaching. That is and always has been the way that the God that God takes the the gospel forward throughout the world. It's how he communicates with us. He gave preaching and that preaching was recorded and we now have it as Scripture, much of if you think of the prophets in the Old Testament, much of that, not all of that, but much of that is sermons that have been recorded. And then, of course, he continues to take the gospel forward today through preaching. And the passage in front of us, in starting to describe that preaching, before it even describes his preaching. It tells us that Christ simply by being at the right place at the right time, where God the Father ordains him to be. Simply by being where God wants him to be, he fulfills a 700-plus-year-old prophecy. Because he starts where God wants him to be. So in this passage, then we have three components to it. First, we have, this is a single component, time and place. If time and place Followed by a man, and followed by a message. The time and place is according to God's perfect plan, under his sovereign direction And that's how we start this message. Jesus brings hope to us through that time and place. Jesus brings hope by drawing near when we need him. And by being in accordance with God's plan. Let's read verses twelve and thirteen. Now, when Jesus heard that John had been put in prison, he departed to Galilee. And leaving Nazareth he came and dwelt in Capernaum, which is by the sea, in the regions of Zebulun and Naphtali. And we will pick up in verse fourteen in just a moment. So as I said, we left off in verse eleven. Jesus has been taped tempted by Satan. He endured, he defeated him, and then he's ministered to by angels But before we get to verse 12, there's actually a gap. There's a time gap here. And the Gospels of Luke and John fill that for us a little bit. This is where we see Jesus' miracle in Cana of Galilee. At the wedding, if you remember that, where he turns water to wine, that's in John chapter 2. Jesus himself says his ministry hasn't started at that point. His time, he says to Mary, has not yet come. So it would make sense that Matthew doesn't include that. He spends a short time in Judea, that is closer to Jerusalem, and we find that out in Luke that that's where he is uh He spends some time with the men who will become his his disciples. In fact, he calls Nathaniel and Philip to follow him. He meets Peter and Andrew, but there's no record of him calling them there. We'll see that in the passage right after the one we're in right now. He will call they will go back to Galilee, where he's from. They're from there too. And then he will call them. But there's no record of him calling them earlier on. So he's been in Judea. He comes back to Galilee. Before he gets to Galilee, there's the amazing episode that we know with the woman at the well in Samaria. But then his ministry seems to officially start, according to Matthew, and the very first gospel writer in the New Testament, here when he arrives in Galilee. And what we see is apparently he he comes to Nazareth's first. First, if you look at verse 12, it says he departed to Galilee, that's a region. Specifically, there's a town in Nazareth that's where he grew up. Most of his childhood he wasn't wasn't born there, obviously. He was born in Bethlehem. He spent some very early childhood years in Egypt, but then he comes and arrives in Nazareth as a young child And it says, and leaving Nazareth. So it looks like he went back to his hometown. We find out in Luke he actually read scripture in the synagogue there and told them he's fulfilling scripture there. But then because they reject him, he goes on, as it says here in verse 13, he came and dwelt in Capernaum, which is by the sea. in the regions of Zebulun and Nhthtali. If you're wondering about Zebulun and Naptali, if those names sound familiar, it's because they are two of the tribes of Israel. They are sons of of Israel or Jacob. Jacob was later called Israel, wasn't he? So Israel is a person as well as a country. They are two of those tribes and they have regions of the country where they are. So he's in the regions of Zebulun and Naphtali, and there there just so happens to be a prophecy About Zebulin and Naphtali, but we will see in the very next section here. Before I go into that, though, I want to acknowledge something, and that is It's almost glazed over here, isn't it? But it says in verse 12 that Jesus does this after John had been put in prison. We're told in John it's also because the Pharisees are aware of him and they're starting the to have an adversarial relationship with him. They're going to seek to put him to death. Now he's not afraid of them But he he recognizes his time has not yet come for him to be killed. He needs to begin his ministry and and fulfill his ministry before he can be executed in the place of sinners. And so he withdraws to Galilee. It's at this time when the greatest prophet yet to arise in Israel has been Arrested. It makes sense if you think about it. The Pharisees and Sadducees are enemies of John and of Jesus. They set their self their sights on John, they arrest him. And and Jesus sees that they're also going to to set out for him and he needs to preach to the people in Galilee first. And so he goes to Galilee, and that's where his ministry seems to start. Can you imagine the the fear and the this feeling of a dashing of hope that comes across the people of Israel when this this great prophet who's saying The Messiah's about to come. It's not me. I know you think it's me. It's not. I'm the one who who's the voice crying in the wilderness, saying, Prepare your w prepare a way for the Lord. Right? He's saying, The Messiah is coming, I'm preparing you for him. And then he's thrown in jail. Can you imagine the discouragement that comes out of that? And yet right according to God's plan, right according to God's perfect timing. Jesus starts his ministry not where John was arrested, but further north, away from there, where it can really have a chance to take root and to find Flourish. God is fully in charge of the times and the seasons of your life, and and maybe you feel like you're going through a season where nothing seems to be going right. It's one thing after another. God's times are in his hand. Your times are in his hand. And he will draw near to you as you need him. But I encourage you, go to him. As you draw near to him, he will draw near to you. That's a promise. from scripture and the your you there there is no accident in the timing of things. He may bring in hardship. He may bring in evil that is not pleasing to him, but he will use that evil to accomplish good in you. We're told in Romans 8. 28 that not that all things are good, but all things work together for good, for those who love him, who are called according to his purpose. Draw near to your Lord, and he will draw near to you He will be there for you as you need him. We have the time and place, and that Jesus brings hope in the darkest of times and in the darkest of places. Well, now we we learn about that light because Jesus brings hope by revealing what is hidden and unknown. Jesus brings hope by revealing what is hidden and unknown because he has called here in this passage light. So again in verse 13 it says he came uh to came and dwelt in Capernaum, which is by the sea. In the regions of Zebulun and Naphtali, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet. Jesus is the fulfillment of Scripture. I've said this a lot now. We're what, nine, ten weeks into the Gospel of Matthew, and one theme that just keeps occurring over and over again is that Jesus fulfills Scripture. He fulfills the Old Testament prophets. He fulfills the law. He fulfills the expectation of the nation. He is fulfillment. And in his most famous sermon, probably his most famous sermon anyway, that the one that's going to come in the next chapter, the Sermon on the Mount He's going to say that explicitly. I came to fulfill the law. And here he fulfills prophecy. And you may recognize this prophecy. It says the land of Zebulun and the land of Nastali By the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles, the people who sat in darkness have seen a great light, and upon those who sat in the region in shadow of death light has dawned. Do you recognize that? Where does that come from? There's a prophecy I know a number of you recognize, perhaps not all of you, and that is okay. But I think that you recognize this. Let me read it to you. For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government will be upon his shoulder, and his name will be called. wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace, of the increase of his government and peace, there will be no end upon the throne of David and upon and and over his kingdom. To order it and establish it with judgment and justice from that time forward even forever, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this That is the prophecy of the Son being born into the world, isn't it? Jesus Christ, the Son of God, being born into the world, for unto us a child is born. Well, what Matthew quoted about Zebulun and Naphtali comes at the beginning of that chapter in Isaiah. I just read to you Isaiah 9, verses 16 and seven. Here's what Isaiah nine, chapter one sorry, verse not verse one, chapter nine, verse one. Here's how it starts. Nevertheless, the gloom will not be upon her who is distressed. As when at first he lightly esteemed the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, and afterward more heavily oppressed her. Ready, by the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, in Galilee of the Gentiles The people who walked in darkness have seen a great life. Those who dwelt in the land of the shadow of death, upon them a light has shined. You may notice slightly different wording here too in Matthew. There's two reasons for that. One is, of course, it's a translation. It's translated from Hebrew into Greek, and then Greek is translated, that's what Matthew wrote in, translated into English for us. But also Matthew is just taking these words and trying to fit them into his narrative correctly. He's not changing anything. He's just making it line up. I sometimes do that with quotations even for my messages where I'll have to come in kind of in the middle of a quotation and I'll just just rearrange a word or two and that's what he's doing. Well let's look at the original context here. So he is he is talking about his his people who are a remnant. They have been The the the nation of Israel has been decimated by foreign armies and they've been brought in as judgment by God because they've been disobeying him and worshiping other gods for so long. But there's what he calls a remnant hanging on, those who are faithful to the Lord. But it's gloomy. Chapter eight, Isaiah chapter eight, ver the very last verse says, They will look to the earth and see trouble and darkness, gloom of anguish, and they'll be driven into darkness. And that's That's what he picks up with in chapter 9, verse 1. Nevertheless, the gloom will not be upon her who is distressed, when at first he lightly esteemed the land of Zebulum. and the land of Naphtali. Now we pick up in the middle of that quotation. You can turn back to Matthew chapter 4 with me if you if you were in Isaiah. What's happened here is the kingdom of Assyria, the the Assyrian army, the the world's superpower at that time, would be later replaced by Babylon, but Assyria is the great superpower. God has pronounced judgment on his people. and he uses the the Assyrian army to do it. If you're familiar with the book of Jonah, and Jonah is sent, you remember what what city is Jonah sent to? Nineveh, right? That's the capital city of the of Assyria, of the Assyrian Empire with the Assyrian army. God shows grace to them, and then a generation later, they're the ones who are attacking and wiping out God's own people. Well, they arrived in the northeast corner of Israel, and that is the region of Zebulun and Naphtali. Now, here where it says by the way of the sea beyond the Jordan. There is we have the Sea of Galilee, which many of us have heard of, right? If you've if you've ever read any of the Gospels, you've heard of the Sea of Galilee a lot. Depending on which gospel you're in, sometimes it's called the Sea of Tiberias. It's really more of a lake than a sea Uh but uh between the Sea of Galilee on the one side, uh so this side for you then you have the Mediterranean side here and you have a coast that goes in between. There is a a trade route that would go through there on that that that way between the sea and and the lake. And that trade route is called the the way of the sea, and it's beyond the Jordan. Now he names Galilee of the Jordan. Gentiles. This is where it's the first place to get the darkness come upon it because of the Assyrian army. It's also the first place to get the light down and to restore them. Jesus is coming to the part that is going to be kind of considered the darkest part of the country. Because they've been in the darkest the longest amount of time. In fact And we were going over this in Sunday school a little bit today. When Assyria, same with Babylon, when they were to conquer a nation, they would take the people out of there and they'd they'd take them as they'd kidnap them, they'd take them as captives and relocate them to somewhere else. And so they were spread across the the ancient Near East. Well, they didn't just do that with the Israeli people, they didn't just do that with Jews, they did that s with the other uh uh places that they were conquering, they were conquering everywhere. And so you end up with all of these Gentiles, and Gentiles is just a way of saying a non-Jew, the nations. All of these non-Jewish people get relocated to the land of Israel. And especially in this region of The northern part of Israel, known as Galilee. Now we hear Galilee over and over, don't we, in the New Testament, because a lot of stuff happened there in Jesus' life. We hear it over and over again. In the Old Testament, it's called Galilee before they even take the promised land. And so we first see Galilee mentioned in the book of Joshua. Galilee is mentioned not a lot, six times Six times in the Old Testament. Isaiah, where we just read, that's the last time. And that is the only time it's called Galilee of the Gentiles. It is highlighting the fact that all of these Gentile people come in. So why does that matter? Why is it significant? Because Jesus Christ is not just the light of Israel. He's absolutely the light of Israel, but we gladly say, and we in fact we were singing to that effect today, don't we? He is the light of where? The world! He's the light of the world! He's light to the nations. God will say also in Isaiah, I've set you as a light to the nations. And so when Jesus starts his ministry, he is ministering to his own people. He's also preaching the gospel to Gentiles who have no idea who this God truly is. There's only one God in the world, only one true God. And yet the Gentiles have been and the Jews alongside them, sadly, that's why they were punished They've been worshiping false gods. Right? You know a lot of them just from popular culture and from perhaps from school. I had to do a Greek mythology unit in in sixth grade and I and I really enjoyed those stories. I was learning about pagan religion and other gods that have these stories have endured throughout the centuries, haven't they? Because they're false gods, Zeus and Hermes and Aphrodite and Athena A lot of cities are named after them, right? Athens is named after Athena. If you know anything about Thor from the Marvel movies, he's a pagan god. He's not real. He's either a demon pretending to be a god or he's an utter work of fiction. Probably not a whole lot like the Marvel superhero, actually. Not a whole lot, like I'm saying. So here we have all of these Gentiles finally hearing about the one true God who made the whole world. I mentioned Jonah earlier, right? Do you remember the similarities here? Do you remember what Jonah does? He's supposed to go to Nineveh, but he doesn't. Instead, he ends up in the presence of many different Gentiles, sailors from all around the Mediterranean world and he says, I'm a I'm a Hebrew and I worship the God who made do you remember what he says? The sea and the dry land. Right? The Greeks only believed in Poseidon over the sea, and they had other gods over different regions, over the valleys and over the hills. The Egyptians, they they were real specific of they have a god of that hill versus that hill versus that valley. And all these people from around the known world are hearing, whoa, there's one God who created the heavens and the earth. And he rules over not just the dry land, but the sea as well. And then they see evidence of it as soon as Jonah is thrown into the water, and God stills the waves clearly in a supernatural sight. And that's what Jesus is doing now. He's coming and declaring who God is to his own people who don't really seem to get it, and to the Gentiles who definitely don't understand. It says the people who sat in darkness, there's been a great gloom there for a long time. They've seen a great light. And that light is Jesus. Upon those who sat in the region of shadow of death, light has dawned. That is how Jesus is described. His main nature here is described that he is light. Now that implies something, doesn't it? It implies that the people he's come to don't have light. They're living in darkness, or at best, they're living in dim lighting. Have you ever tried to read uh by a real dim light at at night? I often like to read uh in bed. My wife is asleep and I'm still awake. And I've had to invest in several good book lights that will clip to my books at night. I love to read. I love to read at night And um I'm constantly buying new book lights because they go, damn, it's really hard to read by dim lighting. Now they have some of the law, they have some of God's word. They don't understand it. And they have Gentiles around them corrupting their worship. But now God Himself comes and reveals Himself to them. That's what the Bible always is. It's God revealing Himself to us. We have a theological word for it. We talk about creation being general revelation. God reveals himself in general terms by showing us that he's a creator. But then the word is c the the word of God, the Bible, is called special revelation. That is that he is giving us details that he he must reveal himself. You can't just get it from from creation. Well Jesus is The greatest revelation of God, the most special revelation, because he comes as God in the flesh and says, this is who God is, this is what he is like They are they are living in darkness. They have dim lighting. They had the Old Testament. They didn't heed it. The Old Testament wasn't complete without Christ. It was all building up to him, leaning to him. It's fulfilled in him. He'd come into the world so that humankind can see clearly. So what this is saying is morally our setting is darkness. And we need to recognize that we are born in darkness. We're separated from God. And this is the part the world doesn't like, isn't it? Jesus didn't come into the world to just give us a hug and say, does this sound familiar? You are enough. Keep on keeping on, man. He has the opposite message. He didn't just come to be a cheerleader, right? People are offended because they want God to just be a cheerleader who affirms everything that they're doing and says that God loves you. And it's a half-truth. Because God loves them and he gave his son to die for them. But it's a half-truth because he also hates their sin, and he hates what they're doing so much so that his son was put to death for it. We focus on the love of Christ. He loved you so much he laid down his life for you. He also hated your sins so much he laid down his life for you. To cleanse you and to enable you to do what you can't to walk in light and to deny darkness. He came to die in order that he would bring us into light And so because of what he came to do, his message then is you need to turn away from darkness. His message is you need to repent. And that is the third point here. I want you to recognize there's no other person who can full who can fill the role of this man described in verses 15 and 16. It has to be Jesus because he is utterly unique. He is the man. He is God. He is the God-man. His nature is different from other people. He is a man of light. He is fully human, and yet he's not fallen human like we are. He he does not sin. And so he calls us to follow him, to do what we can't in our own strength, only by having him to repent, to turn. And that's how this is what Jesus came to do. He came to expose our failings. He came to expose the peril that we're in, that if we don't turn from darkness to light, we will be separated from him forever in hell. And we're told that hell is, it seems contradictory, it's both a place of fire and torment and of darkness. Somehow, supernaturally, there can be both A fire without light. That's not proof that the Bible's not true. That's proof that there are supernatural things we don't understand. That we could be cast into fire and outer darkness. That is terrifying. But Jesus doesn't want that for us. God the Father doesn't want that for us. He brings hope to us to whoever will turn to his light. When I was a kid, I used to play a lot of uh a lot of outdoor games at night. I used to enjoy with neighborhood kids or if I'd go on to a to a birthday party or or camp out or something. Even Church Youth Group, we'd play things like Capture the Flag, still like the greatest game ever invented. There should totally be a league for a a national league for uh for Capture the Flag. Uh but we also used to play a game named Sardines. Anyone know Sardines? Do you know what sardines was? Just no one knows sardines. Teenagers, it's fun. It's like reverse hide and seek. So you have to do it at you have to do it at night, and you have one person go goes out and hides and everyone else is is seeking them. So it's hide and seek in reverse. Everyone's looking for them. But when you find the person, you don't bring them out. You go and hide with them. And uh You you see how long it takes for everyone to find find them and you have like a bigger and bigger crowd until one person is left and then they get to be the sardine and they go and hide and everyone finds them. Well, I remember playing this, uh it might have been probably not the first time I ever played it, but I I was about uh ten years old. I was at uh Matt Bigelow's birthday party, and we were camping out in his backyard in tents. And uh one kid went and uh was the sardini. He hid hid inside a tent. And the first couple people found him, and I hadn't found him yet. And some some kid had the bright idea to turn a flashlight on while inside the tent. What happens when it when a a flashlight is turned on inside the tent? Everyone knows where the sardine is. I ran over to that tent and I got in there, so I wasn't the last one. Jesus comes to shed that kind of light that we would live In light and be able to see clearly, and that others might see his light clearly through us. And so his message comes out of that. It's repent. Jesus brings hope by calling people to turn from darkness to light. Repent means turn. Look at verse 17. From that time Jesus began to preach. And to say, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. This is the same message that we see in chapter three, John the Baptist himself saying, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. That's in In Matthew chapter three, verse two, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. It's the same message from prophet who is the The forerunner to the ultimate prophet, Jesus Christ Himself, who is also priest and king. But the temptation here is to go straight to the content of the message, which is really important, the repentance. But I don't want us to miss how he's communicating that message. Through preaching, literally the word means to proclaim. He's proclaiming. And I think that when we think about Jesus and the ministry he had on earth, we tend to think on three things. And there are all good things: his death and his resurrection, which are absolutely essential for us to be able to be made whole and come to Christ. And then, of course, we tend to think of his miracles, don't we? We tend to think about him restoring sight to the blind, raising Lazarus to full life. Lifting up lame people so they can walk, curing leprosy, turning water to wine We don't think about his preaching, which is a shame because he's the greatest preacher ever to walk on earth Now the Gospels are full of his preaching. We're going to get next chapter, we're going to get to the Sermon on the Mount, which is possibly my favorite section of Scripture. I have a lot of those, but really the favorite section of Scripture, the Sermon on the Mount On the Mount. And it's a three-chapter-long sermon, which may be his greatest or most famous sermon. If we think of Jesus merely as a miracle worker, we are missing the point. And sadly, there are a number of churches that focus on the outward manifestations of Jesus' coming and the great works of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit's Main mission, if we look at him in scripture, he's always taking the attention off of himself and shining it on Jesus It's not to make much of himself, it's to make much of Jesus. If we're only looking at the outward manifestations, the miraculous things, the speaking in tongues, the prophecy We're missing the point. All of that is to tell us, trust in Jesus, the Messiah has come, the light has come to take you out of your darkness. If we only focus on the fact that he healed people, we're missing his message and we're missing the purpose for which he came into the world, which was to die in our place, to bear the wrath of God. So that we would not bear the wrath of God. When Jesus healed people, it was in order to call attention to the message, which in turn told them his purpose for coming into the world. The people who were hurt, and he was passionate for sick and hurting people, right? These sick people and these hurting people, they weren't just physically sick, were they? He healed their physical sickness in order to say, look, I can do this to your spiritual sickness. I can bring you from darkness to light. I can bring you from death to life. I can bring you from unable to walk to jumping and leaping. Spiritually, Jesus' miracles are intended to show us and to show the people who first saw them that he can heal our spiritual diseases. And so we need to hear his preaching because that's where the healing comes for us. The miracles made it so that the people would listen to it. And that's what we we need to do now. And but the content of that preaching summed up is repent. We focus on believe and rightly so, but the first way we're told that Jesus preached was not believe, but repent. We need to turn away from our own way. That is our default setting. Don't we so often we want to do things our way? They might have a good idea, but my way is better. Jesus says you need to humble yourself, you need to put yourself last, and you need to follow Christ. And to turn to Jesus, to follow Christ To believe in Jesus, to follow Jesus, right? If I'm going this way, I know you've seen me do this before, but if I'm going this way, I have to turn to Jesus. So belief is a turning. It's also a turning away from sin. It's a turning to Jesus And a turning away from sin. It's the same thing, just viewed from different th different sides. And here the the emphasis is on you've been in darkness. Turn away from that darkness. Look at Jesus and let him guide you away from darkness. Because you believe in Jesus, if you believe in Jesus, and because you believe in Jesus, you're gonna follow him, you're gonna do things differently than you would otherwise choose to when you're doing your own way. And we can only continue to follow him if he's made us new people. You know how he does that? By bearing your sin on himself Dying with your sin pinned to him, so that he who had done no wrong is now counted as sin When we trust in him, our sins transferred to him, and his righteousness is transferred And you know how we access that? It's because we believe in him and the Holy Spirit, by that belief, unites us to Jesus. He tethers us to Jesus. And that's why when we will one day stand before the throne of God, his judgment throne, he won't see us. Jesus steps in the way, and God sees Jesus' righteousness. He atoned for your sins on the cross. When he died, he dragged your sin into death And God's wrath consumed it. And the fact that Jesus could walk out of the tomb two days later means that there was no more sin pinning him. See, because we're told that the the power of death is sin, the sting of death is sin. You only die if you have s if you have sin. Jesus shouldn't have been able to die because he had no sin. He took your sin on himself. That's how he was able to die. How was he able to get out of the grave? Well, there must have been no more sin left on him. That means that that when when he died under your sin God the Father was satisfied. He burned up your sin. There's nothing holding Jesus in the ground. That means he doesn't hold it against you anymore. And so when we celebrate communion, we're celebrating the fact that Jesus has dealt with our sin. It's burned up, it's gone And we've been united to Jesus by the work of the Holy Spirit in our belief only. You can now obey him. Yeah, you do it imperfectly. Man, it's fraught with flaws, isn't it? is flawed fraught with failures and imperfections. And yet he's atoned for those failures as well. All on the cross. And so If you're here today and you're like, man, I have I've so failed my my Savior, I don't know that I that I should be partaking of that cup. Confess your sin to Him. It's covered by the blood of Christ. Your sins already burned up by in God's wrath. It's gone. And come and celebrate the fact that you've been united to Christ. And that you you have the righteousness of Christ on you. Live differently because of it. But it's not your God doesn't wait to see, hmm, how long is it going to take Robert to really get uh what he needs to do in order to be saved? Okay. It's pretty bad, but he's getting better. Alright, I guess I'll save him. That's not how it works. He saves you the moment you trust him, and the moment you trust him, you're you're still sinning. You're still failing. But then he brings you light incrementally, doesn't he? And he casts light on the different sins in your life. There are things that he's he's now bringing the light to me that I realize, man, I wish I'd have dealt with this 20 years ago. But 20 years ago, I was dealing with other sins that God was bringing to light. And so progressively he shows me other sins that are preventing me. Praise the Lord, he's given me victory over those earlier sins. And now he's saying, All right Robert, let me give you more victory, let me give you more light. And so he leaves it. We follow that light. When you turn to Christ, when you repent, you will follow that light. You'll do it imperfectly, and then you and then you repent again. You you you Confess your sin to the Lord, you repent, you turn back to Him, and you keep following. So it might be a stumbling path. Whoop! You know, but you get back up and you follow him some more, and you fall again, but you get back up and he keeps leading you And we're going to celebrate that by partaking of Christ's table now. It's not merely a celebration, it's to encourage you to keep following Christ and the light that he gives you. You in his word. Keep reading his word so that he can lead you. And because you're made new in him, he enables you to follow him. Let's pray.