You know, uh after uh after yesterday I've just been in cloud nine since our uh our outreach. Uh the uh the the the car wash outreach we had yesterday. It was just awesome. Thank you to all of you who helped us out and showed up. Um the Lord, can you turn me down a little bit? I'm a little loud there. The Lord really answered a lot of prayer in a lot of ways. He answered prayer about whether that we would be able to hold it. Um and even though the weather it didn't rain, but it was kinda overcast yesterday morning, right? And uh it was a little surprising that people would show up. He answered that prayer as well, that uh that um uh Neighbors showed up to have their cars washed. I was concerned at one point about the number of volunteers and we had more than last year in the end. The Lord just answered prayers one after another gave us some very encouraging times. We washed, I believe, seventeen cars yesterday on an overcast day cut short early by rain. So pretty good. Um we one one gentleman uh was a little bit uh uh kind of timid when he got there. He ended up enjoying the conversation with uh with with our church members and stuff so much They ended up bringing the second car by and when he came when he came back, he like jumped out of the car and was like, hey, like he knew us all. So it was a very happy time and we had a really good fellowship with our neighbors, which was the point of all of that. Um And so I praise the Lord. And if you weren't able to be there, um I wanted to share that with you because it was so encouraging. If you were there, seriously, thank you very much for your help. And uh cleanup too went so quickly and easily. You guys did awesome. So anyway, we are going to uh pause our live stream uh for a moment. So if you're watching online There's no technical difficulty. We just have to pause it and refresh your browser and we'll be back in just a couple minutes after the prayer. I did want to uh uh kind of repeat a little bit of what uh Jim said about um the fellowship meal yester uh ne next Sunday. Uh that's the one we have the first of the first Sunday of every quarter. Uh encourage you to come, please bring a dish to share. If you forget though, you're totally allowed to stay, we still want you to stay for a meal Um but this is extra special because uh People's Church, the Korean Church that meets uh in our lot, uh they are planning on being there as well. So it'll be some some cross church fellowship. So that'll be really good. So encourage you to uh to be present for that as well. And also want to call your attention to the fact we have a movie night coming up Friday, October 17th, so about three weeks away. And I think that that's going to be encouraging too. We were sharing that with some of our neighbors yesterday and some were were interested. The point of that is, yes, that we have fun watching a movie together, but also that we would invite uh our neighbors, your your coworkers, your if especially if they've got kids, invite them out. Invite your friends to come and join us for the community movie night. It will be an explicitly Christian movie. It's the Pilgrim's Progress. And it's it's a good version. It's not like the weird cheesy 70s version. It's a really good version of it. It's like It's got some modern humor in it and it feels a bit Lord of the Ringsy and it's very good. So they make it feel epic and funny at the same time. And uh it really preaches the gospel. So it's a really good opportunity for you to invite your neighbors. Please do that. If they have kids If they don't though too, like invite them out. And I especially think that probably some seniors would really enjoy this movie as well. So it really is an all-ages movie and it's really good evangelistic. Please please invite invite them out for October seventeenth. I don't think we've settled on a firm time yet. It's either going to be like 6. 30 or 7, and we'll get back to you in the next couple weeks With that said, let's prepare our hearts for worshiping through listening. Dearest Heavenly Father, thank you for the privilege of worshiping you. Thank you for the privilege of prayer. Thank you that we can know who you are and that you exist. It's because of your son Jesus, who came into the world to declare who you are and what you are like. And we are gathered together in your name, Gentiles from origins all over the world, really, becoming a new people in Christ. And we praise you for that. Thank you for that. Lord, would you please bless uh the the time we have together uh after this service that we would fellowship in a way that is itself worshipful and that you'd be glorified. But Lord, I especially lift up this time that we would worship you through listening. Give us open hearts to receive the message. We are looking at a sad and somber passage And I ask for your grace in preaching it. I ask that your spirit would do the preaching and take it to our hearts and help us to receive it and listen. um and uh help us to go away encouraged uh despite the heaviness of this passage, trusting that you are good in all things and that you are you are completely sovereign and nothingness Lord, we love you. We ask for your blessing on this day. We ask for your blessing on those who aren't here today because they're they're unwell. Lord, I know that uh Hannah is is unwell and unable to worship with us or or serve us uh in her normal ministry uh this morning. Would you please uh strengthen her body and um assure her that she is loved and missed as well. And and help her to uh uh as a result not to be discouraged, but to be encouraged that she misses her church family and she misses worshiping you and she that she would recognize all the more. It is the purposeful For which she was created, as is for all of us. You've created us to worship you, to bring glory to you, to delight in you. And it is good to be here. We enjoy it. Help us to enjoy being with you this morning. In Jesus' name, Amen. If you're not there already, please turn with me to Matthew chapter two. We will be in the second half of Matthew chapter two. We're in our final week of what I've dubbed kind of tongue in cheek, Christmas in September. Of course we're working our way through all of the Gospel of Matthew, but that means you have to start with the Christmas story. And that's a good thing. But it's funny when you're doing it in September in September. But this last message from Matthew's Christmas chapters is a lot less Christmassy from than than the first. And Uh the the first three. And uh it's not a passage that we preachers tend to preach, at least not on their own at Christmas time because it's so un Christmassy and so sorrowful, but it's very much tied to the Christmas story It's ha it's sad and it's heavy and it describes a truly evil, despicable event And yet this passage that the second half of chapter two contains a message of hope And a message of assurance that God is indeed working all things together for good, just as Paul says in Romans chapter 8, even at the very darkest of times. And so we're going to walk together through this dark passage and behold the goodness of God. even in our heaviest seasons of life. And so what we're going to do today is we are going to Work our way through the three sections of the story. They break out very easily, very clearly. I'll have you look at the page right now or at your phone. We're starting in verse 13, going through the end of the chapter, and you'll notice that at the end of verse 15, we have a quotation from the Old Testament, out of Egypt I called my son. That's That's the marker that we're closing up one section and we go into the next section. So that goes through till verse 18, which is a full Old Testament quotation there. And then finally, there's a quotation of that which was spoken by the prophets, he shall be called a Nazarene at the end of verse 23. So these quotations all set off the divisions of the passage. I will uh explain and make comments as we go through each narrative section, each section of the story. Uh I'll sum up the theme of that section. And after we get through the story sections, then we'll come back and we'll consider the overall applications and takeaways of the passage as a whole. Sound good? Well let's dig in. We start with uh verses 13 to 15. God protects Jesus from Uh protects his son through Jesus Joseph's obedient diligence. God protects his son through Joseph's obedient diligence. If you don't have a notes page, that's okay, but you're welcome to grab one from the back. So the story thus far, the long-prophesied Messiah, long-promised, uh anointed one of God, has been born in Bethlehem Several months ago, possibly a year or more ago, and most people don't know it. He's living in Bethlehem with his parents for several months. Maybe more than a year, when a group of pagan priests arrived, not in Bethlehem, but in Jerusalem, and we saw this all last week, I'm just bringing you back to back back up to speed. Uh these priests called Magi arrived from the east. possibly as far, actually further than even Babylon, so like far eastern Iraq, possibly as far as Ur of the Chaldeans, that's the city that Abraham came from. God's brought them to see this young King of Kings because He's brought them to see His Son because He l He loves the whole human race He doesn't just love his people Israel. He loves all of the nations. And so he brings these pagan astrologers to To know himself through his son. He doesn't just love the Jewish people. And so these wise men bring him gifts, they proclaim him to be the king, the true king. And they leave change. It seems that they've trusted in the one true God by by b beholding his son, even though he's just an infant, they've or a toddler, they've beheld the true God. And they go away rejoicing. They are the first non-Jews in the history of the world to proclaim Jesus as King. Right? There were there were non-Jewish believers in the Old Testament, but these are the first ones to see Christ who are not of Jewish descent and to proclaim the Him as Messiah. They will not be the last ones. But their happiness doesn't last long because in their getting to Bethlehem, they went through Jerusalem and they alerted the king on the throne to the birth of this son by accident. They assumed that the king would be in that capital city and probably in the palace, and when he wasn't there, they were confused And this king is illegitimate. He knows it. We know it. He's illegitimate. So he's going to do all he can to eliminate any competition to the throne. He does that over and over again with his own family. He's certainly going to do it. He has no qualms about eliminating a rival baby boy. He's evil. And the things that we see go on in this passage are going to further legitimize Jesus as the true king because Herod is revealing who he really is and illegitimiz the illegitimizing himself through his actions So let's look at verse 13. Now when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise, take the young child and his mother, flee to Egypt. And stay there until I bring you word, for Herod will seek the young child to destroy him. When he arose, he took the young child and his mother by night, and departed for Egypt. We'll pick up there in a moment. Now when it says when they had departed, that's referring to the Magi, the wise men. And uh it's fairly straightforward what's what's happening here. God wants to preserve Jesus because he's going to get murdered if they stay put. And so he sends this angel in the dream. And there is a sense of urgency here. Herod will seek the young child. It's more urgent than that. He's about to do it. He is making preparations. He's on his way. He's going to kill Jesus if you don't do something. And the way that he speaks to him, right, is arise. Have you noticed the significance of that? He's asleep. He's in a dream, so arise. He's saying, wake up, do it now. He's not saying have a good cup of coffee in the morning, make sure you're well rested for the journey, and then pace yourself. He's saying, wake up now, flee in the night. And we're going to see through this, there's a lot of echoes of the days of Israel in Egypt fleeing Egypt. Because we're going to see mass murder of of Hebrew babies just like we saw in in the Book of Exodus We're going to see them leaving in the middle of the night and departing. There's a lot of echoes of that early departure from Egypt, except it's going to go in reverse. Because now they're fleeing to Egypt, which is really weird. Biblically speaking, that's really weird. Um now, Joseph wakes up and do you see how uh how immediate his obedience is? When he arose, he took the young child. He did not get that cup of coffee. He he woke up in the middle of the night, roused his wife from sleep. She might have even been, you know, she might have been nursing Jesus at that time. And they grabbed the stuff they could and they they went. Perhaps they had a donkey, perhaps they did not. And they just they disappeared m in the middle of the night. I want you to see this because it's something that often gets overlooked, but Joseph obeys immediately. And that is the force of the language here, and that is how God chooses to protect Jesus and his family. It's through the immediate obedience of the man he commanded. It's through the immediate obedience. And so often we drag our feet on obeying the Lord and and we see something in Scripture and then we use prayer as an excuse, don't we, to God, is that what you really mean for me? Yeah, okay, you meant it's David. You meant it for Jacob. Do you mean it for me? Like surely in my situation, it's it's it's complicated, it's difficult, it would have implications for me at work. I'm not sure that's actually what you want me to do, right? And The way that the Lord preserves his people from harm often is through our, not just our obedience, but our immediate obedience. And we can't Accuse him of not taking care of us if he gives us a command and he makes it clear to us and then we take nine months to obey The Lord's His normal way, He will still be faithful to you, but you may have negative consequences because you did not obey immediately. And I think that that's an important thing that we need to recognize when we read this passage. Now it's back to verse 13. So God tells Joseph to take Jesus to Egypt. And this is interesting because, well, there's there's a couple of reasons we might think that this is a logical place for him to go. On the one hand, Alexander the Great had made Alexandria on Egypt's northern coast into a haven for the Jews. That that's very likely where they went. It it was a largely Jewish city, even though it's it was in North Africa. In fact, the Greek translation of the Old Testament, if you've heard the very funny word Septuagint or Septuagint, that's the name for the Greek translation of the Hebrew and Aramaic Old Testament. That was translated there in Alexandria. It was translated in Egypt. In fact, uh it was so safe for Jews and so Judaized in Alexandria that by A. D. 40, so like less than a decade after Jesus had had died and ascended, Alexandria was reported to have a population of one million Jews. That's a lot, the the the historian Philo uh of Alexandria reported that. But why would God send Jesus to Egypt? I mean, think about this. We know the story, right? He ends up in Nazareth. He's called Jesus of Nazareth. He comes out of Nazareth. Why doesn't God just send him to Nazareth? Herod knows he's in Bethlehem. Why not send him a good ways north into the region of, I believe that's in Ephraim? Why not just send him up there? Because that's where his grandparents are. We we learned from Luke that both Mary and Joseph are from Nazareth. Yes, hi the place of his of Joseph's ancestors was Bethlehem, but he he was living in Nazareth before that. Mary is from Nazareth. Herod only knows about Bethlehem. Nazareth safe. He's going to end up living there anyway. Why does God send him to Egypt? Well there's two reasons, and only one is in the text. One is more implicit, but I believe that this is very strongly hinted at here. For Egypt to be a refuge to God's own Son, God's anointed one, his Messiah is a huge indictment on the current leadership in Israel. It's a huge indictment on the fact that Herod is not the true king. In fact, several times in the Old Testament, if you remember different periods of their history, they're tempted to go to Egypt for help. Sometimes they're making alliances with Egypt, and God rebukes them for it. There's a famous prophecy where he says, look, if you're going to put your your your hand, in fact he he gives this to them through through enemies as well, if you're going to put your hand on Egypt like a staff, it's going to break it, it's going to pierce your hand They're not supposed to go back to Egypt. Over and over again they're told in specific circumstances, don't go back to Egypt because God delivered you from Egypt. You're not supposed to go back there. You're not supposed to rely on Now that was not a blanket ban on Egypt ever, but it was in numerous specific instances. And now God's saying, take the young child to Egypt. It's an indictment on Herod and on the religious establishment, the chief priests and scribes who were just earlier this chapter conferring with Herod. It's an indictment on all of them. and the state of Israel as a whole. It's funny because they they have this strongly organized religion, don't they, in those days, and Jesus is constantly going up against them. And you can if you were to just compare Jesus' day Israel with like Elijah's Day Israel, you'd say, man, they got it made in Jesus' day. They're serious about worshiping God. They're not worshiping Baal at all. In fact, they're stoning anyone that goes against the law. Except they've gone the far opposite direction and they are so legalistic they're they're resting on themselves instead of on their God. It's only a pretense that they actually know or or love or honor their God. And God is indicting them by sending his son to Egypt, the place they were delivered from. historically. They're if you go through the Psalms over and over again, they're praising God for delivering them from Egypt. Now he's delivering his son to Egypt. It's weird, biblically speaking. So that's number one, it's an indictment on Herod. Number two And it's very clear here. It's in order to fulfill an expectation of fr from Scripture. And we've seen over and over again already that this is what Matthew's constantly doing, isn't he? He's showing us that Jesus Christ fulfills A lot of things. He fulfills the Old Testament and He fulfills the law and he fulfills righteousness over and over again. He's the fulfillment of prophecy, he's the fulfillment of the righteousness of the law. Even his baptism, which we'll get to uh week after next, is is the fulfillment of righteousness. And here he's he's showing us Three times three fulfillments. It's actually a fourth time in this chapter because we have the fulfillment of the Bethlehem prophecy in the first half of the chapter. And so he gives us this quote, Matthew quotes from uh Hosea chapter eleven, verse one, not Isaiah I know they have similar names and they ministered at the same time. So I can only imagine that people were constantly going to the wrong YouTube channel. They try to bring up Isaiah and they go to Hosea, right? Yeah, it was a joke. But but but seriously, they they ministered at the same time, Hosea and Isaiah, right? Uh Hosea says that out of Egypt I called my son, and Matthew says He was there until the death of Herod that it might be fulfilled what was spoken by the Lord through the prophet. The thing is, that's not a prophecy. Now if you turn to Hosea chapter 11, now I'm bringing this up, this difficulty, because skeptics will challenge this sort of thing and say, see, you can't trust the Bible. All right, so let's prove them wrong, right? If you say that this is a prophecy, strictly speaking, you'd be wrong. If we were to turn back there, and we're not going to turn back there. But if you were to turn back there, Hosea chapter 11 is Hosea. starting a new discourse and he is relating the history uh it's God himself through Hosea, but relating the history of Israel. And he's he very Not at the very beginning, but but right towards the beginning, the end of that first verse, he says that out of Egypt I called my son. He's not talking about Jesus. He's talking about Israel. Israel as his son, not not the person Israel, like Jacob is also called Israel, not the person Israel, but the whole nation of Israel. He's saying, I called my son out of Egypt. And then he talks about the ways that he ministered to him and cared for him and then and then that son rebelled. The whole nation rebelled against him by going after false gods. He's talking in the the context of of how he's going to deal with them by sending them in And so it's not a prophecy saying that God's going to have a son, and that son is going to be called out of Egypt, so therefore he needs to go to Egypt so he can be called from Egypt. That's not what it's saying. Better way to understand this, right? Is that this is not a prophecy per se. It's what the Bible frequently does, and we call it a typology. Have you heard of that? You've probably heard people say David is a type of Christ. Joseph is a type of Christ. You've probably heard that about Gideon as well. Joshua is a type of Christ. He's a deliverer. Basically, what that is saying is that it's a foreshadowing that there is a certain person in Scripture who prefigures Christ in a certain limited way and limited sense. That David being the one fully anointed by God and as the great king, he's a type of Christ in terms of Christ's kingship. Joshua is a type of Christ in terms of Jesus' deliverance And each of these will have limited senses in which they foreshadow Jesus. And that's what's going on here. That Israel as God's Son is prefiguring, foreshadowing what his singular person son will do, that God will call him out of Egypt just like he called his people out of Egypt. And this one will succeed where the other one failed. Where the other one went into apostasy and idolatry and God had to drag them captive into to other nations and then drag them back He won't have to do that with his son. His son will fulfill all righteousness. That's what's going on here. And so Matthew is rightly saying he's fulfilling what was spoken. He says spoken through the prophet, but he doesn't say it's a prophecy So when someone tries to trap you into saying did Jesus fulfill that prophecy, you can say, I see where you're going with this, not in my house, right? He no, he's not fulfilling a prophecy there, he's fulfilling a topic. He's fulfilling a type of Christ. Well, so uh the uh Jesus and his family escape Herod. And now we're going to see exactly what scheme it is they are escaping from. And so we move on to verse 16. In this case, we see that illegitimate king, that's Herod, revealing his true self by murdering innocence. I don't know there's a whole lot more that I can say about that to describe how evil it is, what he does. Let's just read it. Then Herod, when he saw that he was deceived by the wise men. One translation says outwitted by the wise men. They're not being deceptive. They're just they they they saw what he was doing, God revealed what what was going to happen, and so they they outwit him. They go a different way home. When he saw he was deceived by the wise men, he was exceedingly angry, and sent forth and put to death all the male children who were in Bethlehem and in all its districts, from two years old and under, according to the time which he had determined from the wise men. This is horrific. He's murdering numerous babies. And before we meditate on that aspect of it, I want you to think about what the parents would have been asking. Why? Why is he doing this? And somewhere along the line, it would have gotten out that, well, you see, he seems to think that there's been a king born in Bethlehem. Stuff like that doesn't stay hidden, right? I don't believe it, but Herod seems to think there was a king born here, like within the last two years. And in their anguish, Surely there would be an undercurrent of hope that even though children are are being killed and and parents are being bereaved, They or their neighbors and their brothers and sisters in their grief are still hearing, hold on though, like Something's happening. God's doing something. To quote C. S. Lewis, Aslan is on the move. There's rumors of the king. Could it be the king? Could it be the Messiah? Is that what he's worried about? And in all of this, unseen from them, we know, but none of them know that Jesus got out. In the middle of the night. He's safe. And God is preserving his son, his anointed one, who will return and save all of them. Now, he is going to die, isn't he? But not as a baby. Why is it important that he survives? I mean, that's a stupid question, but let's ask it. Why is it important that baby Jesus survives? Because he needs to die as an adult who has fulfilled God's law. He has to fulfill that righteous requirement. He has to fulfill all these prophecies that Matthew is going to keep pointing our attention to. And so Jesus comes into the world with a death sentence hanging over him and and we feel it right in his early childhood. He's got the sentence of death hanging over him, and God is going to postpone it but not remove it. Herod's, not this Herod, but his son is going to play a role in murdering him, executing him illegally. He's going to serve as his judge, which is When you think about it, really absurd that Herod would be judging Jesus. One day Jesus will be judging Herod Jesus came into the world to fulfill the requirement of righteousness because you and I cannot do that. And then he died. With the full curse of the law, God's curse upon him, when he hung from we say the tree, in Hebrew the word for wood and the word for tree is the same thing. It can mean either thing. You can hang from a tree or you can hang from a cross of wood that was taken out of a tree. It means the same thing. So when Absalom hung by his hair from a tree and was killed that way, remember all of those swords going in his heart, he had the curse of God uh over him, just like Jesus does. And the curse of God, the curse of the law, Jesus, who has fulfilled the righteous requirement of the law, dies. so that you and I could have that that righteousness that He's accomplished applied to us. Now He is the infinite God We're seeing that in these early chapters of Matthew. He's conceived of a virgin. He has no human father. He is the fulfillment of so many prophecies and preparations outside of his control. He is the God man. And as a result, when he died, he can die for more than just one. All who turn to him and believe in him Yeah, when we say believed, it's it's a certain type of belief. It doesn't just mean an intellectual belief like a belief that that George Washington was the first president of the United States. Now, this is an intellectual assent. This is, I'm recognizing that he's righteous and I'm not, and I'm turning to him from my old way. And his righteousness is applied to me. And you do not receive the curse or the condemnation that he received. Now, because he's infinite, that curse looks different on him than it does on us. If you receive the curse of God on you, you will be under that curse for all of eternity. Jesus, who is infinite, we need an infinite amount of time for our sins to be atoned for, meaning they can't be atoned for by us. Jesus, who is infinite and infinitely righteous, he never sinned. When he deals with the infinite wrath of God, full bore all of that wrath, and he who is infinite and eternal can Can deal with it, can atone for it, can satisfy that wrath in a finite number of hours. That's how amazing he is. And so we trust in him who received the full bore of God's wrath so that we do not have to. For us it would last an eternity because he was righteous, because he never sinned, it is not an eternity for him if It's a number of hours. That's how great our Messiah is. But right now, what we're reading, he he appears to be weak. He's a defenseless baby or toddler. He's no more than two years old because we we see that uh he that Herod uh put the uh the death penalty on all who were two years old and y and under. So he doesn't expect that Jesus is any older than two. He's probably leaving several extra months just to be safe, right? And so let me show you who this Herod is. We know of Oops. There we go. We know of Herod the Great. I don't know how well you can see this, but Herod the Great is the guy we're talking about. That's the guy up top. Uh there you go. Give you a better pointer here. There's Herod the Great, right? That's the guy we're talking about. And he's the one putting the the children to death. Shortly after this, like within two years, he's gonna die. I wonder if that's the judgment of God. And the the crown passes, it gets split among his children. Uh and this particular region goes to to uh sorry, our Kalos, and we're going to see that in the next section. He's going to get deposed though very quickly because he's just as cruel as his dad, and the Jews will actually send a delegation to Rome to complain about how wicked our Kalaus is. He'll get deposed and Caesar says, all right, Antipas, you're up. And so he's going to have a larger region and he's going to have Judea within his own region. I'm sorry, that was in the wrong spot there. When you see when we see Arkalaus, that's that's the one son of of Herod coming up in just a minute When we see later on John the Baptist getting executed and murdered by Herod, that's Antipas. That's the second guy, the second son. In case you were wondering. Herod Agrippa. Actually, let me put that back again. Herod Agrippa, down to the bottom there. Can you see that? Herod Agrippa is the guy in Acts that uh Paul appears before. So a lot of guys named Herod, basically, is the moral of the story there. But they're different Herods. All right So Herod murders these children out of envy and fear. Jesus is safe due to God's commandment and his obedience. Now, one other thing that we need to deal with, because here's another attack. It's always the attacks from skeptics mostly come on Jesus' resurrection and on his birth and on those narratives. So it's important that we kind of arm up here Another way that they they attack the truthfulness of scripture is that they say, you know what, you guys have that stuff about Herod murdering all those babies? Never happened. And if you watch anything on YouTube or TikTok, there's some snotty guy who just Who just uh says it like that and with a with a smirk on his face and moves on and never explains himself, right? Or herself. Well let's let's look into that. Bethlehem's a small town Even if you include the the surrounding areas. It's a very small village. Even though it's it's the the village where uh David was born, it has not grown very much at the at this point. It's a small one. In fact, let's just go back up. Just look with me a few a few verses up in verse six, chapter two, verse six, right? This is the prophecy given through Micah in the Old Testament. But you b Bethlehem in the land of Judah are not the least among the rulers of Judah. For out of you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. Why does he say you're not the least? 'Cause they feel like the least, 'cause they're tiny, even though that's where where David comes from. And that may be all they're thinking of. They're thinking he means David. No, he means the son of David. It's a tiny little town. We sing, right, a little town of Bethlehem. It was a little town. And so even if there was a baby boom that year, or that for those two years If you're only looking at children two years and under, it's probably not thousands and thousands of babies. It's 20 to 50 babies, which is a horrendous amount of mass murder. It's horrific, right? If a serial killer kills 20 people, that is horrendous. But The type of world they lived in. A historian is not good a historian in that day like Philo of Alexandria. who I mentioned already, or Josephus, the great Jewish historian who had lived like a hundred years or so later. They don't pay attention to itty bitty murders of 20 people. because that's normal for the despots in that age. They're callous towards it. It's a bit like you remember when Columbine happened, right? The first school show. And we everyone knew about it. You probably still can can name certain individuals and specifics of that account. But if I ask you how many school shootings have there been in the United States this year, I'm guessing no one knows the answer to that. I don't know the answer to that because they've become more and more frequent haven't they? It's horrible. It's an indictment on our age. Unless it's nearby, right? It appears on the local news, but I find out days later that it was a it i that if it happened in say Minnesota, right? It's not it's not news anymore. And that's how it was for those historians. They didn't take notice of, yeah, that's that's what despots like Herod did, you know, 20. Let me know when he hits 200. So the fact that this doesn't appear in the historical records of the day, that's not a surprise. It's still horrific, and God takes notice so much so that he's got this this prophecy that prefigures it. Okay, so now let's read this one. Then was fulfilled which was what was spoken by Jeremiah the prophet, saying, A voice was heard in Ramah, lamentation, weeping, and great mourning, Rachel weeping for her children, refusing to be comforted. Let's understand the original context just like we did with Hosea's prophecy. So this one, as it says, is Jeremiah's. Jeremiah 31, verse 4 fifteen. This is more straightforward than the Hosea typology. This is a standard prophecy. And what would often happen, not with every prophecy, but what would happen with a lot of prophecies is a thing called double fulfillment. There'd be something that would happen short term that was true, but it's actually a bigger prophecy than that. Sometimes they they got it. They understood that Okay, this has happened. It did fulfill it, but this is speaking about something that will happen in the end days. This is something that's speaking about the Messiah. And that's what's happening here. So Jeremiah is talking about the the The mothers in this town Ramah, which is just a little bit north of Jerusalem, which is just a little bit north of Bethlehem. It's on the border region between Benjamin and Judah. And he is saying that as the Babylonian army drags away these uh these these children uh from their parents to take them to Babylon where they would grow up and some of them have great careers like Daniel in the administration there, right? The moms are are mourning. Their children are no more. Not that they've died, but that they're they're taken away from them. They're not present anymore. Well, that was fulfilled in that in that event when the XL happened and those children were taken from their mothers. Lamentation, weeping, and great mourning. And they are personified as Rachel, the second wife of Jacob, weeping for her children, refusing to be comforted because they are no more. Well That's the initial fulfillment. Now there's the greater fulfillment where the mothers of Bethlehem this time are weeping in the same general border region as Ramah. They are they are weeping for their children who have not just been carried into captivity. They've been killed. They've been murdered. As the as the m as the Messiah is persecuted, there's this great mourning going up. And so you can imagine them singing things like what we sang a few minutes ago minutes ago, O come, O come, Emmanuel. The mothers in the the time of the captivity, having their children taken away to Babylon, and that far, foreign land, they'll never see them again. And they're singing, oh, I know Messiah will put these things right. And then these people with these these perhaps rumors of the the Messiah was born and Herod just tried to kill him. They're hoping, oh Lord, put things right. And he's in the process of doing that, but you you can't see it if you're living in a day. It's all going on behind the scenes, hidden And there's great mourning as a result of it. That doesn't mean that God's not working. It doesn't mean he's not good. Well let's move on then to the final section here. They do get to Egypt. And he stays there until Herod is dead. And what we see here in verses 19 through 23, if you're following along your notes, is that God guides his unrecognized Messiah to his prophesied home. His promised home. God guides his unrecognized Messiah to his prophesied home. It says, Now when Herod was dead, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, saying, Arise, take the young child and his mother, and go to the land of Israel, for those who sought the young child's life are dead. And that sounds a lot like what was what was said to uh Moses, doesn't it? That when he fled from Egypt and there are people pursuing his life, he's told after Pharaoh is long gone, Those who were seeking you are dead. You can go back to your home. And God is is calling Jesus now back to his home. He directs Joseph to return Jesus to his own people, and we have the same thing happen again, just like we did in the first place. He says, arise, like wake up again, Joseph. And so Joseph wakes up. It says, then he arose, took the young child and his mother, and came into the land of Israel. There's just this obedience, this immediate obedience language going on. And then as he gets closer, he hears, as I'd mentioned before, that, uh oh, I hear that Archalos is just as bad as his dad, and he's living there now. And when he's perhaps pondering these things and praying about these things, the Lord gives him a third dream warning. And it says, uh, but when he heard that Archelaus was reigning over Judea instead of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there, and being warned by God in a dream, he turned aside into the region of Galilee. And he came and dwelt in a city called Nazareth, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophets, he shall be called a Nazarene. So as Joseph is obeying, the Lord gives clarification and redirection, most likely in the response to Joseph's own prayers. Because did you see that? He heard first. But it's only after he hears that then God gives him direction. He doesn't say from the beginning, take him to Nazareth because our Kalaus is is reigning there. He says, Take him home. And when Joseph assumes home is Bethlehem because he he trusts in the prophecy from Micah, and he wants him to come out of of Bethlehem, he doesn't think to go to Nazareth. Then God redirects him after he hears and perhaps prays about what he should do Now Archelaus is deposed while Jesus is still quite young in the year A. D. 6. I told you about that, that uh his brother is set up as king. But by that point he's already in Nazareth. Now there's a problem that with this last prophecy. He came and dwelt in a city called Nazareth, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophets, he shall be called Nazarene. First the obvious thing, right? That Matthew's not telling us what Luke told us, that actually Joseph is from there, Mary's from there, he's going to be with his grandparents. He doesn't say any of that Well, that's just normal for Matthew. And Luke does the same thing. He skips the visit of the wise men. Now skeptics will tell you that's because these are two un independent stories and neither of them happened. Or we can understand that each of these writers have a specific purpose, and Matthew is fast-tracking it. This is very typical of Matthew. He doesn't give you extraneous details. Luke gives you a little bit more, but he didn't give you everything. And then John, well, he just gives us theological s points that we didn't have in any of the other three Gospels. And Mark gives us an action pact. Here's what the servant was doing. They don't tell us about his origins at all. They all have a different purpose. And none of them contradict each other. And so that's that's the initial issue, but we see that there is there is no contradiction between Luke and Matthew. We find out that he goes to Nazareth. He's not told to go to Nazareth, is he? He's just told to go into Galilee. Nazareth's in Galilee, well let's let's go home to mom and dad. But then there's this bigger issue. That it might be spoken, or that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophets, he shall be called a Nazarene. Do you know where you find that prophecy in the Old Testament Testament, he shall be called Nazarene. Search your Old Testament, it's not there. Not like that. And so this is a difficulty we have to overcome. We do believe in the absolute full f uh absolute authority and inerrancy meaning no errors right in scripture. So what do we do with this? So there are there's historically three solutions offered to this problem. Number one is if you look at Isaiah chapter 11, verse 1, Jesus is referred to as a branch. And branch is Nezar, and that sounds a little bit like Nazareth. No, it doesn't. Um but that's what they say um that they must be referring to him as the branch. I mean it's a good try, but it's really unclear. It wouldn't have been clear to uh uh to those even fluent in Hebrew at in the day. Uh and and when you see that word branch, it's actually there are other words used for branch uh in other passages aside from So that's probably not the best solution. Second one is to say, oh, it means Nazarite, and they quote Samson, the the Nazarite, and it's it's like Samson's a t a type of Christ. Well Nazarite is, if you remember the story of Samson, right, what were they not to do to Samson? Don't cut his hair. Part of the Nazarite vow, they would take a vow. In fact, Paul takes a vow later on in his life They take a vow and they will never cut their hair for as long as the vow lasts. For Samson it was lifelong, Paul it was less than that. They will not cut their hair and they will not have strong drink. They won't have alcohol Those were the hallmarks of the Nazarite. Problem with this theory is that they're saying, well, that sounds like Nazareth, Nazarite, that's what it means. Problem is Jesus wasn't a Nazarite. So that doesn't really work. Third solution is to recognize that Nazareth was a term of derision. Do you remember when I believe it's Nathaniel says, can any good come out of Nazareth? Hey, the prophets from Nazareth. No, that's backwater. No good has come out of Nazareth, right? It's a term of derision. And Jesus was constantly derided for numerous things. He's got an obscure background, and he's he's the man of sorrows And neglected by men, uh acquainted with grief, Nazareth as an epithet it it it means that he will he will be derided. That's really what it means. And so the fact that he comes from Nazareth. Okay, I can see some merit to that, but I'm dissatisfied. Are you dissatisfied with that? Because it that doesn't actually That's not what the prophecy supposedly says, right? I think that there's a better understanding of this, and this comes not from me, but from John MacArthur, the late great John MacArthur, who went to be with the Lord just uh a few weeks ago And what he suggests is that this is, there were a lot of things that the prophet said, not all of them got written down. And in fact, in the New Testament, if you go to Jude, you will see that Jude quotes Enoch. Enoch is the great, great, great, great. Great, great grandson of Adam. He calls him the seventh from Adam. And he gives Well, that's a really old source, right? And that means we would expect to find it in Genesis, except it's not there The Lord had preserved it in the writings called the Book of Enoch. He didn't preserve the whole book as canon, but there was some truth there, and God preserved that. And so he quotes it, and we're told that that is actually canonical prophecy. But you won't find it in your Old Testament. Another example, Paul will quote Jesus, but when you look for that quote, in some cases, You don't find it in the Gospels. When he says that our Lord has said is more blessed to give than receive, I have no doubt that Jesus said that because Paul said so under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, but it's not written in the Gospels. So God can do this. And there were numerous prophets that have no books named after them. We know some of them. There was a prophet named Micaiah. The Lord used him to warn Ahab and to condemn Ahab. When Ahab decided to do something that was against what the Lord wanted. Even the great Elijah and the great Elisha, we have scarce few prophecies of what they actually said. They're recorded as as having ministries, but we have very few of their actual prophecies recorded. Even Jonah himself, Jonah, right? The prophet to Nineveh. Well, what was his prophecy? I don't see any prophecy of his. He had them We're told in in the book of uh chronicles that he has a successful ministry aside from that time in in Nineveh, but we're not told anything that he said. And then there are numerous prophets who are just called either the prophets or the man of God or the sons of the prophets. And we don't know anything about them. We don't even know their names. And what it seems possible, I guess we can't prove this, but is that there had been a tradition and that there had been prophets who had spoken prophecies about Nazareth, but not recorded them. And those who lived near Nazareth would have heard of those things. And maybe it's just a rumor. And they become confirmed as prophetic. when Joseph takes his family there. And he understands it when he when he takes his family there. But he doesn't take them there initially, does he? He takes them to Bethlehem because there's a bigger prophecy that's actually written in the Old Testament, written in the book of Micah. That's why he goes to Bethlehem. It's only after God says, take him to Galilee, he realizes there were rumors that these prophets had said that there would be a prophet come out of Nazareth. And in and note the difference here, right? In verse 15, what was spoken through the prophet, one prophet, saying, and it's a direct quotation. You have the same thing again. What was spoken by Jeremiah the prophet, one prophet, saying, and it's a direct quotation. But here, the way the Greek works is first of all, it's it's plural, which was spoken by the prophets And then there's there's a different Greek word follows that. So basically instead of it being a direct quotation, it basically reads He came and dwelt in a city called Nazareth, that it might be fulfilled what was spoken by the prophets, that he shall be called a Nazarene. That there were several prophets who had said to the effect that there will be someone come out of Nazareth. He will be called a Nazarene. Combine that with this idea from solution number three that he's to be despised. That makes better sense, I think, than the first the first two solutions or solution three on its own. What we do know is that God did speak this because he says that he spoke it and now he has fulfilled it. Matthew is not simply pulling something out of the air. But why does this matter? I think that we have several applications that we can take from this. And this whole passage as a whole is Is showing us, first of all, what the problem is and then the solution. Often we cannot see God working for good Instead, all we see is chaos and injustice and godlessness, and it appears to be flourishing. We can't see God working for good. It says that He is in Romans 8, but we We struggle to believe it because we see the opposite of that. But what this passage shows us is that despite those though may be though those may be the circumstances God is working unseen. He's working behind the scenes to destroy with grace and with goodness the abundant evil we observe. And that is the main theme for this morning. I encourage you to write that down. God is working unseen to destroy with goodness and with grace. He doesn't fight fire with fire. He fights it with water. He extinguishes bad with good. He extinguishes legalism with grace. And he uses that to destroy the evil that we observe. God protects his son from murder of a child so that he can graciously save you by his death as an adult who has fulfilled the law. And so application number one, take hope in God even when you can only see the opposite. You may only see the bad stuff. That doesn't mean God's not working. If He could work like this in the days of his son's infancy, toddlerhood. You can bet that he's working good. Now he's sovereign over it all. Number two, I promise we I realize we're running a little late. I promise we're going to rapid fire through these But let me let me just point out one last thing actually before I go to the second one. We walk by faith, not by sight We don't go based on we don't determine what God is doing or what he is like or who he is based on what we see going on around us. We we believe what is true of him because it's in his word and he's already proved himself to us. We walk by faith, not by sight. We believe things to be true, and we hold to them despite what we see. And that's not, I think sometimes we use that that verse very flippantly. It was given in the the context of Christians recognizing that they could be killed for following Christ. But they say, we walk by faith, not by sight. I'm going to keep on trusting him. That's not something you just quote because you're hopeful that the Nats will make the playoffs. They won't We can be hopeful even when we feel like everything's falling apart because God has revealed that we shall be whole once again, and the only lasting wholeness that will ever come will come to us in Christ. So that's number one, that we take hope in God even when we only see the opposite. Number two, understand that God fulfills his promises in ways that surprise us. That that thing spoken by Hosea, we wouldn't choose to to interpret things that way. I don't suggest that you start looking for types everywhere in the Old Testament where there's really no clearness there. Now it shouldn't be our normal way that we read the Old Testament, but when when a New Testament writer under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit does it, you can trust it God surprises us. And we might be surprised how He brings good out of a bad situation. Number three. Expected to be treated like your master. If Jesus was persecuted, if Jesus was murdered, if they said that he's demon-possessed. They'll say nasty things about you too. They will try to do nasty things to you as well. And if you lose your job because you were loyal to Christ in the workplace, don't decide that God's abandoned you You're being treated like your master. And did he take care of your master? You bet he did. And he put people in his life who could care for him and protect him until the right day where he called him home And he will do that for you. You can trust that God will take care of you when you follow your master. But you will be treated like your master was treated. And then finally, we should appreciate and anticipate Christ's coming when we see awful stuff like what happened in Matthew chapter 2 happening. Anticipate the reign of a just king, the perfect, righteous, great, messianic king, when you see justice miscarried. When another Lacrosse team all gets off on gang rape charges when they're guilty of sin because the judge sided with some lacrosse player's father. Right? How many times has that happened in the last 10 20 years. You see justice miscarried? Remember that Jesus will come and set that right When you see people persecuted for righteousness' sake, remember that Jesus is coming and he will reign righteously and he will set everything right and he will give you justice. Smaller scale, someone treats you horrifically, and you want to take vengeance into your own hands. You want revenge. You don't do it because you trust that God will give you justice. If not this side of eternity, which he might, but if not this side of eternity, then he will give it to you in eternity. Brothers and sisters, we serve a good king. He exposes false kings. He even uses their own evil to show us that and to point us to the right king. He is always working good out of evil, even though we can't see it. So let's trust in him and let's flee to him. Thank you for being patient with me. I realize I went quite long today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are good and we love you. This is hard stuff to to read and to hear. There's such evil. And we see that evil echoed in our world Lord, my heart breaks for those who are still captives two years later in in Israel, and we pray for their deliverance and for their rescue. But until then, Lord, we are waiting for your Son to return and to set things right. Help us to believe that and to trust that and not doubt your goodness when we can't see it. In Jesus' name, amen.