I really count myself uh privileged to get to preach to you the night before Christmas. Um This is obviously a special time for me, but it's a joyful responsibility that I have to help you to orient your worship and orient your celebrations. this time of year, so that they can be around God's word and from God's perspective and honoring God's priorities. And uh it's a challenge because uh a number of us here uh have heard been hearing this this message since we were we were children. We could rehearse the story very easily. Perhaps you found yourself zoning out uh during some of the the scripture readings. Others of you perhaps perhaps you're hearing it for the first time or one of the first times, and you're really not sure how all of the different pieces of They're not all even uh sitting right next to each other in the Bible. Uh there's some in the Gospel of Matthew, some in the Gospel of Luke, and we were even in other books that maybe you struggle to pronounce So I recognize that this may be difficult for some to follow along, and it is my job to hopefully make it easy But especially, I see it as an important part of my job to help you to just discover or to rediscover the beauty. of the the truths of these historical events, because they are indeed historical events that actually happened at a specific place, at a specific Time in history, a little over two hundred and twenty oh sorry, two thousand and twenty years ago in Israel. in Bethlehem. So if you have a Bible or app with you, turn with me to Luke chapter two. If it's easier for you to follow though, by not having to worry about that, not having to read, then if you know you're more of an auditory learner, then just listen along. And if you would like a Bible, we have some on the back table, just go ahead and uh and raise your hand, and that will be brought to you. Okay, go ahead and raise your hand if you'd like that. So we're going to start in Luke chapter two. Now we've read most of the story so far, we've left some parts out, but let's let's just kind of catch up, get a quick recap. So for for centuries God had been preparing to send his ultimate anointed one. Anointed as prophet and as priest, but especially anointed as king into the world. And anointed is the way we say it in English. It's for this special man's title. But we know that title by two other languages We know it is anointed in English, but you're probably more familiar with the ones in Hebrew and in Greek. In Hebrew, it's Messiah. In Greek, it's Christ. And so this is why we call Jesus Jesus Christ. He is the Christ, Jesus the Christ, Jesus the Messiah. And although God had made promises about the Messiah well over a thousand years before he was born, actually 1,500 years at one point, and some even older than that. It's at about 700 years out from his birth that he starts to give some real specifics. And we read four of those. just a few minutes ago, coming from the prophet Isaiah, living some 700 plus years before the birth of Jesus Around the same time, there's another one that we didn't read, also very specific, saying that this is from the prophet Micah, saying that the Christ would come out of the city of Bethlehem. And that is the city we are reading about tonight. Well, we read about an angel visiting a young lady who did not live in Bethlehem. Lived in northern parts of the country of Israel. Her name's Mary. To tell her that she is going to become supernaturally pregnant. With God's own Son. There would be no physical contact, but she would conceive him in her womb miraculously. And she did. And she believed. Obviously, it caused a scandal, and in those days it was especially scandalous for an unmarried woman. Now she was engaged, she was betrothed, as it was called. But she was supposed to be practicing purity. In fact, she was practicing purity, and yet this happened. And of course no no one or very few people are going to believe her story that This is the Lord Himself visiting her. They're assuming that she has been promiscuous, that she's been immoral. And her fiancé himself was shocked so much that he decided to break this off. Now we did not read this portion of the story tonight. But Joseph is her husband's n name, or I should say fiance's name. He's not they're not married at this point. And he was shocked and he determined that he's going to put her away. He's going to get what was called a divorce if he did to break that betrothal period. But the angel who appeared to Mary was able to appear to Joseph before he could act on that decision. And gave him the same message. And so he agreed. I will take on this responsibility. I will raise this child as we heard from the testimony in song just a few minutes ago. deciding to to take on the responsibility of raising God's son, him being a mere man. And so he embraces this gift and this responsibility. And then we read about how this couple trekked out many miles to Bethlehem. Did you catch that it's because of a very mundane thing? It was a a uh census That caused them to make that journey to Bethlehem. Now, surely Mary probably did not need to accompany Joseph. Joseph could have gone and registered the three of them together. But Mary, who loves the Lord and knows the scriptures, probably realized that this is the Lord making an opportunity for my son, his son, to be born right where the prophet prophesied 700 years ago, he's gonna come out of Bethlehem. I better go with my husband, my fiance. And so they go. And it's a census, and it's an imperial disaster. And The streets are clogged with people and so are all of the the homes, so are all of the inns. And they can't find a place This this woman, eight or nine months pregnant, they can't find a place for her to lay down. Just think about that for a moment if you become familiar with this story. If if there was a young lady who was about to give labor, about to give birth, about to go into labor. Would you tell her try up the street? I I I imagine you'd probably say, come on in. You can have the most comfortable bed in the house. You can have the bathtub if you want it. Right. And yet it's it's a picture of how cold the hearts of these people were that they would leave this this young lady and her her fiance out in the cold. Finally someone is able to say, you know what, I'm sorry, we don't have room in the house. But you can go to the stable. Perhaps it was known that they were not married, but only betrothed, and so it was a part of showing showing shame to them. But the uh the the homes in those days would often have uh animals out out in the yard and so she was probably taken into their their kind of home barn, home stable. It may have been a uh a cave nearby uh to the house or it may have been just a piece put on the back of the house. Uh tradition suggests it was probably a cave. Now does this shock you then that this anointed one, this Christ, this Messiah who has been prophesied for 700 plus years, more than that, but in detail, 700 plus years, that he's born in a barn? He's born in a stable. And Th this greatest king in human history, he's not in a palace. He's not in a hospital. There's no place to even set the little guy down when mommy gets tired of holding him, right? And so probably what's ha what happens is Joseph has a MacGyver moment and decides, so let's just take this Let's just take this uh this feeding trough here and and set him down there. He probably tries to make it as gentle and soft and as comfortable as possible and lays this baby in this probably You know, whenever we have m nativity scenes, there's this tiny cute little manger, right? We only ever call it a manger when we're talking about nativity scene. It's a feeding trough. It's dirty, right? They have this tiny baby-sized Trough, right? Made just for the baby. No, this is probably quite long, and very possibly it was carved into the rock of the the cave wall. It'd be very uncomfortable for the poor little guy. And that's all they've got. And so this mundane detail of dad just trying to throw together a uh a makeshift solution is preserved for us two thousand years later. I find that amazing. And we just come to think of it as a humdrum detail, those of us who are used to this story. Well, that brings us to verse 8, where we see shepherds living out in the fields, not just working, living in the fields. They're poor people. They're hardworking blue-collar people. And they get the shock of their lives because remember, this is 2,000 years ago. There's no floodlights. There's no high school football field. There's no Jeep with high beams on behind them. Suddenly this light just appears from nowhere, and that doesn't happen. It's unprecedented. And this light appears, we're told it's the glory of the Lord shining on them, and there's an angel there, and they just about see their pants. I mean they they just they're shocked, and I I think you can probably understand that And so of course he says, I'm going to start reading in verse 10. Of course the angel said to them, Do not be afraid. Well, why should they not be afraid? Because he doesn't come there to judge them. They perhaps feel exposed and naked before him. They perhaps feel vulnerable. Perhaps they have a sense, as other people have recorded in Scripture, of their own unworthiness, their own sinfulness. And so he says, don't be afraid, for behold, look, I'm bringing you good tidings of great joy which will be to all people. Now of course he's talking to the Israeli people. These people he's saying, but there's already hints, isn't there, that this is this is for all. This is beyond just all the people of Israel. is intended for the for the world, and we see that in just a moment. Let me keep going. For there is born to you this day In the city of David, a Savior who is Christ the Lord, and this will be the sign to you. You will find a babe, as a baby, wrapped in swaddling cloths, lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace. So first it's just one angel, and that's enough to terrify them. And maybe now we get the fe we we understand why it was just one, because now suddenly a great multitude appears. It says a multitude of the heavenly hosts. What does that funny phrase mean? Do you know what host means? We tend to think of the maid or D at a restaurant, right? Or someone opening their home to you. Of course it does mean that, but in this context, it's referring to an army. A host is an old word. It's an army. An army appeared. An army army of what? Angels. An angel army. And that the word used here that's translated multitude. Could be translated fullness, a fullness of the heavenly army, the fullness. So this is this is an extraordinary number of angels. Now we're going to be jumping ahead in a little bit. We're not there yet. But we're going to see just how many hundreds of millions of angels are in heaven. Now, this may not be all of heaven, or maybe it is. Maybe they just couldn't help it. They couldn't contain their excitement and they're spilling out of heaven. But we we at least know it's enough to do battle with a horde of demons and win. And they're all they're not they're they're an army, but they're not to do battle, are they? They're here simply for one job, and that is to sing. They sing glory to God in the highest on earth, peace, goodwill toward men. Now surely the people back in town heard this racket, that many angels, an armies worth singing, and all of those bright lights out on the hills. I I wonder what they were thinking. They probably couldn't tell what was going on. But something something unusual is happening tonight. Well I want us to look though specifically the contents of what this lone angel and then the whole army are saying. You know, when it says good tidings of great joy, it's saying that the joy is the effect of this good news. The good news is the cause, the joy is the result. Hear me carefully. The joy is the result of this good news. We feel much joy at Christmas time, don't we? Let me let me ask you, and I'm not asking you this to tisk-tisk at you, I'm not telling you off, not at all, because all of the things I'm about to suggest are good reasons to to to feel joy, right? But I ask you, what is the source of your joy and what is the ultimate source of your joy? Is it the presence? Is it that you get to receive presents? And let me just be honest. Let me lead. Alright? I love receiving presents. I know it's better to good and re better to give than receive and everything, but I love to receive, okay? Is that where you get your joy? Do you get your joy from giving a thoughtful gift to somebody and seeing their face light up? I can't believe you remembered that I said I'd like something like this. Thank you so much. Right? Does that give you joy? I'm sure it does. Is your joy from getting time off from work? Well, at least one of us, right? At least one of us is joyful at getting time off of work. Or school. And perhaps it's simply your time with family and your special friends. My wife and I just had a Christmas party with some some friends. friends uh a couple counties over uh on uh at the weekend and it was just a wonderful time. We just we just loved it. There was much joy in that house. All of these are good. It's good for you to rejoice in your family, but let me ask you where your ultimate source of joy is. is does it come from this news? Does it come from the fact that there is a Savior, a Savior who is Christ the Lord, as the angel said, that he was born into this world in order to well hold on, let's look at what the army sang, in order to bring on earth peace, good will toward men. And I think some of us hear that. On earth peace, good goodwill toward men. And we we hear Jesus came to put an end to wars. And he's actually called the Prince of Peace. That's one of those prophecies that we read a few minutes ago. The Prince of Peace. And we think of that as simply meaning a cessation in wars. And and one day he will bring that in because he's going to return and he will bring in an end to all war. He'll bring in a lasting peace. Well that's not the kind of peace that's being referred to here. In his first coming, this is talking about a peace between God and man. You see, this glory to God in the highest. God deserves glory. here. And and God in the highest heaven, from these inhabitants of heaven with him, are coming to the lowest of the low, coming to these poor shepherds. Who are going to go out to this poor little baby with his poor parents who couldn't even find a room in an inn somewhere? He's reconciling high to low by coming lowly. God, his son, God in the flesh is born in these lowly circumstances. So that he could redeem those who are the highest of the high and the lowest of the low, all who need redemption. Because we are not born at peace with God. And that might be news to you We're not born at peace with God. You were born God's enemy. Much of the Bible tells us that we are born God's enemies because we are sinners. We inherited it from our parents, and they inherited it from their parents, and they inherited it from their parents, all the way back up to Adam and Eve, the first two people on earth, who were the first ones to sin. And God, who is so holy, right? We see his glory, his holy glory, his righteous glory, his morally perfect beauty shining out in this story. He's holy and he's just and he cannot bear to look on our sin if you think that you're going to heaven. I would ask you why. Because he cannot bear to have your sin with him in heaven for eternity. So either the choice is that we would be separated from him For eternity. And that means that it's going to be a separation of torment because his justice is fierce. Or he has to make a way. He has to make a way for us to be reconciled to him And that's what this story is about, right? God is making peace. So, spoiler alert, it's happened, but how? The question is how? How can you have peace with God? I think some of us suppose that we are able to do that ourselves, that we are able to, you know, through our Our charitable giving, especially this time of year, right? How many times have you gotten that Wikipedia ad to donate money to Wikipedia, right? It was every time I go into Wikipedia or to St. Jude's Hospital, right? Uh and and that's that's one of the ways that we think that we can we can merit merit something in God's sight. Make up for the wrong that we do and even the wrong that we think But what Jesus came into the world to do was he came in the world To bring peace between us and God through death, through his own death, by laying down his life. So that we could be made right with him. Now, God's wise, right? God's not stupid. God's very smart. And he loves his son. Now, I know a number of fathers who aren't all that smart. And I know that they love their sons, and they would not just lay down their sons' lives for no reason. So do you suppose that supremely intelligent creator who loves his son Would put his son to death if there's more than one way for you to be made right with God. See, God is not a mountain with many paths, as I've heard expressed at different times. I've heard, I'm sure you have, it's not about the journey, it's about the sorry, it's not about the destination, it's about the journey. Well, there's only one journey that will get you to the right destination. So I have to disagree with that statement. Jesus Christ is the only way to be reconciled, for you to be reconciled to God. And it's very simple. It's not that you have to do something To please him. Jesus did it for you. This goodwill toward men is his way of saying, God has graciously looked upon you. Do you know what grace is? It's the name of our church. You may not know that. You may have come here and just found the nearest church online, and I'm glad you did. We're Grace Baptist Church. And we emphasize grace because what it means is it's unmerited favor. It's favor we don't deserve. We talk in in in this church, we talk about two things, grace and mercy. And they're essentially two sides of the same coin. I think most of us know what mercy is. You deserve a punishment for something, right? But it's withheld from you. Like I had a professor in college who was who was very kind to me. He wasn't kind to everybody, but he was kind to me for whatever reason And there were times where I was I was late on assignments or I was yeah yeah I just didn't do great quality work and he would give me a higher grade than I deserved. And on the one hand, he could have he could have penalized me. And he could have given me a C or lower, right? Hopefully not lower than a C. I think I at least deserved a C, but he could have given me a C or a B minus And he gave me like an A-. He showed me mercy, but he also showed me grace. He showed me kindnesses I didn't deserve. See he withheld judgment that I that I deserve. That's mercy. And then showing grace, that's giving you something that you don't deserve. Mercy is withholding something you do deserve, something bad, and grace is giving you something good that you don't deserve. And this word for goodwill has behind it the idea of grace, that God is looking on us who don't merit any goodness. We don't deserve any goodness from Him And and how much goodness does he lavish upon us? He brings his own This is God Himself coming in the flesh and and laying his life down. As a baby, he's coming with a death sentence on himself. So that 33 or so years later, he would die on a cross, which was an illegal form of execution for the Jewish people. And so that God would look at him and say, I am channeling all of my anger at the sins of humanity at my son. And I'm putting him to death for their sin. I'm looking at Pastor Rob's sin, and I am it's disgusting. But I'm not going to stay mad at Pastor Rob. I'm going to put my son to death for it. And he is God in the flesh, so he's infinite. And he can atone not only for my sin, but for your sin too, and the sins of the whole world. world that if we but trust in him, we exercise faith in him who died in our place, and that that's it, that's enough. You know what he does at that point? He takes your sin and he puts it on your son, but he takes your s he takes his son's perfect moral righteousness. And he puts it on you and he clothes you with it and he transforms you from the inside out. And it's a slow process. You don't just suddenly, bam, you get over your addiction to pornography and addictive substance says, bam, you stop talking bad about people. Bam, you stop complaining. Bam, you're suddenly not lazy. No, it doesn't work that way. He takes you by the hand and slowly over the course of your life, you walk with him, you read his word, and he instructs you. He's already saved you. We do these things because he saved us, and because we're grateful, and because we want more of him. And he transforms us. And our church membership is full of people who have been transformed by I just want you to see how these angels are praising him for what he has done for us. These angels here, they cannot contain their joy. There's a whole army of them, isn't there? And what I find remarkable is that they are not the beneficiaries of Jesus' death. They are not sinners. The beneficiaries of Jesus' birth and death, right? That's us, we so often offer meager worship to him in comparison with the worship, the lavish worship of these angels and we should really be embarrassed at how weakly we praise Jesus when when whole angel armies will praise him extravagantly. despite never benefiting directly from his life or death. They benefit by getting to see his wondrous works, but we benefit by being reconciled to God, and that is what should cause us ultimate joy. So, can I encourage you to relocate your first, your primary joy this Christmas to Christ? The other things I mentioned, the family time. The time with friends, the time off work to rest and recharge and enjoy gifts and enjoy warmth and hot chocolate. All of that stuff is good. They're good gifts from God. But let your joy be in Jesus first, who has reconciled you to Himself, to your God, to your creator. Rejoice in the fact that God entered the world in this miraculous way that he did. Rejoice in his purpose. To make you right with him and rejoice in his devotion to you that even as a baby he came with with a perfect purpose. He had this death sentence looming over him. He came into the world to die for you and for me. Now I'm nearly done, I promise. But I want to show you this angelic joy one other place. Because the angels motivat motivate us to worship Jesus Christ when we see their overwhelming joy at his birth. But Jesus died, but he didn't stay dead. He rose from the dead, and the importance of that means that your sin that put him to death is no longer keeping him in the tomb. It's been burned up. It's gone. God's wrath is satisfied. That's how you can know that he's happy to receive you into heaven. Because Jesus is there with with him now. But before he was there, he was walking and talking on earth and eating meals with people for forty days. While in heaven, they are praising him for that resurrection. And so I'm going to turn to the very last book of the Bible. Feel free to follow with me or not. And I just want to read these two verses. Revelation chapter 5, verses 11 and 12. Then I looked and I heard the voice of many angels around the throne, the living creatures and the elders, and the number of them was 10,000 times 10,000 and thousands of thousands. How many is that? You know, the way that the Greek our Bibles are in English, but it's translated from Greek. They're originally written in Greek. And Greek kind of ran out of numbers that are high enough to record the number of angels. Probably also the guy writing this, John, he's one of the apostles, probably couldn't even fathom how many there were there. And so he just uses the highest numbers in the Greek language that he has access to. So if we were to just be really literal about it, and that means that we're going to be really stingy and keep the numbers low, because it's probably much higher. The spirit of it seems to suggest it's much higher. But to be totally stingy about it, what's 10,000 by 10 times 10,000? It's a hundred million, isn't it? It's often not. So it might be higher than that, but I think it's a hundred million. Plus thousands of thousands. So at the very minimum you're looking at a a hundred million two thousand, right? That's a huge amount of angels. And then we read what they're singing. It says saying with a loud voice. Right, the loud voice crying out with their whole selves, worthy is the Lamb who was slain, to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. He's the lamb who was slain because he's standing here. If we look further earlier in the chapter, it says that this lamb looks like he's been slain, but he's standing before God, and he walks over to God and he takes something out of his hand And what he takes is a story for another day. If you're curious, let it be your Christmas time reading tonight or tomorrow. But he can stand boldly in front of his Father, the resurrected Lamb who died for your sin. And the angels cannot contain themselves. And we get the feeling as though back on earth at his birth, yeah, they were so spilling out of heaven. They they it's like, God, please let us go down. And they could not help but contain it. They can't hear either. They're praising the The God who was born in the flesh and who was raised from the dead, that he might be our king and our prophet to tell us about God and our priest to reconcile us to him. He died, but he's alive, and this ability to be put to death under the wrath of God, and yet rise again and stand before him, demonstrates that he is worthy to receive this praise. Power and riches and wisdom and strength or might and honor and glory and blessing. And I would encourage you to worship Jesus this way, this way. Christmas time. Let the angels inspire you to worship God with extravagant expressions of joy because he came into the world to reconcile you to God. Let's pray.