We're coming to this passage on the the announcement that uh baby Jesus would be born. Uh can you all hear me okay? Does it need to be turned up? Okay, we good? All right. And whenever I come to this passage, I can't help but think about the days leading up to the birth of our first child and our second child too, but especially our first child, trying to come up with his name. And uh I don't even know how much uh Zeke knows this story, so he he'll be able to hear hear some of this fun stuff. Uh because naming is difficult. It's important, right? When you're naming a child, it's important. And it's it's really fun to come up with a name for your job, but it's it's difficult. And when we were expecting uh this guy here Uh we were we we had several criteria that we had in choosing the right name for him and and uh praying about it and and trying to figure out the right word for him. We wanted a name that One that we liked, and that we liked the sound of it, right? We wanted a name with some significance behind it, preferably positive significance. We weren't gonna name him Adolf or anything like that. We didn't want a a name that was so popular that half of his class at school would have the same name, unlike his dad. who on a uh on his uh floor of uh his college dorm room, ha uh a quarter of the men there were all named Rob, including my roommate We didn't want him to have one of those names. I'm not exaggerating. Really, the there were a quarter of my my college floor was was uh was named Rob. Uh anyway, um we wanted his name to be something that he'll appreciate when he gets older, but that suits him well as a as a little guy too. And I think that we were successful with with that and then with his younger brother's name as well. But while deliberating, just for fun, we decided to ask their their cousins who uh have since all grown five years now, but uh one of them was uh I think about six years old at the time uh maybe slightly younger. Uh and our favorite name came from her. She suggested that we call him Olaf. Now think about that for a moment. His last name is Lough. Olaf Luff. Doesn't have the best flow to it. Olaf Lough. Not even tempted by that one. And if you're wondering why Olaf Those of you who do not have young children or grandchildren and haven't for a time, then you you wouldn't recognize it. But many of you do recognize it, right? That comes from the movie Frozen. And there is an anthropomorphic animated snowman in the movie Frozen, and his name is Olaf. And my niece had a fondness for Olaf the snowman. So she gladly, with her blessing, bequeathed that name. to our son. We did not take it. But my point is that names matter. And they invoke a response like, why on earth would you name your child Olaf? They can make us laugh, they can make us cringe, and they can inspire awe and excitement even, depending on the name. And so when the maker of heaven and earth announces that he's sending his son into the world and that he has even chosen a name for this baby boy. He's not coming in as a full-grown man. He's coming in as a baby. You can bet that that name that he has announced will have some serious significance. significance attached to it. And so that's what we're focusing on this morning. We will read this Christmas story together out of season. And we'll look at some of these other details in the story, but our main focus will be on the naming of this baby whose birth that we normally celebrate at Christmas. Now, one last note is when the came time came to name baby boy number two, we did ask that same niece. for another idea of a name, and she did not say Olaf this time, she said Sven, who is also in Frozen. We didn't take that one either. Alright, let's read Matthew chapter 1, studying verse 18 to the end of the chapter. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. After his mother Mary was betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Spirit. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man, and not wanting to make her a public example, was minded to put her away secret. But while he thought about these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take to you Mary your wife. For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit, and she will bring forth a Son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sin. So all this was done that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the Lord through the prophets, saying, Behold, the virgin shall be with child, and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel. which is translated God with us. Then Joseph, being aroused from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took to him his wife, and did not know her till she had brought forth her firstborn son, and he called his name Jesus. Now I'm going to give you the uh the points in the narrative as we go through. If you're not one who wants to make all these notes, that's totally fine. I'm just going to give you the narrative points as we go through. And the theme and the problem and the application will all be sprinkled in as we go. So they're not all going to be in order if you're following along. So don't worry about missing anything. Just try to listen along. Ready? So first of all, we have the context of this story is that Mary has been found with child and she's not yet married. We'd say she's engaged. They're betrothed. And Joseph, her fiancé, we would say, has learned secondhand at this point that she's pregnant He knows because of his own purity, and actually because of hers, though he doesn't realize it, the baby cannot be his. And so and the language here suggests that this is indeed secondhand. Right? Did you you you catch that? Um Joseph, her husband being a just man, not wanting to make a public ex example, wasn't minded to put all her away secretly. It's like this is all happening separate from her. There's been no conversation. What he doesn't realize, of course, the only logical conclusion, you can't really blame him, is that his fiance has been unfaithful to him. But what he doesn't realize is that she's conceived miraculously, and if she has indeed t tried to tell him that, he may think that on top of her infidelity she's lying and thinks that he's an i an idiot, right? He must be shattered. He thought that he'd chosen the right woman. He loves her. And he feels that she's betrayed him. So imagine the anguish that he has when he goes to bed that night, the night that he receives this visitation from the angel. In his dream. Now, we're told in verse 19, well, first of all, we're told we we have this knowledge, right? We know that that Mary has been pure and that this is a supernatural birth. He doesn't know that. So we're coming into it with this knowledge that he doesn't have. And then we're told in verse 19, right at the beginning, that he is just, that he is righteous. And so we go from this this d this miracle that cannot yet be discerned, to this messenger from God. We're told in verse 19, Joseph, her husband being a just man and not wanting to make her a public example. The word there used for just, you're very familiar with this word used throughout Scripture. It's the same word Translated numerous times in the New Testament as righteous. He is a righteous man. When we think of justice and righteousness, we don't always put those two together, do we? Just means he's fair, he's fair-minded, and that that is a good translation here in the context. I'd say that the New King James con uh translators got that right He's fair-minded. That stems from his righteousness, that he's going to treat her fairly But the Bible almost always means righteous when it says this, and it never or almost never means self-righteous when he describes the Pharisees, when Jesus describes the Pharisees. as the righteous ones not needing a physician. He's using that kind of sarcastically. But it almost never means self-righteous. He is not a self-righteous man. He's a righteous man Who wants to give justice to this woman who has, as far as he understands, betrayed him and hurt him. He's not trying to get his pound of flesh. Now, Joseph here is someone who God counts as righteous, given by this language here. Not because he's perfect, but because he trusts God. And because he trusts God, he follows God's law, it's that way around. It's not that he he's following God's law and therefore God declares him righteous. It's the other way around. God declares him to be righteous. And because he is a righteous man and God enables him to be so, he's following God's law. Otherwise, he would be self-righteous. And because Joseph has his faith in God, he's like God. God is just and he's merciful. And he wants to show mercy to this young lady who was. torn his heart in two. He determines to treat his fiance the same way that God would in this situation. So when it says that he will put her away, right, do you see that? Um was minded to put her away secretly. That's the thing to do. That is the just thing to do if she's cheated on him. Now, some translations, if you've got the ESV or the NIV in front of you, It says he's minded to divorce her. And this is the same verb used in chapter 5 for whoever divorces his wife and marries another. That is the same word there for divorces. But the word literally means to release or to loose from or let go or set free. It doesn't inherently mean to divorce, but we understand it that way. They're not married, but their kind of marriage and engagement system works differently from ours. You would refer to them as married, even though they had not yet been for the they're they're engaged at this point. They've not formally come together. We don't recognize them as man and wife. So in or if if she is with child at this point, that does mean that they they were intimate outside of the bounds of marriage. Even though they would refer to in fact we've we've seen him here already called her husband, right? Today we would we would understand him as her fiance It's just culturally it's referred to a little bit different. Their system worked a little bit differently. So it's not it's not wrong, he's not violating the law to to break it off with her. They are not yet fully married. This is not condoning divorce here. They are betrothed, they're not married, and I think the best way for us to understand this would just be to think of it as breaking an engagement. It was seen as more serious to them to break an engagement than we tend to see it today in in in our culture versus theirs So that's why the language is so strong using the same word that is understood to mean divorce. So he will he will break the engagement, but he intends to do it justly, which is mercifully. He won't seek to have her stoned to death like some religious leaders will do later in Jesus' life, right? You remember the lady caught in adultery, and they're immediately wanting to execute her He doesn't do that. It is not the just thing to do that. It is not the righteous thing to do that. He won't disgrace her public pup publicly, because that's what's meant here by make her a public example. In in the Greek, it really just means to disgrace her. He'll put her away, he'll break the engagement, but he's going to do it as privately as possible and not call attention. to her disgrace or to her sin. She hasn't sinned, but he believes she has. Fortunately, though, because he is walking righteously and justly and mercifully, just like his God is, There is time for the Lord. I think that this is instructive to us that we need to take our time to pray. And be thoughtful about the things we do. Even if you have a very strong sense, like I do, of right and wrong and black and white, and we don't always allow for grays. Perhaps we should, perhaps we shouldn't. But when we are that way We tend to act very quickly. He's not acting so quickly that the Lord can't prevent him from making a terrible mistake. And the Lord does prevent him from making a terrible s mistake. He's he's doing everything by the book, but because this situation is so different, it's a supernatural conception, there's There's no other way to understand it. It's never been done before, never been done since. Joseph is not thinking in a wrong way at all to want to break the engagement, and yet he would have been wrong And the Lord is able to prevent him from making the wrong decision because he's following the character of his God. He's being just. He's being merciful. It's summed up in that word righteous. And so in his goodness, God prevents Joseph from following through with this otherwise good decision, but he sends the angel to intervene. And the angel reassures right away because he knows what's weighing poor Joseph down. In verse 20, he assures him of her purity. But while he thought about these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take to you Mary your wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. Right? You might have heard she's telling this funny story. It's true. She is conceived of the Holy Spirit. Don't be afraid to marry her. The Holy Spirit has done a great work. And it's going to take faith for him to believe it. But if he really believes it, this is something that should cause you to go away praising, rejoicing. And Mary does. Do you remember that? She goes off as soon as she can, she goes after learning that she's going to be pregnant. She doesn't go, oh whoa, it's me oh my goodness. The people in third period geometry are going to have a field day with me. They're going to be snickering at the lunch table. I'm not even going to log into Facebook. Right? She doesn't think that way. She goes to her her relative, the one person can understand her, and as soon as she gets there, she she opens into rejoicing. She opens into song, a psalm that she composed herself. Probably by the empowering of the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit has done this great work, but Joseph is going It's gonna take faith to believe that and to do what the angel has said. He might have to reason through things like, okay, all right This is weird. Okay, so God, I know he has power. Does he have power to do this? Okay, he has power to part the Red Sea. I know he did that We wouldn't be here if you hadn't. Um okay I know he raised the widow's son, he has power over death. I know he knocked Jericho's walls over from the inside, and all that we had to do was walk around Okay, okay. Why wouldn't God have the power to do this? He has promised that he would send his anointed one. I live in Nazareth, not Bethlehem, but he can he can work through maybe I have to go to Bethlehem. Okay, okay. He can do this. This is real. Right? Everything lines up with scripture for him. Everything lines up with the character of God for him. And so he reasons, if God did these things, why not this? He's promised for 700 plus years that he would send his Messiah. Why should I be so surprised that he's doing so through Mary? I picked right. I picked the right girl. Of course he chose Mary. She's the best choice. And so the angel then commands Joseph, based on this truth, since God has caused her to conceive. He says, she will bring forth a son. And he says, and what? What's the next word? At least if you've got New King James. And and what? Let's read it together. And she will bring up forth a son, and you. Alright, this this goes to Joseph now. Joseph has something to do. You shall call his name Jesus. His name is Jesus He shall be called Jesus. That sounds very biblical because it echoes Isaiah, right? He shall be called wonderful counselor. Mighty b wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace, Jesus. Right? You could roll it right in there. No. You shall call his name Jesus. This is a task for you. This is a commandment for you. You are going to exercise faith in this, one, by not being afraid to take Mary as your wife. Go all the way through with the the marriage ceremony. That's number one. But two, you are gonna you're not gonna call him after your dad or after one of your ancestors. You're gonna call him Jesus And that's how he's going to show that he has faith in God's command, in his promise, and what God has done. You shall call his name Jesus. That means he's going to accept her baby, her baby, Mary's baby, as his legal son. It's going to appear to everybody that he is saying, this baby is mine. This baby is from my own body. She conceived of me. It appears that he has been promiscuous with her outside of marriage. And in the culture of first century Israel, we need not miss this Important detail. When a man names a baby, that's what he's doing. He's accepting that child as his own. He's not he's not telling everybody, hey, I need you to know I was righteous. That's not really my baby, but I'm gonna marry her anyway because I love her and I forgive her. He doesn't do any of that. He by naming the baby He's taking responsibility and saying this baby is mine, he's my heir. He is in he inherits all of my legal rights He's accepting the inevitable public shame and the disgrace that comes from people believing that this is his biological son. He committed fornication with Mary, is what they will assume. He's accepting the babies as a legal heir. He's being told, adopt this child as your legal heir. Now, why is that important? Well, because Matthew just spent the first 17 verses of this chapter explaining Jesus' lineage, didn't he? So if if he was not the legal descendant of Joseph, the legal heir of Joseph, then all of that genealogy means nothing. The genealogy in Luke that's told through Joseph's father-in-law, Mary's dad, that means something, but not this. It's all irrelevant if Joseph isn't the one to name the child. He is accepting him legally. Drop to the punchline verse sixteen that we saw last last uh week. And Jacob begot Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called the Christ. If Matthew has been establishing the Messiah's lineage, the key, the rightful king's lineage, Why give the genealogy of a man that Jesus is not related to? Because he inherits from him legally. That's why. And we saw last week that Matthew's Goal is to show that Jesus is the rightful legal king of Israel, unlike the guy who'll show up in the next chapter. I'm telling you that so you're ready for next week. Herod is not the rightful king He's a pretender. He's illegitimate. Here's the real one being born. Joseph passes legally, though not physically. He passes legally. The same right that he received, he has genetically from David, through Solomon, through Zerubal. who was the rightful king that never actually sat on the throne of Israel when he was governor in Israel, when they returned from the exile. Joseph has inherited that legal right to the throne, all of that. Joseph should actually be king right now. And he passes his legal right to his legal heir, Jesus. Herodonavarite, Jesus does. As God, Jesus is the rightful king over the whole world. He's the rightful king over Israel. Let me say that again. As God, Jesus is the rightful King over the whole world. As man, as the human descendant of David, Solomon, and Zerubbabel, he's the rightful king over Israel. As God, rightful king over the whole world, but now specifically, legally, as man, he's a rightful king over Israel. And then he tells him why you are to call him this specific name. You shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. You shall call him salvation. And a few moments ago, we had for our scripture reading Isaiah chapter 49. Let's go back there, shall we? Isaiah 49. If you don't want to turn there, that's totally okay. I'm just going to read verses five and six. I appreciate Jim reading that whole uh 13-verse swath. We're just going to do uh verses 5 and 6. This is Jesus himself uh speaking. It's it's being uh Isaiah is narrating what Jesus in the And now the Lord says, who formed me from the w womb to be his servant, to bring Jacob back to him, so that Israel is gathered to him. Indeed, he says, It is too small a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to restore the preserved ones of Israel. Do you catch that? It's too small for you to only be king over Jacob over Israel. I will also give you as a light to the Gentiles. Or if you've got another translation, a light to the nations, the whole world. That you should be my salvation to the ends of the earth. And the name Jesus, when when when people gave Hebrew names, they would often Sound like but not not identical to a phrase like Yahweh says Now, you've probably heard that the name Jesus in in Hebrew, because this is written in Greek, in Hebrew it would be Yeshua. Yes, it would, but it it's written Yahushua. It's the Greek version. Jesus is the Greek version of the name Joshua, and Joshua is re is is written Yahshua. This word here, you shall be my salvation to the ends of the earth, is Yeshua. Not exactly the same, but extraordinarily similar. What it is saying is you shall name him salvation because he is going to be the salvation for the entire world, not just for the people of Israel. He's the rightful king of Israel. And he's going to be the light to the Gentiles so the whole world can be saved and delivered from the destruction of hell from being separated from their Creator for so long. You shall call his name salvation, is what he's saying. You shall call his name Jesus because he will save his people from their sins. He will be that salvation, not only for his own people, but for the whole world. Some Bible scholars say go so far as to say that his name actually means Yahweh saves, the Lord saves, and I'm happy to not just be able to do that. Dispute that. This is not what the Jewish people expected. They expected the Messiah to save them from, well, first from the Assyrians and then from the Babylonians. And and then then from the Persians, and then in Jesus' day, they expected him to save them from the Romans today in Israel Where the majority of Jews do not accept Jesus as their Messiah, they are expecting the Messiah to save them when he comes from their existential threat all around them Mostly the Muslim nations around them and perhaps the Soviet threat as well. They expect physical deliverance But they don't expect him. They never did expect him to save them from their sins. They didn't understand that they had a greater threat within their midst. Now, one day God will deliver Israel from all of their enemies. He'll deliver us from all of our enemies as well, external and internal. Your own sin nature, Satan and his Innumerable hordes of demons that he commands at his his disposal, from terrorism and and from the Islamic nations and and whoever else are the enemies of God's people, the Antichrist and His armies. He will save us, deliver us physically from all of those. But first he came to deliver us from the greater threat. Do you expect that in your Messiah That he's here to save you from your sin. This is the surprise to Joseph's people The very fact this baby came into the world and was called Jesus declares to you, and that name's so important, that declares to you that you have sins that you need to be saved from. When you say the name Jesus, even if you use his name as a swear word, you are calling him Savior. Do you realize that? And so this passage is is addressing this problem. If the slide will advance. Can I have someone advance the slide for me, please? It's not Here's the problem. You are sinful. I am sinful. You cannot redeem yourself We need someone else to save us from our sins. Can you advance that one more time, please? Oh, there we go. It's working now. It's working now. Thank you. I need someone else. You need someone else to save you from your sins. You were born a sinner, you were born separated from God. You were not born a Christian. Do you understand that? You may have been born into a Christian home. Depending on the tradition you were raised in, or I know a number in our church were born into a Roman Catholic home. You may have been baptized as a child, but that does not mean that you were a Christian when you were born or when you were baptized. If you were a baby when you were baptized. You need to be saved. You need a savior. Well then we have this name explained further in verses 22. and twenty three. It says, So all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophet, saying, Behold, the virgin shall be with child, and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated God with us. Now, this is an actual prophecy, it's an actual promise that was given and that is now coming true in Mary and Joseph. The the amazing thing is he's to be called Jesus. It says here they'll call his name Emmanuel. Do you realize what Matthew's doing? He's a creating this Jesus, right? Angel is not saying this. The angel stops speaking at he will save his people from their sins. Now Matthew, the gospel writer, is just explaining, right? And he's saying, This Jesus and that Emmanuel Same person. He's drawing an equal sign. He is saying that Jesus Christ, the Son of God, is God Himself. This is proof of his deity, right? If he's called Emmanuel, that means God with us. And this baby is God with us. Well, this baby is God. And if you if you're one of those who gets excited whenever you see evidence that Jesus is truly God, not just truly man, but truly God, this is one for you to put a big star by or or highlighted in purple marker or something. This is a big deal. He's equating him with this this child who is already not in the world but in her womb right now is God And it's the fulfillment of something that was given seven hundred some years earlier. Only God can do that, fulfill such a promise, and only God Can give a miraculous conception. The Virgin is with child, and he is God, which actually when you think about it makes sense he would have to be Now, why else must he come as a baby? Why not just appear on earth as an adult preacher and and go to the cross from there? Well let's let's go to Galatians 4. 4. Again, you can turn there if you want to. You certainly don't have to. Galatians chapter 4 Verse 4 says, But when the fullness of the time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman. Okay, we see that. Born under the law. Okay. To redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption as sons. See, Jesus had to be born as a child. 'Cause he had to be b born under that law. Because he's delivering people who are condemned by that law. We are all condemned by the law. We do not live up to God's perfect standard. If you've ever told a lie, you deserve hell. If you've thought lustful thoughts about someone you see on a TV commercial, you deserve to be in hell. We are separated from God. We are born as sinners. We're condemned by the law. And Jesus came Born under that law, to live and fulfill that law without sinning himself. That's how he could fulfill it. He would never sin, and then he would die under the penalty of that law, though he'd never broken it And the penalty of that law is that he should die. But here's the thing, that law also says that it's illegal to die hanging from a piece of wood or from a tree. The way the Hebrew works, it could mean either either a live living tree hanging from a tree or a piece of wood cut from a tree. the the Hebrew works it could be either of those. And so when he died hanging from a piece of wood, that was an illegal execution. It said that anybody who does die Hanging from that piece of wood, God's curse is on him. God's curse is placed on Jesus who fulfilled the law perfectly. That doesn't make sense unless he's doing that in the place of somebody else. And because he is the infinite God, he can die not just for one person, but for innumerable people. And you can trust him that when he died under the curse of God, he died for you. And all you need to do is cry out and ask him to, Lord, apply Jesus' death to my account so that I don't have to die. So that I don't have to die under your under your curse because he already did for me. I'm claiming Christ, I'm pleading Christ. And at that point he saves you and he applies The redemption of the fulfilled law to you. You're counted righteous. You're counted having fulfilled the law, though you haven't. And that's enough. And that covers all of the sins you've already committed and all of the sins you're gonna commit. You might be committing one right now by thought, right now. Perhaps you're cursing me for how long the sermon is. And he's and he forgives you even for that. That was a joke. But please don't curse me for the length of the message God is with us. He was with them for 33 years in Jesus' incarnation. But he's with us today. Because the Holy Spirit comes and dwells in believers if you trust in him. So he seals you, he seals that redemption for you until the day that he takes you to be with him. and beyond. God wants a relationship with you. And he gave his son to attain it. That's your message today. God wants a relationship with you. So he gives his son to fulfill the law for you, to redeem you from the curse of the law, so that he can have a walking, talking, living, breathing relationship with you. And his son has attained that for you if you will trust in him. Do you know him personally? Would he say, yes, I know this person? That's my daughter by adoption. That's my son by adoption. Jesus redeems Jesus fulfills the demands of God's law, and as he has the legal right To be king. He also gives the legal right for us to rule with him. Not that we become king in his place. We don't become gods and goddesses like the Mormon church teaches that people do. But that we are adopted into his family and we will reign in his administration when he returns. We look forward to that. Now finally This would mean less if Joseph didn't do what had happened. It would still mean salvation for us. But what it means for Joseph is that he is walking by faith and that he himself is saved by his his own legal adopted heir. He obeys the command in faith. I want us to see three simple observations about how he r responds to all of this. The Bible doesn't dress them up, it just states them as they are, one after another. First he exercised his faith by marrying Mary. So Joseph, being aroused from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took to him his wife. Mary. And did not know her till she brought forth her firstborn son. They remained pure. And he would do that, first of all, because that is still the expectation of their their marriage arrangement. But he also does that so that Matthew could freely write, and all of the other gospel writers could freely write that Jesus was not the product of fornication. That he was conceived by the Holy Spirit, and there was no, when it says he did not know her, he's talking about intimate knowledge of her. They did not come together physically until after she had the baby. Now I want you to think though how Joseph could have chosen to cut and run. He sacrificed his reputation, as we said already. probably ended up sacrificing financial opportunity by recognizing this baby as his own, that someone would with perhaps withdraw a business from him or job opportunities. The whole community would assume that he and Mary have been promiscuous before marriage. He could have decided not to do as the angel commanded. You know, he could have re reasoned It's just a dream. I had that burrito before I went to bed, and that's probably all this is. I had a lot on my mind, and my mind just filled in the gaps. And then he goes and breaks off the command uh the the engagement. And it's it's it's fully with with regard to the law, and he could say, I have followed the law, I've followed Revelation, I'm not disobeying the Lord, I'm obeying him, and he'd be self-righteous. Now God would have protected and provided for his son, would he not, if Joseph had cut and run But Joseph would have been cut off from the blessing of serving his God in this extraordinarily privileged way. He would have cut himself off of God through disobedience. But because he's a saved, righteous, just man who trusts God, he makes this sacrificial decision To do as God commanded him. And he does it right away. He doesn't take time to decide. Do you catch that? Joseph being aroused from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord commanded him. So that suggests that he wakes up right as the dream's over. It might be the middle of the light, the night. It might be six o'clock in the morning, but it might be three. And he gets up and he determines, probably goes to prayer and says, Yes, Lord, I'm going to do this. And then perhaps he goes and throws a rock at Mary's window until she wakes up and says, Don't worry, I'm not going anywhere. Right, it's it i it would have been really, really romantic to include that. It would be in the movie version. What we know is that he obeyed immediately. So what does that mean for us? It means that God expects obedience from his children. It means that honoring God, obeying him, is sacrificial at times. Have you ever had any negative consequence for following the Lord? Has anyone ever said anything bad about you because you chose to Do according to your conscience. Man, you just think you're better than me? You know, maybe that's the worst persecution you've ever had. But that's that's something, right? That's some form of sacrifice. And if you're trying to find ways to never have to to to get that response. I mean of course we don't want that response when we try to lovingly confront someone about their sin. And you do your best. But if it happens that doesn't mean that you were unfaithful. In fact it's it's It's an affirmation that you are indeed following the Lord and doing what he commands you to do. Now, people might call you self-righteous for other reasons than they might be right. But there has to be some sacrifice that comes to obeying the Lord at some point in your life. Or I would question: have you really obeyed him? Our obedience should be immediate. And genuine faith will manifest itself in obedience. Genuine faith. The stuff that's really there. It will manifest itself. So have you obeyed in this way? Have you obeyed self-sacrificially? Joseph gets out of bed. He doesn't take time to deliberate. He obeys immediately. He probably gets an undeserved lecture from her dad, and they run off to the chapel. Joseph walks righteously by going beyond the command. He's not commanded to preserve her purity until after the son h her son's born. He m he m he married her right away. But he wants to make sure that nothing could Could reflect on his adoptive son's record. He's honoring his supernatural conception. And finally he exercises faith by naming the baby Jesus, just as he was com commanded. It means he's saying he really does believe that the prop this prophecy that Jesus will save Joseph himself and all of his people from their sins. He's exercising faith in that. He's calling his own son Savior. This is a big deal not only for Joseph, it's a big deal to God. Do you remember when that this this happened before, right? There's a not quite this level of supernatural conception, but Mary's cousin Elizabeth, or relative anyway, she's some form of of relative, that she conceived when she was too old to conceive And her husband was was told this just as Joseph is told this, right? But Zacharias didn't didn't believe right away. And so he he he's afflicted, he goes mute. Well, it's only after Zacharias, he has to do it by writing, but after Zacharias names his son John, just as the angel said, it's only at that point that God restores his speech to him. God is watching. He's waiting to see Joseph name this child Jesus. And the naming of the Messiah is more important than the naming of John the Baptist. Now, if your faith is actually in yourself, you will act in your own best interests. You won't act in God's best interests. That's not what this just righteous man did. His faith was in the God of the Old Testament, and the Messiah that God had promised. He had his faith in him If your faith is in the God of the Bible, you will obey him. It might be hard to obey him. You might not be as immediate in your obedience as Joseph was. But that's what you will do, you will obey him If you're not obeying his commandments, but you insist, no, no, no, stop this. I am saved. I asked Jesus into my heart. Stop saying I'm not a Christian. Well, I would ask you then, why not, though? Like, why aren't you obeying his commandments? You say you're Christian, so obey him. Are you feeling any inward compulsion to obey him Because anyone who's genuinely trusted the God of the Bible to save them has the Holy Spirit living in them, inside of them, guiding them And this is the same Holy Spirit who caused Mary to conceive in the first place. He's going to guide you. He's going to prod you to obey if you're a genuine Christian. He's going to prod you to obey his commandments that you find in your New Testament. And if you can find a way to regularly, in a lifestyle way, disobey God's word and feel completely fine about it If you're not feeling completely fine about it and your conscience is convicting you, well, good. But if you're feeling completely fine about it, the Bible gives you no assurance that you're right with God. Now, if your conscience is bothering you, it still doesn't give you much assurance. You should go and repent and obey. But don't allow yourself to be deceived and saying, look, I I prayed some prayer, and I'm not I I don't need to obey the Lord. You're not saved by your obedience, that's true. But once you're saved There will be this inward person living inside of you, the Holy Spirit, and he will drive you to obey. He will drive you in sexual purity, like Joseph, the righteous man. He will drive you in your interactions with how you treat people like Joseph, the righteous man who didn't take revenge on Mary. He will drive you to obey like Joseph the righteous man who did so immediately The angel stated all this so clearly. Jesus is called Jesus because he will save his people from their sins. And as we read in Isaiah, God intends to save more than just the Jewish people. He's the light to Gentiles like me. And so if you if you're feeling under some weight, if there's some pressure on your heart right now, it may be the Holy Spirit moving on you saying, you need to turn. Turn to me. Turn to Christ. Turn to God. Trust in Him. Don't trust in your own rule following. Trust in Him to atone for your sins and to make you right with God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the gift of your Son. And that it in him living a perfectly obedient life and then dying under your curse, he has opened the way for all of us to have that curse removed from us. Lord bless our worship you we want to tell that you that you are worthy. In Jesus' name, Amen. May I call one more offer