We ought to serve in our church to be obedient, but there ought to be an ultimate goal. We are focused on the penultimate, but God wants us to be focused on the ultimate. So he begins by saying he's talking about these works. He's he refers to this many times throughout the book of John. We get the idea that God is glorified by delivering us, by helping us, by our neediness, our dependency on him. The point is that if we're not connected to the vine, we are useless for the glory of God. This is a basic meaning of prayer. This is verified by first Peter chapter four, verse eleven. We we pray and we see answers to our prayers. There's prayer throughout the book of Acts as people are coming to Christ. And not faint. And lo, I will be with you always, even unto the ends of the earth. which in a sense actually are all one passage. You remember the story of how the Samaritan he went to the Samaritan woman at the well and uh ultimately she came to Christ, she s she was saved, and she went out and told told others Let your mercy, O Lord, be upon us. Secondly, dependent prayer requires an awareness of inadequacy. I think it's an important, it's actually an important illustration. See, we it comes back to if we're doing all this, then we are strengthened by the Spirit of God to do what God wants us to do by our joy. And I do not say to you that I shall pray the Father for you, for the Father Himself loves you because you have loved me and have believed Do you really believe that? The creator of the ends of the earth neither faints nor is weary. And Lord, we pray, Lord, today that you would challenge us and encourage us about the matter of dependent prayer. I tell the rising grief, for thou alone canst uh which pastor's going to preach on in just a moment. Go to p to him three ninety, constantly abiding. With the treasure I have in the hill of the same while we run his pursuit by the car. Right. Father, and we pray this morning as we come into your word that Father, those who are unable to be here today and those who may be Father, that we might take this time that uh we would concentrate solely upon your word as your spirit uh encourages us and teaches us and strengthens us. I will do it. You see, we ought to pursue our hobbies to enjoy life to ultimately glorify God. And then in John 15, later on, it says verse 7, you will ask that you desire, and it shall be done to you done for you Independent prayer. Very candidly. Seek me not because you saw the signs, but because you ate of the loaves and and were filled. answered and said to them, This is the work of God. thirty two Jesus said to them, Most assuredly I say to you, Moses did not give you the bread from heaven, but my father gives you the true bread from heaven heaven, for the bread of God is he is he who comes But he chose to act in such a way that he was a conduit of his father as he worked through others, worked through himself to others. you see the Spirit of God working through uh through believers and disciples and they go out and share the gospel and others are others come to Christ and others come to Christ and others come to Christ says, imagine that there's somebody that's totally paralyzed. the friend that's living with him, that he's able to live, he's able to be be be strengthened, all that. We depended on him through prayer so that when something does happen, we give him the glory because he did work through us. fifteen If you love me keep my commandments and will pray the Father and He will give you another helper that he may abide with you forever And possess the land, and I will be with you. The New King James uses the word helper help helper, which I think is pretty good. there that you need to ask for the Holy Spirit, I think he is saying that the help from the Holy Spirit is available for those who ask. Share, take shares. Counsel and help from the Lord to hope in him. I think are really important when it comes to this matter of prayer. This has been really deb h hotly debated. And notice what it says, for without me you can do nothing. As cold as cold as it is. Christ, to whom belong the glory and dominion forever and ever. intercessor, he is simply saying that because of what he has done on the cross cross and what and being resurrected, he we now have access to the Father where we can have this relationship ultimate. Number three, do you believe that prayer is truly the key to fullness of joy? that you uh have a relationship with the Lord. We'll just look read verses 28 through 31. Even the youth shall faint and be weary, and the young men shall utterly fall. And we will turn to 516 as we continue along the theme of God's abiding presence. We will forever be in the presence of our Savior who will meet all of our needs up there. Soul. The springs of comfort seem to fail, and all my hopes our behalf. us Father. And we forget about the ultimate goal. But for the Christian, every single one of these or others that we might have are penultimate goals, not the ultimate goal. But there ought to be an ultimate goal. And for the Christian, the ultimate is to glorify God. in the book of Isaiah, and we saw that God was warning the nation of Israel and also comforting the nation And we see our first passage here, our first text, where it says, Most assuredly I say to you, verse 12, most assuredly I say to you, he who believes in me And then he's alone at this well, and the disciples come back, they bring him food, and this is what he says, John 4. who sent me and to finish his work. You know, uh why would you call it work? Answered and said to them, Most assuredly I say to you, the Son can do nose what it says here, the Son can do nothing of himself, but what he sees the Father do, for whatever he does, the Son also does in like manner. comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. Jesus Christ and has what? You have a multiplicity of works being done, of people coming to Christ, given new life in Christ. 14, that I will do. serve him by glorifying him, not by giving him what he needs, but by receiving what we need. So important. the Spirit of Truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. Kleitos is the Greek word. It's very simple. In returning the rest, uh returning and rest you shall be saved, and quietness and confidence shall be your strength. us and we are to be abiding in the vine. It refers to glorifying God. the the nourishment of the truth of the word of God, then notice what he says. Him. Ease of self-confidence, which opposes God's goal of getting glory by working for those who wait for Him. or ministers. that he gets the glory. this, we come to this conclusion that prayer is critical for glorifying God. to glorify God. To pray about everything. myself the same questions. Believe that prayer is truly the key to fullness of joy. Righteous judge will give me at that day, and not for me only, but all to them all but also to them also who love his appearing. know we could not do for ourselves. that you will give ability and strength, that you will accomplish much through us if we will depend upon you. We pray these things in Christ's name. And his spirit makes intercession for us. Make my mind this war and try to be a big. Which until that sweet hour of prayer is done for, we have a refuge for our weary souls while we are here. Of me when wings are trouble, my fainting hope relies to the Thy word can bring a sweet relief for every pain I feel Thou art my only trust, and still my soul would cleave to thee though prostrating but thou not given me seek thy face And shall I seek in vain and can need sovereign grace To breathe my sorrows there. Here let my soul retrieve with humble hope attend thy will See what my soul retreat with calm hope of and thy will On the price, or be when all my things. For thou alone can work and ring us great really forever. Everything I feel on no way through me thou relay I feel Where is this being full and will be so record with us? this privilege to come before your throne this morning and lift up our praise and our worship and our concerns, Father. The Spirit of Truth, whom the world cannot receive because it neither sees him nor knows him. For he dwells with you and will be in you. you. fire and they are burned. And now we are going to go to chapter 16 and look at verses 23 through 28. And I do not say to you that I shall pray the Father for you, for the Father Himself loves you because you have loved me, and believe that I came forth from God. If you put it put the illustration up there on the screen, penultimate is the second to the last goal, or the second to the last thing, and then ultimate is the last. And in uh for a goal that in the li in our lives as Christians is actually a penultimate goal We raise our kids so they don't end up as criminals. that ultimately you will be able to fulfill the ultimate goal to glorify God. resolved to endeavor to obtain for myself as much happiness in the other world as I possibly can, with all the power, might, vigor, and vehemence to pray. of Israel about the fact that they are going to they were going to be captured by by Assyria and and taken into the Babylonian bun and into Babylonian captivity. Through twenty-seven, uh you will ask in my name five times in these in these And so idolatry will hinder us from receiving help from God to do what God has called us to do. And John 16, 23 through 24, ask and you will receive that your joy may be full. Four things, four reasons why it's so important. John fifth John chapter five, John five, and look at verses seventeen through twenty-one. We're going to see here, picking up verse 17, and Jesus answered them, My Father has been working until now, and I have been working. Eternal life, but the work that is being done, the mission, if you will, is that people would receive life. Therefore the Jews sought all the more to kill him because by the way he had just done a miracle, uh raised Lazarus, because he he not only broke the Sabbath, but he said that God was his father, making himself equal with God. Now, notice what Jesus says here. in me, the works that I do, he will do also. Reconciling the world to himself, not imputing their trespasses to them, and has committed to us the word of reconciliation. Christ says to his disciples and us by extension, those who believe in me, my mission, my work is going to be transferred to me Prayer. In my name, I will do it. Look at verse 13. receive the help that we need. Come lift me up uh and would you and would you put a pillow behind me so I I can look at my guest and would you please put my glasses on for me? hands, nor is he worship with men's hands as though he needed anything, since he gives to all life, breath, and is through prayer. See, Jesus is there in his presence with the disciples now, but when they when he leaves and ascends to his father, he says, I'm going to send someone to you. Because we cannot glorify God without the helper, the Spirit of God. Have mercy on you, for the Lord is a God of justice. You've got vine and a vine and branches. it. to the filling up of the lungs with breath. It says this, in that day, talking about the day when after the resurrection when Christ is no longer there, in that day you will ask in my name, and I do and I do not say that you will that you This isn't saying here that he is not going to be our mediator or he he certainly is. to glorify him. That we will be glorifying you. But we really would love to meet you in person. Abide with me. Morning grace and shadow three in life is held. Lighting price and thou have me rules, farewell. Polish I knew my whole Be death when I complain, know still being grace For our sin. you. And very often in our lives, even as Christians, we can we can do things for In Matthew, we have the same thing. I mean usually I don't when I think of and and to finish work, when I think of eating, I don't think of work. in that he is receiving before he gives. to you and now you have the same work I had as Paul puts it this way as ambassadors for Christ And also what it says in the text in uh in John fourteen, it says that there are going to be greater works. You have multitudes coming to Christ. Of course the ultimate sacrifice that Christ made made, nothing nothing tops that is because of the ultimate sacrifice that Christ made. If you ask anything in my name, I will do it. Is strong and kind, you glorify your friend by needing him and asking him for help and counting on him. And in verse 15 it says, Call upon me in the day of trouble, I will deliver you, and you shall glorify me. If then you then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will you have your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? And you said, No, for we will flee our on horses, therefore you shall flee, and we will ride on swift horses, therefore those who pursue you will shall be swift. Again, you take a share, for you shall be delivered. Nehemiah 8 says it this way. Of joy is a prayer life. That we're sinners and we're on our way to a place called hell, and we need Christ to save us. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. to muster up our own will, to try to do things our own way in our own power See how my brain for And wait meet thy feet. And waiting by being Where we will forever be with him. streaming Father, we ask that you will bless them and heal up those who are not feeling well and pray that you would bring them back to us. For without me, you can do nothing. Most assuredly, I say to you, whatever you ask the Father in my name, he will give you. We ought to serve our the church, to be obedient, but to glorify God. Happiness in the next life. And the answer is prayer. Is that is idolatry. And he says to his disciples some very important things about how what what it's going to look like and what they need to do. Isaiah 14, 12 through 18, it says, if you ask anything. Admonition from Jesus to ask. Well, I actually want us to look at these passages. that you may marvel, for as the Father raises the dead, gives life to them, even so the Son gives life to whom Old things are passed away. Well how are we to accomplish this mission? explaining the relationship that we have is illustrates this by as we're as we know as familiar familiar with illustration, as a father who would a son would come and ask for a stone This to wait that means to pause and soberly consider our own inadequacy and the Lord's all sufficient and seeking. Since his purpose in the world is to be exalted for his mercy, and it it is evident why prayer is often commanded by God. is prayer. When we think of the New Testament, we think of all of what is done. We're not praying. But not to pray. Do you view prayer as critical for accomplishing your God-given mission? Our goal, our ultimate goal as we go through this year. His praise I'll cast on him my ring and wait for the sweet. Soon, Lord, and we do ask this morning that you would help us to set aside all the cares and distractions of the week and even of this morning We nothing wrong with having a hobby to enjoy life, but there ought to be an ultimate goal. And so they needed to, they should be comforted, though, that God would be with them. Why? But it's the idea that there is someone to come alongside to help in time of need, and there's the sense in which we are constantly and always in need 22 says, Our soul waits for the Lord. Isaiah 39 3018. By this, by this, my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit, so you will be my disciples. He says that the key to our joy, the fullness of our joy, is that we ask and we receive. Well we pick up in verse 25, and we see that dependent prayer is based on a loving relationship. With the Father where we can ask the Father directly, and we can because why? I don't know about you, but I don't want to come to the end of my life and say, boy, I wasted that. Like myself might and stay at me Wild and Sunshine Open. Dear my weary soul on thee when sorolds rise. Attends the mourner's prayer. Now I think this is a first for me this morning. But we have three different uh scriptures this morning, all in the book of John. Because I go to my Father. I came forth from the Father and have come into the world. Very just vital, vitally important truths about the matter of prayer. three chapters Jesus tells us you've got to ask ask and I'll do it ask and in my name and it'll it'll be done to you ask and your joy will maybe may be full ask It requires an awareness of inadequacy. Now, I want you to see what it says in the text. That we would see others transformed from death to life. There's another very helpful text that we see that the Apostle Paul says in 2 Corinthians 5, verse 17. No. and the work that the Father gave Jesus to do. The evil of not waiting for God is that we oppose God's will to exalt Himself in mercy. But John 16 it says, and in that day you will ask me nothing, but most assuredly I say to you, whatever you ask the Father in my name, he will give me And if you go one if you go back to the classical Greek, this is New Testament's written in Cornate Greek, if you go back one period of the Classical Greek, there are three illustrations that are helpful where this word is used. Do not sorrow for the joy of the Lord. I'm going to work to yes, to provide for my family, to ultimately glorify God. the lack of prayer and the level of of humility and dependence we have will determine the amount of prayer Because we are s independent. Of prayer, sweet prayer, sweet art of prayer, may I cause. Beautiful chilly morning, right? Ask and you will receive, that your joy may be full. language. He realized that in our lives there are goals, but there's got to be the ultimate goal. Yet hear me, O now, O Jacob, my servant, and Israel whom I have chosen, thus says the Lord, who made you and formed you from the womb. And the works that I do, he will do also, and the greater works than these he will do, because I go to my Father. It's one of those words that has so much meaning that it's really hard to peg it down to one English word. Who are who is it that that gets the strength? Well, we there's a lot to that concept of abiding in the vine, remaining in Christ. God is not look, this is really interesting. The most good of some brain on hands on the water. Heavenly Father, we are so grateful this morning and so thankful. He says something very important here. And for these reasons, dependent prayer is absolutely essential to glorifying God. Notice what it says, verse 20, and the Father loves the Son and shows him all things that he himself does, and he will show him greater works than these. And then we see that the result or the reason for it is to glorify God. give credit or glorify the person that is helping. Jesus is speaking to disciples, and he wants to make it clear that the one who is going to actually be doing the work is Jesus. If you abide in me and my words abide in you, that is we're in fellowship with God, and the word of, we're receiving the words of God. Prayer is the essential activity of waiting for God, acknowledging our helplessness and his power, calling upon him for help, asking his counsel. And it also tells us later on in verse in chapter 16, turn there, verse 23, that our joy will be full. How do we become completely fulfilled in this life and frankly in the life to come? Or I'm doing these devotions, or I have these goals. But oh when ghumid prevail, I fear to call the mine Yea, violence I am capable of or can bring myself to exert in any way that I that can be thought of. The most effortless way to waste your life as a Christian is to do all kinds of things with penultimate goals, but to fail to pray. Who will help you? The mission of Christ was to seek it to save those who were lost. Says, if I were hungry, I would not tell you, for the world is mine and all its fullness. The gospel is not a help-wanted ad, neither is the call to Christian service. Lord, we're going to see that later on today. In our lives, if we are truly going to glorify you. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Alright, so that is the Psalm of the Month. All the sweet of our seams and fails and all my foes. Most assuredly, I say to you, he who believes in me, the works that I do, he will do also, and greater works than these he will do On goals, but we don't focus on the final goal. And the Father did it through the Son. And the joy that we have is a joy of gladness and fulfillment. Until now you have asked nothing in my name. And yes, I want to keep them out of jail, but I want them to glorify God, and by doing so I want to glorify God. May we not neglect our time with you and praying to you, asking you, depending upon you, and then seeing you do what we If you'll stand with me this morning as we lift up our voices in praise to the Lord, we're going to sing uh song hymn 175. And Father, we're grateful this morning for the privilege that has been sent our way through our faith in Jesus Christ and what He has done. Now we're going to go to chapter 15 and we are going to be looking at verses 5 through 8. It requires it. Sometimes in my own life I thought to myself, well, I'm probably not praying enough, but I'm doing a lot of good things, and God can use those things. Actually, in the book of John, you see many times where Jesus refers to the work he is doing, or the work the Father is doing, or his work that needs to be done. We actually see in the text here, he says it twice. I actually think all of that misses the point. Sweet heart of prayer, sweet heart of prayer that calls me from a world of care. And we ask that in all things your great name would be glorified and lifted up in Jesus' name. Jesus speaking here says, I am the vine, you are the branches. See, God doesn't want like fake glory. These are questions I'm asking I've been asking myself this week. And with me and my father make all my lines and wishes. What's the easiest way? And the same is true the other way. There's a few things we understand about from this passage. We must ask God to do through us what the mission is to do. Mark 10, 45, for even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life a ransom for many. And we can say with the Apostle Paul, I fought a good fight, I finished my course, I've kept the faith, and there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord the Word Hell I saw one three sweet through its clothes. By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit. See, that actually glorifies or gives credit to the friend. Piper says this. And I pray that as we would leave here today, that we would be changed more and more into your image as we receive your word and Lord as we uh meditate upon it and think it through and apply And we're going to see why it's so important. It almost reminds me of when God said, I'll be with you as you go into Babylon. The Old Testament concept that we kind of touched on last week a little bit is the idea of waiting on the Lord. So we see then finally that that he said Piper finally says this It should be in everything in order to glorify God. Have we learned to enjoy God? The way that we accomplish the mission that God has for us is through And then we say, well, God did it. Isaiah forty thirty-one. How do we know if we're serving from God's supply? I've got to do things based upon God's strength and his empowerment and his working. In season all distress and grief, my soul has often. Because then he gets the glory. But that's about the only use for really dead wood that is not worth building something with. Let him do it as with the ability which God supplies, that in all things, what happens? I was convicted of this as I was going through this and studying this and thinking through this, that so oftentimes we are so prone to do. It's critical. And Father, we're grateful this morning for your great love for us in sending your only begotten Son, Jesus, to come and take the sin of the world upon himself and die on that cross, paying the penalty. We glorify God by needing Him. And this joy that we can have in the future and now, this joy is actually our strength. Do you view prayer as critical for accomplishing your God-given mission? How is it that we have the the we can be constantly dependent upon God? And off escape the tender snail my return, sweetheart. If you love me, keep my commandments. It all depends on dependent prayer. And then he says in verse 14, I will do it. Acts seventeen says this, verse twenty-four. Complet with me pass for events, not darkness. Sometimes we serve as though God needs us, and yet God needs nothing. We ask him, as we have seen multiple times throughout this passage. We ask. Now this idea of prayer, what does this include? And being buried in the tomb on the third day, he arose up out of that grave and is now seated at your right hand, interceding when But I will tell you plainly about the Father. We are nice to our friends and families to have peace. He may he may express to the the second friend, he might express that that it is his And the brain be that well. And if you look at different modern different translations, you'll see a bunch of different options. When we wake up in the morning, pray. So we're going to sing sweet hour of prayer in 5. How does this happen? For the rest of us, may this really challenge us this coming year about the importance of constant prayer. First, here is your share. Then he said to them, Go your way, eat the fat, drink the sweet, send portions to those whom nothing is prepared, for this day is holy to your Lord. Hast thou not given me seek thy face, and shall I seek it faith? Then the gospel promises that God will work for us if we do. You know, I mean sometimes prayer, we think of prayer, and it can be a little on the boring side, or boy, there's so many things I need to do, or there's so many things are more exciting than prayer. But stand with me if you're able and we'll sing Dear Refuge of My Weary Soul. Constantly abiding can three nine-made children can be dismissed on I believe it's the third verse. Many, many people come to Christ. Amen. Has given us the ministry of reconciliation. Jesus says, because I go to my Father, even greater works will be done. You can't, you cannot glorify God apart from the work of Christ in our lives, apart from abody in Him. We're going to see that actually in scripture as we go through this. He says, the son does nothing of himself. Behold, all things are become new. They can't do anything for themselves. Let us hope in you. Ask and seek and not. And whatever you ask, did you catch that? Sweet prayer, sweet hair of prayer, thy wing shall not dead. To him whose truth has happened engaged away soul. And another friend comes by to see that that paralyzed friend. Why why do we pray? We thank you that your word teaches us everywhere to pray. And since we seek his face, me leave his word and saw. Number one, dependent prayer is mission critical. And what do we ask for? That's why it's so important this coming year, as you think of the different devotional things, that differ I've heard lots of people saying, Well, I'm going to read the Bible in a year or two years. And the ultimate goal for every one of these is to glorify God. And I'm going to suggest to you that the easiest way to waste your life as a Christian is to not pray. We're going to do a little bit more flipping than usual today in our Bibles. He says, If anyone does not abide in me, he is cast as a branch and is withered. And still my soul would be somewhere. Again, we have to see here, Jesus says, I'm going to send my spirit to come, and he is going to be with you. We won't look at all of them, but I want us to look at uh at some key ones. He's pointing something out here. But those who wait on the Lord shall renew their strength. He says, folly of not waiting for God is that we forfeit the blessing of having God work for us. He says, God is not looking for people to work for him, so much as he is looking for people who will let him work for them. And whatever you ask in my name, that I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. I'm going to go out on a limb here and simply say that you cannot glorify God if you are not praying. Go back to our text, John 14, and we're going to pick up here. Father, we come to you and praise you because you are a God who promises to those who will wait on you, to those who will come to you in dependent prayer. And we learned last week the major the biggest hindrance for receiving help from God is In all the passages that we're going to be looking at, there's a commonality, and you're going to see it here highlighted. The nothing then refers to refers to giving life to those who need Yes, gracious God, where shall I flee? If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, you will ask what you desire, and it shall be done for you. Well he's not saying that we can actually be givers of life, but we do have the same mission. And you're most of you are familiar with that passage. Uh there's all kinds of different people that say different things about what this is talking about. Have we learned to know Him? The calm before the storm, I heard. Picking up in verse 26, John 6, Jesus answered them and said, Most assuredly I say to you, you see As we are praying. He says, He who believes in me, the works that I do. How does not just how do we how does one somebody say we're supposed to accomplish this mission, but how does Jesus say we're supposed to accomplish this mission It's used where an employee employee is paid in full. May we have a year of prayer and a year of glorifying you. This is the upper room discourse. Therefore the Lord will wait, that He may be gracious to you, and therefore He will be exalted, that He may re We confess before you that we are just inclined to do things in our own strength. Again, the idea that we have a refuge in Christ and we go to Him in dependent prayer. It's not useful for anything, and so what do you do with it? It says this If anyone speaks, let him speak as the oracles of God. Now that that sounds a little strange, doesn't it? John fifteen verse five says this I am the vine, you are the branches, he who abides in me, and I in him bears much fruit. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. His understanding is unsearchable. He says, You shall have the deliverance, but I must have the glory. The joy of the Lord is your strength. That's wonderful. It's not optional. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. The best way to ensure that we are fulfilling, living fulfilling and fruitful lives is So the mission of the Father handed down to the mission of Jesus is to give life. We glorify God. As we continue speaking of God's abiding presence, His presence in our prayers. Why? What is the work of God? I think what he is saying here by this illustration, let's stick with the illustration. And maybe it is possible that we aren't seeing the fruit that God wants us to see. When we're going to work, pray. Here's let me show you what I mean. Dependent prayer results in fullness of joy. He says, that I will do. Well, what's it in reference to? Call upon me in a day of trouble. And if a branch is not connected to a vine, if a branch is not connected to a tree trunk, what is it? And if we do, what we see in the passage is that we will bear much fruit in this life. There are even greater works that were done what Christ uh beyond what Christ did in saving souls when he was here on earth. There's others that use different words. It's prayer. He is receiving before he does he works. Isaiah thirty fifteen. Blessed are those who wait for him. I think uh Pastor Jim might have been trying to trip me up because I'm getting old to see if I can do this. I mean, all of these are very are very good goals. It is the Father's work that is being done through the Son, and the work that he is doing is giving life. If anyone does not abide in me, he is cast out as a branch, and is withered, and they gather them and throw them into the fire. We are living on mission for God to ultimately glorify Him in our lives as Christians. Because God will not share his glory with anyone else or anything else. He is our help and our shield. Others are saying, well, it's a possessor and not this is talking about a uh professor and not a possessor. If we are going to serve, and we should serve, we are going to have to serve from the God's supply. We're praying. Now, as we put all this together, the question why why is this all so important? In Luke, we have the same thing. The mission of the Father was to bring life that people would believe that's the mission. And then again, it is the Lord's turn, thou shalt glorify me. The Apostle Paul is constantly saying he's serving to pray. But those who wait on the Lord shall renew their strength. So God, what we're going to see here in this text is that glorifying God requires that Now all things are of God who has reconciled us to himself through We ask for those things that would accomplish the mission of God and Christ as it has been transferred in Because we're dependent. As my wonderful wife comes up to join me on stage, we're going to lead you in the song of the month. Did you know you could do that? Now that brings us then to John fifteen. Ask and you will receive that your joy may be followed This word joy is the idea of to being totally full or to be completely fulfilled. That means we ought to be praying, as the New Testament says, without ceasing. Do you believe that the the answer, the key to fullness Again, just remembering that we are abiding in Christ until he comes again. I think he's pointing out that in that that the visible thing the disciples can see is what is being done, but there is more behind the scenes Well we see clearly from the text, it's asking. Let's pray. And a good, strong, faithful friend, reliable friend comes and says, I'm going to live with you and I'm going to help you and I'm going to do Isaiah 40, 28 through 31. 16. Amen. We praise Him for it. Whose strength is renewed? You will what? Have we learned to know the Word of God and then pray that Word to Him? I will not leave you orphans. That is, those who believe, those who are Christians, those who believe Piper says it this way. Maybe you're here this morning and you don't have a relationship with God. Father, we praise you because you are holy, holy, holy. We ought to raise our kids so that they're not criminals, but to ultimately glorify God. That is the answer. Jesus is talking. Christ said, I didn't act on my own power. Do we get the idea that he is really trying to assure his disciples that if you will ask Well that would not make sense. Actually, it's there twice. So the question is: how? But can I encourage you not to forget to pray? And uh so I'm going to begin in John chapter 14, verses 12 through 18. So we work our jobs to support our families. This is an incredibly important idea. Again I leave the world and go to the Father. That you believe in him whom he sent. Or it may actually be, um it it may be that he actually uh says, can you help me with this or can you help me with that? You can. Dependent prayer requires an awareness of inadequacy I preach on it very frequently. Think about the pen ultim think about the ultimate, not just the pen ultimate I'm going to I'm going to raise my children. It'll be up on the screen. Will that be a wonderful day where we no longer have to worry about an hour of prayer because These things I have spoken to you in figurative language, but the time is coming when I will no longer speak to you figuratively. For thus says the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel God who made the world and everything in it, since he is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hand Well what's the nothing referring to? So you will be my disciples. He wouldn't give credit or glorify the person that is helping by trying to stand up on his own while the friend was while while his other friend was there. Ask, he says. And whatever you ask in my name, that I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. There it is again. Number two, do you view prayer as necessary, as a necessary expression of dependency? In that day, you will ask in my name Secondly, here is God's share. It's essential for glorifying God. This is something that I must do. And we ought to raise our kids, hopefully, for more than just keeping them out of jail. And we see the transfer here in the The answer is prayer. It's in reference to the work that Jesus was doing. He says, no, you would say, friend, please come. We glorify God by asking for His help He doesn't want faux glory. We know in scripture that he is our mediator, he is our We serve our churches, to be o our church, to serve in our church, to be obedient. And he is looking ahead to a time where he won't be with them anymore. Would you take your Bibles and turn to John chapter 4 and pick up in verse 34? He can do nothing. Well he's going to send the Spirit of God to us. And I will pray the Father, and He will give you another helper, that He may abide with you forever. Nothing wrong with being nice to our friends and family, to even have peace, that's fine. So three important questions I think will be helpful for us. And then you may be seated If you remember from last week, Isaiah 44, 1 says In fact, uh Luke 11, 11 through 13 On the contrary, the gospel commands us to give up and hang out a help-wanted sign. This is how frequently we see in In this text, we have this word joy. Why do we cease from praying? Father, we come to you. He gives power to the weak, and to those who have no might, he increases strength. You know, the last words recorded in the Gospel of Matthew where he said Let me ask you, let me put it another way. 34. He says the works I will. One translation even uses the word f- You burn it in the fire because there's that's the only use for it. That is, that God was in Christ He says this God and the praying man takes short. Sweet hour of prayer. Oh, may I ever find access If you look at verse 13, wherever you ask in my name. But you know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. Well, how do we get how do we connect? All the world we all the way will remain. I hope that you will see this morning, if you get nothing else, that that is the only way. So if you turn over there and we're going to see that To begin this new year, I wanted to just take some time to emphasize You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. Do not labor for the fish for the food It is one who waits on the Lord. Thy mercy seed is open still We ought to be nice to our friends and family, to have peace, to ultimately do more than that, to glorify God John five And Lord, as we worship you this morning, may we do so in a way that pleases you Thy mercy seed is open still Jonathan Edwards said this. In fact I think of almost the opposite of work. That you have And notice then what Jesus says. In describing this idea of waiting on God, John Piper says that the same thing is that the same thing is that the same thing is that the same thing is that the first time we have to do that. Until now you have asked nothing in my name Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. You will ask what you desire and it shall be done for you. Because the Father loves us. Dependent prayer is mission critical. The first one we're going to look at, Jesus has just saved the Samaritan woman. Amen. But you know him And Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him. How do I keep from doing that? We can we as vessels and channels for him How do we move from just focusing on the penultimate to the ultimate? When he says, the works that I do, what is he talking about? And we're going to see that as we go on. So we see in Luke eleven But notice what he says here, verse 7. Do you believe that? They shall mount up with wings like eagles. And again in John 16, 25 through And it goes really in conjunction with the concept of the Some will actually say you're the uh There's a lot that can be said about this passage, but I'll just pick up we'll pick up actually in verse 26. Well, good morning He who abides in me, and I in him, bears much fruit Very frequently in our lives, even as Christians, we focus But I want to remind us of a few things that I Verse 29. He will not surrender the glory of being the giver. By if I'm doing a hobby, I want to enjoy what God has given me ultimately And the ultimate goal of glorifying God is also the ultimate goal of our future. Last week we looked in the Old Testament Over and over in the Gospels, we have this He says, the works that I do, he will also, and greater works than these he will also No, what God wants us to do at the very outset is to be I think the King James uses the word comforter. For our heart shall rejoice in him because we trusted in his holy name. They shall mount up with wings as eagles, they shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and not Have you not known, have you not heard that the everlasting God, the Lord It's not one of the things that we do That is, we must depend on Christ. I will come to you He says verse 30. You know what we're tend to do sometimes? Now, did Christ have his own power? And that's what God wants us to do. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us. There's a word for this, it's it's the word penultimate. John Piper gives this illustration, I think it's a helpful one. If you go back to John and the work that Jesus is doing God aims to exalt himself by working for those who wait for him. And it's used My food is to do something. Keep that in mind. Charles Spurgeon said it this way Yet we see clearly from these texts that we can Now, if you look at the book of Acts, you see this. Did you catch that? Why? Abide with me, stand with me if you're able. That we have We pick up here in John chapter 14. It says, Most assuredly I say to you, he who believes And they gather them and throw them into the fire, and they are burned. If anyone serves Chapter 15, 5 through 8. And dependent prayer is based on a loving relationship Yes, because I have to keep You know, God is with us when we pray. But I want us to notice that this is our mission. And in that day, you will ask me nothing. You don't know that the most the first place of dependency is understanding How would the paralyzed friend Verse 15. Look, slip over again to John 6. It's useless. Because I need my breath every He said Here is a compact, a covenant that God enters into with you. Help us to see just how important that is The answer That's what we see in Scripture. Do you really see it that way? Maybe not. I will deliver thee It's used several times in the book of John and also in 1 John. Number one Psalm 50, verse 12, is a very interesting verse. How does this all work? Because I I hope that as we as we look at all this And we pray these things in Christ's name. And the Holy Spirit there is it's there's a it's an interesting word. That in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. I've got to pray. Okay. The passage, or as Harry pointed out, the passage is. Would you look then, just flip over, maybe it's one or two pages. This was very convicting to me. I mean I I enjoy eating. He can do nothing of himself, but he does what the Father does. And so your visitor would learn from your requests that you are helpless and that your friends We're receiving You are God Almighty, all powerful, all-wise. And then it says in verse 15, if you ask anything in my name. What is the easiest way for you to waste your life as a Christian? That is actually a use. And the work that Jesus was doing was life-giving work. That's why prayer is absolutely Isaiah 30, 16 It's not going to bear fruit because it's not connected to the vine. He's going to them and he's praying for them. Dependent prayer requires an awareness of anadequacy. Now then we are ambassadors for Christ. We're tend to do things in our own strength, by our own self-determination. We pursue our hobbies to enjoy life. John 16, actually it says at the end of John 15. See, so often in our lives we are I don't think he's saying that There's this loving relationship that is expressed here. And four times in John fourteen through sixteen Psalm thirty-three twenty May that be And then finally, what causes this to be so joyful? He was God. They shall run and not be weary. And it illustrates it this way, and people get hung up over verse 6, but I think Uh hymn 175 How is it that we Let's go to the Lord in prayer before we come to his word. And again, Ultimately it's because of Christ's death on the cross that we are able to receive. I I I have a fireplace at home. If you ask anything in my name, How do we express that dependency? I It's dead. That's the mission. Amen. Why? But there ought to be an ultimate goal Verse 2 I'm asking John 6 and look at verse 20. Why? Excellent singing. I actually want you to see this. I will not leave you orphans, I will come So that we can truly come to He says And so what happens to I'm burning lots of wood lately. That's great. They shall walk. You may be seated as we The answer It's used in reference to the That's the point here. Right in front of the friend. Then Jesus Y allez Well