Well good morning. Beautiful morning to be together to worship God this morning, isn't it? We are going to be in Romans chapter 9, verses 1 through 13 this morning. Before we go to God's word, let's go to Him and ask for His guidance. Father, we come before you this morning and just praise your holy name. Father, you are holy, holy, holy. You are righteous and just and mercy. Merciful, full of grace and full of love. You are worthy of all praise. And Father, as we come this morning to worship you, we come also to hear from you. And Father, I pray this morning again for those who are not able to be here. I pray for healing for them and I pray that you will grant them grace to be able to catch up uh on line and uh be able to hear your word this morning. And be encouraged by it. And I pray you will help us this morning to set aside all the cares and uh concerns of the day and help us this morning to concentrate forward. Upon your word. Lord, open our ears and our eyes and our hearts and our minds to you. And Father, as we receive your word, help us to take it today and meditate upon it, and Father, that we would seek your guidance and your enabling to help us to apply it to our lives. And we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Romans chapter 9 verses 1 through 13 I tell you the truth in Christ. I am not lying. My conscience also bearing me witness in the Holy Spirit that I have great sorrow and continual grief in my heart. For I could wish that I myself were accursed from Christ, for my brethren, my countrymen, according to the flesh. who are Israelites, to whom pertain the adoption, the glory, the covenants, and the giving of the law, the service of God, and the promises of whom are the fathers, and from whom According to the flesh, Christ came, who is over all the eternally blessed God. Amen. But it is not that the word of God has not taken effect, or has taken no effect. For they are not all Israel who are Israel. Nor are they all children because they are the seed of Abraham. But in Isaac your seed shall be called. That is, those who are the children of the flesh, these are not the children of God. But the children of promise are counted as the seed. For this is the word of promise. At this time I will come and Sarah shall have a son. And not only this, but when Rebecca also had conceived by one man, even by our father Isaac, for the children not yet being born, not having done any good or evil that the purpose of God according to election might stand, not of works, but of him who calls. It was said to her, The older shall serve the younger. As it is written, Jacob I have loved, but Esau I have hated. Married is they they have un unrealized expectations. How many of you all experienced that when you're first married? The husband is expected to take out the trash and he forgets. The husband is supposed to know how to unload the dishwasher and he doesn't. The husband is supposed to be able to fix the car and the house like like dad did, and he can't. And the same thing goes for the wife. The wife the husband expects the wife to be able to cook like his mom. If he expresses that, that's a bad idea. And he is always in a I didn't do that by the way. And he is always uh and and to always be in a cheerful mood just like the when they were dating. Uh the this this is the case. They people go into marriage and they have these expectations of what it's going to be like and what the other person's going to be like and what they can receive. And then in the first year, two, three years, there are they realize this is they realize they're expectations are different than reality. Sometimes in our relationship with God, we can run into a problem because we expect God to work a certain way. And the way that we expect him to work, he doesn't work that way. And reality is different than what we expect. And if we're not careful, we can think maybe God really isn't faithful Maybe God isn't really good. Maybe there's something God said he would do this and he isn't. This can be a real problem in a young, you know, a Someone's saved, newly saved, and learning how things in God's words, in some cases, the problem is they misread what God is actually saying He will do And it's uh taken out of context and there's a misunderstanding and as a result um there is a misplaced expectation and a disillusion. And in some cases, tragically, someone can feel as though they really never knew the Lord in the first place. There are people that will reject the Lord as a result of these misplaced expectations based upon really not understanding what God actually said in the beginning. And we actually have a passage here that deals with some expectations that God, that the nation of Israel expected God to do in a certain way, and we find that he is not doing it in the way There's a lot of confusion about what has taken place and what Paul is saying God has done and will do. And this text is dealing with that. Now we have gone through the book of Romans, the first eight chapters, and we have seen that the focus of the book is on the gospel and the fact that the gospel is for everyone and is offered to everyone. But God did choose the nation of Israel in the Old Testament. for salvation to come through. And Paul acknowledges this in Romans chapter 1, where he says, Paul, a bondservant, the first verse, Paul, a bondservant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle, separated to the gospel of God, which he promised before through his prophets in the Holy Scriptures. Israel was that chosen nation that God intended to bring forth salvation to the world. God said he would do that. And yet, by this point, when the Apostle Paul is writing, Israel has largely rejected the Savior that God brought Jesus Christ. Largely, I mean there were people, there were Jews that had accepted him. But as a nation, they largely rejected Jesus. Of course, the religious leaders certainly did. We know that over and over and over again. We see that in the New Testament. And so salvation, and Rev Romans explains this, salvation is offered to everyone. It's at the very crux of the gospel that we find in Romans chapter 3, verse 21. But now the righteousness of God apart from the law is revealed, being witnessed by the law and the prophets Even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ to all and on all who believe and catch this, for there is no difference. That is, in God's overall plan, and what God had done, and what Paul was explaining, is that there is no difference when it comes to ethnicity, when it comes to coming to the gospel. The gospel is offered to all. So what do you do with Israel? I mean, if God is Israel still God's chosen people? Further on in Romans 8 that we had just learned, you have language like this in Romans 8, 28 and 29. You remember it says, and we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called. Well, I thought Israel was called by God. I can imagine in Israel someone someone who was a Jew or maybe a Gentile who'd come to Christ understood some of the Old Testament, going, well, wait a minute, who's actually the chosen people? Who are called according to his purpose, for whom he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn. The firstborn? I thought that was Israel among many brethren. So how is there, like how do we ex- is God Has God failed to keep his promises? This was what was at stake here. Paul is dealing with this. Has God failed to keep his promises with Israel? Or did God make a mistake? When he chose Israel to bring forth the Messiah, and then they rejected the Messiah that he brought forth? Did God make a mistake or was God unfaithful? That's actually at the core of what the Apostle Paul wants us to understand. This is actually why it's so important that we understand Romans 9 through 11. Now if you read Romans 9 through 11, you're going to find it it really looks very different from chapters 1 through 8. You have very clear teaching on the gospel in chapters 1 through 8. And it looks, you certainly have taught discussion about the gospel, and we're going to get into all of it eventually But you have this, it looks like there is this shift toward talking about Israel. And for those of us who aren't Jewish, we sort of go, well, how does this really apply to us? But I really appreciate what some of the commentators that I've uh I was reading said. I love what, for example, Thomas Schreiner says about this. He says the central issue in the chapters is not predestination, nor is it even salvation of Israel. At the forefront of Paul's thinking is God's faithfulness to his promises. That's at the core of what we're dealing with in chapters 9 through 11. Paul is defending the faithfulness of God. Douglas Moose said this. Ultimately then, Romans 9 through 11 is not about Israel, it is about God. Now, these are actually two men that would have a different approach than than I would have when it comes to eschatology. And yet they still realized that this passage is really the emphasis is on God. and his his faithfulness and understanding that God truly is a faithful, good, righteous God who has brought forth his plan of redemption and the gospel and explaining and understanding the role of Israel as we see what God said he would do what Israel is now and what will happen in the future. And we're going to see that in these verses that we're going to be looking at today. That God's faithfulness is demonstrated through special selection. That is how God's faithfulness is demonstrated. We're going to see this in three ways. There's three movements we're going to see. First of all, God's word was given to and through God's people, Israel. We're going to see that Then we're gonna, in verses 1 through 5, then we're gonna see in verse 6 that God's promise is fulfilled God's way. God's promise is not fulfilled my way or what everybody expects, but what God's way is to fulfill his own promise. And then number three, we're going to see that God's way is through special selection. God's way is through special selection. selection. Let's begin then at verses and look at verses 1 through 5. God's word was given to and through God's people. Now Paul begins on a very, very personal note here. The Apostle Paul, remember, was Saul before he was Paul, and he was, before he came to Christ, and certainly still is, a Jewish person. He had great loyalty. He was a great patriot of Israel. And he wants to emphasize that actually he still is. He's a Christian. He has adopted the Christian faith. He has understood Jesus as the Messiah and the Savior brought forth through Israel. But it it seems as though from the text that we see, it seems as though the fact that he says, I I lie not, he's emphasizing I'm telling the truth, I lie not, that there might be some that based upon what he is teaching here and what he's taught before that Paul is anti-Israel or Paul has some sort of he he is turning his back on the nation of Israel. Paul Paul wants to emphasize, he wants to help them to understand his own sincerity, his own feelings when it comes to Israel. He says, I tell the truth in Christ. I am not lying. He's really trying to emphasize: look, there's nothing in me that's lying about this. I tell and he doesn't just say to tell the truth. I tell the truth in Christ. He says, I'm not lying. And he has said this before, in, for example, he said this to the Church of Corinth, to the Church of Galatia. He has said this several times where he emphasizes, I'm telling the truth and I'm not lying. Now you say, well, that's redundant. Well, it's really for emphasis. He wants them to be wants to be clear about what he is about to say. And then he goes even further, and he says, my conscience And you say uh my conscience is is is bearing witness on this, and you might say, well, the conscience doesn't isn't always fallible isn't always infallible. It's very fallible. But he goes so far as to say, my conscience bearing witness in the Holy Spirit. He says, God, the Spirit of God, is witness to my conscience in the truth about what I'm going to say. There is no ounce of anything but truth to what I am about to say. And notice how he expresses his His feelings toward Israel. He says, I have great sorrow and continual grief in my heart. Now, just by that phrase, we can we can understand something that Paul is saying about Israel. We know already that Israel has rejected the Messiah, Christ, as a whole, the nation, at this point. And we also know that they, because of that, are not saved spiritually. They don't know Christ as Savior, since Christ is the only way, the truth, and the life. And he is in great sorrow and continually grieving in his heart. His loyalty is clear. And remember, this is a man who had great zeal for Israel, even persecuting the church when he thought the church was opposing Israel. And there's a sense in which his feelings for Israel have not changed. He is of great sorrow because they have rejected Jesus. us. So much so that he says a startling statement in verse 3. Would you notice what it says in verse 3? He says, for I could wish. Now that immediately tells us that what he's about to say is not possible. So it's a hypothetical, it's a wish, it can't happen, but here's what he says. I could wish that I myself were accursed from Christ. For my brethren, and just to clarify, he's talking when he says my brethren here, he's talking about my countrymen according to the flesh. And Paul, of course, has said, my brethren in other places. He's talking about other Christians. But in this case, he is saying, my physical brethren, my physical brothers and sisters. according to the flesh, then the ethnic Israel, I would wish that I were accursed for them and separated from Christ for them. Now what does he mean by that? There are several other times that Paul mentions this word curse. It's always mentioned in a negative sense. The Old Testament equivalent mean is actually in reference to objects of peop objects and people who were devoted to God and for destruction. I mean devoted to God for destruction. It's a reference to judgment and to be cursed forever being separated from the presence of Christ. We see that, for example, in 1 Corinthians 16. 22. If anyone does not have, does not love the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be accursed, O Lord, come. Galatians says it twice, chapter one, verse eight. But even if we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel to you than we have preached to you, let him be accursed. As we have said before, so now I say again, if anyone preaches any other gospel to you than what we have received, let him be accursed. Any other gospel outside of the true work of Christ and who he is and what he has done, let him be accursed. He is separated from God for eternity because he is accursed. And Paul says here I wish that were me for the sake of Israel. Now this is very interesting. If you're a Jewish person, Reading this. And maybe even a Christian who is very familiar with the Old Testament, and maybe you're even here today thinking about this as well as we go through this. The minds, I think, the minds of many of his readers would have been would have gone back to an Old Testament passage in Exodus 32. Because there was really someone else That wanted to atone for Israel because of their seriously sinful state. And that was Moses Do you remember that passage? Do you remember Moses when he wanted to do this? In Exodus 32, verse 30, it says, Now it came to pass on the next day that Moses said to the people, You have committed a great sin. So now I will go up to the Lord. Perhaps I will make atonement for your sin. He says, I'm going to try to make atonement for your sin. Then Moses returned to the Lord and said, Oh, these people have committed a great sin and have not and have made for themselves a God of gold. Yet now, if you will forgive their sin But if not, I pray, blot me out of your book, which you have written. And the Lord's, and He's basically saying, take me out, put them in. I want to be a substitute for Israel. And you know what God says? He says this, verse 33. And the Lord said to Moses, whoever um Whoever has sinned against me, I will blot him out of my book. Now therefore, go lead the people to the place Of which I have spoken to you. Behold, my angel shall go before you. Nevertheless, in the day when I visit for punishment, I will visit punishment upon them for their sin. It will happen. So the Lord plagued the people because of what they had did with the calf which Aaron made. Moses wanted to be their substitute. But Moses was an insufficient substitute. He could not do it. God says, no, you cannot be a substitute for the sins of the people. And Paul here is essentially saying the same thing. Paul is genuinely willing. He literally would be willing to go to hell if it meant Israel being saved. And Israel is hearing this. People are maybe reading this. And they're thinking about the fact that no Moses, though he wanted to, could not. And Paul, though he wanted to, could not, why? We know why, because the only sufficient substitute for our sin or for Israel's sin is Jesus Christ. That's it. So then what do we do with Israel who is rejecting Jesus? Paul then explains the privilege that Israel has. In verses four through five, we're going to see That they that Israel is greatly privileged. Look at what it says. It says four verse four, who are Israelites, to whom pertain the adoption, the glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the service of God, and promises Of whom the fathers, and from whom, according to the flesh, Christ came, who is over all an eternally blessed God of God. Amen. So what we see actually six different things here, and most commentators agree, most scholars agree, that these were intended to be parallel couplets. So I want you to see it this way, and then we'll go through each of them. So we have this idea of to whom pertain adoption. So we have adoption on one hand. And parallel with that is the giving of the law. Now let's think about this for a minute. What did God say in Romans chapter 8? What did Paul described in Romans chapter 8. He actually says this about Christians, about those who know Christ as their Savior, that they are adopted. We go through the through adoption. But in the Old Testament, it actually says that Israel, the nation of Israel, is the son, the child of God. Notice what it says in Exodus 4. 22. Then you shall say to Pharaoh, thus says the Lord, Israel is my son, catch this, my firstborn. It actually says, Israel is my son, my firstborn. It says the same thing in Jeremiah 31:9 It says the same thing in Hosea 11:1. When Israel was a child, I loved him, and out of Egypt I called my son. God had chosen Israel and named him as his firstborn son. What a place of privilege. And as he did this, he also gave them the law, also a wonderful place of privilege. of privilege. And we have learned already of the privileged place of Israel in the law, but unfortunately they saw they looked to the law to do what the law was never intended to do. We learned about that back in Romans chapter 4. Not only this, it says the glory and the worship or service or the it's translated service, it could be translated worship. So we have the adoption coupled with the giving of the law and the glory coupled with worship. And this really m makes our minds go back to how they worship in the Old Testament. They had the very presence of God, the glory of God, the presence of God in the midst of the nation of Israel, in the midst of the tabernacle, and also later on in the temple, and they worshipped in the presence of Almighty God. No other nation could say that, not even close, but Israel could say that the very Shekinah glory, the presence of God is there with them in the tabernacle and later in the temple. And all of the 12 tribes of Israel are surrounding this tabernacle and they're all worshiping and they have these sacrifices to keep things from being defiled, all in the presence of God. This is a real place of privilege, isn't it? Israel is greatly privileged by God. And then we see the covenants and the promises. These two clearly go together as well. God didn't make binding agreements with other nations, but he did with Israel. You have the Mosaic Covenant and the Abrahamic covenant and you have covenants in the Old Testament. These are binding agreements, some of which are unconditional covenants, which we'll get into, especially the Abrahamic covenant in a few minutes. And these coupled with covenants are promises made to Abraham, for example, and ultimately to Israel. Uh Ephesians two even couples these together. Ephesians two twelve, that at the time you were without Christ, being alienated from the got from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of promise having no hope without God in the world. Israel, they were not strangers of the government. They were part of the covenants of promise that was given to Israel. And all of this really is rate related to the fact that the Word of God was given to and through Israel in commandments and covenants and promises. You take the law and the prophets, all of the Old Testament, which is the Word of God is given to Israel and through Israel. It is of great privilege. They are greatly privileged. But the greatest privilege in the mind of the Apostle Paul is in verse 5. It is that it says, to whom our fathers and from whom, according to the flesh, Christ came It was Jesus is the descendants of the fathers of Israel. He is in the line. We see this clearly in Matthew and Luke. Israel is God's chosen nation in that it brought forth Christ as the Messiah. And for Paul and for any converted Jew, that is the greatest Privilege of all for Israel that God chose Israel to bring forth the Savior Christ descended. But notice what it says here, from whom, according to the flesh, Christ came, who is over all. Christ descended from Israel, but is extended to all. This is the crux of the gospel. There is no difference in Romans 3. Christ merely ethnically descended from them, but also the Lord of all and who even shares the divine nature. is extended to everyone. So we s why didn't it work for Israel particularly? Why all of these promises, all of these covenants, all of this, why didn't it work? And maybe more specifically, what did God fail in bringing about his promises? We pick up in verse 6. And verse 6 really is the thesis statement of the entire of all three chapters. This is the thesis statement. This is what Paul is getting at. He says, but it is not the word of God, is not that the word of God has taken no effect. He wants to be clear. That is not what's going to take place. Understand that whatever you whatever you think about Israel and how it how it all works together, understand that the problem is not that the word of God has had no effect. The problem is not that the promises of God, which are in the Word of God, have not been carried out. That's not the problem. And then he says why, and I mean I I do want to emphasize this is the key to the whole thing of what he is talking about And then he explains why in a nutshell, and then we're gonna expand on this. Not all Israel Is Israel, he says. Now that's a little confusing. What in the world? Is that double talk? Now Israel is Israel? Well, he has already said something similar to this in Romans 2, verses 28 through 29. For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, nor is circumcision that which is outward in the flesh. But he is a Jew who is one inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, not in the letter, whose praise is not of men, not from men, but of God, but from God So he's already indicated that not everybody who has been named a Jew is part of God's chosen, select people. But what he is what he is saying here, what we want to establish though here is this, that in in chapters 9 through 10 through 11 We are talking about what has happened, is happening, and going to happen, particularly with ethnic Israel. That's important. In fact, Thomas Schreiner says this. He says, nowhere in Romans 9 through 11 is the term Israel transferred to the church. And the issue that Paul confronts here is whether the promises made to ethnic Israel will be fulfilled. And there are some that would suggest that what's actually going on here is that Israel is replaced by the church in this passage and that and in this text and that's how God fulfills all his promises to Israel. He just kind of takes Israel, sets it aside, and now Israel is replaced by the church and all the promises are fulfilled I appreciate Tom Mrs. Schreiner, who has actually comes from a bit of a different perspective on this, and yet realizes that what is actually being dealt with here is what is going to happen to ethnic Israel and what has happened. And the bottom line is, has God fulfilled his promises or not? Well, we what we actually need to do is go back to the actual promise. So so have you let me illustrate it this way. You ever had your kids come up to you, or maybe as a kid you said this, but mom or dad you promised. You ever had that happen before? But you promised. I haven't had that happen a lot in my family because at a very young stage, I told them, mom and dad just about never promise. So like just establish it here. I'm gonna promise you that I'm probably never gonna promise you. Okay, so just just understand that that that that's not the case. You're you but even then, but mom, dad, you said, you said Now, it is possible that mom and dad are the problem, that they actually aren't fulfilling what they said they would do. But it's also maybe more more commonly the problem that there was a misunderstanding of what was actually said. That's often the case. Sometimes I think to myself, I need to have contracts with my kids. Like write it down, exactly what was said, so that I can go back and say, see, I didn't actually say that. I'm joking about that sort of but but the problem is the misunderstanding of the promise. And actually that's what you have here as well. So if we go back to Abraham, to the actual Abrahamic promise, we see this. Verse 1 of Genesis 12. It says, Now the Lord had said to Abram, Get out of your country from your family and from your father's house to a land that I will show you. And notice what he says to Abraham. I will make you a great nation. I will bless you and make your name great, and you shall be a blessing, and I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse you, though him who curses you, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. Now there are very there are a few things that we need to understand about this original promise, and we need to go back to it, and we need to see what exactly he said. He said to Abraham, I will make of you a great nation. Did he say that every individual person that comes from Abraham is going to be promised of God to be saved? We don't see that there, right? No, we see that I'm going to make of you a great nation. He also said that through this nation All of the families of the earth will be blessed. It doesn't say every individual, but all of the families of the earth will be blessed. What's he saying there? He's actually talking about Christ. Christ coming through Israel, being a descendant of Israel, and then as the Savior being offered to all of the families of the world. It is the, we are, we are in that sense, all of us are part of the spiritual aspects of the Abrahamic covenant. That's being fulfilled as we come to Christ. What it isn't saying here is that every descendant is just automatically this way. So he's going to then explain this in verses 7 through 13. We're going to see arguments, this idea of not all Israel is Israel, we're going to see this fleshed out in verses 7 through 13 that God's way is through a special selection process, if you will Verse 7 says this, nor are they all children because they are all of the seed of Abraham. And then he gives us an example. In Isaac, your seed shall be called. That is, those who are of the children of the flesh, those are not of the children of God, but the children of the promise are counted as the seed. For this is the word of promise, at this time I will come, and Sarah shall have a son. Okay, what is he saying here? He gives an example here, and essentially what he's saying here is that Isaac is chosen, but Ishmael was not. Now that doesn't mean that God didn't love Ishmael, and God actually says he was going to make a great nation from Ishmael But the chosen nation of God did not come from Ishmael. It came from Isaac, as it clearly says in God's word. In Genesis chapter 21, verse 12, it says, For in Isaac your seed shall be called. So God actually says, okay, he first says, Abraham, Abraham, I'm going to make of you a great nation, and then he says, Genesis chapter 21, it is through Isaac that this is going to happen. Your and he used the word your seed shall be called. So there is a selection From the the larger group, there is a selection down to Isaac, and God is fulfilling his promise as he does this. And by the way, Israel would never have disputed that. They are not saying they're not suggesting, well, Ishmael should be part of it because he's a child of Abraham. No, no, they understood their special privileged position as called of God, and this is what Paul is bringing up to them. He's making this argument for them. We see this idea of seed also in Romans chapter 4, if you'll remember, Romans 4, verse 13. For the promise that he would be uh the heir of the world was not to Abraham or to his seed through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. He's saying that there is a promise in Abraham that specific spiritual promise of Abraham, which is salvation, is by faith. And in Romans 4. 16, therefore it is of faith that is that it might be according to grace. So that the promise might be sure to all the seed, not only those who are of the law, but all those who are of the of faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all. spiritual blessing of Abraham that comes through Christ in Christ that we get to be a part of. It's called essentially it's called salvation or eternal life. And there in that sense, we are part, we are we are um we get to be part of the fulfillment of the Abrahamic covenant. But there are physical aspects of the Abrahamic covenant. The land, Abraham has promised a certain land. Well, what do you do with that? And we'll get into that in the future. But there are physical aspects of the Abrahamic covenant that are definitely not for for us that are specifically for Israel. Now, let's then move on and notice what he says in verse 8. He says Children of God, and he uses this word counted, are counted by God not to receive via physical heritage. So he says this is not a matter of physical heritage. They're counted Or the word is sometimes translated reckoned. It's an accounting term. So that God chooses from the group a s a a selected group, he counts them, and those are the ones that will have the promise fulfilled. And that's what he means by not all Israel is Israel. In other words, God is not a set it and forget it kind of God. It's not automatic. And that was the impression that Israel thought. They thought that just because they were children of Abraham, They would obviously have eternal life and have a right relationship with God just automatically. You know the difference between a manual transmission and an automatic transmission? One you have to deliberately shift and the other one just happens on its own. Some of you remember the days I I remember my grandfather saying that my grandmother had to learn on a manual transmission first. Before she could learn on an automatic transmission, she had to learn how to drive a car on a manual first. That had to be a process. Um some of us pick it up faster than others, but uh but what's the difference? The the difference is you get to actually place it in the gear that you want to place it in. And actually, if you're driving a very large truck on a like on a flat surface, sometimes you don't put it in first gear, you actually put it in the second gear. But you can choose based upon what you need, and you need to know how to drive it right, and usually it is pretty much in succession. But uh but you it is there is essentially there is more control over the vehicle because of the deliberate nature of what you have to do in putting it into gear. That's actually why sometimes people like used to like to drive stick shifts because there's more control. You actually feel like you're driving the thing except instead of it's driving you. Now it's like put the thing in automatic, turn on the GPS and pay no attention whatsoever to anything and you just kind of end up getting there. I do that. I'm I'm I'm guilty of that. So God is very deliberate. He is not a set it and forget it kind of God where he says, okay, everybody from the children of Abraham, you're with me, and that you can do anything you want, and it doesn't matter. No. No, God's fulfillment of his promise, if you look at the actual promise, he never says every descendant of Abraham. If you look at the actual promise, he's saying that it is that it is carried out through Isaac, which he actually said it would do And there is a selection prof process. And he wants to emphasize that it's not based upon it's not based upon uh ethnic privilege It's based upon God's selection. And Abraham tried another way, remember, of course, with Ishmael, trying they tried another way, and God said, no, no, that's it is going to be from Sarah. Genesis chapter 17, verses 18-22. And Abraham said to g said to God, Oh, that Ishmael might live before you. Then God said, No, Sarah, your wife shall bear you a son, and you shall call his name Ishmael Isaac and later on in verse 21, but my covenant I will establish with Isaac. It was God's specific way. Don't try to figure out how uh Told Abraham, don't try to figure out, figure me out, and do it the way no. I've got it set exactly the way I want to do it so that it comes out the way I say it's supposed to come out in fulfilling my promise. And we understand that about the nature of God from this. But also it the selection is not based on human effort. And we find another example to demonstrate that in verses 10 through 13. The next is the conf Trash, between Jacob and Esau. Of course, you know the story of Jacob and Esau, and of course you know that Jacob was ultimately chosen by God to bring forth the chosen people of God, and Esau was not. And we see this in verse 10. And not only this, but when Rebekah also had conceived by one man, even by our father Isaac, for the children not yet being born. nor having done any good or evil, that the purpose of God according to election might stand. Not of works, but of him who called. It was said to her, the older shall serve the younger, as is written, Jacob have I loved, and uh is uh Esau I have hated. So so we have this passage that explains that Rebekah has conceived, and there have been two that have come from one man, Isaac, but there's only one selected from Isaac that is chosen by God to fulfill the promises of it, the promises given to Abraham. It's a selection process. And of course, as they come out of the womb, there is no self-effort by either one of them that they are selected by. There's no works involved And so it illustrates well that from the very beginning, before, of course we know the story that Esau and I they were not they were actually they were both sinners, but um Scripture compares Esau to as being pretty evil later on. But the bottom line is here, as they're born, they're selected, not based upon any kind of merit, even not cultural I mean, usually the firstborn would have been selected for greater responsibility, but actually the younger is selected for greater responsibility. further demonstrating that this is not done through culture, it's not done through any kind of self-effort or works, it's not done through some sort of specific privilege. No, it is simply that God chooses to fulfill his promise the way he chooses by the good pleasure of his will, Ephesians 1. And so we see here the promise would be filled, it says, by election, by ch and the word election just means choosing. The promise is is fulfilled by choosing. And this does reference us back to Romans chapter 8, verse 28, for we know that all things work together for good, to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. 1 Timothy chapter 1 verse 9, who saved us and called us from a holy calling, not according to our works. but according to his own people and grace which was given to us in Christ Jesus before time began. So it does illustrate for us the nature of salvation. It's an illustration of the fact that God also chooses people to be saved. And we see this Clearly in Ephesians 1 as well, and we'll see this as we go on. It doesn't negate human responsibility. We're also going to see that in our passage in Romans 9 through 11. But we see that it is it is clear God's choice is clear. And we see in Genesis chapter 25, verse 23, that the older would serve the younger. Now this phrase, verse 13, is an interesting phrase. Jacob have I loved and Esau have I hated. That's an interesting phrase, isn't it? Jacob have I loved and Esau. Does God really hate? I mean, it comes from Malachi chapter 1, verses 1 through 3. What is he talking about when he says that God hated Esau and loved Jacob? Well, let me read the passage for you. It says, the burden of the word of the Lord to Israel by Malachi, I have loved you. Says the Lord. So he's speaking to the nation of Israel. Notice he is not speaking to any individual. He's speaking to the nation of Israel. He says, I have loved you, says the Lord, yet you say, In what way have you loved us? Was not Esau Jacob's brother? Says the Lord, yet Jacob I have loved, but Esau I have hated, and laid waste his mountains and his heritage for the jackals of the wilderness. We need to understand the context here. What we're talking about here is not individual love and hate. It is national. But we need to understand that any word is based upon its context. You've got to keep it in context in order to really understand it. You could take the word love, like in in Sunday school, where it says that Christ loved us and gave hims, you know, gave him sacrificed himself for us. That kind of love is a different kind of love than I love ice cream. Right? I mean you're using the same word love, but the context is going to tell us that it's it's The word love means something very different based upon how you're using it. And in this context, in Matthew, in Malachi It's not talking about, it really has nothing to do with anything personal or emotional. It is a national statement, but it does have to do with God's selection according to his purpose. I mean, consider whether you love a hot dog or love your spouse. Hopefully, it's not the same. Hopefully, you love your spouse in a very different way than you love a hot dog Or you hate you hate your family member, hopefully you don't, but it's okay to hate a lower speed limit. I really don't like slow speed limits I sometimes are you ever ha had that happen? You like drive on a road, there's no it's not residential, there's no houses around, and it's like thirty miles an hour and you go, why? What in the world? I hate this. Uh-huh. This is a different kind of hate. It depends on the context. It depends on what you're dealing with. And the best way to understand this is it's really a matter of accepting. And rejecting. He accepted nationally, he accepted Jacob and his descendants. As the line with which Christ would come and would be chosen, not Esau's line. Now I've got a ma I the thing about it is this is all a there's a lot of nitty-gritty things as we go through chapters nine, ten, and eleven of this passage. This is this is This tend lends itself more to the meat of the word where you really gotta chew on it. You've got to process it and chew on it a little bit. It's not something that is easy, easy to just to to grasp. But I think there are some things that we can learn from all of this. Number one, there's four takeaways I have. Number one God's sovereignly, I should say God, God sovereignly carries out his will through his word. God sovereignly carries out his will through his word. God does that. He will do that. Number two, though, he sovereignly fulfills his promises his way. We remember that, folks. When we're trying to, number one, you cannot outthink God. We're going to learn that from chapter 11. You've got to understand that God's ways are higher than our ways, and his thoughts are higher than our thoughts, and it's not the same. And sometimes we're going through life and we don't understand what God is doing, and we look at even Israel, we look at all this and we go Well, why in the world did you change gears and all that? What's going on here? God sovereignly fulfills his promises his way. We have to learn to trust him. And number three, God's special selection is not based on pedigree or human performance or human effort or works. It's not based upon those things. It never is. Whether it's su it's selecting a nation to be to bring forth the Messiah, or it's selecting an individual to come to himself. In either case. It has nothing to do with self-effort or pedigree. It has everything to do, according to Scripture, with the good pleasure of His will. And number three, number four rather, God's election is based on his own, and I put this, unknown purposes The only thing we know from Ephesians 1 when it comes to salvation, particularly, is that we people are saved by the good pleasure of his will, and we don't know the basis of it. We know that the basis of his rejection of people is their sin. That's the basis. If anybody is rejected by God, it is because of their sin. That's the basis. But why he would choose to rescue some of us out of our sin and save us? That he would choose to place his special love on us. The emphasis in Ephesians 1 is simply that we are blessed. I mean, if you think of your life and you think of the fact that Christ has saved you, and it's no merit of your own, why would God choose to save you? And your answer should be, I have no idea, but I'm really glad he did. I have no idea that the basis with I all I know it's the good pleasure of his will. And I'm glad he did. And we need to learn then to trust the Lord in his ways. See, God is, and we're going to learn through this as we go through this. We're going to learn God is always faithful. He always fulfills his promises. And there is always, we haven't learned it from this passage, but there is always human responsibility involved. We're going to get to that. And there is a mystery to some of this. But we can always come, and I want to go ahead and turn there, always come to the very end of Romans chapter 11. Would you turn over there for a minute and we will we will see this quite a bit? Picking up in verse 33. This should bring us as we think about the ways of God and His and all this, we should we should end Pretty much we should always end here, verse 33. O the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has become his counselor, or who has first given to him, and it shall be repaid to him? For of him and through him and to him are all things To whom be glory forever, Amen. Do you have a hard time understanding the ways of God That should cause you to stand in awe of who he is and to trust him and to give him glory. Lord, I do not understand everything you do. I do not pretend to know your mind. But I know that your ways are good, you are faithful, and I trust you. And we're going to see the ways of God through this And we're going to see that God is good and faithful and right in everything he does. And we can trust him. Let's pray. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you. We praise you that you are a faithful God. We thank you for your word. We thank you for the parts that are easily digestible, they're easy to understand, but we're going through a text of scripture now, and we will be for a while that is a little bit harder to digest. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to chew on these things in such a way that although we may not understand every single part of this, We learn your ways, and we learn that you will carry out your will, your way, and you are faithful, and we can trust you. And we thank you, Lord, that we can stand in awe because you're not like us, and your mind is not like us, and we don't pretend to be we don't pretend that we can know your ways because you are so much greater than we are. Father, I pray that as we go through this, this would that we're we would be reminded of that. And that we would worship you and stand in awe of who you are as a result. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.