Well good morning. If you have your Oh thank you. Boy, that was great. If you have your Bibles, open up to Romans chapter 9, verses 14 through 23. Romans chapter 9. Verses 14 through 23. And before we begin, let's bow our heads together and go to the Father. Father, we come this morning with grateful and thankful hearts You are so gracious and so kind and so merciful. You are so patient. You are almighty, all powerful, and all-wise and all Knowing you are holy, holy, holy. All of your ways and thoughts are so much higher than ours. And Father, in your greatness, you have shown your love to us through your precious Son, Jesus. Jesus Christ and what he has done at the cross on our behalf. And this morning, Father, we are able to come and willing to come. Because of what Christ has done at the cross on our behalf, taking our sin upon himself and paying the wages in full And then was buried in the tomb and arose again, and now seated at your right hand in heaven. And so we come in the name of Jesus this morning and give you praise and honor and glory. And we thank you so much, Father, for your goodness and your kindness to us. And as we begin to come under your word here this morning, Father, we ask that your Spirit would work mightily in us. Help us to set aside those cares and thoughts and concerns that we've had from the week and help us to take time this morning to To concentrate fully upon your word this morning. Make your desires our desires, Father. May you, through the power of your Spirit, continue to change us and mold us more and more into your image. And we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. So we are in Romans chapter 9, looking at verses 14 through 23. What shall we say then? Is there unrighteousness with God? Certainly not. For he says to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy, and I will have compassion, on whomever I will have compassion. So then it is not of him who wills, nor him who runs, but of God who shows mercy. For the scripture says to the Pharaoh, For this very purpose I have raised you up, that I may show my power in you, and that my name may be declared in all the earth Therefore, he has mercy on whom he wills, and whom he wills he hardens. You will say to me then, hmm. Why does he still find fault? For who has resisted his will? But indeed, O man, who are you to reply against God? Will the thing formed say to him who formed it, Why have you made me like this? Does not the potter have power over the clay From the same lump to make one vessel for honor and one for dishonor? What if God, wanting to show his wrath and to make his power known, endured with much long suffering the vessels of wrath prepared for destruction, and that he might make known the riches of his glory on the vessels of mercy, which he had prepared beforehand. For glory, We are returning to Romans 9 here this morning, and this is a passage that is really anticipating a question based upon the previous passage. The previous passage was dealing with God's election, God's selection of certain people to fulfill his will. The nation of Israel, but particularly uh that line of uh uh uh of Isa Isaac and then Jacob and so on. And noting that God elects who He will, who He chooses to do what He chooses So it says that God selected Jacob but did not select Esau. But the question then Paul anticipates people asking and the one that we probably would ask as well and maybe we are asking is well is that fair Is that righteous? Is it righteous for God to choose some to do certain things and to not choose others or to choose others for something quite different. How does this all work when it comes to the fairness and the righteousness? of God. Well, let me ask, I want to broaden this out a little bit here and just ask you a question. Has there ever been a circumstance in your life where you said to yourself, I can't further, I cannot understand why God would allow this to happen? I don't know any Christian that has lived for any length of time that have not come across things in their lives where they said, I just don't understand why God would orchestrate something a certain way? Why he'd allow something a certain way? Why would God do this? A child gets cancer. Why, God? Why? Is this right? Is this fair? People are born into poverty. Is this right? Is this fair? I remember being confronted with this when I worked at the Baltimore Rescue Mission as a chaplain when I particular summer and interacting with all kinds of people who were born into drug uh homes where there were there were drugs. and alcohol and and poverty and thinking to myself, I was born in a loving home where I never had to worry about what I was going to eat. I certainly wasn't introduced to anything uh like drugs or anything else that I can think of that was bad for me. And yet I'm no better than they are. Is this fair? Is this right? wrestling with those kinds of things. And the fact is we do wrestle with those kinds of questions. And and the reality is that we know that God saves some people for himself. And nobody would be saved whatsoever if God did not enlighten the eyes of people, because we don't enlighten our own eyes. We are living in darkness. Somebody was questioning this last week, or two weeks before at last, actually, and uh sort of the old idea of God's election. And I think on one hand it is a matter of understanding, but on the other hand, it's it's a matter of acceptance. So I think a very helpful illustration just to understand this idea of God's choosing versus our choosing. Is that when we are presented with the offer of salvation, when we're presented with the offer that God has offered us, It's almost as though we're we're we have this doorway we're going through, this this and above it you could see something of Whosoever will may come, or believe in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and you'll be saved, something of that nature. And you walk through the door, believing and putting your trust in Christ to save you from your sin And you walk through the door and you look to the other side, and at some point you realize God has chosen you before the foundation of the world. See, both things are true. You must believe and trust in Christ to be saved. But God also, you would never believe if God did not choose you to be saved. And so that's what we're that's part anyway of what we're dealing with, except we're dealing with even more of a grand God's grand narrative in understanding that God has chosen the nation of Israel in the Old Testament as his chosen people to bring forth for the presence of God to reside with them and for to bring forth the Messiah in Jesus Christ But it is as though God, because of their rejection of Him and by God's own sovereign will, he has set them aside. He is not done with the nation of Israel. We'll get to chapter 11 and we'll see that God is not done with ethnic Israel. But for now, chapter 10 God is uh put Israel aside so that more Gentile people would be saved And actually, it's going to be interesting in chapter 11 that we're going to see that ultimately the Gentile people being saved will provoke the Jews to being saved. So that, this is perfect for a January, late January day, you can think of chapter 9 being chosen. Chapter 10 being frozen, and chapter 11 being thawed. Okay? So Israel is chosen in chapter 9. Frozen in chapter 10 and thawed in chapter 11. And I wish I could take credit for that. I did not come up with that. Um I I'm not that creative. I found it in in actually I found it in my notes from from either Bible college or seminary as uh an explanation for Romans chapter nine through eleven. I read all kinds of stuff and I actually I said, Oh, I wonder what my notes said way back twenty-some years ago. For some reason I opened them up and that's what they had. Chosen, frozen thoughts. Okay, I'll use that. Because it's cold and I like it and it's memorable. So anyway, so chosen frozen and thawed. So God chose the nation of Israel, but he also chose them and set them aside for Gentiles then to become Christian, to be able to accept Him more readily. And uh but uh but God's working here is so so active. It's so clear God's choosing Israel, then setting them aside and opening up to the Gentiles. I mean, all of this, is this really right? Is God really right in doing this? Is this really fair? That's really the question that is on the table here in this chapter, this passage that we're looking at today. And so we're going to see what God says about this. Ultimately, of course, the answer is yes. God is indeed righteous. Even though it seems as though sometimes he is not, why would he select Jacob and not Esau? How is that fair? How is that right? God is always right. He is always righteous. And we're going to learn from this text, it is because God has absolute freedom. And we think of freedom, and all of us have limited freedom based upon our circumstances, the country we live in, all those kinds of things But God is the one who actually has absolute freedom, complete freedom to do exactly what He needs and wants to do that is consistent with His character. And we're going to see this freedom that God has in three ways. Number one, God is free to make decisions that demonstrate his character. We're going to see that in 14 through 18. He's free to do that. Number two, God is free to use his creation without his creation challenging him. He is free, verses 19 through 21, he is free. to use his creation without his creation challenging him. And number f number three, God is free to treat people with his own righteousness. God is free to treat people with his own righteousness. We're going to first then look at God is free to make decisions that demonstrate his character. And we pick up in verse 14. And there's a question there. What shall we say then? Is there unrighteousness with God? And the answer that Paul gives is Certainly not. We've seen this before. It's the Greek word meganeo, the two Greek words great mega neo. May it never be Certainly not. He said this back in chapter 6. What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? Certainly not. May it never be so for us to even Think of the notion of God being unrighteous. That is a contradiction. God, by his very nature, is always righteous. If he were unrighteous, he would cease to be God. God and unrighteousness cannot go together. May it never be so. So we need to understand that. And then Romans is actually here to demonstrate How the righteousness of God works. Romans 3, 5 through 6, back in chapter 3, said, but if our unrighteousness demonstrates the righteousness of God, What shall we say? That is, if we are unrighteousness, and we are, if it actually moves to demonstrate the righteousness of God Is God unjust who inflicts wrath? If God punishes those who are unrighteous and it shows his righteousness, is he unjust? Verse 6, certainly not, for then those, for then how will God judge the world? Now, Paul then begins to use some Old Testament examples. And the Old Testament example he wants to first use is Moses. It goes back to the Old Testament. Of course, his Jewish readers would have would have certainly identified with Moses. They would have known the story of God calling out Moses and calling out Israel from Egypt And he's going to use that story to show something about the sovereignty of God that they needed to understand. Understand that what we're learning here about is that God's sovereignty is righteous. It's right. The sovereignty of God being that God is over, He reigns over all things, He is in control over all things, and He gets to do what He wants to do. That's a layman's way of putting it. And so if we we we we see in Exodus chapter 33, verses 14 through 19. This is the text that he quotes. God is saying to Moses, My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest. Then he said to him, If your presence does not go with us, do not bring us up from here. For how then will it be known that your people And I have found grace in your sight, except you go with us. But we shall be separate, your people and I, from all the people who are on the upon the face of the earth. So the Lord said to Moses, I will also do this thing that you have spoken, for you have found grace in my sight. Moses asks to be in the presence of God, to see the glory of God. And I know you by name. And he said, Please show me your glory. Verse 19. Then he said, I will make my goodness pass before you, and will proclaim the name of the Lord before you. I will, and this is no- notice what he says. I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion. God's sovereign selection, his election, how God does what he got does in choosing people to be used of him in the way that he wants is based upon, actually it's based upon his mercy. He is a merciful God. We find in verse 16 of Romans 9 That is not based upon human will. So then it is not of him who wills. It's not based upon someone who just wills something to be so And it's not based upon human effort, nor of him who runs. It is based upon, it says here, God's mercy and compassion. You see, we've already learned in Romans chapter 3 that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Everyone is born condemned by their sin and headed to destruction. But God is merciful enough to save some. Everyone who is saved is saved by the mercy of God. Romans 15, 9, that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy. Ephesians 2. 4. But God, who is rich in mercy, because he is great love with which he loved us. Titus 3. 5, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us by the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Spirit. Paul, in a very personal way, describes how he sees the mercy of God on his life in 1 Timothy chapter 1. In verse 13 it says, although I was formerly a blasphemer, a persecutor, an insolent man, but I obtained mercy. Because I did it through unbelief and unbelief. 1 Timothy 1, verse 16 says, the same, just a couple verses later, however, for this reason I obtained mercy. that in the first Jesus Christ might show all long suffering as a pattern to those who are going to believe on him for everlasting life. Well, folks, understand this. That when we think of God's election, we actually should think about the mercy of God. Then we move to another character in the Old Testament, pretty close in proximity to Moses. We've got Pharaoh here. And Pharaoh we find in verses 17 through 18, and we pick up there, and it's going to tell us, verse 17. For the Scripture says that Pharaoh that says to Pharaoh, For this very purpose I have raised you up, that I may show my power in you, and that my name may be declared in all the earth. Therefore, he has mercy on whom he wills, and whom he wills he hardens. We know the story of Pharaoh is one where God appeals to Pharaoh through Moses on many occasions to let Israel go. And in Exodus chapter 9, verse 12, you want to go up to the top there again, Exodus chapter 9, verse 12, it says this, but the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh. And he did heed them, just as the Lord had spoken to Moses. Then the Lord said to Moses, Rise early in the morning and stand before Pharaoh and say to him, Thus says the Lord God of the Hebrews, let my people go that I may serve, that they may serve me For at this time I will send all my plagues to your very heart and your servants and on your people, that you may know that there is none like me in all the earth. So why did God harden Pharaoh's heart? He did so to show his power and to show that he was unique. Now, if I had stretched out my hand and struck you and your people with pestilence, then you would have been cut off from the earth. But indeed, for this purpose I have raised you up. that I may show my power in you, and that my name may be declared in all the earth. That is God's expressed purpose. For why he would harden someone's heart. He would harden, in this case, Pharaoh's heart. Now, we actually have already learned that God through his creation, just through his creation, is able to demonstrate his power. Apart from the gospel, he is able to demonstrate his power. We remember from Romans chapter 1 verse 18 and 20, 18 through 20, I'll just pick up in verse 20. It says, For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made. even his eternal power and God had had so that they are without excuse. So that creation displays the power of God. to everyone and they can recognize that create because there is a creation, there is also a creator. They can know the power of God from that. Now, if we take ourselves back to the time of Moses and Pharaoh, and God hardening Pharaoh's heart. And God bring about bringing about through his power the deliverance of Israel, then we move forward to the book of Joshua and we find That exactly what God intended to happen happened. Actually, it's in Joshua chapter 2. And in verse 8, you have, starting in verse 8, you have a testimony from Rahab. Do you remember the story of Rahab? Of course she was a harlot that helped the spies of Israel as they went to look at at Jericho? Listen to what she says. Verse 8. Now before they lay down, she came up to them on the roof and said to the men, I know that the Lord has given you the land. That the terror of you has fallen on us, and that all the inhabitants of the land are faint-hearted because of you. For we have heard how the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea for you Then you came out of Egypt, and that you did to the two kings of the Amorites, who were on the other side of Jordan, Sihon and Og, whom you utterly destroyed. And as soon as we heard these things, our hearts melted. Neither did we remain any more courage in our in any one because of you. For the Lord your God, He is God in heaven above and on earth beneath. Now therefore I beg you, swear to me by the Lord, since I have shown you kindness, that you will show kindness to my father's house and give me a true token, and spare my father, my mother, my brothers, my sisters. sisters and all that they have, and deliver our lives from death. Isn't it interesting? Rahab saw and heard of the power of God as God had intended from what God did in Egypt and through Israel and bringing them out and delivering them. And Rahab then believes in these people and they are physically saved. as an illustration of the reality that God uses does his work in this world in such a way that it brings forth ultimately people recognizing the power of God and turning to Him. Even when someone's heart is hardened God can actually use that to demonstrate his power so that others might see the power of God and be saved. Verse 18 concludes this. Therefore, he has mercy on whom he has mercy, and in whom he wills, he hardens. See, this is referring to the fact that the nation of Israel, they had been given many opportunities to be the chosen people of God and to accept the coming of the Messiah. But they rejected the Messiah, and in so doing, God hardens Israel's heart so that he can open up salvation to the world and so that Gentiles would readily come to him. This is all in God's sovereign plan. When we think of the mercy of God, we need to understand this. uh uh helpful illustration though it'll break down because all illustrations do is if you could imagine a burning building with a thousand people. And I'm going, I I see the thousand people, and I go into that building and I rescue as many as I possibly can, and I only rescue 200 out of the thousand people Is there anybody that would say that I was wrong and unrighteous and mean-spirited and hateful for rescuing 200 out of a thousand people? And the answer would be no. It would actually be a heroic, merciful thing, not something that hopefully anybody would be criticized. But but all things being equal, that would be an unfair criticism And so we need to understand that it is God's desire and role to show mercy. Now there is something quite mysterious about all of this. Especially when we think of the hardening of Pharaoh. God actually hardening Pharaoh's heart. And we're going to look into this for a few moments. But I want to preface it with a very important truth from Deuteronomy 29-29. Anytime, frankly, anytime we talk about election and all of these things that are very hard to grasp And there seems to be unanswered questions. We need to remember this from Deuteronomy 29-29. The secret things belong to the Lord our God, but those things which are revealed belong to us. and to our children forever, that we may do all the words of this law. The Bible tells us here very important that the secret things belong to God. That there are things about God and His ways that are not revealed to us. And we need to allow those to be just to belong to God. But the things that are revealed, we need to learn and accept. And so when we look, think of the hardening of Pharaoh's heart. There's a mystery here. There's some hard things to understand. But we actually need to look at what God has revealed when it comes to this aspect of the hardening of the heart. And God judicially doing this in Pharaoh's life. The implication is that he has done this with Israel. And there is a further implication that he does do this with others as well. I want us to understand, number one. Some observations about hardening. Number one, hardness is the mind and heart's blindness to the truth. Understand that that's what we're talking about here. It is the mind and heart's blindness to the truth. Romans 11, 7 says, what then? Israel has not obtained what it seeks, but the elect have obtained it, and the rest were blinded. You have those who aren't blind who receive the truth, and you have those who are blinded who don't receive the truth Romans 11, 25, for I do not desire, brethren, that you should be ignorant of this mystery, lest you should be wise in your own opinion. that blindness in part has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. 2 Corinthians chapter 3 verse 14, but their minds were blinded For unto this day the same veil remains unlifted in the reading of the Old Testament, because the veil is taken away in Christ. So hardness is a matter of of uh of spiritual blindness. Number two God does not cause anyone to sin, even internally. He does not do that. We know this from James chapter 1, verse 13, that says God cannot be tempted, nor does he tempt anyone So when we think of the hardness of Pharaoh's heart or the hardness of anybody, we are not saying that God has caused anyone to sin Either externally or internally. We cannot say that that would be a contradiction of Scripture. Number three. Scripture never explicitly says that God elects people to destruction. Scripture never explicitly says this. Now you say, well, this is logical, and it is. If everybody's headed to destruction and God mercifully elects some out of destruction into his mercy, Then those who are left are those who are headed to destruction. But I just want us to know that the term election is Um it's only refers to those who are left to be saved. Election number four To salvation. Understand this. Election to salvation requires a directional change. Hardening does not. So when we think of somebody God choosing somebody to be saved, we need to understand that that requires a directional change. Why? Because we're all headed to destruction. In other words, someone is born in destruction, headed toward destruction, they're going that direction, and salvation is a turn the other direction. Right? It is going the other way. But the hardening of someone's heart, because we're born headed toward destruction, the hardening of someone's heart, they're not changing direction. They're just continuing the same way. Is it true, folks, that actually we are born with hardened hearts? We are born, the Bible says, no one even seeks after God. So we're actually already born this way, unrighteous, our righteousnesses are all as filthy rags And so we need to understand that there is a difference between electing people to be saved and hardening someone's heart whose heart is actually already hardened. In fact, Romans 2. 5, back in Romans chapter 2, says this. But in accordance with your hardness and your impenitent heart You are treasuring up for yourself wrath in a day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God. And this reminds us the of the reality of Pharaoh that we won't delve into this too much But actually it says in the text in Pharaoh and Exodus that multiple times God hardened Pharaoh's heart, but it also says multiple times That God that Pharaoh hardened his own heart. And sometimes it just says, Pharaoh's heart is hardened. So which is it? Yes. It's all three. We can't really un there is a mystery here. We do believe that God is the initiator of all things ultimately. But there is a mystery here as to how all of this works. There is a sense in which it goes below the surface. We just simply need to understand that ultimately it all works. together for God's purposes, and it is right and righteous that he does this. We remember this in Romans chapter 1 verse 28. Oh, just in fact number five, hardening does not result from the same basis as election. I think that's important for us to understand. Hardening does not result from the same basis as election. And here's what I mean. In Ephesians chapter 1, verse 5, it actually tells us that it is by the good pleasure of God's will that people are saved. By the mercy of God. We understand that. But there is nowhere in Scripture that says it is by the good pleasure of God's will that people are elected to go to hell. We never see that in Scripture. Now, of course, by their own the base, so the basis, they will go to hell if they don't receive Christ. There's no question about that But the basis is different. The basis on one is the pleasure of God's will. The basis of the other is depravity. Total depravity. In Hebrews chapter 1, verse 28, we have this saying. And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, remember, Romans chapter 1 God gave them over to a debased mind to do those things which are not fitting. God gave them over. In fact, you remember back in Romans chapter 1, it was a long time ago. Romans chapter 1, it said multiple times, God gave them over, he gave them over, he gave them over, he gave them over. And so it is true that God that that God does Judicially work in the lives of saved and unsaved, giving people over to the to the tendencies that they already have Versus pulling people out of the fire to save them. So what can we learn from this as far as our application? Number one, God displays his mercy by saving us. Which glorifies him. God displays his power by leaving people to their own blindness and hardness of heart, which still glorifies God. But you know what? That doesn't answer all the questions, does it? And it actually doesn't for these people for the people that he is speaking to or that he is writing to as well Because we find more quite an objection in verse 19 of the passage. In chapter 9, verse 19, it says, Why does God find fault with what he brings about? 19, look at what it says, you will say to me then, why does does he still find fault? who for who has resisted his will. Here's what the the the argument here's the question, the objection. Okay How can anybody, how can puny man resist the power of God? Answer, you can't, right? So then, if that's the case, how could God blame or punish anyone? See the logic? You say, well, that's a good question. I mean, we what this is dealing with is the reality of man's responsibility. Now Paul doesn't answer this question. He doesn't say, well, let me answer it. Instead, he points out He points out, he asks another question. Look at verse 20. But indeed, O man, who are you to reply against God? Do you see what it says there? Who are you to reply against God? Will the thing formed say to him who formed it, Why have you made me like this? What he's saying is, how can human, how can puny man, how can humans question God? He he really turns it back on itself. The question is, how can puny man go against God and therefore how can puny man ever ever receive God's punishment because he has essentially has no choice in his own thinking. Which the Ba it doesn't actually say that there. Instead, Paul says, how can you, O puny man, question God? And that is a very important point. And the idea of question here is to go against It's not just ask a question, it's to go against, which brings up an interesting point. Can we question God? Is it okay for us to question God? And the answer is it depends. If you go back to Habakkuk, you actually find Habakkuk asking God some questions. And God, back in Habakkuk, answers those questions. He says, why in the world have you allowed Israel to go into such great idolatry? And what are you doing about this? And God says, actually I'm going to use the Babylonian Babylonians to take care of this, and they're going to punish uh Israel. And then he says, Why are you using the Babylonians? They're worse than the Israelites. He asks questions and had and dialogues with God, and it's fine But there is a kind of question that is not fine. Let me give you a wrong question, and I'll give you a right question. A wrong question would be, is God just? Wrong question. Why? Because it assumes that I am the measurer of justice. By asking the question, is God just? I am saying, well, I am going to have to make the determination by whatever answer is given. But let me give you another question that would be the right question. How is God just? You see the difference? One assumes God is just, and I just don't understand how. The other assumes that I'm the one who is going to determine the nature of what just and righteousness is. And we are not. We cannot do that. God is the one that determines that, and we do not. And that really is what brings us to this second question. How can the creation say to the creator or question the creator? And then this third question is in the form of an illustration. He says, verse 21 Does not the potter have the power over the clay from the same lump to make one vessel for honor and another for dishonor? He uses the illustration of a potter who makes pots from clay. And he says, doesn't the potter have the right to take a lump of clay And from that lump of clay, to make pots that are vessels of honor, things that maybe you would eat or drink out of, and other things that you would maybe maybe store waste out of. Isn't it isn't it isn't can't the Potter doesn't he have the freedom to do that? And is there in any way a right for the That's crazy And he's using this as an illustration to simply say that we as the creation, though we can ask questions Of why God does what he does and how he does what he does, we cannot stand in judgment of God because we are the pot and he is the potter. This is really an important statement. And this is actually, the Old Testament references the this potter-pot idea on several occasions. In Isaiah 29, 16 it's mentioned. In Isaiah 45, 9 through 11, it's mentioned. But I need you to take your Bibles and turn to Jeremiah 18 for a moment. Jeremiah 18 and verses 1 through 10. Because we're actually, this is going to become a basis for future discussion in chapter 11, actually. So look at Jeremiah chapter 18 with me, and we're going to read it together, and you're going to see some things that that you need to you'll see the illustration and then also we're going to see some things for the future as well as we get into chapters 10 and 11 Jeremiah chapter 18 says this, for the word which came to Jeremiah from the Lord saying, Arise and go down to the potter's house, and there I will cause you to hear my words. Then I went down to the potter's house, and there he was making something at a wheel at the wheel. And the vessel that he that he made of clay was marred in the hand of the potter. So he made it again into another vessel. As it seems good to the potter to make. Then the word of the Lord came to me saying, O house of Israel Can I not do with you as this potter, says the Lord? Look as the pot clay is in the potter's hand. So are you in my hand, O house of Israel, the instant I speak concerning a nation and concerning a kingdom to pluck it up to put it down and to destroy it. If that nation against whom I have spoken turns from its evil, I will relent of the disaster that I thought it thought to bring upon it. And the instant I speak concerning a nation and concerning a kingdom to build and to plant it, if it does evil in my sight so that it does not obey my voice, then I will relent concerning the good with which I said I would benefit it. So this is the discussion that he's that we have with Israel. Jeremiah is bringing this and God is Giving this information to Israel and explaining that God has intentions to make to remake Israel into another kind of vessel. But he also, in the same text, intermingles the sovereignty of God with the obedience and the responsibility of He says, if I am going to make a nation a certain way, and then that nation rejects me, I will relent. I will change. That doesn't mean that God will change. He doesn't change. He actually already knows they're going to relent before they relent. He actually already knows they're going to they're going to turn against him before he does, or turn toward him. He he knows all of that. And he orchestrates all of that. But there is this there is this undeniable confluence between human human responsibility and God's sovereignty that we really can't get, but we must accept I've used this illustration before, but I want to use this illustration of a railroad. Of course, we have railroad tracks close to our house. These are not those But you know, of course, you have two rails, and if you have two rails that are distinctly separate from each other, and if you could kind of imagine that you have on one hand man's responsibility, on the other hand, you have God's sovereignty And you wonder how in the world do these ever work together, but you look off into the misty distance, the fog distance, and you see that they come together, but you have no idea how. You just know that they do somehow And that's really the way it is. We we look at these two things, man's responsibility and God's sovereignty, and we look at it and we we say these are two distinct things, and how can these work together? But we know in the Bible that they do, and we don't exactly know how, and we simply have to say, Lord, you're the potter and I'm the pot. You're the potter, I'm the clay. You do what you want to with me and I'll accept it. You do what you want to with this world, and I will assume you are right, even when I think that perhaps you're not. That is the position of the Christian as we think about the sovereignty of God. He is in control. But then we move on and we're understanding where he begins to discuss a little bit in here in verses 22 and 23. He begins to discuss how he treats people in light of their responsibility. Look at verse 22. What if God, wanting to show his wrath to make his power known, endured with much long suffering the vessels of wrath prepared for destruction, and that he might make known the riches of his glory to the vessels of mercy which he had prepared beforehand for glory. So what he's saying here is, what if God wanting to show his wrath to make the power known. What if God chooses to do that, He He shows His wrath to make His power known. But notice what it says. endured with much long suffering the vessels of wrath prepared for destruction. See, this is a key element in understanding how God is righteous. We can't understand all of it. We have to assume that he is and that he's right. But listen very carefully. This is important. God, in his sovereignty, is extremely patient. Think back to Pharaoh. How many plagues did God give? How many opportunities did God give Pharaoh to repent? Opportunity after opportunity after opportunity. How many opportunities Did God give Israel to turn from their idolatry and their disobedience? You have an entire Old Testament that describes one opportunity after another after another. See, God in his sovereignty is extremely sovereign. long-suffering and patient. How does that work? I mean God knows at the end they're going to dis they're they're going to be destroyed. At the end they're not going to turn they're going to be no It doesn't, we don't, there's mystery there. But we can know that number one, God is merciful, and God, even to those whom He hardens, He is long suffering, giving many opportunities oftentimes. So that he then says this, but the treatment of the vessels of honor He makes known riches of grace toward vessels of mercy. And I've got to tell you, I'm glad he ends that that way. Well, actually he doesn't end. We've got a whole lot. But we're ending here today. Because if you know Christ as your Savior, you can understand that He has made known to you riches of grace toward vessels of mercy. That's what you are, if you know Christ is your Savior this morning. You are a vessel of mercy. And God has chosen by the good pleasure of His will to show grace to you. Riches of his grace. But there might be somebody here this morning and you say, well, this is really confusing. And you know what? It is, even for me. I mean I I've gone through it and I understand the best I can, but there are just things in here that are hard to understand. But here's what you can know to be true. God wants you to come to Him. He's not willing that any should perish, but all should come to repentance. He offers Jesus Christ, who died to pay the punishment for your sin, so that you can have your sins forgiven. so that you can be in right relationship with him. And if you are here this morning and you don't know where you stand with God, you don't know where you stand with all of this. Can I encourage you to come and talk with me? I'd be glad if you just say, hey, I want to know more about this. I want to know more about Christianity, about Christ, about Jesus, about where I stand with God. Just ask me that question. after the service. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can how you can know God or if you're comfortable with somebody else that knows Christ. Ask them these questions. Don't leave here. The Bible is here. The Bible says these things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. It's written so you ultimately cannot hope so or wonder, but you can know so. We have some final things that we need to apply from this text. And concluding all of this, we need to understand this. Number one. God uses his special creation both to display both his power and his mercy. God's the potter, we're the clay. He makes vessels of honor and vessels of dishonor, vessels that receive his mercy and vessels that display his power. God does this Number two, when we don't understand God's ways, we must not question his character. God is God, and we are not. This is a really a realization that I think every Christian in their Christian maturity finally comes to, where they simply say there are simply things I do not understand. I even find hard to accept, and yet I realize that God is God. I am not. I will not question his character. I can ask why he does what he does. I can ask how it is righteous for him to do what he does. But I will not question whether or not he is righteous. because he is the one who is the arbiter of righteousness. He is the one who is ultimately righteous. It is he who is righteous. I cannot make I cannot be judged of a righteous God. Number three, God's sovereign plan is always carried out righteously. fairly. You just need to accept it. Know it's true. Even if you don't understand it, God's sovereign plan is always carried out righteously He's merciful. He is patient. God's sovereign plan is always carried out righteously and fairly. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we have delved into certainly one of one of the more difficult passages. This these passages we're going through now are um are some of the most difficult in the entire New Testament, if not the entire Bible. But they really do help us to understand how we are to position ourselves before you. In utter submission, realizing that we are clay pots, and you are the potter. And we must accept your sovereignty in our lives. And we are privileged to search the scriptures and to understand as much as you give us how you work. But we also realize that there are many things that we cannot understand because we are just too finite to understand them. And Lord, I pray this morning that you would simply cause us to accept what we do not understand as long as we know it is from you and your word. May we live that out in our lives as Christians. And we pray, Lord, that if there is somebody here that doesn't know you as saved, you're despite the confusion of a text that is hard to understand I pray, Lord, that they would come to you today. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.