We're going to be in Daniel this morning, chapter 2, verses 20 to 23. Daniel 2, 20 through 23. Before we go there, let's open with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we are so grateful and so thankful. You are gracious and kind to us, Father. And we praise you because you are sovereign over all of your creation. And we thank you this morning for Jesus Christ and what he has done at the cross on our behalf. And the fact that he is at your right hand this morning, interceding on our behalf. We find this grace and this love that you have bestowed upon us. And as we come to your word this morning, we would ask God that You would help us to set aside all the cares and concerns of this week, all the noise that we have been hearing through the week. Help us this morning, Lord Open our eyes to your word, our ears to hear. And Father, we ask that your Spirit would work mightily in our hearts and our minds to transform us more and more into the image of your Son. I pray for Matt this morning as he brings your word, Father, that you'll give him clarity of thought, clarity of speech. And we ask for those, Lord, who are unable to be with us, those who are not feeling well. Those who are traveling. We ask for travel mercies. We ask for grace, Lord, that they might be able to hear your word this morning And Father, we ask that all these things would be done to honor and glorify your Son. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. So we are in Daniel, and we are in chapter 2, and we are looking at verse 20 through 23. I might want to get my glasses on so I can read it. Daniel answered and said, Blessed be the name of God forever and ever, for wisdom and might are his And he changes the times and the seasons. He removes kings and raises up kings. He gives wisdom to the wise and knowledge to those who have understanding. He reveals deep and secret things He knows what is in the darkness, and light dwells in him. I thank you and praise you, O God of my fathers. You have given me wisdom and might, and have now made known to me what we ask of you. For you have made known to us the king's demand. Good morning. It's good to be with you all again. Good to be back on this side of the planet. Thank you for you for praying for us as well for me as I was in Africa the last couple of weeks The Lord gave us an amazing time of training. First we had 37 students in rural Uganda, pastors who had virtually no training before they started coming to our our classes. And then last couple weeks we had uh undergrad and master's level training. I had over forty forty students there. And uh the opportunities in East Africa is really just uh really exploding right now and the need for the training is is very very evident and so thanks for your prayers the last couple weeks uh had a safe trip and the Lord has Really opened a lot of doors and really worked in a lot of ways. This morning though, we're going to look at Daniel chapter 9, Daniel chapter 2. It's a very interesting story. Uh I actually had a chance to teach this the last time I was in Uganda. Not this time, but the last time taught through the book of Daniel. And just amazing, amazing passage here. But first, uh let's start with a couple of pictures here to get us started Can you tell where I am in this picture? On the left. You're correct. Wow, there's a there's a wise guy in this group. Uh excellent. I'm on the left. Uh looks like I'm in Europe, doesn't it? Looks like maybe Portugal But it's not. That's actually China, Macau, a former Portuguese colony. Where am I in this picture? Oh, nope, that's my daughter. Another another chance here to see Look, yep, that that's a Portuguese tart. Should not be in China, but that actually in Macau is is one of the main food attractions there. Okay, where am I now? Got some pillars here. Looks like I'm in Greece. I've never been to Greece before. This is Lebanon. Somehow they had Greek pillars there. What's going on there? Okay, let's try again. Where am I now? Actually, that's not me, that's my wife. And if you're really, really keen like Pat, he probably realized that my wife's wearing the same clothes in both those pictures. So it's still the same place. Not Rome, even though that's a Roman Colosseum, very small one. But this is not Rome. This is once again Lebanon. How about this one? Where am I? Take a ha. This one is Rome, yes? But if you look at the reflection in the very green pool, you'll see that that's a cathedral that's next door to these Roman baths, and that's in England, so not Rome. Okay. How about this one? Where am I now? You're like, aha, now you're in England for real. Because there's a double deck of bus and it's red, but in fact it's not. That's Hong Kong. You're like, why are these pictures all so confusing? I mean, it looks like one place, but it looks like you know, somewhere else. You go go back and look through them and you think, no, no, this is this is this is kind of crazy. I mean how is how is that China, but it looks like Portugal? I mean It's because nations have changed and moved and have conquered different nations. So you've got the Portuguese there in China, all going back to the uh the sixteenth, seventeenth century there. You've got you've got uh uh you've got, you know, the Greeks all the way over there in in Lebanon. You've got Romans also in Lebanon. You've got Romans in England, you've got British in China again and we've got to come around full circle. Nations have risen and fallen. And actually let's do a quick quick little history history uh uh review here. Let's go backwards in history and start with, okay, in the twentieth century. That is the 1900s. We just finished 25 years ago. Who was the most dominant world power? U. S. That was the easy one, wasn't it? And we kind of feel like, you know, the U. S. has always been the most dominant power in the world. Not at all. Just most recently. How about we go back one century, nineteenth century, who is the most dominant? Great Britain, haha. These these ones are easy. How about the eighteenth century? B. Great Britain. Yes, still Great Britain. So far it's been pretty easy, right? Uh you're not wrong about Spain. You should go back a little bit farther, but not quite yet. Look to the 17th century, probably the Dutch. Now this one could be argued, but you see the Dutch influence, especially in Indonesia conquering things down there. If you look even in our in our country, you go up to New York State. Uh New York used to be New Amsterdam and you see a lot of things c ending with the word kill, like bush kill, skykill, all those kind of things. Kill is a Dutch word meaning river, and so you see the the influence of that world power at that time. Now you go back one more, there's Spain. Somebody said that earlier. Go back a little farther. Get to Portugal. That's where Macau came in. That we took looked at there in China. Or it could be the Ottoman Empire. You can argue there if you want to at another time. Go back another another century. The Ming dynasty was probably the greatest world power. You go back another century, 13th century. Mongolia, the Mongols, they they're Empire was massive. Go back before that, the Holy Roman Empire, and that was very important because they kept the Seljuk Turks from taking over Europe. And so you can go back farther, farther, farther, farther, and you're like, wow, the world has been very different at very different times We kind of think, you know, we lived in the era where the U. S. is dominant, our parents lived in that era, our grandparents lived in that era And this is the way it's always been, but in fact it is not. Kingdoms rise, kingdoms fall. And we can go back and look one after the other, after the other, after the other. Now, let's do this exercise. But instead of going backwards, let's go forward. Okay? In the 21st century, wait a minute, can we do that? Can we go forward? We're in the 21st century, so what's the most dominant power in the 21st century? If we argue right now, we'd still say, okay, US gets two centuries just like Great Britain. Or we really don't know. Because we're only a quarter of the way into it. Will the US be the most dominant or will it be China? If you go to the 22nd century, what's it going to be Who knows? We don't know. 23rd century. We don't know. We don't know. Only God can know that. We can't look forward. We can look backward and go, yeah, this nation, this nation, this nation, this nation. But We can't look forward. In fact, we can't even look forward a couple of years. If you think 2015, you thought, who's going to be president? If you suggested Donald Trump, everybody would be laughing. I'd be laughing too I thought it was a joke when he entered the race. I mean the the the celebrity, the the guy who you're fired, that guy And he became president. You go to 2020 and you think that guy is done now. He's never going to be president again. And now look who's in the White House. Okay, really hard to predict the future, isn't it? Nobody knows it except God. And God doesn't just know the future He superintends. He guides the future. He is sovereign over all things. He raises up kings. He puts kings down. And we go back to the time of Daniel. We go back before all of those. Empires. And we go all the way back to the time of the Babylonians. This was a time that was very, very different from now. Very, very different. This time, the Israels, Israelites, they were speaking Hebrew, but the rest of the world, the common language was actually Aramaic being spoken around in different times. And as we go from Daniel 1 to Daniel 2, actually in the original language, the language changes In Daniel 1, it's in Hebrew, telling the story about this Hebrew young man, Daniel, who is taken from his country. And uh uh his his the the the have been the the the the land of Judah has been overrun by the Babylonians. In fact, they're going to come in three different times and three different waves in conquering and destroying uh Judah And in the very first of these waves, we see Daniel being captured. Now, take a look here. There's lots of evidence that what the Bible says is exactly what happened in history. You can go back and look at some archaeology, and there's this big old brick here talking about Nebuchadnezzar and the destruction of Jerusalem in 587 B. C. You've got the Babylonian Chronicle, a series of chronicles, talks about different uh things that happened there in the destruction of Jerusalem. Uh that is reflected in 2 Kings 24. In more of the Babylonian uh c chronicle there talking about different kings that the Bible talks about. And here is a map, just real quickly, of the three different, maybe it's a little bit too small to see, but three different waves of deportation. And Daniel's in the first one in 605 BC. There would be a second one, and then the third one would be where Nebuchadnezzar finally got tired of Israel rebelling and just destroys the entire um the entire city, burns down the temple. God's people were being judged. And in a time where God's people are being judged, you may think How is the world going to know that God really is the ruler over all? How is the world going to know that He is sovereign overall. It doesn't look like he's sovereign. In Daniel chapter 1, many months ago we we looped at Daniel chapter 1, but in Daniel chapter 1 and verse 2, it says the Lord gave Jehoiakim, king of Judah, into his hand, into the hand of the king of Babylon. But if you look at history, you think, God gave it to him? No, Nebuchadnezzar had the biggest army. That's why he defeated Israel. But Daniel 1 says, no. God gave him into his hand. And that not only that, but it says that not only did he give him into his hand, but he gave him the the the the the articles of the temple, the golden cups and different things in the in the temple. And what did Nebuchadnezzar do with those? He stuck them in his own temple to prove that, you know, my God is stronger than Israel's God. But did God really give Jehoiakim over to the people of Babylon? Is God truly sovereign over all? Is he in control? His own people are now being judged. His own temple is about to be destroyed. It's not destroyed yet here in Daniel chapter Daniel chapter uh two. In fact, if we looked at a little bit of a uh timeline, which I have here somewhere. And we look at this timeline, we see that Daniel at this time, he's about it this is very early on, he's about 18 years old. Well let's bring up this timeline if I could find it. Here we go. Here's a timeline. Once again, probably too small, but you see 605, it's when Daniel has taken away. That's in Daniel chapter 1. Daniel chapter 2 is just a couple years later, two years, two, three years later If Daniel was taken away when he was fifteen, and that's kind of a guess, he was probably that age, he's about eighteen. So if you see pictures of Daniel and this you know image uh the uh the vision here of the image and he's got a giant white beard. Somebody wasn't paying attention. That picture's a little bit incorrect. But he's a young guy, unless he you know very early onset of giant white beard. But you know, eighteen's a little young for that And so it's about, you know, the year 603, 602, and uh the uh the the the the The temple has not yet been destroyed, but that is coming. Things are trending exactly the wrong way. And as we come to Daniel chapter 2, How are people going to know that God is the true God? How is he going to show this? Well, God wants everyone to know, not just the Hebrew people, but he wants All nations to know this. And in fact, Daniel chapter 2 through Daniel chapter Daniel chapter 7, God switches from Hebrew To Aramaic, which the common people, not just the Jews, would be able to read, but the people of the Empire would be able to read. Nebuchadnezzar would be able to read. In fact, if you look at the chart, chapter 4 is actually partially written by Nebuchadnezzar himself God speaking through the emperor of this nation that he had driven Israel into its hand. So chapter 1 is in Hebrew. Chapter 8 through the end is in Hebrew. But chapters 2 through 7, that's all in Aramaic. And some have observed a certain pattern in the Aramaic section to emphasize the main point of this book. Now, this is called Kiasm, and maybe you don't want to know too much about it. I know Pastor Kiasm. Jim brought this up before. A key or a chi is the Greek letter X. You see it? That's what the X there is. And what goes on with this pattern, it's used often in uh poetry, but sometimes you'll see it in other passages. Someone proposed that you see it here. It it goes and represents repetition. So the A's are the same. So top, the vision of the kingdom of God coming, that's chapter two You look in chapter 7, the last of the Aramaic ones, oh, chapter 7, also a vision of the kingdom of God coming. The bees. The bees are are going to be similar. What is the bee here? Ah, it tells them to remain faithful uh in hard times for God's people. And he's talking about you know the the the three young men in the fiery furnace. Oh, look at chapter six. Also very similar. It tells them to remain faithful in the story of Daniel in the lion's dead. And then the middle, the middle two. You've got God rais uh putting down and then raising up Nebuchadnezzar in chapter five. What do you have? God putting down the final king of Babylon. And the same idea is being emphasized that God rules in the affairs of man. He raises up whom he will. He puts down whom he will. That's the main idea. We see it in the literary structure of the book, but practically, how did the people there see this? How did God's people see it? Now, Daniel, we see from chapter one, he had not conceded that God had lost. Yes, God's people were under judgment. Yes, Babylon ruled the nation of Israel. Yes, he was a captive, a eunuch in serving the king of Babylon. And yet He was still trying to follow God's law. And we're going to see once again in chapter 2, he has not conceded that God has lost, because indeed, God had not lost. God had raised up Nebuchadnezzar. And God was going to make that very clear through the vision in this passage. So in this passage, we see three basis sessions. I wouldn't call these points in a sermon, but we see three scenes. And the three scenes We see right here. God is going to show that He is the one who reveals secrets. And as He reveals these secrets, first of all, we see in scene one the impossible demand. Secondly, we're going to see a desperate appeal. And third, we're going to see the supernatural revelation and the vision that that the king that God gave to Nebuchadnezzar. Now these aren't main sermon points. These are just, hey, different things are happening at different times. There's really only one main point to the sermon. And we'll get to that in a moment. And it's the same main point that's in the passage, Daniel chapter 2. But let's look at the story, scene by scene. You're probably familiar with the story, right? Scene one, Daniel is not in it. Daniel, he is now one of the wise men. He's still, like I said, very young, 18 years old. And uh so he's not up there at the top upper echelon of the wise men. So he's not there when the king has this dream, and it really, really bothers him. Look at Daniel chapter 2, verse 1. Now in the second year of Nebuchadnezzar's reign, Nebuchadnezzar had dreams. And his spirit was so troubled that his sleep left him. And the king gave the command to call the magicians, the astrologers, the sorcerers, and the Chaldeans to tell the king his dreams. So they came and stood before the king, and the king said to them, I have had a dream, and my spirit is anxious to know the dream. Notice the emphasis here. He's really worried about this. He wants to know, and he's a little worried, no, he's a lot worried, that they're not going to tell him the right interpretation. He's a little worried that some of them might be interested in overthrowing him. I don't know, maybe that's because he's collected wise men from all over the world. I mean Daniel and Azariah, Hannah, and Ishael, they're from Israel, and he's collected people from different places. In fact, he he's worried, and so he said, you know what, this is what I want you to do. You tell me what I dreamed, and then I'll believe it when you tell me what the interpretation is. Now the wise men are like This is crazy. Nobody can do that. Nobody at all. In fact, they repeat that a couple times. Now look at verse 5. The king says, My decision is firm. If you do not know the dream to me and its interpretation. You'll be cut in pieces, and your houses shall be made an ash heap. Well, that's not very nice. It's a little nicer than the way the King James says it. You can look it up sometime. But uh verse 5. However, if you tell the dream And its interpretation, you shall receive from me gifts and rewards and great honor. Therefore, tell me the dream and its interpretation. You've got to have both. Number one, dream. Number two, interpretation. Then I'll believe you. Verse 7. Let the king tell his servants the dream, and we will give its interpretation. Ignore what the king says. Like, let's, let's, let's, let's Let's change the parameters here. We've got to go back to normal. You tell the dream, we tell the interpretation. And the king, he repeats it again, verses verse 8. I know for certain you would gain time, because you see my decision is firm If you do not make known the dream to me, there is only one decree for you. For you have agreed to speak lying and corrupt words before me, till the time is changed. What does he mean by that? The time is changed We already saw in the scripture reading that in verse 21, it says that he, God, changes the times and the season. He removes kings and raises up kings. What's he talking about? He said looking for the time to change. You're looking for the dynasty to change. You're looking to overthrow me. That's you guys are lying to me He's a little bit uh paranoid, isn't he? And maybe for good reason. Maybe there's you know he's heard w wind of intrigues going on. He says, this dream seems to be very, very important. I must know the the meaning. And I don't trust these guys. If they really know what they're talking about, they'll be able to tell me the dream. I like verse 10. The Chaldeans answered the king and said, There's not a man on earth who can tell the king's matter. Therefore no king, lord, or ruler has ever asked such things of any magician, astrologer, or Chaldean. It's a difficult thing the king requests, and there's no other who can tell it to the king except the gods, whose dwelling is not with flesh. We're setting up the story here. They're saying this is something we can't do. Only someone with supernatural power, only God can do this. You're unreasonable, King. And so what does he say? He was angry and very furious. Kill them all, all the wise men, even the ones that aren't here, just find them all, kill them all. They're trying to overthrow me, and and we'll be done with them. Wow. And so, MC number one, we have a real problem. The king is going to kill all of the wise men, including Daniel, who to this point has no idea what's going on. And so a soldier shows up at his door, beats on the door, says, Hi, I need to kill you. I mean, I don't know. How do you start that conversation? I don't know. And the passage actually skips that part. Verse 14 starts the next scene It says, but then with counsel and wisdom, Daniel answered answered Ariak, the captain of the King's Guard. We jump right into the second scene, right in the middle. He's there talking to the King's Guard. The guard's there to kill him, and he says, whoa, whoa, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. And he makes a desperate appeal. First to the king, give me a little more time. And secondly, he makes a desperate appeal to God. Because this truly is an impossible demand. The wise men are right. Only God can tell what the other guy dreamed. I mean have you have you ever you know have you ever won guessed somebody else's dream before? You wake up in the morning, you look over at your wife and go, you know what, I know what you dreamed last night Anybody ever do that? Try it tomorrow morning, see if you're right. No, no. You just can't know that. It's impossible. And so uh Daniel says, you know, I know this is impossible, but wait, wait, wait. So look at look down in verse uh Look down in verse 16. So Daniel went in and asked the king to give him time, that he might tell the king the interpretation. Then Daniel went to his house and made the decision known to Hanani and Mishael, Azariah, his companions. that they may seek the mercies from God of heaven concerning the secret, so that Daniel and his companions might not perish with the rest of the wise men of Babylon. And so what does he do? He goes and he gets his friend together and they got a prayer meeting, like a really impromptu prayer meeting here. Their life is on the line here. They need to find this out. Only God knows this This vision. Now, Daniel actually had been given a gift from God. If you look back in Daniel chapter 1, verse 17, Daniel 1. 17 says, As for these four young men, God gave them knowledge and skill and all literature and wisdom. And Daniel had understanding in all visions and dreams. So God has given him this gift to understand dreams, and yet he was dependent on God to reveal it to him. He had this gift, yet he was completely dependent on God. He goes to God in prayer and he prays with his friends, Lord, show us, give us your wisdom. Show us what the king's dream is so we don't so we don't die. God gave him this ability, but he still needed to pray And seek God's face. And so he prays. They sought the mercies from the God of heaven concerning this secret. As you read through here, you're going to notice this word secret shows up over and over and over again. It's repeated, kind of giving us a hint of what the main idea is of this passage. How does God show that he is sovereign at a time when his own people have disobeyed him? His own people are being judged. Even his temple is about to be destroyed. How does he show that he still is sovereign? By revealing secrets, by doing what only he, as God, can do And God answers Daniel's prayer. Only God can do that also. You look at verse 19, it says, Then the secret was revealed to Daniel in a night vision. And so what does Daniel do? He's like, oh great, I got the answer. I'm gonna run back to the, I'm gonna run back to the king. I'm gonna tell him so I don't die. You know, this is urgent. He had time to pray and ask God for the revelation. He had time to thank God too. And here's his prayer of thankfulness. We just read it. Harry just read it to us. But look at what he says here in this prayer. At this moment of crisis, he takes a moment to praise God, to thank God. He says, Blessed be the name of God forever and ever, for wisdom and might are his. He said emphasize God's wisdom and might. God knows everything, he can do everything. He's omniscient, he's omnipotent. What he knows and says that he will do, he can in fact carry out and do. Wisdom and might are his. And he changes the times and the season. He removes kings and raises up kings. He gives wisdom to the wise. Once again, emphasis on wisdom there. And knowledge to those who have understanding. Where did Daniel get his wisdom? From God. Verse 22, he reveals deep and secret things. Is that word secret again? He knows what is in the darkness, and light dwells with him. I thank you and praise you, O God of my fathers. He turns to God in thankfulness and praise. You have given me wisdom and might. There it is again. This this poetry is full of uh the this poem here, uh this prayer, it's actually a poem, is once again coming to this theme, wisdom and might in verse 20, wisdom and might in verse 23. You've given me wisdom and might, and you have made known to me what we asked of you. For you have made known to us the king's demand. Only God can do this. How does God show he is sovereign? How does God show that he is in control? He reveals secrets He shows what only he as God can show. Daniel, just before going to the king, at this moment of crisis, he goes to God in prayer. At this moment of crisis, he thanks God. How often do we pray in crisis? Asking for God to deliver, asking for God to work in a way only He can, and then once He does it, we forget Once he does it, we like, oh, let's move on. You know, the crisis is past. And we forget to praise God for who he is, his wisdom, his might, for what he has done. In acting on our behalf. Daniel didn't forget, but then he moved on quite quickly, and we move on to scene number three. Scene number three. Although Daniel knows the dream, he knows the interpretation, what he does not know is how the king is going to react. Because he's going to do what the king says. This king says, tell me what the dream is. He can do that. He's going to tell him the meaning. He can do that. Because God gave it to him. But w but how's the king gonna react? Is he gonna like this? I mean there's part of it he's gonna like, but uh Daniel probably is still on pins and needles. I mean Ariok, the captain of the King's Guard, is probably standing right outside the door. He says this the wrong way and The story ends a very different way. He goes to the king. And notice how he prefaces here. Actually, first remember, look at the question in verse 26. And the king answered and said to Daniel, whose name was Belteshezzar, Are you able to make known to me the dream which I've seen and its interpretation? Are you able? Remember that the wise men said we are not able. We can't do this. Nobody can do this. Only the gods can do that, and they're not dwelling with men. The gods aren't talking to us So he says, Daniel, are you able? Are you going to tell me the same thing? Oh, nobody can do that. You're unreasonable. Are you able? Look at Daniel's answer. Verse 27. Daniel answered, in the presence of the king, he's right there with the king, who has power to end his life, who's already threatened to do so and make his house an ash heap. The secret which the king has demanded, the wise men, the astrologers, the magicians, and the soothsayers cannot declare it to the king. Are you able? They're not able. They said so, and Daniel points it out. They can't. But there's a God in heaven. Daniel doesn't say, oh yeah, I'm able to. They can't. I can. I'm smart. No, no, no, that's not what he says here. He says, there is a God in heaven who reveals secrets. There again. This character of God. What can God do that that man cannot do? He is a God who reveals secrets and he has made known to the king Nebuchadnezzar what will be in the latter days. He said this is going to be about the future Your dream and the visions of your head upon your bed are these. As for you, O King, the thoughts came to your mind as you were in the bed about what would come to pass after this, its future, after this And he who reveals secrets, there's that word again, he reveals secrets, has made known to you what will be But as for me, notice notice his humility here. This secret has not been revealed to me because I have more wisdom than anyone living, but for our sakes, who made known the interpretations of the king, and that you may know the thoughts of your heart He says, It's not because I'm smarter. No, this comes from God. God is the source of wisdom. This passage very clearly says wisdom and might belong to God. If you need wisdom, where do you go? Many hundreds of years later, Jane would say, if any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all men liberally and praise not, and it shall be given to him. God is the source of wisdom, God is the one who reveals secrets And here, as the king thinks that he's number one, he knows everything, he can do everything, he is smarter than everybody, because you know he beat all their armies. He is stronger than all of them, because once again he beat all their armies He defeated Israel. He's about to burn their temple. And yet, God reminds them: hey, you had a dream last night, you're really, really worried about it, and there's nothing you can do. There's a God who's greater than you are. A God who's overall. So often we are tempted to think You know, I know what's going on. I've lived on this planet quite a while. I've seen things go. I've seen politics. I've seen rulers come and go. I've seen uh been in jobs, I've been out of jobs, I got experience, I know what I'm doing, and sometimes God puts us a situation that reminds us who we are. We do need him. We do not have all the answers He throws us in difficult times to remind us He is God. And if we need wisdom, it's not from us and our experience, our talent, our intellect. It comes from him. And here, Daniel, here mine's the most powerful guy in the world. You don't know everything, neither do I. There is a God in heaven who reveals secrets. And then he begins to reveal the secrets. Look at verse 20, verse 33. You, O king, were watching, and behold, a great image. Now we've heard this many times. We have a picture in our head, maybe it looks like this. And it's not very impressive. Okay, there's a there's a guy. He said a picture. You know, it's a very interesting statue made of many different metals. Not really that awesome. But he said, think about this. He's having this dream. And he says it's a it's he says it's a great image. This great image whose splendor was excellent. stood before you and its form was awesome. So he he ke he he saw in his vision this massive, overwhelming statue is impressive. It moved him. It caused him to fear Uh think about the first time maybe you saw let me think here. Maybe you went to Washington DC and you've always seen pictures of the uh of the Washington Monument, but but you go there and you look at it and think, wow, that thing is really tall. You can see it from a long way Uh or I think of the first time I was I was in Hong Kong I saw the giant Buddha and you see pictures of it but when you're actually there and you're like that is a massive false god I mean that thing is huge. And then you walk up the stairs and like it takes forever to get all these up these stairs all the way there. And then you're right next to it and you're like, that is a very big hand that he has. It's huge. And it's awesome. That's kind of the idea here. He is filled with wonder. This is a massive statue. In fact, he's so impressed with it. If you look at the beginning of Daniel chapter 3, it seems like he was so impressed that he decided to make one. But um This is what he saw. Verse 32. This image head was of fine gold, its chest and arms of silver, its belly and thighs of bronze, its legs of iron, its feet partly of iron, partly of clay. It's like, wow, this is this is quite the statue, all these different metals, but it gets less impressive as you go down. And then You watched while a stone was cut out without hands. And actually, if you look at the description here, we've got about what two verses there describing most of the statue. Most of the division here is actually describing the stones Because this is the most important part of this vision. You watch while a stone was cut without hands, which struck the image on its feet. And then the iron and the clay and the bronze and the silver and the gold were crushed together and became like chaff from the summer threshing floors. The wind carried them away, so that no trace of them was found, and the stone that s that struck the image became a great mountain and filled the whole earth. Daniel said this this vision is about things that have happened in the future. And the most important thing that happened in the future is not These different parts of the statue. He's gonna tell him he's gonna interpret what it is. He says the most important thing here is the stone that's gonna come and destroy the statue. He starts talking about the interpretation now. The king so far, just listening, so far, yep, that's what I saw. Yep, I remember this. Yep, there was a statue. It was really cool. It was really huge. But what does it mean? Verse 36. This is the dream. Now we'll tell you the interpretation of it before the king. You, O king, are a king of kings. So notice he's acknowledging Nebuchadnezzar's status in the world. Normally when we say King of Kings, we're thinking of Jesus is described as King of Kings. Now this is not saying that he's at that level. What he's saying is he has conquered a lot of kings. There are kings that are ruling under him. He's the one on top of everyone on earth as far as earthly power. He's the king over all those different kings. Like God gave Jehoiakim into his hand He's king over Jehoiakim. He's king over over all the other nations around him. He says, you, O king, are a king of kings. For God of heaven, notice what he says here, for God of heaven has given you a kingdom. It's the same thing we saw there in Daniel chapter 1 verse 2. God gave Jehoiakim into his hands. Here again, Daniel says it. Now this could be offensive to the king. He thinks, hey, I conquered all these people. I'm stronger. I took the stuff out of their temple and I stuck it in my temple. He says, you're king of kings, but that's because God gave you this kingdom. God is sovereign. God rules in the affairs of man. He raises them up. He puts some down. That's what he's going to say in chapter 4 and 5. But look what he says here. God gave you a kingdom, power, strength, and glory. And whatever the children of men wherever the children of men dwell, or the beasts of the field and the birds of heaven, he's given them into your hand and has made you ruler over all of them. He says, God put you where you are. God raised you up. God is sovereign over all. And God is telling you this to the dream. Says you are the head of gold. Now, the king may not have liked that whole bit about God gave you the kingdom, but head of gold, that sounds pretty good. I'm the one on top. This is the best kingdom of all of them. This is great. God put you up there. So who is this? With the head of gold. It represents sometimes we wonder if you get divisions in the Bible, like Daniel and Revelation, like, wow, how do you know what everything means Often, he explains it afterwards. It tells you the symbolism. And right here, you are the head of gold. He's talking about Nebuchadnezzar. He's talking about Babylon that he ruled. You are the head of gold. Verse 39, but after you shall rise another kingdom. Okay, now this is a little dangerous. After you? What was the king worried about? He said, those wise men, they're waiting for a change. And now Daniel's talking about a change. Now, he's just saying what God told him. He's revealing the secret that God revealed to him, but this is a little dangerous. He's got a lot of boldness to say, after you will arise Another kingdom inferior to yours. So we got Babylon first, then we got another kingdom coming The silver one. It's the inferior kingdom. Now at this point, God's not telling him anything more. This is what Daniel knew in Daniel chapter two. Later on, he's going to give more information about it. And we'll see that in just a minute. But Daniel chapter two, first we got the Nebuchadnezzar in Babylon, then you got an inferior kingdom, then a third kingdom, a kingdom of bronze, which shall rule over all the earth. Ha! But now we got a bigger kingdom. Then the fourth kingdom shall be strong as iron. So we got a s now a stronger kingdom. And he describes this one a little bit more. Insomuch as iron breaks in pieces and shatters everything, like iron that crushes, that kingdom will break in pieces and crush all the others. It's a stronger kingdom. Whereas you saw the feet and the toes, partly of potter's clay, partly of iron, the kingdom shall be divided, yet strength of the iron shall be in it, just as you saw the iron mixed with ceramic clay. And as the toes of the feet were partly of iron and partly of clay, so the kingdom shall be partly strong and partly fragile. He's describing this kingdom, a kingdom That was gonna be destroyed. Verse forty three. As you saw, the m the iron mixed with ceramic clay, they will mingle with the seed of men, but they will not adhere to one another, just as iron does not mix with clay. And in the days of those kings, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom which shall never be destroyed. And the kingdom shall not be left to other people. It shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand forever. Here's that final kingdom, an eternal kingdom that surpasses all. You have one kingdom after another kingdom after another kingdom. It's almost like each one is building on the other, uh assimilating the other, and becoming stronger and bigger and and And then finally comes this rock. And it doesn't build on the other ones. No, it removes all of them. And as it says in Revelation, the kingdoms. Of this world have become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ, and he shall reign forever. That's what he says here. The kingdom shall not be left to other people. It shall break in pieces, consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand forever Insomuch as you saw that the stone was cut out of the mountain without hands. So it was cut without hands. It was not of human origin, is what he's saying. And that it broke in pieces the iron, the bronze, the clay, the silver, and the gold. The great God has made known to the king what will come to pass after this. The dream is certain and its interpretation is sure. We can look back and see kingdoms in the past. We can say, hey, this king, this kingdom, this empire was the most dominant in this era, and then that one, and then that one, and then that one. But we can't look forward. But God can. God is the God who reveals secrets. He doesn't just know what's going to happen in the future. No, he guides and superintends. He is sovereign over all. Daniel at this point, he just knew this was going to happen. There's going to be changes and changes and changes, but finally God is going to rule over all. If you look further in the book You find out even more information, so much detailed information that liberal scholars who don't believe in inspiration say, there's no way Daniel was written during the Babylonian captivity in the Persian time. There's just no way. They say this has got to be written in the Greek period. Some hundreds of years later. How does he know all these details? If we look at chapter 7, chapter 8, God makes it very clear that the next kingdom is not just inferior, but it's the kingdom of Medin Persia Not as strong as the first one, except two-headed, Mita and Persia. We've got the bigger kingdom, Greece, coming with great ferocity and quickly overcoming the world. You've got a stronger kingdom, talking about Rome, but not all the details about Rome have all happened Part of it's in the past, part of it now is in the in the future still, as is that kingdom. But the succession of kingdom after kingdom after kingdom, notice, literal kingdom Babylon, literal kingdom Persia, literal kingdom Greece, literal Kingdom of God? Is that here on earth? In the list here, he's talking about kingdoms that rule actually on earth. It talks in Revelation of the kingdoms of this world becoming the kingdoms. of our Christ that he shall rule forever just like Daniel. Daniel's looking ahead at what will happen. We look at history and we see these progression of Gentile kingdoms. We started with Assyria, not in the in the in the vision, because that had already happened. That conquered the northern tri the northern kingdom of Israel. Assyria took care of them. Babylon, they they conquered the the southern kingdom Persian Empire conquered Babylon. You see that in Daniel chapter 6. Then eventually Greek conquered the Persians. Then the Romans conquered the Greeks. And in God's plan, this is the time of the Gentiles. But there will come a time where God establishes his kingdom in this world, where Jesus rules on the throne, and God is saying to Daniel, look! I'm not giving you all the details, but remember, even though right now it looks like I'm losing, even though it looks like, hey, God's people have been set aside. What is God doing in this world? It's out of control. Who is putting this guy up in power and putting that guy up in power? Even today we look around and we think Wait a minute, we got rulers here, we've got a new ruler in America, they got the rulers in Russia, you got the rulers of China. Is anybody in control? Is God out there somewhere? Does he know what he's doing? Where is God? In Daniel chapter 2, God reminds us, he is in control, and his kingdom will come. The main idea of this Vision that God gave to Nebuchadnezzar is this: Kings and empires will pass away, but God will remain and will set up his kingdom which will not be destroyed. That's the main idea of this vision. Reminding Nebuchadnezzar who is in control In Jeremiah 27, verse 6 and 7, God spoke through Jeremiah and said very similar things to what Daniel said. He says, Now I have given all these lands into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon. I have given. God is sovereign over all. He says, Nebuchadnezzar is the king of this Babylon, he is my servant. The beast of the field I have also given him to serve him. So all nations shall serve him, and his son, and his son the son until the time of his land comes, and then many nations and great kings shall be made to serve them God is in control. He knows what he's doing. He spoke through Daniel. He spoke through Jeremiah. Even spoke through David many years before this in Psalm chapter 2, speaking of his coming kingdom. I will declare a decree. The Lord has said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. Ask of me And I will give you the nations for your inheritance. God is in control. He gave the nations to Nebuchadnezzar, then he gave them to Cyrus the Persians, and God looks way into the future, even the future for us, and says to Christ, I will give you the nations for your inheritance, and the ends of the earth for your possession. You shall break them with a rod of iron. You shall dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. And as we know, he will set up that kingdom. The rock will smash the image and become the kingdom that will never end. So Daniel tells this to Nebuchadnezzar. And Daniel still doesn't know how Nebuchadnezzar is going to react. I think it's a good sign that the king hasn't interrupted. He's listening. He's getting what he asked for. Tell me the dream. Daniel told him the dream. Tell me the interpretation. Daniel told him the interpretation. But does he like the interpretation? Daniel ends by saying, the dream is certain and its interpretation is sure. This is what is going to happen in the future. You can count on it. He's an insecure king, worried about his wise men, waiting for the time of change. Now Daniel says, Oh, things are gonna change multiple times. Your kingdom isn't eternal. No, there's a future kingdom that is eternal. How is the king going to react? Look at verse 46. Then Nebuchadnezzar fell on his face prostrate before Daniel. And commanded that they should present an offering and incense to him. Now, Daniel's not a god. But look, look what the king says. He's not worshiping Daniel The king answered Daniel and said, Truly your God is the God of gods and the Lord of kings. He bows before the sovereign God of the universe. Yes, he is the emperor. In fact, Daniel, back in verse 36, they called him the King of Kings. And yet Nebuchadnezzar now realizes that, no, your God is the God of gods. He is the Lord of kings. How does he know? How does Nebuchadnezzar know this? Is it because God conquered him and showed his army to be stronger than Nebuchadnezzar's army? No. He says. Truly, your God is the God of gods, the Lord of kings, and a revealer of secrets. Since you could reveal this secret, he said, only God can know this. My wise men said that. I believe it He did ask something that was very unreasonable. Only God could tell him that. And yet God stooped to do this. He through Daniel told him. He revealed the secrets. He said, he told him what only God could know. Not just the dream that he dreamed the night before. Only God could do that. But also facts about the future that only God could know And so the king of the world at that time bowed before the king of creation. And this morning we were also challenged to do the same Bow to the sovereign God of gods and Lord of kings who reveals secrets that can only be known through him. We, like Daniel, should bow before him, seeking wisdom. We like Nebuchadnezzar should bow before him, submitting to his lordship. He is the King of kings. He is the Lord over all gods. How can God reveal his sovereignty when his people were under judgment? By revealing secrets. I pointed this out, but look how many times this passage emphasizes it. Talks about the secret concerning the secret, the secret was revealed. He reveals deep and secret things, the secret which the king demanded. He who reveals secrets, he is a revealer of secrets Truly your God is the God of God, the Lord of kings, and a reveal of secrets. We see this passage and we see God's character. God is a God of wisdom. He's omniscience. And he knows the future. God is a God of might. Wisdom and might are his. He is in control over all, over the future God is a sovereign God of gods and Lord of kings. He knows what none other can know. He does what none other can do. He sees and guides the future. His kingdom will come So the question is, will you bow to him? Nebuchadnezzar bowed to God. He recognized who God is. And this morning, what's your attitude towards God? Too often we we drift from Him. Too often we start leaning to our own understanding. Too often our world begins to revolve around ourselves and we forget that there is a God who rules over the affairs of men. We begin to worry, we begin to be anxious as we see changes in the world. Governments come, governments go. Armies rise, armies fall. Yet God never changes, and he's always in control. You're worried? Look to God. You're anxious? Remember who he is. Wisdom and might are his. So if you need wisdom, go to him If you need strength, go to him. God has called his people to serve him in whatever environment it is. It could be an environment of peace like we've had for the last generations here in America. Or the future century could be a time of persecution. I get the privilege of going and seeing Christians functioning in very different societies and very different cultures. It's the same God. It's the same Bible. It's the same truth. And yet sometimes it looks a little bit different in different places, in different environments. And yet. God is the God who reveals secrets. He's the God who leads and guides his people and strengthens them to be faithful in whatever environment, in whatever situation they find themselves in. Bow to him. Trust him. Don't lean on your own strength, your own understanding. And also look ahead. God gives us these passages. He gives us these glimpses at the future so that we'll remember that He is in control. So that we remember that one day He will rule on this earth We know how the story ends. We may not know what happens in the rest of this chapter or the rest of this century. We may not know we don't even know what happens tomorrow. But God does. And we know how the final story ends. That rat comes, and that rock destroys the kingdoms of this world and sets up a kingdom unlike any other before it. Eternal kingdom of God. You might be here this morning and you've never bowed the knee to God at all. You didn't realize you needed him But maybe this morning you've started thinking about this God. Is what he says true? This passage is about a long time ago, with a king that, you know, most people don't even think about. I can't even pronounce his name Nebuchadnezzar. And yet that same God today is interested in you. He wants you to recognize that He is the God overall You are not in control of your destiny. If you feel like you're in control, that's an illusion Maybe you think, no, I'm in control. I'm a good person. But God says, no. He's the revealer of secrets. He knows what's in your heart. And he says that your heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked He knows that each one of us are sinners, and that no matter what we do, we cannot earn his favor. We've broken his law. We've gone our own way. Isaiah says, all we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way. We're rebels. And we can't change it. But God is not just a God of wisdom And a God of might. He's a God of mercy and a God of love. He is a God who reveals secrets. And the secret that he reveals is this: that there's only one way to heaven There's only one way to know him. John 14, 6, Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes into the Father except through me. Maybe you say, I don't accept that. But that's what God reveals. He's the one who reveals secrets. The only one who knows how to get into heaven is the one who made heaven and the one who made people. And he says there's only one way. It's through him. Acts 4. 12 says the same thing, a different way. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there's none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved God sent Jesus. That's the name, Jesus, whereby we can be saved. He died in our place. He knew that we are sinners, can't save ourselves. And so He came and died in our place. He took our punishment. He's our substitute. The Bible says he came and died, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God. There's only one way to God. It's through Jesus Christ. Are you willing to acknowledge that today, to admit that you're a sinner, and trust Jesus alone to be your Savior? God is God over all. He's sovereign over history. And yet He cares about each individual. He cares about you. He knows your hearts. He knows your secrets. And he's still willing to save you. But God commends or shows his love towards us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Are you willing to accept his love, to admit your sin? And to trust Jesus alone? If you have questions about that, afterwards talk to myself, talk to Pastor. Jim, we'd love to show you from Scripture how you can know for sure that you can know the God who made the world and the God who wants to save you. Let's pray. Dear Lord, thank you for this passage. Thank you for your wisdom and your might. There is no one like you. Help us to recognize your wisdom. Help us to see our own frail limitations And recognize our need for you. Lord, we have no wisdom apart from you. We have no strength apart from you. Help us. To turn to you, to bow before the King of Kings and God of gods. Lord, if there's someone here today who's never trusted you as their Savior, Lord, I pray today they'd see their need for you. Stop trusting themselves and trust you alone. And Lord, for each of us who have trusted you, Lord, help us Each day to grow in our faith, to learn to lean more on you and less on ourselves. Help us to remember that there is a God in the world, that He does care, that He is in control And Lord, help us to be faithful, whether times are peaceful or whether times are difficult. Lord, help us to remember that you are, you are God. And that one day each one will stand before you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.