There's nothing better than a good juicy steak. I mean, God has always included Gentiles into his program on some level, at least proselytes in the Old Testament, a little bit. So I hope that we'll see this today, and we're going to see this in three phases. Now as soon as he is affirming this, he is affirming that God has directly, specifically, on purpose, called both Jews and Gentiles. Now I'll remind us actually back in Romans chapter 8 that he has said he has called all of us to himself and know him as their Savior. And he he prophesies that this is going to happen. Remember the very beginning of the message, I mentioned the idea of a mirror, that God created us to be a mirror, right? But that was God's intention for all human beings from the very beginning, that we would reflect his character, that we would be a mirror of who he is, a mirror of his character. You know, Christ said, Come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, I'll give you rest. We can chew on those perfections of God. Christians and Gentile and Jewish Christians that are receiving this letter. Christians are going, what is going on? And Judah's not far behind, and there you're no longer going to be a nation. And you shall know the Lord. Can we say it this way? In Romans chapter four, verses one through four, I'll read it for you. some chewing in order to get the flavor from the steak. Yeah, I I'm on it, I think. Uh honestly it's a little hard, but if maybe if you think of Christmas time and all the festivity of the Christmas that we went through and you went And you went on Christmas Day to sit down for Christmas dinner with your family, and you only had two family members there, and everybody else were strangers and you didn't even know them. speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell upon all those who heard the word. who believed were astonished. Scripture received the gospel. the Jews, and they are confused about this. And then their wives were i idolatrous and then the kingdom split into two. We're going to see God's present uh Israel's rather Israel's present rejection in chapter 10, and then we're going to see their future restoration. Of course, we have understood that Israel, uh Jewish Christians have questioned the character of God because of what they are seeing. And is he faithful to his promises? And the question is posed. And they include both Jews and Gentiles. for why the Jewish Christians are beginning to questions what's going on here. to turn there. and bring an end to the kingdom of the house of Israel. In in the place where it was said to them, You are not my people, there it shall be said to them, You are sons of the living God. So what we see here then in 4 through 10 of Hosea chapter 2, we're going to see an extended description of God's rejection of Israel. For she did not know that I gave her grain, new wine, and oil, and multiplied her silver and gold, which they prepared for Baal. in terms that mu we might understand and Israel would understand just how how horrible Israel has been to God. Just how terrible and unfaithful Israel has been to God. The earth shall answer with grain, with new wine, with oil, abundance of of provision. Do you see there is actually now, even though from our perspective, we would go, why God, like enough is enough Uh what practical application can we serve in this? uh and and chastening, God promises ultimately to restore Israel as well. And then I am going to leave it up to God to do what only He can do. The destruction decreed shall overflow with righteousness. Thus says the Lord, as a shepherd takes from the mouth of a lion two legs, or a piece of an ear, so shall the children of Israel be taken out who dwell in Samaria, in the corner of a bed, and on the edge of a couch And Noah and just his family are saved. And you have it narrowing again. And we see the divine requirement is also consistent. And so they're trying to follow every single little bit of law that they can possibly follow in order to obtain the righteousness of God. And to the Greeks foolishness, but to those who are called. We see in Isaiah 28, verse 16, it says, Therefore, thus says the Lord God, Behold, I lay in Zion a stone for a foundation, a tried stone, a precious It was pretty pretty pretty cool. How long is this going to take? W I was able to participate in in building a house from the ground up. But you don't want to do that on a new house. and the cornerstone of your life and the cornerstone of your priorities and the cornerstone of everything or he becomes a stumbling block to you. He said, take my yoke upon you and learn of me. Let's go ahead and go to the Lord in prayer. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how he can become your a cornerstone of your life. And Lord, if there isn't some is somebody here that doesn't know you, I pray that you would help them to understand their sin and their need of a Savior and to come to you. can possibly have. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. promises. Upon your word. And there are other passages of scripture, and this is one that's what that way, that's like a thick steak, that if you will chew it enough, it will be really good. You have to chew. to chew them that we actually can end up being fed really, really well. But to have the Gentiles outweigh the Jews when it comes to Christianity and accepting the gospel, that was something that was probably extreme. I mean that would be you'd be like, what's going on here? when you eat with them. Well in a much greater way, much uh much more life-altering way, these Jewish Christians But then you come to Acts chapter 10, of course you'll remember the story of Cornelius, he was a Gentile, and he was a God-fearing man, and how he eventually came to Christ. And they all met in Jerusalem. And think about what God's original plan was from the very beginning in Genesis. He certainly punished them. to the Gentiles that you should be my salvation to the ends of the earth. They were to be, the nation as a whole, was to be a mirror for God in the rest of the world. That was pretty good. is the light to the Gentiles. his plan is to use Gentile Christians to ultimately be a light to the Jewish people because the Jewish people had failed so miserably and they were in idolatry and all of that. that God was ultimately going to use the church to be a light to Israel so that Israel, ethnic Israel, could be saved as a remnant, which we're going to get to in Romans chapter 11. And it's important as we go through this to understand the big picture before you're going to be able to understand the details that we're going to look at this morning. So that what we see, and I'll remind, this is from last week, what we see in chapter in Romans 9, 10, and 11 is God's But he will ultimately saw the nation of Israel in chapter 11. And and and we dealt with that last week. The way that he calls people, he calls both Jews and Gentiles to himself, the way that he calls people is consistent with his sovereign plan. Consistent with his sovereign plan, his remnant. We're talking about vessels of honor versus dishonor, vessels of mercy. whom he also called not from the Jews only, but also from the Gentiles. Especially to the Jewish Christians. And whom he called, these he also justified, and whom he justified, these he also glorified. And then in verse eleven nine eleven, for the children of him yet not being born not yet being born, nor having done any good or evil, that the purpose of God according to election might stand not of works Remember I said before that Israel has had one opportunity after another after another after another to follow after God, and they were corrected by one prophet after another after another after another. And that's coming. It says, when the Lord began to speak by Hosea, the Lord said to Hosea, Go take yourself a wife of harlotry and children of harlotry. Unrepentant practice of idolatry, he says, is the same thing as the repeated unrepentant practice of adultery. And he wants to use as a vivid example, he wants to use Hosea as he marries this woman, Gomer. Gomer is going, this woman is going to represent the unfaithfulness of Israel And the children of Hosea, the offspring of these two, are going to represent the consequences. For I will no longer have mercy on the house of Israel, but I will utterly take them away. Then God said to another son, call his name Loami, for you are not my people, and I will not be your God. Therefore, behold, I will hedge up your way with thorns and wall her in, so that she that she cannot find her path. She will chase her lovers, but not overtake them. Therefore I will return and take away my grain and its time and my new wine and its season, and I will take back my wool and my linen, given to cover her nakedness. and no one shall deliver her from my hand. that I will sow her for myself in the earth. Verse 10. And when I have fulfilled my biblical responsibilities, when I've done that, I can leave it up to God and his sovereignty In verse 27, he's going to use another passage from Isaiah to explain this. that even in Christ's time, Christ prophesied that the temple would be destroyed in 70 A. He says this, though the number of the children of Israel be as the sand of the sea, we saw that in Hosea as well, the remnant will be saved. Remember a couple a couple of sermons before, a couple of Sundays before, we said in the beginning of Romans chapter 9 that Israel, that God never promised he would save every individual of Israel. But for now, we need to understand that God is at work in fostering what is a remnant. and present it to the owner to prove that, hey, I didn't just steal the sheep, I didn't lose the sheep. 3. You remember they had kids, Cain and Abel. God had to punish them, and it narrowed to Noah. And what Paul is then saying is that is a consistent pattern that we will continue to see happen as we look ahead in the God's overall plan. uh and ha his family is extremely sinful and then it expands out again and then you have the you have the um the uh the the the tower of babel you have all that taking place and what happens well he does he he For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. But to him who does not work, but believes on him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is accounted for righteousness. So they receive the righteousness of Christ even though they're not even pursuing it. But they're pursuing it by means of the law. He will be as a sanctuary, but a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense to both the houses of Israel as a trap and a snare in the inhabitants of Jerusalem. Uh we we framed everything, got to see it from one uh it was out in Ellicott City and and it was a single family home, good size single hand family home from somebody pretty rich. Okay. And the stumbling block of Christ is his exclusivity. And trust in his sovereignty when we have done all we can and our responsibility. I'm the one that sets what's true. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. And even now, as he is seated at your right hand, he still intercedes on our behalf. Though the number of the children of Israel be as the sand of the sea, the remnant will be saved. For he will finish the work and cut it short in righteousness, because the Lord will make a short work upon the earth And Isaiah said before, unless the Lord of the Sabbath had left us a seed, we would have become like Sodom, and we would have been like Gomorrah. that there are there are some passages, it's like eating Chick-fil-A. God is righteous. I actually think there will be. And help up it really helps us more to understand who God is. That's okay. to go, especially Jewish Christians, to go, wait a minute, what is going on? extremely unsettling for them and they began to question the character of God. If you think in terms of looking most of you in the morning hopefully looked at a mirror before you came in and saw what you and maybe some actually look at some of you maybe didn't look at a mirror. He created us to be reflections of him. And that's exactly what you have in Genesis. Sometimes I wonder why he didn't do that. And so, if you think about it this way, fast forward quite a bit of time, and you and you have God doing this through the nation of Israel. to reflect his character. And God, in his patience and mercy and loving kindness, gave the Israel opportunity after opportunity after opportunity. the kings come along and you have you think of David and you think of um uh you think of Saul first and he didn't do a very good job of that and David a little bit better but also not r not really good job of that. And God keeps saying, Don't do that, don't do that, sending prophets, don't do that, punishing them in various ways. comes and he is a genuine light to the Gentiles. And that's actually what begins to happen is that you actually find in Ephesians 5. Then we actually have there's this result that happens as a result. in chapter 11. According to his mercy and some things according to dishonor. They are seeing that God's plan in the Old Testament is his character is inconsistent with what he's doing in the New Testament. By the way, you'll hear that from sometimes sometimes about God. God is the same in the Old Testament as He is in the New Testament. But God is the same. that God's character and his ways are actually, the core of them are consistent both in the Old Testament and into the New Testament. Let's first look at this first phase of God's calling being consistent with his sovereign plan. whom he called. Nor are they all children because they are all seed of Abraham, but in Isaac your seed shall be called. To have the promise of Abraham. But of him who calls. Hosea is a really interesting book. But now God has come to a place where enough is enough. And the people that he is going to be referring to are the ten tribes of the northern tribes of Israel that have already, they've already been captured by the Assyrians. to illustrate how how disobedient, how idolatrous, how adulterous, you will, Israel has been Israel has been to God and the consequences because Israel has been so terribly egregious. For the land has committed great harlotry by departing from the Lord. The land or Israel in the land, the nation of Israel has he equates the idea of idolatry with adultery and the repeated Look up at look at verse three. And she conceived and bore a son. of on Israel has come to an end. Israel has been to God. It says this, pick up verse 4. who she who conceived them has behaved shamefully. And if you will, the israel will be reinstated, and you have God now fulfilling his promises to Israel in the millennial kingdom. Here's what he's saying. horrible were disowned by God. He's making that argument. matter that God, no matter how idolatrous, how wicked, no matter what you have done, no matter how often you've done it That you could be so sinful, utterly sinful, and yet God can save you by his calling alone. It's not by what we've done we are saved, but according to his mercy he has saved us. that there would be a narrowing, a selection, an election, if you will. With what he's saying here. And that illustration in Amos is actually the same illustration that God is actually telling all the way out in the Old Testament that there's going to be a remnant from the whole. See, what is that they're actually pursuing something. So that verse 33 quotes Isaiah. Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God, because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men cornerstone, a sure foundation, whoever believes in me will not act hastily. I I remember sitting there and and I always I went when I work I'm on the clock I feel like I should be doing something and there was actually nothing for me to do until he finished plumbing this corner. looked like, whether it was square properly, where it was plumb properly, where everything else was correct. When we are not responsible, we must trust God's sovereignty. And the rest, I have to say, God, you're sovereign. in Christ, the cornerstone, who died to pay the punishment for our sin, shed his blood on the cross for us. rather than a stumbling block in your life. And actually that's why we partake of the Lord's Supper once a month to show that we are unified not around some preference. Not around some are our a background or an uh or an ethnic group. We are going to partake of the Lord's Supper together. You are a great God, a sovereign God, in control of all things. Lord and God over all. that this would be a time where we can glory and celebrate and remember what Christ has done for us. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. I will call them my people, who were not my people, and her beloved, who was not beloved. Even the righteousness of faith? His righteousness, his consistency, and unchanging nature as we'll learn today. that are that are that are receiving this letter. on Gentiles in the same way that he did in Acts chapter 2. How could God treat the Gentiles in the same way He's treating us? Indeed, he says, it's too small a thing that you should be a servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to restore preserved ones of Israel. to the Jews. Does the clay have the right to tell the potter how how to make stuff? Hosea was a prophet of God, and God called Hosea to marry a woman whom he knew would be unfaithful to him. He says here. And repeatedly doing it and doing it in an unrepentant way and continuing over and over and over and over and over doing that. Then I will say to those who are not my people, you are my people, and they shall say, You are my God. Do you catch the the connection? Human responsibility. in conjunction with our human responsibility. to know what our responsibility is. Now, a question does come up, okay, God's going to restore. pain over the the the disobedience and the rebellion of Israel. And that concept of a remnant is going to be further illustrated and further talked about in chapter 11. Now, this is consistent with the character of God. And as a result, you have punishment. Paul says we're back in Romans chapter 4 that Abraham was selected because his faith was accounted for righteousness. is the most, the greatest obstacle to saving faith of any obstacle whatsoever. this righteousness of faith which the Gentiles who came to Christ got. A rock of offense, and whoever believes on him will not be put to shame. Now, this is an interesting word he uses, this interesting phrase, the stumbling stone. The stone, this is Christ, which the builders rejected, has become the chief cornerstone. In fact, Christ is the cornerstone of all that we do and all that we say and all that we believe. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. and open our eyes from all the cares and the concerns of the week, and that we would take this time to concentrate fully And that in all things, Father, may your great name be lifted up. I'm going to go to 23 first. Because they did not seek it by faith, but as it were, by the works of the law, for they stumbled at the stumbling stone. But you do have to chew. Now I want us to understand the background of what's going on in this in this passage in the minds of the Jewish Christian readers on Gentile people like this. in his image, and I think the best illustration I can give of this is he wanted to make mirrors. They disobeyed God and it was like the mirror was shattered. And so, what does God do? So you got the you got first of all you've got the there to be like the Gentiles. The outcome is that Christ is actually able to restore Israel. the punishment that Israel will receive because they have been so frequently and so clearly and so commonly unfaithful to God. Bow and sword of battle I will shatter from the earth to make them lie down safely. They will answer. It looks a little different because Paul actually quotes the Septuagint, which is the Greek translation from the Hebrew, but essentially it's saying the same thing. He writes and he prophesies that the southern kingdom of Judah will be chastened. He would actually, even though he couldn't necessarily sh save the sh save the lamb, he would actually at least take the carcass from the lamb. God's consistent pattern is this. has to do with faith and not works. Now, Paul then from there wants us to understand that God that his intention is ultimately to bring us back to God's requirement. say Abraham believed God and it was accounted to him for righteousness. Then notice the stark contrast. But Israel pursuing, notice what he says, the law of righteousness. For the Jewish people, particularly the Jewish leaders, was self-righteousness. And that was the obstacle for the Jews. But as it were, by the works of the law. Tell us that the cornerstone is Christ. In 2 Corinthians, or 1 Corinthians rather, chapter 1, verse 22 through 25, it says, For the Jews request a sign, the Greeks seek after wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified to the Jews a what? And and the foreman on the job and myself and a few other people, we were able to build different parts of the building, uh the parts of the house, and I learned a lot during that time. How do you reconcile the sovereignty of God and the responsibility that we have, the will that we have to choose? Just a simple question. Glory in your wisdom, your sovereignty, and um and your consistency of your plan, to trust you. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Even us, whom he called, not of the Jews only, but also of the Gentiles. We are going to be looking at verses 24 to 33, Romans chapter 9, verses 24 to 33. So what shall we say then? As it is written, Behold, I lay in Zion a stumbling stone and a rock of offense, and whoever believes on him will not be put to shame Then there were Jewish Christians. Well we know that. God isn't done. And it's and it's it's actually still in the future, even from where we stand here today. What argument is Paul making here? And you are adulterous and idolatrous and evil and egregious. And you had different shepherds, and if a if a bearer of lion would come after a sheep, and you had a shepherd who was a hireling, someone who was hired by the owner of the herd. 11 says, Therefore, thus says the Lord God, an adversary shall be all around the land, he shall sap your strength from you, and your palaces from your f shall be plundered. But immediately what you have is corruption. Are we actually saying that the people that never pursued righteousness never even sought after God? So like if I'm hanging a picture, I see what's level, and then I realize okay, what's level is going to look wrong, so I like split the difference between what's level, okay To to set Christ as your firm foundation, as your corner as the cornerstone of your life. Well the fact is that is truth. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. You are not my people. And and uh and rather than Esau and his line. And the northern the southern tribe, they're not too far from actually being conquered by the Babylonians as well. Of course, we know that happened. And yet God still chooses that to restore his people Israel. You ever had somebody tell you that? Is that God is a very so is sovereign, but his sovereignty does run consistently with Should we trust in the sovereignty of God? And you need to simply accept it. And that but that God is in control. I think that is such an important thing to understand. And he is he prophesies things like the fact that Israel is going to be rejected. So we see that that is God is already God saying that he's going to use a remnant. In all of this, in all of God's plan, and if you hear nothing else, hear this. where all kinds of people are are living and and should be following after God and they're not, and it had it narrows to Noah, fast-forwarding a lot, narrows to Noah. Everything's dispersed until ultimately it narrows again to Abraham. Why? Now, there's a key passage in Psalm 118 through 22. The builders we find in Matthew and in Luke and in other places which we won't take the time to look at. Now, when I was um when I was in college, one of the summers I worked as a uh as a carpenter's helper. But there was one part that the owner of the company came in and did. And for the Jews, they did not see him as the foundation, as the cornerstone. Why did then God turn to the Gentiles and reach out to the Gentiles? So this teaches us that. Is he a stumbling block to you? Knowing that we are to proclaim your death until you come. Jewish, Gentile people are being saved, Jewish people are rejecting the gospel, and they're struggling with all of this. And I need to fulfill that responsibility. Everything is determined by what do you do with Christ. Did you catch that? How is it that God is going to restore Israel? The remnant will be saved. Even the righteousness of faith, he says. I mean he is leveling and measuring and plumbing and then re-leveling and measuring and plumbing. You remember like in Jer in Joshua, they're going in and conquering Jericho, they're they're conquering the land that God said he would give them, Canaan land, and Chosen the nation of Israel, but because of their idolatry and all their problems and everything, he has now frozen the nation of Israel. In another place in the Old Testament, it's illustrated this way. If you don't know Christ is your Savior and you're listening this morning, let me understand let me help you to understand this. It's hard to say from the text whether or not she was already a prostitute or not, but God knew that she would become a prostitute. He did so in a way that was consistent with their frequent unrepentant disobedience to him. Self-righteousness. There was he he came in and he was going to set the corners. And to this day, folks, Christ is the only way. God can save the most egregious sinner because he is sovereign. That there is nothing you can't for you to say, well, you don't know what I've done. And as we come this morning to the time when we are going to look into your word, I pray that you would help us this morning to unstop our ears. In that story, the Spirit of God comes down, as of course this is the first century, and it comes down And in fact, by this time when Romans is written, it actually looks like he's blessing the Gentiles more than he's blessing It says there, and once were not a people, but are now the people of God who had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. Verse 27. Someone to reflect his character. They actually are given righteousness, and he calls it this. And we're grateful this morning that we can come together, that you provided this place for us, Father. Hosea chapter 1. Then Hosea 1. Now Hosea 1 ten is going to we're going to use this later, but let's look at it now since you're there. But then you get the judges and everybody's doing right in their own eyes and they are not reflecting the character of God. Very very severe. So that actually what we see, Paul is pointing out that God is actually quite consistent in his mercy. I want to be should I be doing something? or level. It really becomes simple, although it becomes more difficult in practical life to figure out. We ask for your Holy Spirit to be working mightily in our hearts and our minds to give us understanding. It's pretty thick, pretty deep. as we think about who God is. We see this actually in the book of Acts. There are far more Gentile Christians in our world than there are Jewish Christians. They will fulfill. Heavenly Father, we come to you this morning with grateful and thankful hearts. How could he what what in the Old Testament God said he called the Jews? Look at Rome, look at Hosea again and skip down to verse 18. Verse 18 says, In that day I will make a covenant for them with the beasts of the field, with the birds of the air, and with the creeping things of the ground. Good to be in the house of the Lord together, isn't it? Some things you just have to chew a little harder on, but ultimately all of God's word is beneficial. It shall come to pass in that day that I will answer, says the Lord. How does God promise to restore, and I'm going to say it this way, ethnic Israel? But anyway, and so we're able to build from the and I was able to see every aspect of the building of the house, which I I find just really fascinating and very educational. So one question I have for you this morning is what will you do with Christ? That the way to God is through Christ alone. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. That word called is a very important word, not of the Jews only, but of the gen, but also of the Gentiles. They would not have understood that. Hosea writes during this time, and God wants to illustrate for Israel how egregious God is unchanging. Now we we we discussed tongues in Sunday school, so if you weren't there, uh I'm not gonna go over that again. Now, uh Harry was completely right to read verse 23 because that helps us understand what's going on here. So you have this corruption, punishment, and the narrowed selection, we'll call it a remnant, as a consistent pattern throughout the Old Testament. Now, that in mind, would you then turn to Hosea chapter 2, verse 4? Um as you as you r read this, you you look at it and you sort of go, boy, this is pretty deep stuff. So that that brings us then to right into Romans chapter 9 here, and we need to understand what's going on here. Even though he said, You you ten tribes, you're done. This is yet to be fulfilled. He's saying that the tribes of Israel who were so How could this possibly be in God's plan for the Gentile Christians to outnumber the Jewish Christians? We're going to see that in Romans chapter 11. Okay? Father, we come to you this morning. But the truth is there is such nutrients, there is such flavor in these passages as we will choose. We grew up in church and we're all Gentile, most of us are Gentiles, and and and we know that. They'll take care of that. Is Jesus a stumbling block or a firm foundation for you? There was a genuine showing of this through the work of the Holy Spirit. The curse of sin was upon them. Christ came to do what Israel would not do and could not do. So he went and took Gomer and uh the daughter of Diblam. It was not by the pursuit of righteousness by works. But I don't know any steak that you can have that you don't have to chew. We dealt with it with the with the illustration for example of the of the clay uh the clay and the potter. I will not have mercy on her children, for they are the children of harlotry, for their mother has played the harlot. I've known people that don't like steak because you have to chew so much. But if if you feel that way, understand that what God wants for his people is to be fed well But anyway, um but but I'm also thankful that he didn't. This is a quote from Isaiah 10, verses 22 through 23, where it says this: For though your people, O Israel, be as the sand of the sea, a remnant of them will return. And even after that, most of the time, up till Acts chapter 10, you have Jewish people getting saved. It seems as though God is not following through on his plan. They run together, and we've said this before. If you don't want to turn, that's okay. And uh I want to say b before we really delve into this that um as you even read this, as you read the uh the passage that we And what Paul is going to do is he's going to take some Old Testament passages that are that are mentioned in the Old Testament and and 6 says, And she conceived again and bore a daughter. The Bible says in Romans chapter Genesis chapter 6 that everything was evil continually, and so they had to punish. I did a lot of grunt work as a carpenter, a lot of stuff that nobody else wanted to do, which is fine. What you have to do when you live in a house like mine is you actually have to figure out uh what's level, I'll take a level, and then I let I'm kind of fudged to make it look right. And so and so when you're dealing with a new when with you you want to make sure everything is correct. And you're if you're not sure where you stand with Christ, let me encourage you after the service, let me, I'd love to talk with you. You will be executing your justice and righteousness. And is God really righteous in selecting some and not selecting others? And he's going to draw from them and help everybody, including us, to understand It's actually only Isaac's seed, and he explains how that even narrows down to Jacob and the twelve tribes of Israel and so on. In fact, I let me invite you to turn there. Then the Lord said to him, Call his name Jezreel, for in a little while I will avenge the bloodshed of Jezreel on the house of Jud of Jehu Why did they miss it? Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. But you've got actually a few family members and everybody else are strangers. Babylonian captivity came in, and Israel was no more a sovereign nation. I've had on occasion people tell me, non-Christians tell me, that if you knew what I did, you would not think I could be saved. The Christian Jews were astonished that the Holy Spirit would fall down on But what was the problem? I I think there's a couple of things. You just don't know what I've done. Isaiah also cries out concerning Israel. This helps us to understand that. We looked in the mirror and you see a reflection of your image in the mirror. Here's the argument that Paul's making. In other words, why in the world would you mess with those Gentiles? Okay. I true it out. The Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness have attained righteousness? And that's wonderful to say those things. That's why he created us, to glorify him, to be reflections of him like a mirror. We'll see what that is in a few moments. In fact, they would have really objected to it. They'll deal with that. Gentiles aren't. God sends Jesus Christ. And the question essentially is why? God then is choosing to disown them and saying, look, no more, you're not my people anymore. Absolutely. They're trying to follow every possible thing they can follow. But Israel, pursuing the law of righteousness, had not attained it to the law of righteousness? Now, with that in mind, we then see in this passage that he refers to and quotes an Old Testament passage from the book of Hosea. After years and years and years of unfaithfulness, idolatry, there is an end to the mercy of God. See this is a very descriptive personal kind of uh of of of verses, passage here to just explain in But that's a very clear contrast. And there they shall be called sons of the living God. As many as came with Peter because the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out on the Gentiles also, for they heard them speak with tongues and magnify God. And we'll see from Hosea an interesting, maybe even alarming, and very unique illustration here. These ten tribes of Israel, God is saying, you are no longer my people. If you go ahead and put up the next uh the next slide up there, and ultimate uh the ult God's ultimate goal is for I I why why was he so careful? And these passages as we study them, it helps us chew on those things I mean, usually you only have close friends and close family at Christmas time when you And let me encourage you, if you don't know the Lord as your Savior, or if you've not been baptized scripture, let me encourage you to withhold from that. So God could have, he could have at that point just said, let me wipe you all out and start over. And then Hosea one verse eight it says, Now when she came and weaned Low Ramah, she conceived and bore a son. If God promises to restore them, then certainly it is also consistent for God to save Gentiles. They're pursuing righteousness based on self by the law, and they're missing To go off when when they went off into worshiping other idols, they were it was like going and finding other lovers, even though you're married. And that he might make known the riches of his glory on the vessels of mercy, which he had prepared beforehand for glory. Look, folks, let's not forget how unfaithful and idolatrous There is God's promise even of a restoration here. But once you have fulfilled your God-given responsibilities, there is a sense in which you just simply say, I'm going to do what God says I'm supposed to do. How is this going to work? If we will take the yoke of Christ, if we will take the responsibility that God has given us, but on the other hand, we will trust God with the and let him be sovereign. And these passages help us to understand the nature of God, his faithfulness. Of course you'll remember that these Christians are in Rome. But now we come and he's going to finish this up with under for us to understand this and for the Jewish for them to understand this. His administration is different in the Old Testament than it is in the New Testament. Supposed to go through Abel. It says, Behold, I lay in Zion a stumbling stone. And this caused Jewish people, and maybe even Gentile people, but Jewish people For she said, I will go after my lovers, who give me my bread and my water, my wool and my linen, my oil and my drink. Noah goes through the flood, and immediately Noah sins on the other side of the flood after that's done. They're not pursuing anything. He's actually a light to everybody. He said that this son that you represent is going to is going to represent an end to the kingdom of the house of Israel. They're pursuing the righteousness by the wrong means. Why? And I want to kind of encourage you this way that the way the nature of Scripture is It says this, what then shall we say to Abraham our father, who found according to the flesh? And if you think back to Christ and his life and his ministry, over and over and over again, the obstacle I mean that doesn't make sense. Catch this. But at this point, when Romans was written, it is very likely that there were more Gentile Christians We'll see, first of all, that God's calling is consistent with his sovereign plan. And then this then Paul in Romans quotes this next verse. That you don't know what you're doing, and you need to accept it. God illustrates it this way. I'm the cornerstone. I wanted to just encourage you with that as we go through this to, you say, well, I mean, it might be that you're having you say, even after this, you might go, I'm gonna have to chew on this more So that God, when he disowned Israel at that point with Hosea, and also Isaiah, which we're Yet she will seek them, but not find them. But one thing I want to say is this. In fact, folks, there are so many times in life where you are not in control. You have punishment that's laid out. And we ask in Jesus' name. It just immediately tastes good, easily digestible, you know, just no problem, right? And the Jewish people of that time said this, Acts chapter 10, verse 44, while Peter was still speaking Christians, I've heard this Christians say something things like this, that you know the God of the Old Testament is different than the God of the New Testament. For the Lord God of hosts will make a deterrent a dirt determined end in the might midst of the land. Ultimately, he is he's doing it through the lives of Christians, actually. You remember that? You have a plan that will ultimately ultimately come to fruition where you will be Lord you will be established and will establish yourself as They didn't do a very good job of it. And after the second coming of Christ, you'll have the millennial kingdom where Christ will set up his own kingdom. I need to know the line. And you've got to search the scriptures and know what Scripture says, particularly in the New Testament for Christians. Why did that happen? And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. And this is the nature of the passages that we are going through. Peter makes the exact same argument, actually, in 1 Peter 2. And it's something that we need to understand. Do you shudder over the idea that Jesus is the only way? I will have mercy on her who had not obtained mercy. I don't have control over that. God's past election in chapter 9, which we're going to get, we're going to finish that up today. Remember that word called the beginning of our message? And if I it is consistent actually that I if I promise to restore you, that I act that I also will save Gentiles. But there are other times, folks, that we need to realize I have a certain responsibility here. Well, I don't know, but God does, and he died for it. That doesn't work. And the truth is you've got to set the first corner right. 8, the church becomes the light. We learn this from the mixture of the sovereignty of God and the responsibility of people. What shall we say then? And then God's requirements are consistent with his sovereign plan, his requirements. Number two, when we are respon not responsible, you're living in life, living life, and you're in a situation. Or we can chew on those realities. It actually says in Luke 2. And he has already said that those he has called to be vessels of mercy, he has shown his mercy to certain people In the book of Amos. Abel was killed by Cain, then it would go through the line of Seth. He says, Gentiles, they never pursued righteousness. He offers the kingdom even to the Jews. Look at the question. So we we see God's selection there And God says, Look, I I show I said I'll restore you And the builders are the leaders of the nation of Israel who reject the cornerstone. What's the problem with the Jews? We praise you because of who you are, that you are You remember Acts chapter 2, where there were thousands of Jewish people that came to Christ, legitimately came to Christ. So we should not we do not have the right to tell God what is righteous and what is not in the way he makes some things Adam and Eve sinned, the mirror is shattered. He is either a cornerstone or he is a stumbling block. I just want us to remember that this morning. Take my yoke. And I want to encourage you with that. Remember? But he still wanted to bring light to the world so that the world would reflect him. Do you remember over in in um in Romans chapter 4, you could turn there. God saves them by revealing himself to them. Well, actually I think the foundation was already poured, but everything else He says, I am the way, the truth, and life, and no one comes to the Father but by me. And and so he he uh he decided that he wasn't gonna just wipe them out We're not there yet, but just so you understand that what actually happened is God uses Gentile Christians He either becomes the cornerstone of your faith. In fact, I have several questions. Is that a stumbling block to you? And so we thank you for this time together. Before we come to Romans chapter nine And we are grateful and thankful this morning that you have, in your greatness, Father, given us your word, your great and precious promise. What do you then then you have Baal worship and everybody's being idolatrous. I like the way this is phrased, this phrase is said in the New American Standard. We see this Paul is going to continue to guarantee that he will continue to fulfill the nation the promises to the nation of Israel in that remnant. The word in Greek is very clear. This is backwards. It says, which cannot be measured or numbered, and it shall come to pass in the You're uh uh we I'm disowning you. And we see in vivid description here the fact that although God disowns Israel out of punishment The righteousness. Romans chapter 11. And he answers in Romans 9. Christ said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. They shall answer Jezreel. Now to him who works, the wages are not counted as grace but as debt So how is he consistent now to call the Jews and the Gentiles? But the reality is this text teaches that it doesn't And now God's only going to work with Abraham and his offspring. But for now, Lord, I pray that you would help us to And those of the circumcision, that's the Jewish people, When they disobey God and they sinned, the mirror was shattered. And then you have Christ I'll just pause there and say that I think this is talking about the millennial kingdom. Look at verse 20. I will answer the heavens, and they shall answer the earth. God is sovereign on one hand, but we as humans are responsible on the other. They're not realizing that they're already born sinful and they can never match up to God's standard And so what's the real issue here? That's a life that God wants us to live in dependency on him. It says, even us, Paul is saying. For they stumbled at the stumbling stone This is used pretty frequently both in the Old Testament and the New Testament. No, we are all unified I need to know what is my responsibility, and what do I leave up to God to do what God can do. And he a couple things we need to understand about Isaiah. God's requirement for his narrowing Why did they miss it? And he had to make sure it was right. And then Jewish Christians were like, what is going on? God said, God raised up Israel, the nation of Israel, to be the mirrors for him. I live in an old house. That there isn't anything, any sin that Christ didn't die for. But when we are responsible, we should take responsibility. Amen. How could He give His blessing to the Gentiles in the same way that He's giving His blessing? In fact, God called them to do this Far more. And you can you can trust him today. It requires That is really the key Then God said to him, Call her name Lo Ruhama. And we we and of course they are. D. The Jews, they're pursuing righteousness That is what unifies us, that true doctrine. The secondary result is actually the church becomes a is going to become a light This cry is a cry of great emotion, great burden, great That reminds us of Romans chapter 2, doesn't it? He is spending he Why? 32 that Christ And after all of these multiple opportunities, they continue to live in idolatry and to follow after false gods But then you have a narrowed selection from there. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. You are so gracious and so kind to us. And so what's happening is they aren't a light to the Gentiles. I have them available, but we're not going to take a lot of time to look at them. Boy, I tell you that But we can say the words. You have no idea where they came from. And then you have After repeated times, Christ came and he did it. I thought about having a bunch of verses on the screen, that kind of thing, but there are so there is so much I want to draw from a Hosea that I think it's really best just This gives us wonderful truth that God could save anyone. And in that passage it says this. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can He's offering himself to everyone and but he is certainly a light to the Gentiles I want us to see the big this is the big picture. And he's going to explain this in the next passage. And notice what then it says. Christ is what unifies us as Christians. God's original plan in Genesis was to make human beings They're they're you know and that's the way Jews thought of Gentiles as dirty and unc you know, unclean and unfit and uh and And then in Acts and in Isaiah 8. I have several things to talk about. It's really simple. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. I'm not one of those people. He is called from the Jews and also from the Gentiles. Yes, the answer is yes to that. Verse 2. Now, this is actually a conflation of two verses in Isaiah. Because plumbing that corner was going to determine what the rest of the house And they're seeing that what God is doing in their mind, first of all, they question the faithfulness of God, and we dealt with that. We see that that that a lot that verse is becomes a pivotal verse for The mercy How's he going to do that? That Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness have attained to righteousness? Both Jews and Greeks. We're very thankful. But but the the point here is that the Gentile people, the Gentile Christians received He is disowning them. I will betrothe you to me in faithfulness and I think another lesson we can learn from this, just for this this section. And now that is considered And self-righteousness Even as you we go through the passage, you may think, well, I I'm not seeing anything I can take home and do this week. Now, to really understand, we actually need to step back even further here. And he quotes scripture by doing by saying that. Then she will say, I will go and return my first husband, for then it will be better for me than now. I mean, there's no question about it How is that going to happen? I want us to back up here then and understand that this is normal for how God works. Verse 31. They saw him as a stumbling block. He didn't say take no yoke. This isn't right. And and God, when He created us Except we did a Adam and Eve were really bad mirrors. And if you look at the text, it says here, verse And he says also in Hosea They're seeing all these things happening. Back then, of course, you had shepherds. It got eaten by an animal, and here's the carcass, to, to, to sh and he presents the carcass. I live in a house that's almost a hundred years old. There are both Gentile Christians So if you think of a mirror, the mirror reflects the image. Christ is the cornerstone. He wouldn't let anybody else do it. Because the Jews rejected the cornerstone What is Jesus to you? We pick up in verse 24. Not very long after Hosea chapter 2, verse 4. That was the name of the of one of one of the sons, remember? Now, with that in mind, we pick up in verse 30. Let me just encourage you. How he is working is different. But that would have been a novel idea back then. 7. Now And as they as we partake of the Lord's Supper together this morning, Lord, I pray that I pray that you will go before Jim and give him clarity of thought, clarity of speech. How could God do this? Romans 8. And I want you to see what God says He is going to do in the future with Israel. And of course, we're growing to be more Christ-like. Before we go there, may we bow our heads together and go to the Lord. And I want us to understand that. Number two, God's remnant is consistent Because they did not seek it by faith For what does the scripture We pray these things in Christ's name. May the Lord richly bless you. Isaiah 49, 6 says this. Not the righteousness of faith, but the law of righteousness. And the reality is he spent I thought to myself, this is ridiculous how much time he's spending on this corner. I love steak. We can say, God is faithful. A couple of three takeaways this morning. Isaiah also cries out concerning Israel. That's talking about Israel. So let me give you this application. He's talking about the southern kingdom of Judah, the other two tribes down below, down south. But one of the things that I really appreciate was that at the end of like the last month that I was helping as a summer I mean, you have so many, I mean, like even if we look at it now. How is God going to deal with the overall rebellion and idolatry of Israel? Look at what it says in verse 32. I ask the question, what is my biblical responsibility, and am I am I fulfilling that And you might go at Christmas dinner, what is going on 30, moreover, whom he predestined, these he also called It's broken in the bunch of different pieces. It was narrowed. We're thankful for Jesus and what he has done at the cross on our behalf How many of you all have been feeling that way as we go through the book of Romans and Romans 9 particularly here You're you're gonna be captured by you're already captured by Assyria and And we know Romans chapter 9, verse 24 through 33. I will also give you as light We become the light of the world. Now But we really would love to meet you in person. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you Of course, Isaiah writes in 760 BC. It's not going to happen from the whole, it's going to be from a remnant. And folks, what do we call that Who is Jesus to you? He's saying, not every child of Abraham is actually called You're not my children anymore. And it is the righteousness of faith. Come and talk with me. Now, then let's with that in mind, let's pick up in Hosea 1. In a few minutes And it shall come to pass in the place where I was said to them Now, the good news, there's good news here. Because, and we're going to learn this later, it's not by works. They accept it by faith. 14 it says That was a very common way of earning a living and gaining a living. That no one actually seeks after God. And especially if it's flavored well and it's the right cut of steak, boy that They were to be a light to the Gentiles. Solomon blew it out of the water by having a tho uh you know tons of wives and This is an illustration of this. And then you actually have an expansion Number three It's come to an end. And let me tell you, things ain't plumb Well, if you shatter a mirror, it doesn't give a very accurate reflection of an image, does it? There is going to be some kind of replacement And that was setting the corners of the walls, of the external walls. Well, good morning. Say, hey, I want to know more about Christ. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. We hope to see you soon. No, I'm kidding. The stumbling block or the stumbling stone. Number one. You have blessed us beyond anything, Father, that we desire. It's a story that God sets in place Now Now I will uncover her lewdness in the sight of her lovers Amen. They're not doing their job. There is a consistency with the overall plan of God. This is crazy. Look at what verse 23 says. This I was trying to think of something relatable to us. Look at verse 27 And I'm going But if you have, we'd love for you to partake with us. And you know that's not true. You're no longer going to be a nation. Why? Ephesians 5. Even us How could they be included in this way? Revealing Christ to them, they accept it by faith. Remember that Do we can we put that up? A stumbling block. It is called the Exchange. He would be good mirrors for him. And God works 8. Then Peter and and we see that the But how could God be consistent Now we go, of course. 2