And finally, the application for that is receiving God's righteousness. Because you have rejected knowledge, I also reject you from being priest for me because you have forgotten the law of your God. And so because they did not know God, they were serving somebody they didn't know. Instead, they replaced it with their own righteousness. The word is in you, in your mouth, and in your heart. It's whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. from your word. Anyway, it's just not not working, so somebody's gotta turn that down. So you're traveling down a road, and the final destination is Christ, and the road is the law. See, if we really want to help people understand who God is, it's wonderful that we know the Romans' road and we go through with them. I think the key verse here, which actually Paul's going to quote later on, says, but the word is very near you in your mouth and in your heart that you may do it. It's there. Now it's interesting in First Corinthians chapter twelve verse three we find this statement, and I think it's helpful for us. and given him a name which is above every name, that the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, those in heaven and those in earth, those under the earth, and every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. hearts this morning as we hear your word preached to us, Father. Now there are so many problems with that, it's really even hard to enumerate them all. The problem is willful ignorance. The problem is willful ignorance. And he's going to say that I bear witness. He was a Jew brought up under the feet of Gameliel, a very highly respected teacher. We see the passage, it tells us that he had a zeal, they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge. Hosea continues as we think through the Old Testament. It is a people who go astray in their hearts and they do not know my ways. The solution is to understand God's righteousness. For assuredly I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one tittle will by no means pass from the law, till all is fulfilled. The commandments of God, the Ten Commandments, in fact, was glorious. They actually weren't following the law. So that's why you literally have Jewish people, even to this day, who, can I say it this way, are stuck in the law, and yet it actually isn't God's law, it's actually traditions, uh man's traditions The same thing is true about everybody else that doesn't know Christ. Commandments in one way or another, either in thought or deed. What shall we say then? uh uh to possess the land. The same word of the Old Testament he is saying applies to Christ as well. which was a figure play of the paradise, and then you have and then you have um uh uh the rich man and he went into hell and in the story he asks for his brothers to be told the And he was and that he may testify to them, lest they also come to this place of torment. Can't include self-righteousness, self-effort, or works. There's no really real desire to please God. And you believe that Jesus saved you, but then nothing else happens after that. demons in your name, and done many wonders in your name, and then I will declare to them, I never knew you. and you save Jesus as Lord. Or anything like that, this is to say the same thing God says. see what those are in a minute. is Jesus is Lord is how it is translated. Jesus is God. Jesus is God and Jesus presented himself as God, said he was God. Name Lord over all. believism. Talk with me. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. Father. And Father, may we have ears open to hear. Somebody who's taught us the wrong way, but there are several misunderstandings that I want to point out. If you guys could put that up. I mean what exactly does that mean? The chorus says before she knew it, or actually the end of the first verse says, before she knew it, she was spinning out on a thin black sheet of i glass She saw both their lives flash before her eyes. Because I can't do this on my own. Salvation is not about rescuing me from some sort of physical calamity. And we remember from last or a couple weeks ago, Romans 9, 32 through 33, it says, Why? But as a whole, certainly by the time, as we have noted before, by the time Romans is written, and Paul sends out this letter God's righteousness, his way. to the church at Rome, you have more Gentiles being saved than you have Jews being saved. and stand in the place of Israel and die and go to hell if it meant for the salvation of Israel. But is long-suffering toward us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. 2 Timothy 2 verse 10, therefore I endure all things for the sake of the elect, Paul says this, that they may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. In our lives as Christians, our families, our homes, our own study of Scripture, our own theology, and all these different kinds of things, and all good things. We ought to pray frequently and we collectively together. Paul we see that that that this is exactly where the apostle Paul was. We see this in Psalm 95, verse 10, which says this, for 40 years I was grieved with the with that generation, and said, root problem they did not know God. They didn't know the righteousness of God, so instead of searching out the righteousness of God and the law of God, allowing the law of God to feed them, to show them who God really was, the purity of the word of God with the rabbinical writings of the day. to the righteousness of God. For laying aside the commandment of God, you hold the tradition of men, the washing of pitchers and cups, and many other such things was the problem. We need to ask the question, are we trying to be right with God by doing good things for him? What does it mean where it says Christ is the end of the law? And what this passage further tells us is that the end of the Christ is the end of the law for righteousness. show us our condemnation, but it was glorious in doing so. who we are and and that fact that we are condemned. to Christ. This way. And that's what Paul is trying to explain here as we go through this passage. And notice it says in the passage, the condition, the end of the law is Christ to everyone who believes. You see the righteousness in the law, you see the righteousness of God in the Old Testament, and then you see the demands of the law, all the Ten Commandments, and the reality is everyone has broken every one of those Ten Commandments For I would not have known covetousness unless the law had said, you shall not covet. Do not think in your heart after the Lord your God has passed them out before you, saying, Because of my righteousness the Lord has brought me into Picking up in verse 10, it says, If you obey the voice of the Lord your God, to keep his commandments and his statutes and bring it to us that we may hear it and do it. thing that we won't get into there, whether it's sea or abyss or whatever, but bottom line is didn't get to go away. 13. Matthew seven twenty-two many will s many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in your name, cast out demons? gospel. speaking by the Spirit of God, calls Jesus a cursed. uh part of what it's talking about. Now this cannot mean that you have to make Christ Lord of your life in order to be saved. Authority. We see it says first the heart, for with the heart one believes unto righteousness. be put to shame. Stone, a sure foundation, whoever believes will not act hastily. There's no distinction because for they are for the same, they are the same, there's the same Lord over all. Jesus Christ to all and all them that believe, for there is no difference. Me to the second question. You're not really saved. Number three, do you have saving faith or merely easy believism? belief. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. It is called the Exchange. Paying the penalty for our sin in our place, and being buried in the tomb, and on the third day you rose up out of that grave, and you are now seated at the right hand of God For they, being ignorant of God's righteousness and seeking to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted to the righteousness of God. And Father, as we come to your word this morning, I ask that you would remove all the distractions from our minds and our hearts, all the cares and concerns of the week For I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God, but do not according to knowledge. Do not say in your heart, Who will ascend into heaven? That if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus Christ and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For the scripture says, whoever believes on him will not be put to shame, for there is no distinction between Jew and Greek. For the same Lord over all is rich to all who call upon him. The man who does those things shall live by them. You see, there are actually at least four different kinds of people, perhaps even four kinds of people that are in this room. There is another category of Christians who are doubting their salvation. is understanding it from an academic standpoint, not actually applying it and receiving it completely. That's a different kind of salvation. during Christmas time and it's icy and she's in a treacherous situation and she asks calls on God to take the wheel. Jewish uh people came to Christ. How someone actually comes to receive God's righteousness. It is who has received the righteousness of God. Paul, of course, begins with his desire. God desires that all people be saved, according to 2 Peter 3, verse 9, the Lord is not slack concerning his some count slackness. Do you and I have a desire to see souls saved? But folks, we ought never lose, and we ought to actually foster a desire to see people come to Christ. In fact, he was so lost that he was actually persecuting Christians. Why is it that they were not saved? Righteousness. know God. Well did Isaiah prophesy, you hypocrites, as it is written, the people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me And in vain they worship me teaching as doctrines the commandments of men. He says, Israel wants to be a captain of their own soul, the master of their own ship, but Israel lost both her rudder and her compass. Certainly not. How will the ministry of the Spirit, that's from Christ, of course, be more glorious? Therefore, since we have such hope, we use great boldness of speech, unlike Moses, who put a veil over his face, so the children of Israel could not look steadily at the end of what was passing away But their minds were blinded. because the veil is taken away in Christ. And if you are if you are following the law, knowing the law, receiving the law, and trying to live out the law Okay? As God intended, what if you're going to understand is number one, that God, you're going to understand the true righteousness of God, number one, and number two, you're going to understand that you don't have it. that have some elements of God's law, but you don't have the purity of God's law anymore. But they don't know God. which are written in this book of the law, and if you turn to the law your God with all your heart and with all your soul, for this commandment which I command you to do We get we're giving it to you. And so there in Deuteronomy 30 there's this explanation, hey, um it's given, you've got it, you don't have to look for it, you didn't need it, it's it's there, you've got it, it's available. In the way that God intended for them to do, they also would have ended up seeing Christ and recognizing the glory of Christ when he came. came. The right key is God's righteousness. to be warned by Lazarus, that Lazarus could come from the dead and go to warn his brothers And believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you'll be saved. There's a few things we need to sort of understand in the beginning. that. say a few words and believe a few things and then there's this transaction that happens and I'm I'm saved. hearts with hearts were over everything and and um if you're a school teacher I've discovered that you come home with all kinds of Spirit. Now there are some that would relegate this idea of Jesus is Lord to simply deity. deity, we're talking about the fact that he is Lord over all, that there is a recognate recognition of that Make Christ anything. Undue righteousness means that that uh believes in the righteousness of God, that Jesus lived a righteous life, that Jesus died to pay the punishment for our sin, and righteousness is With our heart, not easy believism, but we are we are fully believing with our heart in what Christ did in paying the punishment for our sin, which he has clearly gone over throughout the book of Romans. That is then followed by the confession. this idea of the stone was brought up there. And then we find the scope here. So that if we believe in the way that this is teaching, we can have the assurance of knowing that we are truly Saved we are the righteousness of God is applied to us. Of sin, and we should, nothing wrong with that. And it's important that both that we understand both that when we are saved, yes, we are saved from sin and its punishment, but we are also made righteous by God as well. By him. You look at the righteousness of God and realize you don't have it. morning and you're depending on your own self-righteousness for your standing with God. So that we could have his righteousness applied to us, so that we could then be rightly related to God, saved from our sin, and on our way to heaven. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. And I pray for those who are unable to be here but are watching through streaming. And the answer is yes, it is. That happened maybe as a result of our culture and some of the teaching we get from our culture, or a misunderstanding of God's word, or a misunderstanding of And yet, when they came to the stumbling block of Jesus, that's exactly what they did, they stumbled As it is written, Behold, I lay in Zion a stumbling stone, a rock of offense, and whoever believes on him will not be put to shame. Finally, we're going to see the application receiving God's righteousness. Of course, we know that Paul loved other people as well and desired for all to be saved. Their honorable men are famished and their multiplied dra and their multitude dried up with thirst They didn't know God, and they didn't know specifically the righteousness of God. of God. You do, he said to them, all too well you reject the commandment of God that you may keep your tradition. That they're doing good enough things. I think a key passage to understand this is actually in 2 Corinthians chapter 3. It says in verse 7, but if the ministry of death written and engraved on stones was glorious, that's the that is to bring Christ down from above, or who will ascend into the abyss that is to bring Christ up from the dead. to do today is not too mysterious for you, nor is it far off. And what Paul is then doing here is he is applying this same law, or we'll use the word word, because it's helpful. This is actually illustrated very well by Christ himself in Luke 16. The heart is the entire person. So that what it's saying here is that whoever believes on him will not face condemnation. But then there also is a corporate result. That when it comes to the people of God, not that ethnic Israel, uh ethnic Israel is going to have a place. We must believe that Jesus is who he says he was, Jesus is Lord, and we must believe that he rose from the grave victorious over sin and death, which of course means he died for us and he lived a perfect life for us. a transactional kind of thing where you just kind of made a decision and moved on with your life. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. And then there is a final category of non-Christians who think they are Christians. Is it possible to say you're a Christian, to think you're a Christian, but actually you're not a Christian? This is, of course, Carrie Underwood. So from now on tonight, Jesus take the wheel. The Jews got it wrong. Christ says this. For even what was made glorious had no glory in this respect, because the the glory that excels So that it could not see the glory of Christ. Which is of the law, the man who does those things shall live by them In other words, as you read the law and you know the law, you see the righteousness of God in the law. But as we teach our children, or we have opportunity to spend time with somebody more frequently, to help them to know God. Then the reality is they're not saved. How many ever read those paths passage you went through and you came to like, well, this is weird. Do not it's tra it's translated this way, do not say in your heart, same thing, if you think in your heart or say in your heart, same thing. Paul's point here is is goes back to Deuteronomy, and the point in Deuteronomy is the law is available, it's here, you don't have to search for it. They didn't have to go up to heaven to search for him. Their key was the key of self-righteousness through tradition. Leads to Christ. Does that. You need to both confess with your mouth and believe in your heart that the Jesus is Lord and that He's risen from the dead. Both in what he did, who he is, and what he has done. So it doesn't mean that we necessarily have to understand everything about the gospel, but there are certain things that we must understand with our minds, and we're going to say Now, this is translated, the Lord Jesus in your New King James and your King James. In Numerican Standard, it's confess with your mouth Jesus as Lord. Now the resurrection, frankly, implies the death of Christ. Do you know him? This is absolutely critical. Saving faith. But we really would love to meet you in person. Here at VBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for. coming to indwell the heart of the believer and sealing us for that day of our complete redemption. You have shown love toward us by sending your only begotten Son, Jesus, to come and take the sin of the world upon himself, die on that cross. You are holy, holy, holy, almighty, all-powerful, all-wise, and all-knowing. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. But what does it say? Two, there are non-Christians who know they're non-Christians. That is not biblical salvation. And it leads to people thinking that they are saved, thinking that they are Christians, but they're actually not really Christians. We find in Acts chapter 22, verse 3, I am indeed a Jew, born of Tarsus of Sis Sicilia, but brought up in the city of the feet of Gamaliel, taught according to the strict The problem was not that they were godless in the sense of secular. I am actually hearing myself in there. So they didn't submit to the authority of God because they didn't recognize the righteousness of God, and then they replaced God's righteousness with their own righteousness and thought they were good with God. That our children, as we are raising our children, can have the idea somehow in their minds that they are good enough in order to be able to be right with God. What is to save her from being drawn into the vortex of hell. Is the end of the law, notice what it says, for righteousness. So the law is not God, Christ did not come to destroy the law. 2 Corinthians chapter 3, and we're going to be looking at verses 7 through 14. What is the purpose of the law? of God and they have not seen the glory of Christ. So just as the law was presented to the Jews and was readily available, so Jesus is. We've already seen that about the Gentiles in Romans chapter 1. And then what we see then, so understanding that, we then realize that there are three components to saving faith. The idea of confessing with your mouth, you can't confess something with your mouth if you don't understand it. You have the the the Jewish mind idea of heart and you actually have the Greek idea of heart. For us to actually recognize that Jesus is Lord, it is something that the Spirit of God must show us. So we need to understand that, however, and I put this statement up this way, true saving faith will recognize the authority of Jesus and will include a desire to submit to that authority. for punishment. But when it comes to God's people, there is one Lord over all, and it's those who call upon Him. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. For with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation I pray a prayer, I believe something, I say some words, and as like a contractual agreement, then I get salvation as a transaction. Or salvation happens when we're being rescued from a physical calamity. This is the idea that somebody can actually just academically understand the truth of God's word, but all it is is The Jewish people, they didn't think they were Christians because they didn't want to claim to be Christians, but they thought they were saved in the sense of rightly related to God. That is on purpose, because we need to have a heart to see people saved. Isaiah 5, verse 13 says this, therefore my people have gone into captivity because they have no knowledge. Christ is speaking here and he's explaining what was going on for the to the leadership of the nation of Israel. We have, for example, a coup several clear examples. Romans 13:1, let every soul be subject to the governing authorities. And now with her vessel of state careening about in the maelstream of sin, what is safe, what is to safe But we've already seen from Romans, for example, in Romans 3. Well, how does that work? For he made him who knew no sin to be sin for us that we might become the righteousness of God in him. And to really understand this, we've got to go to Deuteronomy. about about um about the fact that you know essentially he got it wrong and he's in hell and don't don't follow my in my ways and and this is what this is what is said here And he said, No, Father Abraham, but if one goes to them from the dead, they will repent. But there is another issue on the other side of the spectrum that we have to be aware of, and that is the issue of what is sometimes called easy believing. In verse 10, look at it again with me, it says, For with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. That is the idea. It's the working of the Spirit of God. is as the result applied to us, righteousness is the result in our lives as a result of our heart believing. If you you're wondering whether or not you know the Lord as your Savior, a very rudimentary question is: do you know God? To take on our sin on himself so that we could have his righteousness applied to us. This has so many problems with it, and yet it's an example of how our culture inserts certain kinds of teaching that are really completely against what the Bible actually says about salvation. And so you have to live by them by the requirements and by the consequences. And this really is illustrated. That's verse 10. You realize that? And they did not from the law of God realize who God truly is, the particularly the righteousness of God. And also uh this helps us to understand how we need to even our own even our own lives as Christians and as Heavenly Father, we come with grateful and thankful hearts this morning. Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they may be saved. She's later on in the song says. What was the what happened here? Who God really is, what his righteousness really looks like, how we can't measure up to that righteousness. And then we see in verses 6 through 9 it says, But the righteousness of faith speaks in this way. That is why you need Christ, who applies the righteousness of Christ to us. Do you know that Jesus addressed this, that there are many people that would actually say, say, say with their lips, Lord, Lord. I want us to recognize these three components. Let's then under what is it that we have to agree, understand, and accept? And certainly, that is certainly included. We ask in Jesus' name. Christ is either a stumbling stone or he is a firm foundation, as we learned last week We know from Scripture that salvation actually comes from the Jews and the fact that Jesus was Jewish and that it went first to the Jews. Paul goes on to summarize this and explain it this way. Christ so obviously presented himself to the Jewish people. Is a real possibility. We have to exhaustively accept and believe in your heart. But, and it's also not causal in the sense that in order to be saved, you have to somehow recognize this as a condition. And let me I think this clears up a little bit w when you actually look at verse ten. Now, we then look at the rest of the passage and we're going to see the scriptural basis for all of this. Another one is salvation is like when you have a come to Jesus moment. And that you can't get it on your own. Is going to help us a great deal in leading people to Christ. So then we pick up in verse 8 here, and we see, well, actually, a couple things I want to note about this. And if you don't believe that, and if you don't follow that, you're not going to even believe somebody coming from the dead and warning you. If we pick up in verse 8 it says, but what does it say? So, this possibility of naming the name of Christ, maybe even understanding the mechanics of the gospel, but not really actually coming to Christ. Oftentimes in our in our understanding of the gospel, we really focus on being saved from the punishment of the It causes us to realize the Lordship of Christ in our lives. Thank you, Jesus. The road of the law should lead us to Christ. Then Paul then wants us to see the application, in other words, how to receive the righteousness of God. This easy believism where I just um passively or sort of sort of not really um too actively If you have questions about that, maybe you say, well I'm not really sure. I'd love to take a Bible and show you how you can we can work through this and help you to make sure you understand what the nature of saving faith really is in your life. Now, I just want to pause for just one quick second. This is a great quote by Sanford C. If you think of a road and you think of the road being the law, so you have the a road, and at the end, the final destination of that road is Christ. Is the law sin? We've actually seen this idea in Romans chapter 3, verses 21 through 24. This is further explained in Mark chapter 7, verses 1, actually verses 6 through 9. They took a turn and they started going the road of their tradition. The mind, the will, the emotions, all of it. True saving faith will do that. And uh uh he he mentions Deuteronomy uh part of Deuteronomy 9. Parents and neighbors and friends, we need to help people come to know the God of the Bible, one who is holy and righteous, which brings Number two, are you depending on your own righteousness or God's righteousness? But the good news is this: if you understand that you're a sinner, because as you look at the law of God, you realize you don't match up to it, and none of us do. Then it's a matter of accepting the righteousness of Christ. Psalm 55 says, the boastful shall not stand in your sight. They didn't understand the righteousness of God. We've got to agree, but we also have to understand. And folks, that continues the problem even of this day. For if what is passing away was glorious, what remains is much more glorious. So you have this phrase, do not think in your heart. It's there. Now that's interesting. I I think you are too. He says, I did not do not think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets. Verse 9 says it says there's parallelism there and verse 9. Why is it that Israel, what happened with Israel? This word submit means to arrange under. Then he said, I beg you therefore, Father, that you would send him to my father's house, for I have five brothers. Is this i is this something in your life uh when you think about being a Christian that there was just sort of a This replacement of righteousness, replacement of the righteousness of God with self-righteousness But why did they why we as we continue further, we actually are going to find that Paul is going to give them the solution It it I mentioned the idea of just a transactional a transactional approach. And there is something you need to do with your heart. The word confess is the Greek word homologo. We are going to be reading from Romans chapter 10, verses 1 through 13, if you would like to follow along. But in learning about this, we can learn a lot about why others don't come to a saving knowledge of Christ. They said they were following the law. And they don't really understand the righteousness of God. And so Paul is saying, just as the law was presented to them and it was obvious and available, so Jesus was presented to them and he is obvious And we've already seen that the Spirit of God is the one that causes us to recognize that Jesus truly is Lord. We won't take the time to turn there, but in Isaiah 50, verses 7 through 1 through 8, that's pointed out. Israel. On the contrary, we establish the law. Certainly not. It is, what's the condition? You're not really seeing what is in the Bible. A come to Jesus moment or let go and let God. Israel as a whole got it wrong. You remember Deuteronomy? And the Jewish people should have seen it. The righteousness of God, what is necessary. But is it all that it's talking about? This brings us finally to three life-changing questions. Saving faith literally produces a change. We must not live in self-righteousness. Matthew chapter five really helps us with this, verses seventeen through eighteen. It leads to the way of salvation in Christ. We've seen this before. Now Paul's going to make this argument in verse 5. Thank you for your word. I'm letting go. And how do we do that? They had the word of God. We're supposed to believe with both our with our mind, our will, with all of our being. This is quoting from Isaiah twenty eight, verse sixteen. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible What is it that they've missed about God? He can bear witness pretty well because he was one of them. Because ultimately they did not know God. Did you catch that? The solution is understanding God's righteousness. Now, what it's not saying is that there's something certain that you need to do with your mouth, the Lord Jesus. That's the very heart of everything, the root of everything is the what ultimately caused them to go wrong. Amen. Ultimately, the purpose of the law is to reveal the righteousness of God. Not everybody, but most people about Christ. There's a in 2005, a country singer launched her career with a theologically rich song, Jesus Take the Wheel. The law is not sin. They didn't have to go down beneath beneath into hell. Um if somebody could step out and and I can't hear there they're I'm glad they have it on there in there, but unfortunately if I hear myself repeat myself, I can't keep up with myself or something It says no one can say that Jesus is Lord except by the Holy Spirit. It's the demonstration of the working of the Spirit of God. The word is near you, in your mouth, and in your heart. Anyway, so I apologize. The idea of the law actually ending in Christ, the law leading us to Christ, and then Christ fulfilling and culminating the law. There's no real um there there's nothing that there's nothing nothing really that follows that. We're all learning more about the gospel. But we actually don't spend a great deal of time thinking about the righteousness of God being applied to us. The gospel came to the Jews first, actually, before it came to the Gentiles. What's the answer to the problem? Number one, it says if you confess, that is the idea of agreement. He says in the very first verse there, Brethren, my heart We come to Hosea, and it says this, my people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. What happened in the nation of Israel? We need to be careful about that. The ministry of righteousness exceeds much more in glory, showing the the identity of God, showing who God is And in the chorus of this song, it says it's talking about a young woman who has a baby in the backseat and she's going down In Romans 8, 7 through 8, we have where it's used, uh it says, Because the carnal mind is enmity against God, for it is not subject to the law of God, nor can it be. Because if you the Bible says if you commit one point you get you you committed sin in one point, you're guilty of all Deuteronomy was a reiteration of the law. And from that phrase, we then have this very well-known statement in Romans chapter 10, verse 9. Number two, non-Christians who know they are non- or number two, salvation is merely intellectual ascent. Folks, that indicates there then that we're talking about at least a little bit more than just And the idea of being put to shame is is actually a way of talking about judgment There is no one that will enter heaven depending on your own righteousness, on self-righteousness. And I pray for Brother Jim that you will give him the clarity and power, Lord, and strength to bring forth your word. She didn't even have time to cry. Well, we're first going to see the problem in verses 1 through 3, and it's willful ignorance on the part of Israel. And it says it's glorious, by the way, so that the children of Israel could not look steadily on the face of Moses because of the glory of his countenance, which glory was, notice, passing away. Now, the other thing I think we need to understand about this passage is that there is some parallelism in the passage. It says, for there is no distinction between Jew and Greek. It is on purpose that our prayer list has more prayer requests about the souls of people being saved and people being discipled than anything else. They had all these extra commandments and traditions to explain how well they were following the law, to the great minutia of following the law, and yet they miss the law. If you have true saving faith, it will recognize the authority of Jesus and will include a desire to submit to that authority. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. They had the law of God. You look at the holiness of God and you realize that you fall short of that. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. That somehow she can change. He said that he would actually prefer to be cursed And so there's this stubbornness in the nation in that life of the nation of Israel where they have not, it says, submitted So give me one more chance and save me from this road. For until this day, the same veil remains unlifted in the reading of the Old Testament You need to understand your heart that God has raised him from the dead. And we'll get to that in a minute. And with the mouth, confession is made unto salvation. Thank you for your great and precious promises. Now I have it, I think I have it up there. We've seen that over and over again in Romans chapter 3, Romans chapter 4, Romans chapter 5. You must believe with all of your heart. As we see from John or Romans ten here, clearly Paul is extremely concerned about We need to move on, but one moment and just say, just ask the question: do you have a heart for the gospel the way Paul does? That's the solution in verses 4 through 7. And of course, as you think of the Jewish people, that definitely was a problem. I mean those are the two easy ones. On the contrary, I would not have known sin except through the law So we need to confess with our mouth that Jesus is Lord. That's what Paul's concerned about. What is it? Now, of course, we know that Jewish people came to Christ. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. But the righteousness of faith speaks in this way They were circumcised the eighth day of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews, concerning the law of Pharisee Okay. 31, it says this: do we then make void the law through faith? They don't they don't realize who God is And the righteousness of God has never been actually applied to them Nor is it beyond the sea that you should say, Who will go over the sea for us and bring it to us that we may hear it and do it? They picked up stones to stone him because he said he was God. Well you find in verse 12 it says it has the phrase We are in Romans chapter ten. That's because you're going down that road. But we're seeing here then about the Jews that they are without excuse as well. Verse 3, he says, For they being ignorant, what specifically did they not know? You catch what it's saying there? And so when Christ came, they're on a different road. Christ also is the word, John 1, and he was also available. And so you have two things here that are at the very core of what we must believe. That is to bring Christ down from above. They are Christians, but they're struggling with their assurance of their salvation. Had they been following the already available law, they also would have found they w the uh ESV is Jesus is Lord. Israel did not know God. And they refused to submit to the righteousness of God. Glory mean meant it reveals something about God. The word is near you. And I pray that as we leave here today, we will be changed more and more into your image as we think about what we are learning here. We need to say the same thing God says about our sin. Do you remember the story of the rich man and Lazarus? It means to say the same thing. He's going to make the argument that I've just kind of laid out. The problem, of course, is this. And that's one other thing that I wanted to mention as well as we go through this I don't know really where I stand on that. This is in part because of some of the common misunderstandings Um so um so they it says they have a zeal for God. They had a zeal for God. Mills, and he s he specifically says it's for Israel, but I think it also applies to people today. I think, I think practically, even as parents, we need to be aware of this. They're stuck in that because they've never seen the righteousness. Father, I pray that this would be a special blessing to our heart. They did not know God's righteousness. Now, I want to put this all together for us, and I'll I want to use an illustration, pretty simple illustration, but an illustration It's the idea that that there's just this sort of transaction at play. Salvation is not about me gaining greater health or greater wealth. They had an actual zeal for God. But they did not see in the law of God the holy character of God. What was G what were the Jews' problem? And there's there's a a textual interesting textual It shows everything that's needed to see in order to accept Christ. Have you heard people say that? It is God's intention for Christ to fulfill the law. That if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe And no one can say that Jesus is Lord except by the Holy Spirit. But salvation is not about Jesus taking the wheel. He came to fulfill the demands of the law. 4 and then Deuteronomy chapter 30. Do we have to understand all the various intricacies of the gospel? It's not ethnicity. Have you heard people say that? She was so scared. You hate all workers of iniquity. But it says there, we're talking about the glory of the law and also the glory of Christ. And it is a little strange the way it's worded. The law had already been given, and and to reiterate it and to further explain it, Deuteronomy was given Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. Christians who know they're Christians, and Christians who know they're non-Christians. It's understanding what is the righteousness of God. Now they decide to establish their own righteousness, not knowing the righteousness They replaced the commands of God with the traditions of men. Yet the condition of Israel today is even as it is was in Paul's day. Then we also see, number two, we need to understand. I think that we even ourselves Well, the word end means fulfillment or goal. In the very core, the very bullseye of the gospel, we've already seen that the righteousness of God through faith is One is the idea that salvation is merely transactional. She's sorry for how she's living her life, and she's going to change herself, and the way she's going to do it is have Jesus take the wheel. He was in the very position that they were in. So this tells us uh Romans 3 tells us that we don't void out the law by faith, we actually establish the law. You're not really seeing the character of God Because God made this provision for us. Because they did not seek it by faith, but as it were, by the works of the law, for they stumbled at the stumbling stone. And in so doing, they lost a knowledge of God. It's also translated sometimes to subject oneself to. So the question then becomes, why did the Jews miss the glory of Christ? That's talking about the Old Testament for the most part. Are you guys okay? It is not in heaven that you should say, who and here is the phrase, who will ascend into heaven for us In most translations, it's translated, Jesus is Lord. There is a little bit of a difference, but overall, I think what we're talking here is about the entire being Commandments of man Now, to really understand this passage, both actually verses 9 through the end of the chapter, but certainly verses 9 through 10. Now, folks, that is dangerous. Verse ten, we actually see the order. It says, There Therefore, thus says the Lord God, Behold, I lay in Zion a stone of foundation, a tried stone, a precious corner stone You are the one true living God, the creator and sustainer of all life Don't think in your heart For whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. That essentially was the problem. And I have it up there on the screen for you, or you could certainly turn there. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. Why don't people come to Christ? Let's begin then by looking at this problem that we find in verses 1 through 3, willful ignorance He had a zeal for God, and yet he was lost. I've quoted it many times before, as particularly as we went through the series on Matthew. And we're going to see here that we have to receive He loved his ethnic brethren Israel and he desired for them to be saved. We see Paul's heart here. But what the Jewish people did, they went down the wrong road. And they went in to open the door of salvation, and the door, it's the wrong key. That's quoted also from Deuteronomy. So we I'm not sure we really understand what the word what the idea of heart is. Abraham said to him, They have Moses and the prophets, let them hear them This, of course, we actually remember another passage we in Romans chapter nine, verse thirty-three We will be looking at verses one through thirteen. I just need to let go and let God There's no authority except for God from God, and the authorities that exist are appointed by God. For if the ministry of the condemnation had glory, that's the law, the the the the effect of the law was to What Paul is saying is that the road should lead us And understanding that if someone someone can actually say they're a Christian, You can't articulate something that you don't understand. And then we do, we also have to exhaustively accept. But there are certain things that we need to understand. And so our desire is that our desire should be that we see people saved. But why? These things are really interchangeable. For Moses writes about the righteousness which is of the law. Okay. The word heart there, I think, is May the Lord richly bless you. I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill. It's saying that Israel is blinded There is a lot of confusion about what is necessary in order to receive. In Philippians chapter 2, verses 9 through 11, it says, Therefore God also has highly exalted him. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. And so he has to explain in detail They had some conception of God. That was the root problem. Are we trying to gain his favor by being by doing good things for him? Um Holman is Jesus as Lord. It says, Therefore I make known to you that no one's It can't mean that because nobody can Oh, I was in a bad car accident, but I didn't die. You ever heard people say that? She threw up her hand hands up in the air, and then the chorus it goes into the chorus, Jesus, take the wheel, take it from my hands. We see here in this passage that he says, My heart's desire and prayer to God is for Israel that they may be saved. And we have already learned on many occasions before that it cannot, whatever it is, it cannot include self-effort. But reality is the same thing, isn't it true? So Deuteronomy chapter 9, verse 4 says this There's one other condition, one other thing that we must believe, and that's very important, and that is the resurrection of Christ Number one: Do you know God? In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this Thank you for your Holy Spirit We pick up here and we see it says, for Christ You can't muster up God's righteousness. We're going to see that in Romans 11. It's certainly not how self-effort. See, the Apostle Paul knew he was looking at because he was one of them. Ultimately, self-righteousness will lead someone to hell. I think this is a very important phrase for us to understand. It was objective, it was verifiable, there are many, many miracles, miracles done. So what is God saying? Non-Christians who actually think they are Christians. That was the problem. According to what we said. It gives us a desire to please Him. And in your greatness, Father And secondly, we see that there was a problem of pride. And there's really nothing else to it. Do you have saving faith or merely easy I'm on. But it was not according, the problem is, it's not according to knowledge. They don't even recognize the glory of Christ. Do not say in your heart who will ascend into heaven. When you came to I got I I'll be real honest with you. Do you know the God of the Bible? Can I say it this way, you don't really know God They were the first group of people to come to Christ at Pentecost, over 3,000 This is why Paul says in Romans chapter 7, verse 7. What does that mean? That's the solution. And knowing God, the knowledge of the true God, that is the root problem. And in revealing God, it reveals This does not mean to come forward in a service or go see a priest. If you pick up then in verse 11, it says, For the scripture says, whoever believes on him will not Well you can't know you can't submit He says, he answered and said to them, Because Christ That is the key issue that we have seen throughout the book of Romans Why did Israel go the wrong direction? So that the God had a very specific purpose for the law to bring us to Christ. It's kind of kind of similar to Of course you remember you'll remember that Lazarus went into Abraham's bosom and Now, that's those are the components. And certainly then that is part of It's a wonderful example for us. But he said to him, If they do not hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded through one. Now your heart is not just the feelings. Are you depending on your own righteousness or God's righteousness? Why is there no distinction? What we could not do, he did for us. That's not that's not Or who will descend into the abyss? The truth of the matter is we can get so caught up. Or a basic plan of salvation. I illustrated it this way, but notice what it says in the passage of verse 5. And it says he is rich to those who call upon him. What would were the Jew Jews problems But he's actually picking he picks certain phrases out of there. And we see this in verses 8 through 2. But he says, I bear witness, bear them witness that they have a zeal for God. But we also need to say the same thing God says about his son. Of course, we've already seen that in Romans 8, verse 1. And then notice then in then in Deuteronomy chapter 30 These things go together. What is Paul saying here? That is the word of faith, which we preach. I had a come to Jesus moment. What was the problem? So what was the problem? Jesus, take the wheel. Catch this. Not sure based upon what you're saying. We hope to see you soon. He's actually referencing a passage in the Old Testament in Deuteronomy. We will not be able to see it ourselves. They did not recognize Jesus Christ came, lived a perfect life, died. Do you have saving faith? So that Israel, what is Paul saying? The word is near you in your mouth and in your heart. Do you really know who God is Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. What hinders people from coming to Christ? They even thought they knew God, but they did not know God. It's just if you say you're saved, you're saved because you just decided you're saved That is easy believism. So we have root problems here. Now the fact is, folks, our world does the same thing today, does it not? The first one it says the first thing it says is the Lord Jesus That is this. And they would say they're non-Christians. There's no life change. You have forgotten the law of your God. Paul is pointing out The Old Testament It's very, very obvious that that is the case. Israel did not know God. So if you come if i the qu you know We ought to pray for it. This is the Well, no. They took a left turn or a right turn right this way. One are Christians who know they are Christians. When we think of heart, you know, we just practiced we just celebrated Valentine's Day and everybody got a little We've seen that many times in the past. 2 Corinthians 5, verse 21. When I came to those verses, I went, whoa, what is that talking about? All the different translations, most of the translations And we're going to see how it also applies to us today Why? We need to know that Here's what Paul's saying here. I think that's important to understand that there is parallelism here Agree, understand, and accept. It says this: If you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus, You then have a confession after that. The Jews had the wrong key to salvation. God saved me. You don't have to look above or beneath or in the sea or anything. The heart is the entire being It can also mean termination. Because they're on the wrong, they're on a different road Or it's really just merely easy. But first we are going to open in prayer. They thought, in fact, they had an angle on God. Understanding God's righteousness. What why did they miss this? They did not know. One is ignorance. They didn't That is to bring Christ up from the dead. In Philippians chapter three, verse five it says They replaced Let me interge you come and turn Israel is without excuse. For Moses writes about the righteousness of the And look at what it says: God's I also will forget your children. And if you're here this morning Jesus said, I'm here. We're declared righteous. Verse 12. It's kind of all summed up in that. It was