Good evening. We're going to begin this evening with two hymns. The first one is number 337 in your hymn book, since I have been redeemed. Let's stand together and sing all the verses. I am still Will I have been ready for my remaining margin? I will glory in his name. I will glory in my save your thing. I have a price that is fine in thy happiness before my highest price will die. I will give my neighbor's name I have a wing and cry and clear since I have been reading. Since I have been means I mean since I have I will glory in this thing, Allah every day, I will glory in my name, your name I have a whole prepared for me since I have been where I shall well eat all the things I'm going to do. Excellent singing. Let's turn in your hymn books or just keep Keep looking at the screen. Number three eighty nine. My faith has found a resting place. My famous nine not resting place, not giving eyes for free. I trust me never is for me, shall we? And we are died, we will die, and we die glory. He done for me is I see the thing I need now to lie back me out. It becomes thy glory. I previously a lot he came to say for me his friends want his shed For me is like the games, I need no other argument, I need no other thing, it is in love that Jesus On the fourth chorus a cappella. My heart is being on the word, the raising word of God. Salvation by life. I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles for just a few moments as we go to God's Word this evening. And I was tempted to preach on baptism for obvious reasons. But I think the Lord has led me to a different spot. Would you take your Bible and turn to Isaiah chapter 6? And I want to preach on another very important Subject, and that is living out the gospel, or living the gospel. The reason I want to do that this evening is because there have been many people Even in my experience, I was saved and baptized at an early age, and some of my friends went on to serve the Lord. Mm. Pastor Matt was one of them, actually. Um and some of my friends did not. I couldn't give you an exact percentage, but I suspect it was about fifty fifty or maybe More that didn't than did. And when I got into college, the same thing, even in college, getting out of college and seeing where people are now, not everybody that professes Christ, not everybody that is baptized. Lives a faithful life to serve the Lord. And it is sad that some people fall away from the faith. One of the things that can happen And I pray that it doesn't happen with any of you all. One of the things that can happen is that someone can make a profession of faith at an early age. They can trust Christ as their Savior. Maybe they pray a prayer. They may even get baptized. And then they sort of say, okay, I've done that. And then they live their lives the way they want to. They just sort of move on from there and live the way however they want. They're not living out the gospel. They've had some interaction with the gospel. Maybe they've even truly accepted the gospel, maybe not. But they're not living the gospel. In fact, sometimes churches teach and preach as though the gospel is something to accept, and then you're kind of done with it. That couldn't be further from the truth scripturally. And I want to show you some very basic things about Living out the gospel. I hope that all four of you will not, you're you're taking a step of of obedience to the Lord tonight. But this should be the first of many steps in your life. The decision that you've made for Christ prior to coming to being here and being baptized. is the first of many things that the Lord will do in working in your life. And you want to be engaged in those things as you live out the gospel. We have here in Isaiah 6, we have the story of Isaiah who sees Christ. I think it's Christ here. And we'll pick up here in verse 1, it says, In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting on a throne, high and lifted up, and the train of his robe filled the temple. Above it stood Seraphim. Each one had six wings. With two he covered his face, with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew, and one cried to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts, the whole earth is full of his glory So Isaiah sees God. He sees the holiness of God. And then he looks at himself. It says in the post of the doors were shaken by the voice of him who cried out. And the house was filled with smoke. So I said He looks at himself, he goes, Woe is me, I'm undone. Because I am a man of unclean lips. And I dwell among people of unclean lips. For mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. He sees God, he sees his holiness as he is, he sees himself. As he is sinful among people that are sinful. And in verse 6, we have a representative of uh here a a symbolizing of the cleansing of God. Then one of the seraphim flew to to me, having in his hand a live coal which he had taken with the tongs of the altar, and he touched my mouth with it and said, Behold, this has touched your lips, your iniquity is taken away, and your sin is purged. Also I heard the voice saying to them, Whom shall I send? And who will go for us? Then he said, Here am I, send me. Now what we see here is a basic pattern that we're going to pick up on later. You're going to see how this works together. I want to notice to notice a few things about the what Scripture says in the New Testament about the gospel. In Matthew chapter 8, verses 33. 34 through 35, we have Jesus who has explained the gospel. And in verse 35, there it says, whoever desires to save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospel's will save it. That is, God says, if you want to live for Christ, you're going to live for the gospel's sake. Mark 1029 says it this way, same thing. He says, Assuredly I say to you, there is not one who has left house, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my sake and the gospels. The very first time the gospel is mentioned in the book of Matthew, in the Bible, in the New T or in the New Testament rather. It says, and Jesus went up out of Galilee, all out about all Galilee, teaching in the synagogues and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, healing all manner of sickness and all manner of diseases among the the people. The gospel of the kingdom. The gospel that gives us the ability to follow after, to be under the rule of the king. That's the gospel. In other words, God saves us for a reason. He doesn't save us just for fire insurance. He doesn't save us just so that we can escape hell and go to heaven. Yes, those things do happen when we come to Christ. But God saves us to be kingdom citizens. He saves us for his kingdom. And some would say, well, this is just the gospel that Jesus preached. But Jesus actually said that in Matthew 24, this should be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations and then shall the end come. Till Christ comes, till the end of the earth, this is the gospel that we are to preach. So what is the gospel? If we're going to learn how to live out the gospel, we need to understand what it is. The Bible says in Romans chapter 1, verse 16 that the gospel is the power of God unto salvation. It is the ability of God to save. But when we think of the gospel and we think of its saving work, we very frequently only think of justification. That is that we are declared righteous by God. We're saved, we say. We're saved from the punishment for our sin. But true biblical salvation includes justification. And sanctification, that we are saved from the power of sin. We're separated from sin and to God to serve God and we are there is a process by which we are growing in Christ's likeness and we are being freed from the power of sin. And then glorification, we're saved from the presence of sin. In other words, salvation works, it starts when we come to Christ and we are declared righteous by God, and it continues until we see Christ. It does not stop. It continues to stop continues that whole pattern. And what is necessary throughout this entire process is that we live out the gospel. So there's two wrong tendencies, and you'll actually hear from the testimonies a little bit tonight some of this. Some people are trying to live out the gospel through self-effort. This sort of performance mentality, living for Christ by my own spiritual will uh willpower. In justification through self-effort. We're saved, we're justified, we're declared righteous by the by what by placing our faith in Christ. Not by works, not by anything that we do of our own self-righteousness. The second tendency is we sort of just let go and let God. You ever heard that before? I just need to let go and let God That means it's sort of absolving oneself of responsibility. That is a second wrong tendency. Some people, they're I've got to, in order to live the way God wants me to, I've got to do it in my own self-effort. And that's wrong. And there are others that the way they want to live, they're like, well I'll just let God do what he wants and I'll just Let go and let God, and I'm simply saying I don't have any responsibility. Both of those things are not living by the gospel. Both extremes will hinder us from living out the gospel. So let's what here's what I want to do with Isaiah 6. I want us to think of think through this. And those of you who know Christ as a Savior, you can think through this with me. We can see it in Isaiah 6. But I want us to think through the stages of the gospel. What I mean by that is the stages of our conversion. When we pass from death to life, when we go from under condemnation of sin to justification declared by Christ declared righteous by Christ, what are those stages? What happens? Well, I want us to note four stages. Okay, they all start with G. One is guilt. In other words, we see God, we see his holiness, we see his justice. And God the fact that God cannot just overlook our sin. Sin must be punished. We understand that we are guilty. We have sinned. We fall short of the glory of God. We're separated from God because of our sin. sin and we experience guilt, the guilt of our sin. Romans 3. 23, for all of sin comes towards the glory of God. By testimony you're going to hear that all four of these baptismal They've experienced this. They have all realized they've sinned. They all realize that they were separated from God. They were born separated from God. You're going to hear this. Then they experience the grace of God. So they understand then that Jesus took his sin, took our sin, not his, he right, lived a righteous life, took our sin on himself. Died in our place so that we could have his righteousness. And they see the grace of God. Someone who is Truly come to Christ, they see their guilt, but they also see God's grace in their lives. They see that Jesus died for them to pay the punishment for their sin. The next one is gratitude. There is, now, you know, different people have different personalities. There are some people, they get saved, they come to Christ, and they are just bawling, they're crying. Okay? There are others that are just ecstatic. They're jumping around everywhere. There are others, you know, those level personalities. They're just like, yeah, I did that It's not about your emotional response, but I will tell you that what you truly being converted, truly being born again is going to cause you to be grateful for grace. We love him why? Because he first loved us. And so we realize the love of God because of the sacrifice that Christ made. We go from guilt. Grace, gratitude, and then we grow. That's how you grow in that order. And you know, when someone comes to Christ in the very beginning stages of when they come to Christ, you will begin to see them grow. Um they'll ch changes will happen a lot of times. Their attitude will change Their approach will change. They'll be thinking about things that they should do and shouldn't do because of who they are now. Not to be saved, but because they are saved. Now, let me just point a couple of things out to us. I'm going to move on from that one just for sake of time. There are three aspects of our relationship with God. There are three aspects. One, our position. When someone comes to Christ And God declares them righteous through what Jesus has done for them. There's been exchange that has taken place. Christ has taken their sin on himself and and has given them his righteousness. When that has happened, then they are in Christ If that has truly taken place, and it is an F, but if that has truly taken place, that doesn't change. Once the gospel has been applied They become you become a child of God and it doesn't change. But there are things that do change. You see, in any relationship, it's not just about the position, it's not just about the identity. Once you're a child of someone, you can't stop being a child of theirs. But if you're going to have a child good parent-child relationship, there's going to be more than just yeah, I'm their child. There's got to be something else And so we also know that there is our fellowship. This does change. It changes, listen, it changes based upon our continual application of the gospel. Okay? It changes upon whether or not we're living out the gospel. We'll see this in a minute how this works. And so even though our position doesn't change, our fellowship does and can. And finally, our growth and ministry. This improves based on our application of the gospel. We grow in Christ, we become more Christ-like, we grow in our effectiveness in serving the Lord. This all takes place As we are living out the gospel. Okay, so now, how do we live out the gospel? I want us to think back to our conversion, and I'm doing I'm going to suggest to you that the same way that you became converted Those same steps are how you also live out the gospel. Now you don't get saved again You're not declared righteous. That happens and that's that that stays. But your fellowship and your growth and your faithfulness, those things are dependent upon living out the gospel. If you guys can get this now, well you're gonna be this is something that adults often don't grasp um until much later. The first is guilt. Christians, do we sin? Okay, I mean talk about after we come to Christ. Do we sin? We absolutely do sin. So that means, folks, that if we truly sin against God, then a true Christian cares about that. Someone who's not a Christian doesn't care. Very candidly, they don't care. There is not a true desire to please God. It's one of the things I asked all four of them. in in in their interview. In one way or another I tried to get to the idea, do you have a desire to please God? I tried to do it in a way that wasn't just wasn't just a yes or no no no answer. And and all of them affirm that they truly desire to please God. Well that means if that's true, then I am going to, when I have sinned against God, I'm going to experience guilt. And I'm going to experience it every day. But understand this, right on the heels of that is God's grace. If we, 1 John 1. 9, which is written to the Christian, if we confess our sin, what happens? He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. so that our fellowship is restored. Now this is very basic, but you know there are Christians that go days and weeks and months And they're never guilty of their sin, and they're never experiencing God's grace, and they're not living out the gospel. If you guys can learn to have an ongoing relationship with God where you're, yes, you will displease God, but when you do, you're going to confess that before you're going to agree with God about that. You're going to realize that God has forgiven you for that and your fellowship is restored. And when that is, there's going to be there is going to be a gratitude in your life. Do you know the difference between do you know the difference between Christians? Who is living out the gospel and one who's not, it's gratitude. You can mark it down. The one who is a Christian who is living out the gospel He is one who is grateful. Now it doesn't mean everything's going right. Believe me, that doesn't happen all the time. There's all kinds of problems. You still go through every difficulty under the sun. There's still frustrations and issues And disappointments and all kinds of stuff in the Christian life. That doesn't change. But there's an underlying gratitude for the grace of God in our lives. when we are truly living out the gospel. It's quite possible that we haven't experienced the gratitude because we haven't experienced the grace because we haven't experienced the guilt. And we're stale in our relationship with God, in our fellowship with Him. Many times, if we're in our if we're having a fellowship problem with God, you can look back to these. And I hope you guys will. You can look back and say, okay, why am I not close to God? Maybe, maybe the problem is that I've got unconfessed sin. That is a possibility. But maybe the problem is that I haven't realized the grace of God. Maybe I know I sin and I keep feeling guilty for it, and I haven't realized, oh, God's forgiving me for this. I can forsake this, I can move on. Maybe that's the problem. Living out guilt and grace and gratitude and then growth every day of our lives living this out every day of our lives. The same way you are converted by the gospel is the same way we're living at the gospel. Converted by the gospel is for our position in Christ, our identity. That doesn't change. But we can continue to live out the gospel for the sake of our fellowship and our spiritual growth in the same way that we came to Christ. Guilt, grace, and gratitude, and growth. I hope you guys will remember these. I hope you'll remember these four. Maybe your whole life. Guilt, grace, gratitude, growth. I hope that you will take these four and you will say to yourself, if you're not walking with the Lord, if you're not close to the Lord, If you're not being faithful, there's something wrong with your fellowship with God, something's not right. Go through these and say, okay, am I am I Not confessing sin to the Lord, am I doing things and sinful and ignoring it and not saying the same thing God am I am I saying I've sinned not saying I've not sinned and I have and all that Or is it I've not experienced the grace if I'm living in guilt? Am I living in guilt? That's a possibility. Or you're not experiencing the grace of God. Or you're not grateful. Any of the if you will remember these four things It will really help you to live out the Christian life. Don't just do this and say, okay, I got that done out of the way. Now I can do what I want. Go on for Christ. Live for Christ. Fellowship with Christ. Grow in your fellowship and your spiritual growth. I want to say this to every Christian. out here. If you name the name of Christ, if you have truly been born again, if you are truly a child of God, then you want to please him. And if you are not, then you don't. Now you don't please God, you don't become a child of God by pleasing him, but when you are a child of God, you will want to please him. And so if you are here tonight and you're a Christian, maybe you're coming to see these young folks get baptized. That's wonderful. But are you living out the gospel in your life? Can you say? Can you confirm, yes, I do know the Lord is my Savior? Yes, I do want to please Him with my life. Or would you say, I'm not really sure. I'm not really sure I've ever lived out the gospel. If you're here tonight, we're gonna have a fellowship time later, there's gonna be cookies and all that kind of stuff. I bec I don't need cookies, believe me, I don't need them. So come and talk with me. And I would much rather talk with you about the Lord than eat cookies And tomorrow I'll be much happier too. So I'm joking a little bit, but I really mean that. I really I would love to talk with you about this And help you to know, number one, are you truly a child of God? Does that really happen in your life? And number two, do you really, are you living out the gospel in your life? Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Father, we come to you and we praise you. We thank you for this gift of redemption that Christ, as we learned this morning, as we were reminded of this morning, Of the wonderful sacrifice that Christ made on the cross for us, the incredible, incomprehensible sacrifice that Christ made on the cross on our behalf. Father, we come to you this evening and we now have the privilege of watching and being witness. to some young folks who have given their life to Christ and now they want to show, they want to publicly profess their faith. Lord, we're so grateful for this. And Father, we pray, Lord, that you would just really work in our midst this evening I pray that we wouldn't go away from here and forget the truth that we've learned or been reminded of tonight about not just accepting the gospel, but living out the gospel. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's sing together one more song before the candidates are baptized, and I'm looking forward to this as they come in. in just a few moments. We'll sing a wonderful song, Redeem. This is really just exactly what what they're they are sharing tonight. They are redeemed. They are bought back uh by the blood of Christ. It's a wonderful thing that we'll be able to to witness uh together. Um I do want to mention a couple of things real quickly, just housekeeping kind of things before we sing. We're gonna have lots, this will be well documented. So uh I have somebody taking p taking pictures, it's going to be videoed, it will be recorded, we'll send you all of that. If you could do your best, just Just just I mean if you've got to take a picture like this, that's fine. But if you put your hand above people, they may not be able to see. So be aware of that. It's it really will be fine as far as you'll you'll you'll get what you need as far as pictures. And so I would just encourage you to don't worry about it. You don't need the pictures. We'll send them to you. You can uh we'll definitely get them to you. And so uh just want to make you aware of that. All right, let's sing together hymn 336 Redeemed Jesus, my rapture that don't mind his presence by I take my I can be silently silent, but I saw Oh god, I guess. All right, we are ready to start. Um uh Pat Matthew Conrad has two of his kids here, and he's been their pastor their whole lives and their dad. And so I uh he's asked to baptize uh them. They'll go first one at a time. They're gonna go through they're gonna what they're gonna do is they're come up here, they're gonna give their testimony, they're gonna walk back behind here, and then we'll baptize them and then we'll take them in the membership. So that's what we'll do. But he'll be doing the first two and then I'll come up and do uh the others. I think Ben you're up first for your testimony. Before I was saved, I was a sinner, but did not know it until I heard it at church and read in the Bible verses like Romans thirty three ten as it is written, there are none righteous, no not one. When I was about four years old, I asked my dad how I could be saved. He said that I had to believe that Jesus died for my sin, was buried, rose again the third day, and that I was Savannah and only God could save me. And John five, twenty-four, s it says, Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believes hears my word and believeth on him he sent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not common condemnation but passed from death unto life. So that's what I did. After I was saved, I started trying to do what was right. Because I wanted to obey God. God has given me a life and I want to serve God with it. As Philippians 1 21 says, For me for me to live is Christ and to die is gain. I'm not sure if you're not going to be able to do that. Gotta get those shoes last time. On your profession of faith and Christ alone for salvation, then I baptize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Ben's also coming for membership today as well. Ben, do you agree with our doctrinal statement, our constitution, as much as you understand it? I good. All right, very good. Um can I have a motion from the floor to accept Ben Endor membership? He won't be voting until he's he's the right age, but anyway. Um okay, it's been moved and seconded. Any discussion? No I don't think so. All in favor say aye. Like sign opposed. Motion carried. Welcome. All right, very good. I was a sinner. I did not know that Christ died for me on the cross. Like it says in Romans 5:8. But God demonstrates his own love toward us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. When I was five I asked Dad into my room to talk and pray pray. That night I got saved by believing that Christ died and rose again Ephesians 2. 8, for by grace you have and save through faith, and not of yourself, it is the gift of God, is one of the verses that helps me understand that I did not earn my salvation, but I received it a gift of God God. But now I want to use my life for Christ. Like it says in Philippians one twenty one. For me to live for me to live is Christ and to die is gain Yeah. Heavenly Craig, on your profession of faith in Jesus Christ alone for salvation, I baptize you in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. And do you agree with our doctrinal statement of the Constitution? Yes. Alright, very good. Can I have a mo motion from the floor to accept Emily into our baptism or our membership as well? I got baptism on the brain. All right. It's been moved in a second. All in favor say aye. Like, sign opposed. Motion carried. Welcome, Ellie. All right. Okay, Tell us. God created me, as it says in Psalm one thirty nine, thirteen through sixteen. You formed my inland parts, and in your book they all were written, the days fashioned for me, when as yet were there were none of them. I am a sinner and need a saviour. Romans three twenty three for all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. And Romans six twenty three A for the wages of sin is death. Because God loved me, he sent sent his son to be my substitute, John three sixteen. The son carried out the God's perfect plan of redemption by dying in my place. As it says in Romans Romans five eight, but God demonstrates his own love towards us and that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. He then defeated death by rising on the third day. says in First Corinthians fifteen four, and that he was buried and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. I have known all of this in in some way my entire life. I had prayed the prayer before, but never really realized what it all really meant. It wasn't until twenty twenty that my dad took me beside the fire pit for a It then hit me that I had never really personalized what God had done for me, and that night I believed that Jesus Christ was my substitute before Before I was all just doing it because I had to. Now I want to please God and see what His plan is for me. So I praise God for creating me and choosing me to be His child. Just take a while to get the shoes off. You're close to the tallest person I've ever baptized. All right. But see, this is why we got this baptism because he's sitting down while I baptized his assistant. This is great. Silas, upon your profession of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, I now baptize you in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Buried in the likeness of his death, greatest to serve and newness of life. Silas was also coming for uh for um communion as or I'm getting them all all the ordinances in here and everything. Coming for membership today, can I have a motion from a f oh do you agree with our constitution or document I figured. All right. Can I have a motion from LaFloor to accept Silas into our membership? It's been moved and seconded. Uh all in favor say aye. Like, sign opposed. All right, motion carried. Welcome, Silas. I was supposed to stay with him to help him back. He's like up and out of there. Like many kids raised in the church, I can't remember a time before I I've never had one transformational moment when I went from not believing to believing. Instead, God has worked in my heart slowly to help me fully understand the gospel and how it applies to my life. When I was very young, I remember volunteering to be taken side at a VBS and having an adult walk me through the motion of being saved, though I doubt I understood what I was doing or had the right motivations After that, and for most of my life, I was never sure of my salvation. At every altar call and at the end of every sermon, I was struck with anxiety and doubts that I wasn't actually saved. I remember thinking about how I just needed to make my faith stronger or pray more often or do better at everything in my life and then I could make sure I was saved and right with God. Even though I knew that salvation was by faith and never would have identified with thinking I wasn't good enough to be saved, I somehow still thought that way. I have heard so many times that you can't earn salvation but it didn't even occur to me that I was acting and thinking as if I had to. I remember thinking of being face to face with God and feeling unprepared, like somehow I needed to do all this stuff It wasn't overnight, but at some point in the last few years I realized that all the things I felt like I was failing at I needed to do better in order to be Right with God were exactly the things that Christ came to save me from. After years of being hopeless, thinking that I was that I must have done the whole salvation thing wrong since I was Still failing at being a good Christian, God showed me how I was how dense I was being, not trusting that He handled it all of it already. It's in the Bible over and over. In Acts 16, when Paul Silas were asked what must I do to be saved, all they said was, Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved. In Romans ten nine, they s um it says, If you declare with your mouth do the As Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. That's the instruction manual for salvation. Step one, believe. I started praying to God to help me to have a desire for him because I clearly wasn't gonna be able to do it myself and he did. I've started to want to read scripture more than than I ever had before, my first reaction to things to surge be to pray way more often than it was before. So after years of panicking, when preachers at camps would say things like, if you die right now Do you know where you would go? Recently that happened to me and without hesitating a second, I thought, yes. See Reese, that's why we waited for the U. S. Ready to go. Upon your profession of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, I now baptize you in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Lord. the Holy Spirit, baptized in the likeness of his death, raised to walk in newness of life. Let's do this quickly. She's cold. Um uh do you agree with our doctrinal statement and our our uh Constitution. Okay. Can I have a m motion from the floor to I guess I have yeah can have a motion from the floor to accept her in our membership. It's been moved and seconded all over the place. Uh all in favor say aye. Like sign opposed. Motion carry. Brees, welcome. All right. I want to sing that redeemed song again. Praise the Lord. This has been wonderful, very encouraging. I am I just feel Very blessed as a pastor, honestly. I've been here 11 years and to see these kids, uh I heard I remember my pastor saying that. To see these kids is such a blessing, now I'm saying it I must be old. Anyway, let's all stand together and it is a blessing to see them the Lord work in their lives and in their hearts. And uh I want to sing this. We don't need a oh you're there. Okay. I wasn't I was just gonna put al cappella. I didn't All right, we got a cannon, so that's fine. We'll we'll use her since she's there. Okay. Alright, let's sing let's sing together redeemed. Reading why lost the pro quantity by the plan of the Step in their in their um uh spiritual walk with the Lord and um pray that they go on for Christ. Pray that they go on to be Grow in Christ's likeness. They go on to serve Him faithfully throughout their lives in prayer for them. Harry, would you close us uh with a word of prayer uh this evening? Let me encourage you before you pray. Um uh there is cookies and things like that. You can talk to our the baptismal campus It should head down that way after uh after their dress and everything, and so you can talk with them uh down there. So I would encourage you to uh to hang out for a little while, eat some cookies. and uh fellowship with each other. Uh Harry, if you would close us in prayer. Heavenly Father, we just come tonight with grateful and thankful hearts. Father, we praise you for the Lord. We are so thankful for your work. And all we're thankful for those And we asked God if you wouldn't let instill it in us and have a desire if you want to come alongside the afternoon Encourage them and disciple them in any way that you would see us to do that, Lord. And we are thankful, pray for them, Lord, that you will continue to uh grow them and nurture them, Lord And I pray that I think that uh you would be praised just now, uh, look for that. And we asked you this. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide It helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.