At this point we will pray momentarily and then I will read from the text uh that Craig Comstock will be preaching from, and then at that point Craig can come up, correct? Yep. Okay. Let's go ahead and pray together. Father, we praise you today for your goodness and graciousness. uh things we are so undeserving. We are reminded today already from uh scriptures that have been read and The songs that we have sung that you have placed us in this world not to live for ourselves, not to live to make our own names great. But truly to exalt your name and proclaim your name and your gospel to those that are around us, both to see people saved and to grow people in Christ And Lord, we we recognize and confess that we we often do the opposite. We often only remember our name. We remember what we are doing and what we are about. And Lord, that that truly is a just a shadow of an existence that you have really put us here for Lord, help us not to miss what you are doing in our midst. Help us to live for your kingdom. and the kingdom that you're building with your people, and not just live for our own tiny, insignificant kingdoms. Lord, as we think of how you've been working in this church and what you're doing in our midst. We praise you, Lord, for what you have done, but we pray for more. We ask that you would continue to do a work in the hearts of your people here at Bethel. We ask that you continue to use your word to shape us and grow us. To be more conform to the image of your Son, so that we can better be ready to share the gospel, to disciple others We ask, Lord, that you would use the preaching to come, that you would do this very thing to challenge our hearts with your word. May you do these things in Christ's name. Amen. Reading from the text today will be Luke chapter 10, verses 25 through 37. Encourage you to turn there with me. Luke chapter 10, verses 25 through 37. Luke twenty five Luke 10 verse 25 says, And behold, a certain lawyer stood up and tested him, saying, Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life He said to him, What is written in the law? What is your reading of it? So he answered and said, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself. And he said to him, You have answered rightly. Do this, and you will live. But he, wanting to justify himself, said to Jesus, And who is my neighbor? And Jesus answered and said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, who stripped him of his clothing, wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. Now by chance a certain priest came down that road, and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. Likewise, a Levite, when he arrived at the place, came and looked and passed by on the other side. But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was, and when he saw him he had compassion. So he went to him, bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine, and he set him on his own animal, brought him to an inn, and took care of him. On the next day he departed, he took out two denarii, gave them to the innkeeper, and said to him, Take care of him, and whatever more you spend, when I come again, I will repay you. So, which of these three do you think was neighbor to him who fell among the thieves? And he said, He who showed mercy on him. Then Jesus said to him, Go and do likewise. It is a blessing to be able to be here today and to be able to share God's Word with you. Thank you for supporting us for many years now as we've been serving the Lord in New Zealand. We are uh grateful for your support to be able to partner with you. It's um easy to forget what is taking place around the world when you support missions. And uh it's easy to see the ministry here because it's tangible and you see it every day or several times a week or once a week or however many times it is. Uh but there are active ministries that you are supporting. They're they're part of your ministry And they are taking place every day around the world. And it's a blessing to be able to come back and to be able to share that with you. If you missed the video during Sunday school, it probably is available digitally You ask around, I emailed it. If someone's giving me a thumbs up in the back. So if you would like to see that, please talk to the appropriate people and you'll be able to get a copy of that, I'm sure, and you'll be able to see Better the work in New Zealand and what we've been working on. Just one detail with that as well that I forgot to mention. this morning um because pastor mentioned actually the prayer time uh pray for uh Caitlyn and Lynn uh Caitlin's a girl from our ministry If you watched the video this morning, she shared a little bit. Uh she traveled with us our last furlough and uh was saved in her ministry. They were married in November and they're involved in a new church plant up in Matamata. which is about four hours away. And I'm not expecting you to remember that name or know where that is. But play pray for that ministry. It's an exciting thing. We're church planning ministries or missionaries there. And in a My passion is church planning. That's what it uh we've been looking forward to seeing. And before we went to New Zealand, um I I remember telling churches, perhaps yours, uh long to see the day when when New Zealand churches are starting other churches And that's what's taking place, sub in Matamata. What that is, is is there's a church in Hamilton about 25 years old, uh started by an American missionary back quite a few years ago. And a church at Taranga, uh also started by the American missionary. And over the last twenty or so years those churches have grown. They have national pastors, they're supporting And uh those two churches saw a need to start a church in Manamata and uh work together to start that work. And um there's an American missionary that have been sort of sponsored in under the Church in Taranga and and they're assisting with that as well. Uh but Caitlin and her husband also are there. Lim is now the assistant pastor there. And uh that's thrilling. It's thrilling to me to see churches that didn't exist planted, indigenous churches now supporting their own pastor, and now they're starting and planting their own churches. as well. So that's a thrilling thing. And um we're there to plant churches as well, but I I can only do so much. So to see other churches being planted. is a is a blessing. So anyway, if you want to see that a little bit more of that, you can see that in the video. Luke chapter 10 Verses 25 through 37, uh as was written or read earlier, uh is our text for this morning And I want to consider a few different things from this passage of Scripture. We'll take a look at this in quite some detail. But what does it mean to be a neighbor? A biblical neighbor. That is major theme that we're going to look at. A few different things out of this passage of scripture. Being a neighbor is a biblical challenge. And it works into missions and outreach because Christ teaches on it here in this passage. And to minister to others, a lot of times, it means being a neighbor to them. But the question then arises, what does that mean and who is my neighbor? And that's one of the major questions that's asked here in this passage. And in ministering in New Zealand and in ministering even before that, we had to learn this concept. We had to learn what it meant to minister to people. in in w in the situations there we're in. And sometimes those situations and I'll share more later, but sometimes those situations were not pleasant, they were not easy, they were very complicated, messy situations because That is what sin does to people. That is what life does to people. And the Lord had to reach out and minister to many people in his ministry And uh had to be neighborly, had to be compassionate to those individuals as well. And so we see that in the scriptures and we see that sort of come to ahead here in this passage. But first of all, I want to look at the first few verses as it considers the greatest commandments and Christ's interaction with this lawyer. In verse 25, Jesus is approached by a lawyer, someone who was an expert on the law, most likely a scribe, someone who spent a great deal of time in the scriptures as well as copying the scriptures as well And because scribes spent most of their time copying scriptures, they became experts in the law. They knew the law well. And so they were looked at as experts. in the matter. And this individual comes to Christ and he asks him a very relevant question. He says, Master, teacher, what shall I do to an e- in to inherit eternal life. How can I have eternal life? A relevant question, one that People should be asking. It's a question that the world desires to know the answer to, or at least should desire to know the answer to. It's a question that you yourself no doubt ask at one time or another. in your life. And Christ here in this passage of Scripture points him back to the law Ministering here, he points them to the law and he says, Well, what do you read there? How do you interpret the law? Again He's a m a uh uh this lawyer is uh an expert in the law. And so the man answers a a very standard answer, very correct answer, by reciting the greatest commands The greatest commands of all. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind, and thy neighbor as thyself. These great commands were considered exceedingly important uh i in in Jesus' day They were considered to be a summary of the law. In fact, Christ himself in another place said that all of the law and the prophets could be hung under these two commands. And so Jesus points him back to these uh uh to the scriptures to the law, and he asks what it says. This man then recites these greatest commands to love God completely, to love your neighbor as yourself. And Jesus responds in a very Interesting way, he says in verse 28, he says, Thou hast answered right, this due, and thou shalt live. Now that's a almost surprising response because we know that salvation is through faith, by grace, through faith. And so Jesus points to the law and says, if you do these things. You'll live. And while that seems surprising, Jesus was not incorrect. If this man could keep the law, as could anyone, then we could have eternal life. But the law was not given to us to provide eternal life. The law is not given to mankind to attempt to keep. The law is given to us to show us the fact that we can't. We cannot keep the law. It is impossible to do so. And so God didn't give Israel the law to uh try to keep it to be able to somehow be able to earn their way to heaven. No, God gave Old Testament Israel, gave us the law to show us our flaws, our failures, our sinful nature, our wickedness And Jesus spends a great deal of time in the Gospels helping people to understand the full extent of the law and how they constantly fail. And this is one of those instances So when Jesus says to him, if you'll do these things, you will live. That's what he's referring to here. He says, if you can keep these things, then you will have life. And he's trying to help this man understand the fact that He has failed. He has failed. And we need to understand that as well. And if you're here today and you don't know Christ as your Savior, you need to realize you need a salvation You need to realize that you've fallen short of God's standard. You need to realize that you've broken God's law and that Jesus Christ came to die on your behalf and to provide salvation for you. But Jesus points again back to the law here. Mankind tends to conv We like to try to sidestep it. Mankind tries to reinterpret it. We like to try to shape it into something that we can conform our lives to. In fact, Old Testament Israel had constantly done that God gave them the law and they were constantly shaping and molding and trying to change it to fit their situation and all mankind does that because the law makes us uncomfortable. The law is a mirror of ourselves and it shows us our sin nature. And this man was no different. And for whatever reason, we don't know much obviously about this specific individual But the detail about your neighbor stepped on his toes. It convicted him. It was the part that God used to convict him and to cut any and so he says in verse twenty nine, but he seeking the soldiers, but he willing to justify himself in order to declare himself righteous, to to to sidestep and and and mold the law to fit his situation, this uh detail about Who your neighbor is was the part that bothered him the most. And we don't know exactly why. So he says to Jesus, who is my neighbor. Who is my neighbor? What does this mean? Explain this to me. I want to have eternal life, but this aspect of being a neighbor, well how does that fit in the Bible says specifically? that he was trying to justify himself in saying that. Who is my neighbor? What does it mean to be a neighbor. A lot of times when we think about being a neighbor, we think about proximity. Proximity. Where the person is located defines whether or not they are my neighbor. In our property, in our situation where I live, we have basically three neighbors If you saw the video this morning, we live sort of semi-rurally. We have a half acre and we're just sort of just barely to the side of town, just just just outside of town. I could be to grocery stores in in in in the town in about six minutes drive and uh to church in about fifteen minutes. So we are we are just barely rural. And so in our property where we are, we have uh a neighbor that's about A hundred feet from us, hundred hundred feet or so. And uh the Moss family and they live uh right next door and we've tried to minister to them. They're uh and safe family, pray for them, and and they would be our direct neighbor. And they're down our our right-of-way driveway that we have and we share together. Behind us is is another man. They live his house is probably a good hundred, hundred and fifty yards from our property. It's quite a ways away. But again, his property uh neighbors ours as well, use that term. And uh and then there's a a a Maori family that lives up front, a Maori couple and And uh a relative of theirs lives on the property as well. And uh they're aging and we've been able to to witness to them, especially the relative, quite a few times uh we've been able to witness to to Michael pray for Michael and um anyway they live on our right of way off of our street And uh those would be normal definition of neighbor. We also have a quarry that neighbors us, but that doesn't really count Uh that those are our neighbors by normal definitions. So Jesus does not define being a neighbor that way at all. Instead, he decides to give an illustration or a parable here to define what it means to be a neighbor, to define who is your neighbor and what it means to be one. What does it mean? So there's a couple different parts that we're looking at here. First of all, the law as it applies to this individual and the fact that they had fallen short, but secondly, understanding that I need to be a neighbor in order to reach out and minister to people around me. What does that mean? So in verse 30, Jesus gives this parable. He says in verse 30, and Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem. Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. This was a dangerous road. It was about 17 miles and and he is leaving Jerusalem. It says that he he went down from Jerusalem, so he's le departing Jerusalem. He's leaving for Jericho and And in a day where travel was dangerous at best, especially by yourself, this road was especially dangerous. It was an old road. It had lots of curves and it had rugged, bleak, and rocky terrain, and and Roberts could easily hide on it. And so anyone listening to the sale would have immediately identified at the danger of this situation and what this man was attempting to do. And we are given details here. It says that he he he was stripped of his raiment, so his his belongings, everything down to his clothing, were taken from him. He was wounded The thieves left him half dead. So he is grievously wounded. He is basically dying if he doesn't get help. This is not someone who's injured a little bit and needs a little bit of help. This is someone that if he does not get help, he will not survive. And so that is the scenario we're dealing with. And in verses 31 to 32, two individuals come that way. Two individuals passed by. Most likely they are traveling from Jerusalem to Jericho as well. And so uh some have stated, well they were they were trying to stay clean and and and behold the law. They were going to Jerusalem to to uphold you know the the various rites that they were doing a priest and a Levi and and most likely that's not the case. Most likely they're traveling away from Jerusalem and and and so that's not an excuse. And so these two men, people that should have known better, completely ignore him. First of all, a priest, someone who ministered in the temple with the sacrificial system and all those different things that needed to be done in the temple. A Levite, someone who was uh dealing with uh the order of the temple and and all the extra different things that needed to be done, not not the sacrifices themselves, but uh they they ministered by uh um uh a variety of different ways and and just helping in the temple and and uh helping to run such a place And so anyway, these two men see the man. We see that in verse 31. It says that when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. Again in verse 32, it says he looked on him and passed away on the other side. Both of these men clearly CA neat and they want nothing to do with it. Maybe a scheduling thing, maybe just too messy. Don't don't want to deal with it. Don't have the stomach for it. Whatever the excuse, they know what to do and they choose not to do it And then we're introduced to a Samaritan in verse 33. It says, but a certain Samaritan, a man that is a bit of a surprise as Jesus is telling this this tale, this story. And it's meant to to make a point. The Samaritans didn't like the Jews, and the Jews hated the Samaritans. The Samaritans were uh a a group of people up in northern Israel and uh uh when when the ten northern tribes went into captivity and Assyria took over that area They brought in a number of foreigners and Syrians, captives, different people to live in the land. And those people over several hundred years had intermarried, brought their culture in. And fast forward several hundred years and you have a situation where you have part you, part gentile, various customs, different traditions. A different set of the laws, a different worship system. You essentially have a a different religion, and they're not fully Jew. And because of all of that, the Jews Hated the Gentiles. And the Gentile and Aries, sorry, the Samaritans. The Samaritans didn't really like them either And yet this man is unique, this man is different. And he's journeying, he comes along, he finds this half-wounded, half-dead individual, and instead of passing by on the other side It says that he had in verse 33 compassion on him. This word compassion is the idea of just a base, it's a basic term. The idea of having pity or or feeling sympathy for someone. It's not a complicated term. You see someone in need and and you can either stick up your notes and say it's tough or or you can actually feel bad for them and try to help. But that's what it's talking about here. In fact, this term is most commonly used in the New Testament to actually refer to Jesus himself. Jesus had compassion on the multitudes. So as Jesus is telling this tale, he's using a term that is often used for himself. This idea of having compassion on someone who is in need, it's a trait that Jesus owned, that he lived out, that he exercised. And he applies this trait to the Samaritan in this tale. This man shows compassion. This man shows love. What is love? What is compassion? Well, it is sacrificial, it is giving. It is costly. It is difficult. A lot of times we think of it being an easy thing. We just finish with Valentine's Day. And with Valentine's Day, our society likes to sort of paint a picture of love that is that is that is a lot of times different than it is in reality. Love can be hard, love can be messy, love can be costly, love can can hurt. And Jesus portrayed that in his own life as he gave his life as he ministered to people, as he was mocked, as he was being that, went through so much to love us So what did it cost this man to have compassion and to be a neighbor and to love on this half-dead Jew? Well First of all, it cost him time. I don't know this man's schedule. I don't know what he was up to that day, but whatever it was was going to be putting on hold. Put on hold. Now he's dealing with this man. It says it bound up his wounds, so he's using dressings of some sort. I don't know if it's some spare clothing he had. I don't know if he's got some spare uh uh cloths or uh what he would have used, but He's using something that he didn't plan to use that day as a to bind up his wounds. It says he poured in oil and wine. So it's costing them these things as well to clean up the wound and help ease the pain and and and add some self to the wound as well. And then it says it set him on his own animal, his own beast. So now he's not riding anymore. He's now walking. No longer is he riding. On top of that it says he brought him to an inn and took care of him. And so that took time and effort as well. And it says, On the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, two denaria, and gave him to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him, and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again I will repay thee. Daenerys was a typical day laborer's day's wages. You finish your day's work, that's what you were handed. And so he gives up at least two days' pay here to be able to do this. And it might cost more. And he says, when I come again, when I'm going to come through this area again, let me know and I will pay you back whatever's necessary. And so there's a financial investment. And keep in mind, this man is a complete stranger and someone that he would rather not have dealt with normally. That's the kind of situation that Jesus is painting here. One person wrote about this passage. He said that love should not be limited by its object. Its extent and quality are in the control of its subject. Furthermore, love is demonstrated in action In this case, in an act of mercy. It may be costly, cloth, wine, oil, transportation, money, and sacrifice of time. Love is a costly thing. And a lot of times we're not willing to spend it. And yet Jesus showed that constantly. Jesus showed love. God sent his son based on love, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. That is missions. It is God reaching out to mankind. God saying, you know what? I'm going to love you. You're a wicked, sinful people. You have violated my law. You deserve eternal punishment in hell. But I love you. And I'm going to reach out to you. I'm going to minister to you when you're unlovely, when you're not pretty, when you are not that different from this half-dead Jew. Jesus loved us and showed us that kind of love. Jesus finishes this section. And he poses a question to the lawyer, to us as well. He says, Which thou these three thinkest thou was neighbor unto him that fell among the things? Who was a biblical neighbor? And and this story had quite an impact. It had an impact on the lawyer, it says, and he said, He that showed mercy on him. It's interesting he doesn't say the Samaritan. He can't say that, so it says, he that showed mercy on him. Anyway, then said Jesus unto him, Go and do thou likewise. Be like this. And I think on one hand, he's hoping he'll see his need of a savior because this is an area he's been violating God's law. But also he is teaching in this passage of scripture what it means to be a neighbor And so we need to realize that this kind of ministry is at the core of ministry, at the core of missions. It is a love and a compassion and a care for people that are unlovely. All of you have had times when you've had to deal with people that weren't so enjoyable to have to deal with. Could be an employer. Could be a relative. And they're hard to deal with. Ministries, people Ministry is caring for others. And anytime you deal with people, you have the potential of dealing with people that don't treat you well and are unlovely. And Jesus shows us here in this passage that to be a neighbor, we need to understand some things. First of all, being a neighbor, a neighbor is not defined by who lives next door. Oh, you're not my neighbor because you don't live within half a mile of where I live. Jesus teaches that being a neighbor has nothing to do with that here. Our neighbor is not defined by who they are or what they're like, and that being a neighbor is based on our actions, not our proximity to them. You will find that ministry involves people and that dealing with people can be complicated Early on in our time in New Plymouth, we were reaching out to a couple that they were challenging to reach out to. We reached out to them for years. And uh this this couple they had some some mental health issues and struggles from their past, uh drugs in the past and difficult couple. They were starting to come to our church and early on we wanted to help them and and um they had Collected underneath their house, sort of a cellar slash walkout basement type thing underneath their house, dozens and dozens and dozens of bags of trash that have been sitting there for months, years potentially It was really gross. Really gross. And in order to help them and minister to them, it meant helping them with that. And so I remember Garth Piper, our co-worker, contacting me and saying, hey, this is what we're going to be doing today. We need to go over there for a couple hours and we need to haul all this trash away. I struggle with smells, I struggle with that kind of thing, I that this just a me think. And and I remember for a couple hours hauling bags of trash out from underneath their house. It sank. It was nasty. Some of the bags were leaking. It was gross. And I'm not patting myself on the back. I s I struggled with it all. But that was ministry That day. Sometimes ministry is teaching from God's Word to go helping go someone go through a Bible study. I love that. But sometimes it means getting your hands messy or dealing with people or situations that aren't pleasant in the least. Because people are messy. Maybe they're annoying. Maybe they stink, literally. And yet God wants us to love them in that way. That's what we see demonstrated here in this passage of scripture. Maybe they're from a place we'd rather them not be. Maybe they're they're living amongst us and we don't know why they are. Maybe their culture is a bit different than ours And we find that strange. Maybe it's just a personality thing. They're annoying. Or your personalities conflict slightly. And we would rather not be around them. Yeah, God wants us to minister to them. And this is applicable wherever we are. It is ministry, it is, and it's it's not foreign missions if it's at home. I realize that. But that is just the nature of ministry. And so we have had to learn this in New Zealand. It's not always been easy. In ministering to you saw Jared in the video earlier. Not my son Jared, not the same. He comes from a really rough background that's very, very different from me. Drugs, gangs, the worst. And and in in in discipling him and And I I um a number of us ministered and when he was unsaved, he attended our church for about three months before he trusted Christ. numerous times witnessing to him and others witnessing to him and under the preaching God's word I finally uh went through the the four lesson exchange I saw it on the back of your bulletin that you It appears that's you have access to that. We have access to that as well. Went through the four lessons. I by the end of the third lesson, I left that day and and he trusted Christ that evening uh before he came to church. And then he did tell me. But anyway, he told me that next week, uh New Zealanders are very private that way. Uh that he told me that he had trusted Christ. But anyway, um It's been challenging for me to minister to him because his background is so different than mine. And there's times he'll tell me things I'm going, oh, okay, you You definitely need to grow in that area or you know, and and and and they are. They're real things he needs to grow in, but that's that's just part of his past. And and part of the things he's he's growing at. And uh love him so much and look forward to getting back and doing more Bible studies with him when I get back. So pray pray for Jarrett. That's what it means to be a neighbor So ask yourself this. Do I love my neighbor as myself? Well, first of all, do I have eternal life? That's probably the first question we need to ask ourselves based on this passage. Do I have eternal life? Is there a time where I trusted Christ as my Savior? What does that mean? And I know that can be answered. I know it can be answered from God's Word. I know that people here can share that with you So ask yourself this. Do I have eternal? Secondly, do I love my neighbor as myself? Verse 27, one of the great commands. And specifically in the way as it's presented here in this passage of Scripture, because that is ministry. That is what God wants us to do. Whether it's right here Within the area here around this church, as your church is a light for Christ, as you are a light for Christ here, or for us in the mission field. Are you being a neighbor? Ask yourself, who is it that God wants you to minister to? It probably might be someone that you don't like very much or is unlovely, and you go. It's probably the person you're like, oh Lord, I really, really, really do you know who that guy is? The Lord says yes. Yeah, I do. And I put you in the position where you're at. So you can actually minister to them. Oh Lord, I can share the gospel, and that's necessary. We need to do that. But it might mean more than that too. It might mean cleaning them up and helping them in other ways so that you can share the gospel with them. Jesus says in verse 36, which now of these three thinkest thou was neighbor unto him that fell among thieves? In verse 37, it said, he said that the lawyer said, He that showed mercy on him, then said Jesus unto him, Go and do thou likewise. And he's asking us the same thing, and he's having the same response to us as well. Go and do that. Likewise. Let's pray. Dear Lord in heaven, thank you for this Masters of Scripture. Lord, I pray that you'd help us to apply it. This is not an easy thing to apply. Because a lot of times it means making ourselves uncomfortable or dealing with situations that are uncomfortable Lord, I pray you'd help us feel to live this out in our life so that we can show Christ and so that we can be a witness to the lost. be with myself and my family as we implement this in New Zealand and the ministry there. I know there will be situations in the next several years that'll be hard and we'll have to minister to people And Lord, I know that that will happen here as well. And I pray that you give grace and strength so that people here can do that as they share the gospel and minister to people. people. Lord, we love you. We thank you for all that you've done for us. In Jesus' name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gnam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide. that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.