Well, good morning. It's great to be in the house of the Lord together, isn't it? We're all happy and joyful this morning. Amen. So All right, we are going to be in Romans chapter ten, verses fourteen to twenty-one this morning. And before we go there, uh you can be finding that in your Bible. We're going to go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning. God, we acknowledge that you are holy, holy, holy. That you are righteous, that you are just, that you are merciful, full of grace and full of love. You are almighty, all powerful, all-wise, and all-knowing. You are sovereign over all creation. And Father, we come this morning with grateful and thankful hearts. The fact that you and your greatness have loved us in spite of our sinful selves We're thankful, Father, that in your great love and mercy, you would send your only begotten Son, Jesus, to come and take on human flesh and dwell among us. And Lord, He taught us of you. He fulfilled the law. He fulfilled the prophecies in the Old Testament. And he went willingly to the cross. And took the sin of the world upon himself and died in our place, paying the penalty in full, suffering the wrath of God upon himself. And was buried in the tomb, and on the third day he arose up out of that grave. And he conquered sin, he conquered death, and he conquered Satan. And Lord, we are thankful this morning that you have given us this privilege and this opportunity. To come before Jesus and confess our sin and seek forgiveness and be saved by his blood on that cross. And we're grateful, Father, for the salvation that you have provided. And it's because of your great love for us. It's by grace that we are saved through faith, not of our own selves and our works. So we're thankful for that. And we praise you this morning for your great plan of salvation. And Father, as we get ready to come under your word this morning, I pray that you be with Pastor Jim and give him clarity of thought and speech as he brings your word to us this morning. And we ask that you would work in each of our own hearts, Father, that we would set aside the cares of this week. Lord, that we would take this next hour And that we would concentrate fully upon your word. And I pray that your spirit will have its way in us to guide and direct our thoughts and encourage us and strengthen us. Convict us where we need convicting. And encourage us where we need encouragement, Lord. And we pray for those who are unable to be here. We pray for those who are traveling. We ask your protection and blessing on them. And we pray, Father, that By your word, that Father, we will be changed more and more into your image, and that your desires would become our desires. And that in all things you would be glorified and lifted up. And we ask in Jesus' name. Amen Chapter ten verse fourteen How then shall they call on him, in him in whom they have not believed And how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? Or how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach, unless they are sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the gospel of peace. Who bring glad tidings of good things. But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed our report? So then, faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. But I say, have they not heard? Yes, indeed. Their sound has gone out to all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world. But I say, did Israel not know? First, Moses says, I will provoke you to jealousy by those who are not a nation. I will move you to anger by a foolish nation. But Isaiah is very bold and says, I was found by those who did not seek me. I was made manifest to those who did not ask for me. But to Israel, he says, all day long I have stretched out my hands to a disobedient and contrary people. You ever ask the question of somebody or thinking about somebody, what makes them tick? I mean you're thinking about a per particular person, maybe you're thinking about, I don't know, maybe your kids and you're wondering why they do what they do. Do they do funny things sometimes? And you think, well what what's making them tick? Somebody that you get you're getting to know, maybe you're in a new job and you're you're trying to figure out how your co co-workers work and or your boss and what makes them tick. Um we uh have a furry friend in our house now we've had for a few months and uh that was a picture I took this morning, so that's really, really uh early, uh really, really soon here, uh recently And um and uh so the our what we found out about our dog over the time, how he's very trainable, and the reason he's trainable is he has three goals in life. She. She has three goals in life. I should start by understanding and there are only two options for gender, by the way, just so you know. Okay. But anyway, so she she um there are the uh so she has three goals in life. One is to eat as much food as you possibly can. Two is to get as much attention from people as you possibly can. And three is to chew as much as she can, like bite as much as she can. So those are three goals in life. And once you understand those three goals in life, it's pretty easy to train her. You actually have to use the first two to make sure she doesn't do the last one. She and and and but but understanding how she ticks is the key to understanding why she does what she does. Pretty much everything she does, you can bool it down to those three things. Either she wants to eat it, she wants attention from it, or she wants to chew it. And and you can understand her that way. So So when you how understanding how somebody ticks, you're really asking the question, what are their goals? What's their priorities? For a dog, it's really easy to understand their priorities But for people it's a little bit more difficult. But what is what is what is their priorities? So let me ask you another question. Have you ever thought about what is God's priority? If you look at history, sometimes we look at our present day. We look at all of what's happening in our world and we sort of go, Lord, what are you trying to do right now? What is you're you say you're sovereign, you're in control, you're and yet I have no clue what you're trying to do right now Or you look at the past and you say and you see God's interactions with Israel. We have the entire Old Testament and we're looking at how God has interacted with Israel. And then God like changes and he decides he's not working with Israel anymore and now he's working with the church in this particular age and trying to understand why God is doing what he's doing. And from the Jewish perspective, from the from Israel's perspective, back in the first century what God was trying to do, what he was doing. And actually it really is quite It's actually his priority is quite simple. It has to do with the gospel. See, the gospel is the key to unlocking our understanding. of history and the present and understanding what God really cares about. What is God actually doing I actually think that you can really um you can really tell even what God is doing with the nations based upon asking the question, what is what is happening as far as the the gospel. I think of I think of the fact that this country has in its history has sent forth many, many missionaries over the years. And I think personally, as a personal opinion, that there is a correlation Between the amount of missionaries we have sent out and the amount of blessing that we have received as a nation. I think that you can look at what happened with Israel and God's intention of taking the gospel and that they would be a vehicle through which the gospel would go forward into all the world, and yet because Israel failed, God changed his program. And then he allows he wants the church to do the same thing he called Israel to do. See, it really I think when we look at and we see history and the present, we need to Ask the question, what is God's priority? And here's God's, here's always God's priority. God's priority is always The redemptive work of the gospel, the getting out the message of the gospel. That's God's work in the world. And for people to be able to receive the gospel, for people to live by the gospel, to grow by the gospel, to be discipled by the gospel, and then in turn to share others give the gospel. That is what God is concerned about. That's his priority. Is it your priority? Is it my priority? Part of what we struggle with is that when we have a misalignment of what our priority are priorities are and God's priorities. Sometimes we just don't understand what God's doing, partly because we don't really understand his priority, but it might be because we just don't have the same priorities he does, and that causes us worry and anxiety and all kinds of problems What we're going to learn in this text is we're going to see God's working with Israel God's the fact that God has, in a sense, he has frozen his use of Israel and why he has done what he has done. You remember, remember the the what I've mentioned before, then chapter nine showed that God has chosen Israel. In chapter 10, we see that God has frozen Israel. And in chapter 11, we're going to see that God is going to thaw Israel or He's going to restore Israel. We're right now in chapter 10, coming to the end of chapter 10, and we're understanding why God has chosen to freeze Israel Set Israel aside, no longer use Israel for his gospel work, and instead open up to the Gentile nations, the ethnic groups of the Gentiles, so that the gospel can go forward through the Gentiles. And that's what we have been seen God doing over the last 2,000 years. And one way or another, we have seen God getting the gospel out all over the world. You think of the first century, and you think it's starting in Jerusalem, in Judea, in Samaria, then into the uttermost parts of the world. Actually, we're the uttermost parts of the world. It's not somebody else. We're like really far from the Middle East. And so God's the gospel has done exactly what God has said it has done. It's been there's been There's been battles. There's been adversity from Satan throughout along the way. There have been entire religious religious groups that have taken over nations and caused great hindrance to the gospel. But overall, what you see is the redemptive work gone forward and the message of redemption that has started, actually, it started from the very beginning, ever since The fall ever since sin has affected everyone. So we're going to see three things here. First of all, in this passage, we're going to see in verses 14 through 15 that the gospel establishes God's plan. It establishes God's plan. Then we're going to see that the gospel highlights human responsibility and actually human failure. We're going to see that. It highlights human responsibility. We've seen so far a lot of God's perspective and God's role in bringing forth the gospel and choosing people unto himself. But now we're going to see clearly human failure based upon human responsibility. And then the gospel necessitated God's change in programming. It necessitated God's change in programming. Let's look at all three of these this morning. First of all, we'll see in verses 14 through 15 that God has established his plan We pick up in verse fourteen and it says, How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe in him in whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach unless they are sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the gospel of peace, who bring glad tidings of good things So we see four questions that are asked, and they're essentially in reverse order. He starts Remember what we've already actually seen. We have seen that God has leveled the playing field by saying that the way that you become a child of God, the way that you become part of God's people is that whosoever calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. The Jews saw themselves exclusively as God's chosen people. But God was extending his word and his work to the Gentiles. And that the Jews needed to understand, and the Gentiles needed to understand, that all comes to God the same way as they call on the name of the Lord. But then Paul is going to take that truth and he's going to flesh it out by showing us God's So we're going to see, first of all, we see the first question, how then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? That's the application. The application of the plan is they need to call on him, but in order to call on him, they must first believe in him. So he asks this question. This is a critical step. And that it harkens back to Romans 10, verse 13. Whoever calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Before that, verse twelve says this, For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for the same Lord over all is rich to all who call upon him Now remember the Jews, they were they really questioned the character of God. Even the Jewish Christians may really have been questioning whether or not God was doing what he said he was. Was God fair? Was he right? in doing all that he was doing in setting aside Israel. And Paul is defending the character of God in this passage. And you'll see that in a minute as we go through this. The second question that is asked really points to the message, and how shall they believe in him and whom they have not heard? You have to hear a message. You first need to in order to call, you must believe In order to believe, you have to hear a message. How then shall they believe on him in whom they have not heard? And then, but there must be a messenger. That's the next question. How shall they hear without a preacher? Now we have this word preacher, and to you, you all understand what this word preacher. That's what I'm doing right now. I get up every Sunday morning and I preach from a pulpit. But I think it's going to be helpful for us to understand what the minds of the readers of this or the listeners as they heard this epistle given out in their churches in the first century, what they would have understood a preacher to be They would have understood a preacher to be a heralder, or a, you could say it this way, a town crier. You see, back then They didn't have TV, they didn't have the radio, they didn't have the news, they certainly didn't have the internet, they didn't have any kind of way of announcing major decrees from the magistrate or for the king. except to get high up on a mountain and take a message from the king and to announce it as loudly as possible to all of the land. That was what the preacher was This word Keruso, it was someone who took the message from the king, stood on top of a mountain, usually a high place, so they could get their voice as far out as possible, and they they they heralded out the message to everyone. God uses this illustration, this reality of of an announcement of a message for the people to understand, for the church to understand God's plan of gospel communication. There had to be a messenger. But in order for that to happen, there had to be someone sent. There had to be a commission of the messenger. The town prior was never one who decided to get up on his own and decide to just give a message to the people. I think I'll just get up today and say whatever I want to say to them. Uh no, he might have he probably would have been maybe put to death for somebody like that. He didn't come up with his own message. He didn't come up with his own statements. He didn't decide to decree on his own. He didn't get on a computer and decide to put out his own blog or his own Facebook uh posts. Things were a little simpler back then. actually. Things came from proper place to from the messen from the person who was who commissioned to the messenger. proclaiming the message, and then the message could then be applied. There's a lot we can learn from this The messenger was never self-appointed and he never had his own message. And this helps us to understand the nature of preaching the gospel. True preaching of the gospel is not a messenger who comes up with his own message. True preaching of the gospel is simply one who delivers the message from the Word of God, the gospel. The gospel is the message. The messenger is commissioned by God to do the messaging, if you will. That's why calling this a sermon is fine. Calling it a message is fine. It is a sermon or a message from God insofar as it is from the Word of God. And notice what he says about this in verse 15. It says, as is written, how beautiful are the feet of them who preach the gospel of peace. It says this word beautiful is an interesting word. It actually is a word of time. It's the same cognate is the word hour is from. So it's it the word beautiful means timely or fitting or satisfying. Or well informed, you could even say. That is the nature of the message. The messenger, the how beautiful the fida of them that bring the gospel, in other words, it is a fitting messenger for a fitting message. You ever been in a situation where there's all kinds of I've I've been in situations like this where there's all kinds of confusion maybe in a meeting and it's a heated meeting you have all kinds of confusion but there's somebody there that says exact maybe it's just one phrase And that one phrase gets everybody's attention and it's so fitting, it's so perfect that everybody goes, oh. That makes sense. I was in a in a meeting of actually a bunch of pastors, and we were discuss we we were discussing something that we were not in agreement about. And um and and it was over a pretty pretty serious topic actually. I won't go into all that because I don't want to distract you with it. But basically somebody said this I I uh turned it, it wasn't me, said that somebody else, another preacher said, you know, not every slope is slippery, but some are. And everybody went, huh. Like it stopped. There was this debate and all this going on back and forth. And just this one guy said one thing. It's a logical fallacy to believe that every slope is slippery. It is. However, it is true that some slopes are slippery. And him, the way that he said that, it just caused everybody to go, wow. And it like ended the conversation that we were like all done. There was a fitting word And that's the way the gospel is. In the midst of all of the chaos and problems and it is the gospel, the Bible says the gospel of peace. Peace is the absence of conflict. Do you know where we get all this conflict from in our world? Do you know where it comes from? I'll tell you where it comes from. Sin It does. All you would never have conflict if you didn't have sin. Did you know that? The Bible says only by pride comes contention. The gospel is the gospel of peace in that it does what Romans 5. 1 says it does. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. You see, sin brings hostility between us and God contention between us and God, a lack of peace between us and God. But the gospel of Jesus Christ brings forth The truth that causes us to be at peace with God if we'll apply it to our lives. It's like the herald that gets on the top of the mountain and pardons all of those who who are at odds with the king. That would be good news. And the gospel is the the good news that it should be heralded, that there is a place For pardon from the king, it's in the work of what Christ has done on the cross. That's the gospel. This is a quote from Isaiah 52. And in Isaiah 52 it says this, in verse 6 it says, Therefore, my people shall know my name. Therefore they shall know in that day that I am he who speaks. Behold, it is I. How beautiful upon the mountains are the fee of him who brings good news, who proclaims peace, who brings glad tidings of good things, who proclaims salvation, who says to Zion, Your God reigns. Your watchmen shall lift up their voices. With their voices they shall sing together, for they shall see eye to eye when the Lord brings back Zion. Brothers, sisters in Christ, there's going to be a day where God Christ will come and He will bring peace to our world. He will end all of the conflict. That is the glorious gospel. The gospel includes the coming of Christ, where Christ will physically reign on this earth and we will truly have peace. So the gospel starts with peace in our hearts. Peace before the Lord in our relationship with Him, and it will culminate in peace in our world. It is the good news. of the gospel of peace. And by the way, we will not have peace in this world until Christ returns. Now, perhaps you've heard this message, uh uh this passage preached before. Maybe you've heard this passage preached before on many occasions. It's not an uncommon passage for a missions conference. Many missions messages have heard have been preached from this passage. And it's used sometimes to call for the commissioning of people to go out into the mission field to preach the gospel. Well, I will tell you, I'm I actually would like to suggest to you that that's actually not the purpose of this. I'm not saying it doesn't have missions application. But the original intention of this is actually something that we're going to get into in just a few moments. The purpose of it was to show that God already had brought messengers to Israel. The point of this was actually to show God's ultimate plan and he's then going to say Israel You're without excuse because we have brought prophets. I have sent you prophets. I have sent you many, many, many preachers of the gospel. I've sent you Christ Himself. and you have rejected them, you are guilty because of all the messengers that I have already commissioned. That's the primary point of this passage. However, I do think there can be some missions application in the sense that this, it assumes that there needs to be a commissioning. It assumes that there needs to be a messenger. Scripture assumes that there is a message, and it assumes that the message must be believed and applied. And so although I don't think we can say, well, God needs you because he doesn't, we do know that God does call people to preach the gospel. And we see that he calls people to preach the gospel even all around the world. I think another very important application of this is this. We see a very clear method that has lasted for thousands of years. for the good news of salvation to be proclaimed, and we need to be very careful not to deviate from it. You can go back to the Old Testament. And as God commissioned the prophets in the Old Testament, they were commissioned to proclaim the truth from God to the people to preach and to proclaim. You look at the New Testament and you see that the apostles were commissioned to preach and to proclaim, and that pastors and preachers were proclaimed Commission to preach and to proclaim the Word of God to people. This is a method that has lasted thousands of years, and we should not, we should never compromise it. See, the idea of preaching is very passe today. It's very old-fashioned. It doesn't, people say, well, there's no interaction with preaching. There needs to be more interaction. There needs to be more entertainment value. There needs to be more back and forth. Preaching isn't that way. Heralding wasn't that way. Preaching is one person that is proclaiming the truth of a message, and God says this is his prescribed way of getting across his message. Interpretive dance won't do. They won't. Um social uh uh drama won't do. Social causes won't do, social justice movements won't do All of these other ways for the gospel, for us to the church to do its work, can distract the church from its work. God says the gospel must be proclaimed. It must be heralded. It must be preached. So we ought to be very careful to understand that we must do God's work, God's way. Now I'm not saying that you can never have a Bible study, that you can never have interaction in in groups. I think that's all that's wonderful. But it never should be to the replacement of the preaching of the Word of God We see then for the passage the root problem of Israel. So now what God has done is He has set up these He set up these four questions that describe this this in a in reverse order, reverse chronological order essentially, and and he set up this in such a way this pattern uh that he is now going to show how he has accomplished his role in this pattern. He has done the commissioning He has done the sending. He has given the message. But there's a problem. What is Israel's root problem? What's the problem? Look at verse 16. Verse 16 nails the problem But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed our report? That's the answer. They have not obeyed the gospel. Now, you may look at that and go, obeyed the gospel? What does that even mean? Obeyed the gospel? I've never heard that before. I've heard about believe the gospel and trust the gospel, receive the gospel, but obey the gospel? What does it mean to obey the gospel? And how is that different from believing the gospel? What is Paul getting at here when he says that much of Israel, many of Israel, have not obeyed the gospel that they heard? What is he talking about here? Well, I want to first encourage you that this is not talking about self-effort. We've already learned that from Romans 4 and 5. There is no self-effort involved in salvation. So the problem was not that they they obeyed, they didn't obey a certain command. Um the problem was not that they didn't follow a certain set of action or instructions. The problem, notice the object of the obeying. The object of the obeying is not something that you do, it's something that is. Get that? The gospel is not something you do. The gospel is. It's something that is. And it's saying they have not obeyed what is. They have not applied or obeyed the gospel. This is mentioned several times in the New Testament. We actually could go all the way back to Romans chapter 1, verses 4 and 4 through 6, and it says And declared to be the Son of God with power according to the Spirit of Holiness by the resurrection from the dead, through him we have received grace and apostleship for obedience to the faith. And usually when the New Testament uses the term the faith, it's talking about the gospel or the doctrine of truth, the faith with a definite article. is saying, not obeyed the doctrine, the truth, in this case, the gospel. Romans 2. 8 says it this way, but to those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth. Romans 6. 17 says, but God be thanked that though you were slaves of sin, yet you obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine Obeyed from the heart. Second Thessalonians chapter 1, verse 7 and 8 say, actually just in verse 8 it says, In flaming fire, taking vengeance on those who do not know God, and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. So what is he talking about when he's talking about obey a gospel? He's talking about it's a see, it's a matter of the will. True saving faith involves the mind. It does. It involves to some degree on some level the emotions, but folks, it involves, it does involve the will. Now we know that it is God who works both in us both to will and to do for his glory. But what we see in this passage is clearly that they are Israel is completely responsible because of its failure, those who failed to to ig to obey the gospel Christ said this to uh when he was on earth in Matthew 23, 37: O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the one who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her. Israel killed the prophets and stoned those who are sent to her. How often I wanted to gather your children together as a hen gather her chicks under her wings But you, what's the issue? You were not willing. See, what we see from this is that although God is certainly sovereign And God is in control, and God does choose who he wills. The other side of it, folks, is that we do see as well that man must respond And they are completely and utterly responsible to respond to the gospel by utter acceptance of the gospel. It cannot just be an intellectual assent. It cannot just be an academic understanding. There must be a submission to the gospel with the will. There must be repentance. Luke 13, 3 says it this way, I tell you no, but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. Repentant means to turn. It can literally be translated that way. To turn. And so it is to turn from depending on self. to turning to depending on God. It requires the the will. Why are these folks Why was Israel why are they indicted by God? Why is it that God changed his program? Why is it that they have been set aside? They were not willing. That was the core issue. Then we see uh quote from Isaiah fifty-three, who has believed our report? And to whom Has the arm of the Lord been revealed? The preachers came, the prophets came, they stood on the mountain, they preached, they reported the truth from God, and yet they didn't believe the report. We have trouble with that today, don't we? We don't know who to believe. I don't know who to believe. You watch the news and everybody seems to have their own slant. The you got one side saying one thing and another side saying another thing and there I it it is really hard to know whose report to believe. It's very difficult. I find it extremely difficult, honestly. The best thing I could do is like watch C SPAN where they just give the whole thing to you, you can kind of watch it and figure it out. Something like that. And I know C SPAN is extremely boring. But It's usually the best news if you want or something something of that nature that's not giving you any slant because it's just bare But they didn't believe the report from God, and so they didn't accept Verse 17 says this, so then, it summarizes it this way. Look, look, this is so clear, so obvious. So then faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God I want I wanna put it I want to say it this way. How does faith come How is it that faith comes? How is it that faith how does yes, God is the one that gives faith, but how is it that faith comes? It is by hearing the word of God. Listen, the preaching of the word of God. What is the goal of preaching? I'll tell you what the goal of preaching is not. The goal of preaching is not to get people up to an aisle up down an aisle. The goal of preaching is not to solicit some sort of emotional response Oh boy, I just feel so that's not the goal of preaching. Do you know the goal of preaching? The goal of preaching is to strengthen faith and to produce faith. To produce faith and to strengthen faith. Now, the preacher can't produce faith. No way. I can't do that. All I can do is, I'm just the heralder or whoever's preaching up here. The preacher is just a heralder. He's the heralder of the truth. But the Spirit of God, as it takes the word of God and applies it to the heart, instills faith. It is the method of the preaching of the Word of God combined with the Spirit of God that allows faith to be instilled and also faith to grow in the life of a believer. See, when someone is not under the Christian is not under the preaching of the Word of God, their faith is going to shrink. Their faith is going to become small. The preaching of the Word of God, its ultimate goal is to produce or to strengthen faith, as the Spirit of God uses the Word of God in the heart and life of the person. That's the goal. And so that's why we find that it is so critical and vital. The preaching of the Word of God is critical. Isaiah 55, 11 says, So shall my word be that goes forth from my mouth. It shall not return to me void, but it shall accomplish what I please. and it shall prosper in the thing in which I sent it. Then we see the final this final sort of gavel comes down in verse 18. The indictment is in verse 18. Look at verse 18. It says, But I say, have they not heard yes indeed. Don't miss that. Have they not heard? Has Israel not heard? Oh yes, Israel has indeed heard And it quotes Psalm 194. That was in our call to worship today. It quotes Psalm 194. Their line has gone out through all the earth and their words to the end of the world in them. He has set the tabernacle for the sun. It's gone out. And great, God has gone to great lengths for the preaching of the word to go out, particularly for Israel. I did not take the Bible, the Old Testament. I was wondering how many prophets in the Old Testament were there? And I thought um I thought I did not have time to count them all. So I Googled it. And and apparently from what Google says, there were 63 prophets in the Old Testament. Now give and take give or take a few, I don't know exactly because you know uh like I know you you can believe everything that's on the internet, but I do think you're probably up near sixty-three three prof I think you're probably up to in the in the sixties range of profits. Sixty over sixty prophets in the Old Testament God gave. One after another after another after another. Opportunity after opportunity after opportunity after opportunity after opportunity. I won't do it 63 times. They're without excuse. You cannot blame God for Israel's failure to obey the gospel. It is squarely on the people of Israel's shoulders God is patient and he is merciful. The multiple opportunities that he gives, and frankly, I could just say by extension, the multiple opportunities that he often gives people today. How many, how many, many, many opportunities, even uh particularly in our day and age, the idea of not having access to the gospel today I mean one thing you'll say I can say about the internet is that it's like everywhere. And so access to the gospel has been there has never been more access to the gospel than there has been today. There are multiple opportunities. Even the creation, if you remember from Romans, the creation speaks of a creator. And you can't get saved by that, but you can recognize a divine creator by looking at creation. So that if people choose not to, the Bible says they're without excuse. Failure to receive the gospel is failure on the part of the person, uh of the person, not on God's part. Luke twelve forty-eight says, For everyone to whom much has been given, much shall be required. Back in Romans chapter two, verses five through eight it says, But in accordance with your hardness and your impenitive heart You are treasuring up for yourselves wrath in a day of wrath and re- revelation of the righteous judgment of God. who will render each one according to his deeds eternal life to those who by patient continuance in doing good good seek for glory, honor, and mortality, but those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth But obey unrighteousness, indignation, and wrath. So God changes the program Israel, God had called Israel to not only receive the light of the gospel, but to get off that light. But Israel rejected it. Even when Christ came to this earth himself and presented himself as king to Israel. They could have accepted him right then and there and they would have set up, he would have set up the kingdom. And yet they did not, they refused. And so God's program has changed. The chain Why? Because God is relentless about the gospel going forward. And if Israel wasn't going to do it, he's going to find another way. We have scriptural support for all of this that Paul is now going to base all of this in scripture as we see him so commonly do. And there are three scriptural supports for this change of program that we'll look at this morning for just a few moments here. In verse 19, we have the first one. We have a prediction of Israel's anger. The prediction of Israel's anger. Notice in the text what it says, but I say, did Israel not uh did Israel not know First, Moses says, I will provoke you to jealousy by those who are not a nation, and I will move you to anger by a foolish nation. This is an interesting text. This comes from Deuteronomy 32, verse 21. In Deuteronomy, you have a lot going on there, but But Moses is rehearsing the details of the law to the people. And for example, in Deuteronomy, we won't take the time to turn there, but in Deuteronomy 31, verses 7 through 8. Joshua is commissioned. And it says in that passage that Moses called Joshua and said to him in the sons of Israel, be strong and of good courage. For you must go with the people, the land which the Lord has sworn to your fathers to give them, and you shall and you shall cause them to inherit, and so on. Then later, God actually through Moses prophesies that Israel will rebel. And we and in Moses's uh and then then we see in Moses what's called Moses' song in Deuteronomy 32, 21, it says They have provoked me to jealousy by what is not God. They have moved me to anger by their foolish idols But I will provoke them to jealousy by those who are not a nation. I will move them to anger by a foolish nation. What's he talking about there? Their rebellion, it says Provoked God jealousy. You see, scripture says that God is a jealous God. That is, God, when He has an exclusive covenant relationship with someone, Expects that relationship to stay exclusive. And Israel failed multiple times on this. And so it says it provoked him to jealousy. And as a result of that, God says, here's what he prophesies all the way back in Deuteronomy. He prophesies that he will use another ethnic group that's not a nation. to provoke Israel to anger, to jealousy. And that's exactly what happens. Why did why in the in the book of Acts, for example, we won't take the time to turn there, but in the book of Acts. You have religious leaders. Israel is persecuting the apostles, killing them, killing Christians, Stephen being martyred, you remember that. W why is that happening? It's happening because they are anger. They're provoked to jealousy. The Christians are provoking the Jewish people to jealousy. Why? Because God predicted that that would happen all the way back in Deuteronomy. This is what God is showing. It's interest the the the mindset of the Jewish peop person is interesting. I think it's illustrated best by Jonah. You remember Jonah? Jonah, who disobeyed God, didn't go preach to the Ninevites the way that God intended. And when God finally got a hold of his attention, Jonah goes and preached to the Ninevites. And it says in Jonah chapter 3, verse 5, so the people of Nineveh believed God, proclaimed the fast, put on the sackcloth from the greatest to the least. They believed God. They listened to the message of the gospel. They received it. And Jonah was upset. He was he was he had a pity party because of it. And and and you know why J Jonah had a par uh was upset? It was because in his own heart he did not want these Gentile rogue this Gentile rogue people to receive Christ or to receive to receive God's uh plan of provision for the for their sin He didn't want it. And but he knew God. This is interesting. So it's a really interesting passage. Genesis chapter 4, verse 1, it says But it displeased him exceedingly, and he became very angry. Jonah illustrates the nature of Israel toward those who have turned those who have turned to Christ. So he prayed to the Lord and said, Ah Lord, was not this what I said when I was still in my country? He says, Lord, I told you this was going to happen. Listen to what he says. Therefore I fled previously to Tarshish. He fled from Tarshish, for he says, I know that you are a gracious and merciful God. Slow to anger and abundant in loving kindness, one who relents from doing harm. He's like, I know you're loving and gracious, and I knew that you would probably save these people. And so I didn't want to go. I mean, do you see the the the con you know what j you know what Jonah had? There's a sense in which Jonah had intellectual ascent. He knew God And yet he did not want to accept what God would do for the people. And this is the nation that the nation of Israel They knew Jehovah God. They knew the Old Testament. But they did not want to accept not only what God wanted to do for them through Christ. but also to others. Scriptural support number two. The Gentiles are actually included in the Old Testament. There's a prophecy in Isaiah 65. 1. It says, I sought by those who did not ask for me. I was found by those who who did not seek me, I said, here I am, here I am, to a nation that was not call uh that was not called by my name. So Paul says actually in the Old Testament it prophesied that God would call a people that were not seeking him because they were not God's chosen people. Now we won't, there's a lot I could say about that, but I want to mention I'll move on to scriptural support number three. God was magnanimously benevolent. Look at uh he quotes Isaiah 65, 2. It says, I have stretched out, listen what he says to Israel. I have stretched out my hand all day long to a rebellious people. Some of you mothers probably feel that way. I have stretched out my hand all day long to rebellious people. You ever come to the end of the day and and your mom and and mom you say to your husband he gets home from work I stretched out my hand all day long to a rebellious people. There's a f there's a there's your life verse, just so you know, it's right there. No, I'm I I'm kidding. It's not n I'm actually terribly misapplying the passage. But anyway, what it's talking about What it's talking about is the fact that God did this with Israel. All day. For years and years and years and years, he stretches out his hands. To a rebellious people, what's the problem? Who walk in a way that is not good according to their own thoughts They didn't follow the thoughts of God. They didn't follow the message from God. They followed their own thoughts instead. Three takeaways this morning. Number one, God's way of communicating salvation is the preaching of the gospel. Accept no substitutes I pray this church never accepts substitutes. The preaching of the gospel, despite it being unpopular sometimes, or being passe or old-fashioned. um or not interactive enough or not entertaining enough, may we understand that this is God's prescribed method of this of salvation, of a method of proclaiming and communicating salvation. Number two. Because God is so patient and merciful, we are without excuse if we fail to repent and believe the gospel. Because God is so patient and merciful, we are without excuse. Number three, God is so committed to the preaching of the gospel, he changed his program to fulfill his goals. That's why the program changed. Because he was that committed to the preaching of the gospel, so that he now works through the church, through majority Gentile church. In order to preach the gospel and to and for that to go into all the world, God is committed, that is how committed He is. to the preaching of the gospel. If you're here this morning and you've never actually received the gospel, there are some of you that have been here many, many times. And you've heard the gospel many, many times. Some of you may have heard the gospel today, and I want you to understand that every time the gospel goes out, you have another opportunity to receive it. And if you don't know Christ as your Savior, if you've never accepted the gospel for yourself, let today be the day that you accept the gospel. Because let me just tell you very bluntly, you're without excuse. And some of you, whether you're it doesn't really matter what your age is, if you have not received the gospel yet, let me encourage you, receive the gospel today. And if you're not sure of whether or not you receive the gospel, If you're not sure whether you have in the words of the text obeyed the gospel, let me encourage you to come and talk with me after the service. And I'd be glad to have a bu take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with the Lord and are at peace with God. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we praise you and we thank you for the gospel of Christ and we thank you for this method that you have chosen To bring forth the gospel. And we thank you for your relentless diligence in bringing forth this message into all of the world Even setting aside your own people so that the gospel could go forward. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to understand our responsibility and our role in preaching the gospel, in expressing the gospel to others I pray, Lord, that we would be diligent and understand the truth, not only of the gospel that we've been going over in Romans, but how we are responsible to preach it to others. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community here at BBC. you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide This helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon