Well good morning. Happy to be here this morning, I hope. Okay, we are going to be in loop this morning Chapter 12, verse 1 through 12. Luke chapter 12, verses 1 through 12. Before we read the scriptures, let's go to the Lord in prayer Heavenly Father, we are grateful this morning. For you are holy, holy, holy. You are righteous, you are just, full of mercy, full of grace and love. You are the creator and sustainer of all life. And we praise you this morning for who you are. And we're grateful for the love that you have bestowed upon us through your Your son, Jesus Christ, and what he has done at the cross on our behalf. And what he does each day interceding on our behalf. We are here this morning. because of you. And we're grateful and thankful to be here and to sit under your word and sing praises and honor and glory to your great name And as we come to the time where we study and listen and grow under your word, I pray that you will help us to set aside all the cares and distractions of this week. And help us to concentrate this morning solely upon your word, and may your spirit do its work in us. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke chapter twelve, verses one through twelve. In the meantime, when enumeral, ennumeral. Multitudes of people had gathered together so that they trampled one another. He began to say to his disciples, first of all, Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. For there is nothing covered that will not be revealed, nor hidden that will not be known Therefore, whatever you have spoken in the dark will be heard in the light, and what you have spoken in the ear in the inner rooms will be proclaimed on the housetops And I say to you, my friends, do not be afraid of those who can kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do. But I will show you whom you should fear. Fear him, who after he has killed, has the power to cast into hell. Yes, I say to you, fear him. Are not five sparrows sold for two copper coins? And not one of them is forgotten before God. But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Do not fear, therefore, you are more valuable than many sparrows. Also, I say to you, whoever confesses me before men, him, the Son of Man, also will confess before the angels of God. But he who denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God. And anyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man, it will be forgiven him. But to him who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit, it will not be forgiven Now, when they bring you to the synagogues and the magistrates and the authorities, do not worry about how or what you should answer. Or what you should say. For the Holy Spirit, it will teach you in that very hour what you ought to say. Um uh so this past week I went to a a pastors conference, one of the most unique pastors conferences I've ever been to. I went to it a couple of years ago at a different location where they they call it spring training for preachers. Basically what a bunch of pastors get together from from the area and uh it was up in Lancaster and um we're each assigned two different passages and we we have a worksheet to fill out there that ec uh helps us exegete the passages and then we come together and we critique each other basically on our exegesis. And uh there's different peop people been preaching for years and others that just started But it was a really helpful time. So I did all this exegesis on this passage in Luke and I said, well why wouldn't I just preach this? So that's what I'm doing this morning from Luke chapter twelve. And uh but it is I think it's going to be a very helpful passage for us, one that I think uh in our day and age we need to be reminded of some things. The title of the message is Openly Declaring Christ. Let me begin by asking a question. Some of you, it's been a while since you were a teenager. Some of you, it's been a long while since you were a teenager, and some of you are actually teenagers, and there are a few of you that are looking ahead to being a teenager. But regardless of where you are, I have a question for you when it comes to teenagers. Why why are teenagers so often convinced that they want to be popular Why is it that teenagers value being liked by their peers so much? And the answer, I think, at least partially, is the fact that when you're a child, you're sort of not as self-aware and you sort of are just kind of doing the next thing and don't really care too much about how you look and how you feel. But at some point there bec there's a higher level of self-awareness where you begin to compare yourself with others And it's teenagers, teenagers tend to, they want to have a sense of value and and then they sort of look to their peers And if they are well liked by their peers, then they have a sense of value in their lives. And if they're not disliked by their peers, they feel like they're not valuable. But you know what? It's not just teenagers. Is it? I mean it really is all of us can be tempted that way. Where our sense our sense of identity, our sense of value has to do with what how people perceive us. Can I ask you a question this morning? Is that biblically how we should get our sense of value? See, what we're dealing with in the passage actually has to do with the argument of Luke is that we need to be open, and Christ says this, we need to be openly declaring our allegiance to Christ. That's what the passage is talking about. That this is something that as Christ's disciples Christ was telling them they needed to do, and certainly if we are followers of Christ, we need to openly declare our allegiance to Christ. But do you ever have trouble with that? Do you ever find yourself kind of shying away from the reality that you are a Christian? There's certain people that you want to know, like people at church. I mean you want us to know that. But there are other people and other spheres that perhaps you wouldn't want to know that. Are you do you struggle with openly declaring Christ. Paul said this, Romans 1. 16. I had to get Romans in there somewhere. For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. For it is the power of God to salvation to everyone who believes. He says, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. And neither should we be ashamed of the gospel of Christ. In in Luke 12, the background of Luke 12, just the chapter right before that. Jesus is giving some some woes, some He's cursing some religious leaders He is pronouncing judgment on the Pharisees and on what is described here as the lawyers. In Luke chapter 11, verse 42, it says, But woe to you, Pharisees! For you tithe and mint and rue and all manner of herbs and pass by justice and pass by justice and the love of God. These you ought to have done without leaving the others undone. Woe you, Pharisees, for you love the best seats of the synagogues and greetings in the marketplaces. Woe you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you are like graves which are not seen, and men who walk over them and are not aware of them. Luke 11, 46 goes on, Woe to you, lawyers, for you load men with burdens hard to bear, and you yourselves do not law touch the burdens with your with one of your fingers. And then woe to you, for you build the tombs of prophets, and your fathers killed them. We have all of these judgments. in Luke chapter 11. Now Jesus turns to a crowd of people and he focused particularly on his disciples. And he wants to challenge his disciples that they need to be prepared to openly declare Christ. What he does in the passage is he deals with certain aspects, things that would get in the way of them openly declare Christ, things like hypocrisy and fear And the prospect of actually of actually being persecuted, which they certainly will be later on in their lives. What a true of disciple of Christ will openly declare a true disciple of Christ will openly declare his allegiance to Christ. We're going to see this in four ways. First, we'll begin by looking at openly that we need to openly declare Christ without succumbing to hypocrisy. So it says in the passage, in the meantime, when an innumerable multitude of people had gathered together, so that they trampled one another, he began to say to his disciples first of all Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees. The setting here is of he there's a multitude of people. Estimate some estimate around 10,000 people. This word Mm-hmm myriad that's used often is used to 10,000 people. But in this case, it's not technically 10,000 people. Among these huge crowd of people, Jesus turns specifically to his disciples, and he has a message that the crowd is going to hear, but he has a message for these disciples. He says, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees. And the passage is going to tell us the leaven of the Pharisees is hypocrisy. The problem that Jesus starts off with, that they need to be aware of, the warning that we have in this passage, has to do with hypocrisy. So what is hypocrisy? It's interesting that in the classical time, classical Greek, the time period before the New Testament was written, it is used of an of an actor. The particularly the art of the of an actor who at the moment he puts on a mask, apparently they're they used physical masks when they did theater and acted. When he put on a mask, he was his whole conduct changed on stage so that he would be in keeping with the role that was shown by the mask. And this idea, the actor was the hypocrite. Jesus uses this term to help them to understand, beware of those who are acting. And that's exactly what you have with the Pharisees. And we actually see that. You're in Luke chapter 12. I've mentioned several passages from Luke 11, but would you would you look just a chapter back at verse 39 through 44, and we're going to see that these Pharisees are described As hypocrites in this passage. Verse 39. Then the Lord said to him, Now you Pharisees make the outside of the cup and dish clean, but your inward part is full of greed and wickedness. That's a key point. What is hypocrisy? When everything is good on the outside, clean on the outside, but in the heart. There is greed. Apparently there was a love of money and all kinds of wickedness. Foolish ones, he says. Did not he who made the outside make the inside also? But rather give alms of such things as you have, then indeed all things are clean to you. But woe to you, Pharisees, for you tithe mint and roux and all manner of herbs and pass by justice and love and the love of God. These you ought to have done without leaving the others. They they were focused on the externals. They would proclaim. Other passages tell us that they would announce when they were doing certain things, like praying in public and giving of alms. They wanted people the recognition, they wanted people to know their perception of who they were was actually how people valued them. And generally, people perceive the Pharisees. Well, we we think of the Pharisees, and we have all of these negative connotations with the Pharisees, because we see how the how Jesus describes them. and how the New Testament describes them. But understand that the Pharisees back then, they would not have been perceived as evil people. In fact, they would have been really, really good people. They would have been perceived as extremely conservative people. They would have been the ones that would not allow False doctrine. They would not allow bad teaching. They would make sure that they were standing firm. You had the Sadducees, some of you know who they are. They didn't believe in the resurrection, but the Pharisees, they stood firm on the teachings of the Old Testament that there was truly a resurrection. They would not have been perceived as bad. They would have been perceived as good, upstanding, right, serving, great model, can I put it this way, model Christians. They weren't really Christians, but you understand what I mean. But the problem was they were evil on the inside. There was greed on the inside. Everybody nobody else would have noticed not most people probably wouldn't have recognized this. They were criticized probably by no one, very few people until Christ came along. I mean certainly the Sadjuws there was some infighting going on, but overall the Jewish people would have uh uh looked up to them. Jesus comes to them and he says, You you are so concerned about the outside. And you're not concerned anything about your heart. God's made both. And so then he moves to the disciples and he says, Beware of this problem of hypocrisy. And then we see, we see in the passage, it says the leaven, the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. They would have been very familiar with baking bread. We usually don't bake our own bread. Don't think I've ever baked bread before in my life. Um and um I've uh I like fresh baked bread. I think we all do, but I haven't done it myself. Um But uh I I'm I'm at least well I I know that there is leaven involved in bread and it it it causes the bread to rise There is a slow process that takes place as the leaven expands the bread. And that's the metaphor that God that Christ uses here. Hypocrisy, nobody wakes up one day and says, I'm gonna be totally fake. I'm just gonna be exactly the opposite of what I really am inside. Nobody wakes up that way. No, actually it is the leaven that slowly over time we begin to value the perceptions of others rather than the perception of God. Leon Morris said it this way, the practice of saying one thing and doing another eats at the moral life like a canker. So it is the leaven of the Pharisees that he warns them about. And he gives two ill he gives some illustrations here. He says, first of all, whatever is done in secret will be uncovered. There is nothing covered that will not be revealed, nor hidden that will not be known. I think he's talking about the fact that the judgment one day will uncover everything. Later on in the passage, that's going to become more obvious. That one day those things that are covered up will be exposed. Be aware of that. Understand that. In Isaiah 29, 15, it says, Woe to those who seek deep to hide their counsel far from the Lord. And their works in the dark, they say, who sees us and knows us? Do you know the real danger of a hypocrite? A hypocrite Someone who is steeped in hypocrisy forgets that God sees all. You ever found yourself in that position where you're so occupied with how everybody thinks of you that you have forgotten that God sees everything. He sees inside, outside, he sees how the two work together, whether they're totally different. God sees it all And then he uses two illustrations here. He uses dark versus light. Says, therefore, whatever you have spoken in dark will be heard in a light. And whatever is spoken in inner whatever you have spoken in the ear in inner rooms will be proclaimed on the housetops. What's he saying there? Well, back then they didn't have I have never climbed my house to speak something to somebody else. Those of you who've seen my house, it is on the tall side, and the the pitch is quite steep. Uh and I would never climb up there to make an announcement. But back then, um back then the the ruse were flat and you would spend time on the roofs actually. I'm uh uh uh um you would bathe on the roofs and there were other things that you would do. Well one of those things if you wanted to make an announcement that everybody would know, you would get up on the top of your roof and you would make an announcement on the housetop. And they would understand this. They would understand that what it's really saying is that the things that are in our hearts ultimately will be exposed. In Isaiah forty-five, verse sixteen, it says, They shall be ashamed and also disgraced all of them. They shall go in confusion together, who are makers. of idols. Do you so the question is, do you put on a mask in front of people? Are you do you struggle with hypocrisy? I I think uh for certainly the temptation is for all of us to be that way. There is a temptation for every one of us, and it can start with small things and can grow greater and greater and greater until we are an actor. We are not functioning from a place of truth. God says, I desire truth in the inward parts. the very inner motivations of our lives. Now the question is, why are we so inclined toward hypocrisy? Why did Christ give this warning to the disciples to not be like these Pharisees, these hypocrites? Well, We're going to see it actually has to do with the problem of fear. It ultimately in the root the root of it is the the issue of fear. Look at what it says. And I say to you, my friends. I think he's citing friends because he's really wanting the disciples to get this. You remember over in John 15, he says to his disciples, I call you my friends. This is specifically for his disciples. And he says, do not be afraid of those who kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do. But I will show you whom you should fear. Fear him who after he has killed has power to cast into hell. Yes, I say to you, fear him. So we have here, he says, don't be afraid of those who are limited in their power. They can kill the body, but they can't do anything else. They can't do anything else with your soul, with eternity. There is a limitation to their power. Jesus is really arguing for the reality that what we ought to fear is the one who has unlimited power God, not the one who has limited power, man. People only can do so much to us. The worst they can do is kill us. But God has unlimited power. And so he says, isn't it amazing that what we do is we're so concerned about what other people will do to us. Or we're so concerned about how other people perceive us or how other people can harm us that we forget that there is one who can eternally damn us. Now, as Christians, we know we we are secure in Christ, but it really the argument has to do with the power, the unlimited power versus the power that is limited One we should be paying a whole lot of attention to, and the other we should not. So he says here Then he gives a reason, even further reason for this. Notice what it says in the text in verse 6. He says, are not five sparrows sold for two copper coins? And not one of them is forgotten before God. Now, this shows us that after this argument about the focus of our fear ought to be on on God, not on people, that that ultimately we are when we are in the presence of God and we are his and we are his children What we really find is that he values us and so he is not going to forget us He says he doesn't even forget five sparrows sold with two copper coins. These coins, by the way, we used to have copper coins in this country. They're called pennies. We don't have copper coins in those those pennies we you have are not are not copper. They're not made of copper. If they were they would be they are already worth more than um worth more than the cost of making them. But you do get the idea even back then that these two small copper coins for these five sparrows is a relatively insignificant amount, a low value And yet we are of much higher value to God And it says here then, notice, it says, your the hair, the hairs on your head are numbered. This is how well God knows you. You know, the things that we value are the things that we pay attention to. Right? The things that we value are the things that we know. And the truth is, God knows us so well because He values us. so much. I'd like you to take your I'd like you to take your your Bibles and turn to Psalm 39. Psalm 39, I just want to read through this Psalm. Because it really shows in amazing detail how much God really knows us. Psalm 139 Psalm what Psalm 139. Yes, Psalm 139. Maybe I said thirty-nine at the beginning. Psalm 139 Verse 1 says this, O Lord, you have searched me and known me. You know my sitting down and my rising up. You understand my thought afar off You comprehend my path and my lying down and are acquainted with all my ways. For there is not a word on my tongue. But behold, O Lord, you know it altogether. You have hedged me behind and before, and laid your hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high. I can't attain it Where can I go from your spirit? Or where can I flee from your presence? If I ascend into the heaven, you are there. And if I make my bed in hell, behold, you are there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me. If I say, surely the darkness shall fall on me, even the night shall be light about me, indeed the darkness shall not hide from you. But the night shines as the day. The darkness as the light are before uh are both a light to you. For you formed my inward parts You covered me in my mother's womb. I will praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made marvelous are your works, and that my soul knows very well. Skip down to verse 17. How precious are your thoughts to me, O God! How great is the sum of them! If I should count them, they should be more in number than the sand which I awake When I the sand, when I awake, I am still with you. Oh that you would slay the wicked, O God. Depart from me, therefore, you blood for thirsty men, for they speak against you wickedly You your enemies take your name in vain. And we could continue to read, but the point is simply this. God knows us Every word, every all of our sitting downs, all of our rising ups, he knows us intimately. This is not the kind of knowledge that he happens to know we're there because he's omniscient. There is an intimate knowledge where he is giving attention to us like nobody has ever given attention to us before. And because he is God, he can do that to multiple, all the people that are his all at the same time. Notice what the text says then. Go back to Luke and notice what it says. Here is the key issue of why people fear man rather than fearing God. He says this, do not fear, therefore, you are of more value than many sparrows. The God of the universe, the all-powerful God, the one who knows you better than you know yourself, who sees everything about you, values you. That value should have such Such an impact in our lives that if somebody devalues us, it means nothing Let me ask you a question this morning. Do you care more about what people think than what God thinks? If you do, then you will fear man. If you do, then that is where the fear, the fear of man, which the Bible says brings a snare, that's where it comes from. The fear of God is an awareness of the of the presence and the power of God. And what Jesus says here is that if you will fear God, You will not fear man. And if you fear God and you don't fear man, then you will not fall into hypocrisy And the reason that the key then is to constantly understand how much God knows you and values you and will take care of you That's the God that we serve. So with that in mind, having our thinking right about that, Paul, or Jesus rather, then goes and says. Verse 8, also I say to you, whoever confesses me before men, him, the Son of Man, also will confess before the angels of God. And he who denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God. Anyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man, it will be forgiven him. But to him who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit, it will not be forgiven. So he says, if you can we have this contrast. Confessing God before men, or denying God before men. And it's actually a picture of a of a throne room It says here, the angels of God present before the angels of God. The Son of Man will confess before the angels of God. And the Jewish listener hearing that would have would have thought about the angels of God in the throne room and that ultimately we will stand in judgment before God. with the angels there. So this reference to the angels has to do with the throne room and the ultimate judgment of God You think of Isaiah chapter 6, where Isaiah sees God and what were all around the temple, the seraphim, you remember, and they're saying, holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. That's the picture here. And yet what we actually have is that Jesus has a role here, the Son of Man. He has a role in either being an advocate Or being a prosecutor. He either is going to come to our defense, or he is going to come to judge us and to prosecute us. And the the litmus test, the test is whether or not we will openly declare our allegiance to Christ. That's the issue. Now, it is not saying that in order to be saved, you need to openly declare your allegiance to Christ. It is saying that when you are saved, When you are a true disciple of Christ, you will openly declare your allegiance to Christ. And then he has this idea of denial here, verse 10. But he who denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God. But there's a clarification here in the passage in the next verse here where he declare he he explains the difference between temporary denying and permanent denying. He says, temporarily, he says, and anyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man, it will be forgiven him. There's a sense in which, folks, isn't it true that when we're born, we are born in enmity against God. We are born against God and against the Son. w because of our sin. And yet that is god God God is can forgive that. That that can be forgiven. But then he says there is a kind of denial, a denial that is permanent, that God doesn't forgive. Now what is he talking about here? And then he says it's the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. What is this talking about? We're not going to spend a huge amount of time on this. I don't want it to miss from the point of the message. But I'll simply say this. If you if you were to go, uh you could write down John chapter 5, but if you were to go to John chapter 5, you would actually see four different witnesses in John chapter 5. John the Baptist, miracles, the Father, and Scripture are all there in John chapter 5. And in Matthew, the passage in Matthew that talks about the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. In Matthew, there is an indication there that the Holy Spirit becomes that fifth sign to these To these religious leaders, these Pharisees, as Jesus offers the kingdom, and they reject that final sign of the Holy Spirit. And Jesus pronounces judgment on them because of that, and he directs his attention to in Luke we see this very clearly, the Gentiles and other people that will receive him. Now, what does that all mean for us? It means essentially this. Practically speaking, the only way that we ever get into a place where we are un God is not able to forgive us, or God will not forgive us rather, is number one, if we're dead. So it is a point for us to die, and after that the judgment, or if we continue to deny the witness of the Holy Spirit in our lives. That is, if someone doesn't know Christ and the Spirit of God works in convicting them of their sin and they will not repent. Then of course God will not forgive them. But the point here is this. God is calling on the disciples, to be willing to willing to openly declare their allegiance to Christ. Now, I want to address this. I want to do my best to not take the sharpness of this of the sword here, of what Scripture says, but also realize this. Does this mean that we should Literally go out everywhere, and the first thing we say to somebody is, hey, I want you to know my allegiance is to Christ. Is that what it's saying in the passage? And what I would say is that not it's usually that's not what it's saying. That's not the point of the passage. The point of the passage is not for us to be some sort of um some sort of you know, uh bull in a China shop kind of just go out and tell everybody, hey, I'm a Christian and my allegiance is to Christ and and and no, that's not the point because Scripture actually tells us, behold, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves, Matthew 10, 16, therefore be wise as serpents. and harmless as doves. And frankly, it's not always the most effective thing to the very first thing that we say is, hey, I my allegiance is to Christ. It might be far more effective for us to show our love to them And it might be far more effective to show our lives before them so that they are curious about what we believe. And we are able then to win them to Christ. The goal, obviously, is for us to function in such a way that they want to see the validity of the Christian faith or that they do see the validity of the Christian faith and that God can use us to bring them to Christ. So we need to be wise with this. But We should not tower away from openly declaring Christ because we're afraid of what they'll think of us. See, there's a difference. There's wisdom in presenting ourselves in such a way that will help them to see Christ. But on the other hand, if we're not sharing Christ or we're we're we're ashamed of the gospel of Christ then we need to learn from what Jesus is saying here. A true disciple of Christ will openly declare Christ. So, where will this confession and denial happen? We see in the text that Jesus is now going to tell his disciples, he's going to prophesy, he's going to predict here. that they are actually going to come under persecution. Look at what it says in verse 11. Because on account of him many of the Jews went away and believed in Jesus. The next day a gr uh sorry, that's not right. Let me let me look at eleven, that's John. Luke chapter twelve, verse eleven. Now when they bring you to synagogues and magistrates and authorities Do not worry about how or what you should answer or what you should say, for the Holy Spirit will teach you in that very hour what you ought to say. He actually says, notice he says, now when. He doesn't say if. He doesn't say if ever, if anybody ever brings you before magistrates. If anybody ever tries to persecute you, no, he doesn't say that. He says, when it's going to happen. Jesus said in other places, you will have tribulation. In fact, in the book of John we find that the persecution that they had was actually began to occur then. In John chapter 9, verse 22, it says for the Jews, that's the Jewish leaders had agreed already that if anyone confessed that he was Christ. he would be put out of the synagogue. This was actually starting to happen now. But certainly this persecution, this opposition, if you will escalated as time went on so that you get into the book of Acts and there is all kinds of person going on. There is flogging going on. There is scourging going on. Even Paul, the Apostle Paul, who is converted by Christ, he accounts on the fact he recounts the fact in Acts chapter 22, verse 19, that he punished Anyone who came into the synagogue who named the name of Christ. And so he says to them, don't, notice what he says, don't worry. This interesting thing is the thing to tell the disciples, hey, you're going to be persecuted. They're going to bring you before rulers and magistrates. You're going to have to suffer for my sake. But hey, don't worry about that. Don't be anxious. Why? Why would they not have to worry? I'll tell you why I mean, he's going to specifically saying, don't worry about what you're going to say. But let me just pause and say this: that when you are really concerned about eternity, about the God who can, who has your eternal destiny, in his hands rather than what people can do to the body when that is really your concern, you really don't need to worry about what people can do. And it says that in other places. But the primary concern here in this passage has to do with what they will answer He says, don't worry about what you're going to answer. The Spirit of God is going to, and we actually see that he's talking here specifically to the apostles, and I think what he's really referring to is the fact that they will actually be able to to bring revelation from the apostles, from the Spirit of God to the Apostles, through the Apostles, and know how to speak. to the the people uh and we see that in the book of acts. In other words, they are going to function as the Old Testament prophets in this New Testament time. simply a as apostles particularly. Bottom line is God is going to take care of them through the work of the Holy Spirit as they go out and they do that art of the will. And the application that we can make is this. that we have the completed Word of God, we do have the power of the Holy Spirit and the indwelling spirit, and we also do not have to worry about opposition to Christianity. We can know look, we know that for the disciple of Christ, for the Christian, we will suffer persecution. There are going to be times where we are going to have to suffer for our faith, and yet we know that God is with us, He will take care of us. The key is that we fear God more than we fear man. So as we think about all these things, I want us to think of three takeaways. Number one Christ calls us to openly declare our allegiance to him unashamedly. That's what he calls us to do. Not in a way that is prideful or boastful or arrogant, anything like that, but to openly declare our allegiance to him Christ calls us to that as Christians. Number two, because you are valued by God, there is no need to fear the devaluing of people. Catch that. Because you are so incredibly valued by God as a child of God, there is no need to fear the devaluing of people. None. There is no need to fear it. We need to not be like the teenager who is whose identity is bound up in what his friends think of him. No, it doesn't matter. What does God think of me? That's what matters. If God, and if I know that He knows me and loves me and values me, The way that Psalm 139 says, and I'm aware of his presence, that he is seeing me, that he is watching me, it's going to really keep me from hypocrisy, but it's also going to keep me from the fear The fear of people, so that I can freely and completely serve Him. Number three, living in awareness of God's presence and power Inoculates us from the fear of people. Living in awareness of God's presence and power inoculates us from the fear I have one more one more thing to just ask you a question about. And that is this: are you truly a disciple of Christ? Maybe you're going through this and you're seeing what a disciple of Christ is like. And you realize, you know what, I don't know that I am truly a follower of Christ. Well today is a day that you can, the Bible wants, Christ says, come follow me. And if you will understand your sin You will understand that your sin separates you from God. You'll understand that Jesus Christ died as your substitute so that He could give you righteousness and life. And he rose from the grave victorious over sin and death. If you will believe that, then you will be a follower of Christ, a disciple of him. If you're not sure where you stand with the Lord, let me encourage you to come and talk with me after the service. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with the Lord. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and praise you and thank you for the privilege of being your disciple. We thank you for the truth of this text that warn us about the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. And we confess before you, Father, that we are so guilty often of caring more about what people think, or caring what people think. And putting our sense of value in based on what how people value us rather than resting and trusting In you, in how you value us, we thank you that we see in your word that we are fearfully and wonderfully made. that you know our downsettings and our uprisings. You know your thoughts are continually toward us. It's so high we can't attain to it. We don't, it's hard to even Grasp that, that you, the the God of the universe, would have those kinds of intimate, detailed thoughts toward us, and yet we know that you do. We know that you value us. We know that you see us and are with us. And I pray, Lord, then, that we would fear you, would have an awe of you, a a reverence toward you that would inoculate us from any fear of people. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's stand together and sing more like you. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community here at BBC. you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call, so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon