Happy to be here this morning. Wonderful to see all your smiling faces. We are going to be in Romans chapter 12 today, verses 1 through 8. And uh before we go there, uh Let's uh begin in prayer. Heavenly Father, you are holy, holy, holy. You are righteous and you are just You are merciful and full of grace and love. You are Almighty, all powerful, all-wise, and all-knowing. You are the creator and sustainer of all life, and you are sovereign over all of your creation. And as we see, and Lord, as we understand Your greatness as much as we can in these bodies. Father, we're grateful this morning for the great love wherewith you have loved us in the fact that you would send your only begotten Son. To come and take on human flesh and take on the sin of the world upon himself and die on that cross, receiving the punishment that we deserve. And was buried in the tomb, and on the third day, you were resurrected up out of that grave. You conquered death. You conquered sin. You conquered Satan, and you are now seated at the right hand of God the Father. And we come with grateful and thankful hearts this morning. For you tell us in your word that if we admit and agree with you with you about our sin and repent and receive Jesus as our Saviour and Lord. That you will impute your righteousness upon us and put our sin as far as the east is from the West Away from us. And not only that, but you sent your Holy Spirit to indwell the heart of the believer, sealing us for the day. of redemption. And Father, we're grateful this morning that we can come together as your people and worship you in spirit and in truth. And Father, as we come to this time where we come under your word, I would ask, Father, that you would help us to set aside all the distractions of this week and all of the pains and aches and things that we are going through Through today for this next hour, just to listen to your word and may your spirit have its way in us. And Father, I pray, as we are reminded by James, Father, we don't want to be just the hearer But help us, Lord, to be a doer of your word. That we would be obedient to your will, and that in all things you would receive all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. And we We ask you in Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to be in Romans chapter 12, verses 1 through 8. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God. which is your reasonable service. And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. For I say, through the grace given to me, to everyone who is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think But to think soberly, as God has dealt to each one a measure of faith. For as we have many members in one body But all the members do not have the same function. So we being many are one body and individually members of one another Having then gifts differing according to the grace that is given to us, let us use them. If prophecy, let us prophesy In proportion to our faith. Or ministry, let us use it in our ministry. He who teaches in teaching He who exhorts in exhortation, he who gives with liberality, he who leads with diligence, and he who shows mercy with cheerfulness Well thank you. I was encouraged just by the seeing this morning and by the reminder of the truths that we said to one another and to ourselves and to our Savior. Uh just thinking about that last hymn we were singing, that we live in the strength of Christ, and we worship unashamed. You know, that is an individual thing, and that is a corporate thing. We as believers individually live in the strength of Christ and we worship Christ, but we're also doing it as a body of Christ. Being together in that as we do that this morning. And I think that's something we'll see in this passage, how we as believers Yes, there's the individual sacrifice of ourselves on his behalf serving him, but it's also done through the local church as we serve one another in worshiping, praising him So as we look at this passage this morning, I hope that it's uh encouragement to you and a challenge to you as it is to me as well. Uh looking there just at verse 1. Verse 1, Paul says, I beseech you, brothers, by the mercies of God. I beseech you by the mercies of God. We're going to see a few things in this passage up that we walk away with. First, we're going to see that we offer ourselves to God because of the mercy that He has given to us. Then we're going to see that we offer ourselves to God as a living sacrifice. Thirdly, we offer ourselves to God with humility. And finally, that we offer ourselves to God with wisdom in how we do so. So that's the first one. We offer ourselves to God because of his mercy. In the previous chapter, in Romans chapter 11, Paul has been explaining, defending the mercy of God, how it is long-lasting. Everlasting. How God has continued to show mercy to the people of Israel, the people who had abandoned him, abandoned his son, killed his son. But yet he still chose to show mercy. And that is incredible mercy of God. As I think about that, the mercy that God Offers us, I have to ask myself this question. And I'd encourage us all to ask us this. Where would we be if it was not for the mercy and the grace of God this morning? Where would we be? And we probably don't like the picture that comes to mind. The heart is more deceitful than all else and is desperately sick. Who can know it? is what Jeremiah says And I know that's my heart. And I know that's your heart, but for the mercy and the grace of God. As I thought about this, I came up, there's a few things of what God has done for me and for all of us who have accepted Christ as our Savior. We've been justified from the guilt and the penalty of our sin. We are adopted in Jesus Christ. We are joint heirs with his Son. We're placed under grace, not under the law. We're given the Holy Spirit to dwell within us, to motivate us to become more like Christ. We have the promise of help in all affliction We can be confident in the coming glory of Jesus Christ. We know that there can be no separation from the love of God for us and that mercy and grace He's given. And we can be confident that God will remain faithful to us. That is the mercy that God has offered to us. And that is why we offer ourselves to Him. We are offering ourselves to God. Because of the mercy and the grace he has shown to us. When we recognize that he has done, our only response is to serve him. But how do we serve him? What does this look like? In verse 1 it says, you present your bodies a living sacrifice. holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service, or another way it can be translated as spiritual worship. So what does it mean to be a living sacrifice If I were to say the word sacrifice right now, what is the first thing that comes to someone's mind? Isaac, okay. What do you think as these people Who Paul is writing to, what was the first thing that came to their mind when they thought of a sacrifice? Animal sacrifice, the temple. Heard a few different things there. Yes. He's writing to Jewish people, to Gentiles as well. The Jews, they understood a sacrifice as an animal, that perfect, as close as they could get to perfect, they'd bring to the temple, and it would die. For a Gentile, they would also think about an animal that they would bring to the temple of their gods, and it would die. So as Paul is writing this, he's kind of flipping it on his head. He's giving them an odd word picture. Present your bodies a living sacrifice. You know, and these believers are kind of scratching their heads here, like, what does he mean? Sacrifice doesn't live, it dies once and done. But Christ commands us to be a living sacrifice, a sacrifice that stays alive after the initial Sacrifice. Not a once and done an ongoing living giving of ourselves to Christ You know, as believers, we've already chosen to follow him. We have chosen to turn from our sin to follow Christ. But that sacrifice does not end there Is an ongoing, every moment of every day, choosing to follow Him. You know, being a living sacrifice is worship Giving is praise. In 2 Corinthians chapter 9, verses 11 through 12, Paul writes, You will be enriched in every way. To be generous in every way, which through us will produce thanksgiving to God. For the ministry of this service is not only supplying the needs of the saints, but is also overflowing in many thanksgivings. Paul, as he's writing to the Corinthian church, he's saying, as you are giving to further the ministry of Paul, as you are giving to see the gospel extend, as you're giving to see churches established, This is actually service and thanksgiving to God. The spiritual worship. Praise to our Savior. You know, being a living sacrifice, it also requires transformation. Look at verse 2. Be not conformed to this world. but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. So we must resist being conformed to this world, speaking about ideologies and thought processes that we see all around us. The worldview of authority, how the world views authority, how they view right and wrong. And if we just look around at the world today, we can see a broken world. Not understanding how God has designed us to live. But we are called to resist this understanding, to be rather transformed. This happens first at salvation, but it continues through sanctification. You know, we have never arrived as a believer. We are constantly called to evaluate how we view things, what we are thinking, what we believe, to ensure that it measures up to God's word. Turn over with me to keep your finger in moments. Return to 2 Corinthians chapter 3. 2 Corinthians chapter 3. In this passage, we'll see Paul using the same words transformed or metamorpho. Second Corinthians 3, verse 18. He writes, But we all, 2 Corinthians 3, verse 18, but we all with open face, beholding as in a glass, the glory of the Lord. are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. This change in the same image, transform, metamorpho, becoming more like Christ That is what we're called to do. As we see what Christ is like, as we choose to follow him, we are transforming ourselves to become more like him. By the Spirit of the Lord. This is through the work of the Holy Spirit. Now we're also called to offer ourselves to God with humility. with humility. So we offer ourselves to God because of His mercy. We offer ourselves as a living sacrifice. But we're also called to offer ourselves with humility. Paul is about to share how we're called to use our gifts, what this looks like practically. But first he gives us some warnings. Gives us a warning. To be careful of being prideful of the gifts or the talents or the abilities that God has given to us. Back in Romans chapter 12, in verse 3, he says, For I say through the grace given to me to every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think. But to think soberly, according as God has dealt every man the measure of faith. So how do we offer ourselves with wisdom? What does this look like? It's by knowing and using our abilities. How do they work together? What are they? How do we use them in worship of our Savior? You know, as we think about this, I want us to pause and just remember that there is unity, yet diversity in the body of Christ. Unity does not mean uniformity. It does not mean we all look the exact same. But God has given each one of us abilities and talents that we can use to unify the body of Christ So I was studying for this, I think one one theologian put it really well. He said, quote, unity should never be promoted at the expense of individuality. An individuality should never diminish the church's essential unity in Christ. He is our common ground because we are one body in Christ. Yes, we look different. Yes, we have different talents and abilities and gifts. But as a body of Christ, we are called to be unified. And as we're unified, we use these to praise and worship our Savior. So all gifts and abilities come from God. We see that there in verse three, according as God has dealt to every man the measure of faith. For I say through the grace given to me to everyone that is among you, not to think of himself more highly as he ought to think, but to think soberly. All gifts and abilities come from our God. Turn to me to 1 Corinthians chapter 12. 1 Corinthians chapter 12. This passage we see something very similar Paul's laying out for another church. First Corinthians chapter twelve, verse eleven. He says, but all these, these are different gifts or talents or abilities that God has given to the church, but all these work that one in the selfsame spirit dividing or giving to every man as he will. In other words, our gifts and our talents and our abilities, they're not ours We have them because we've been given them by God through the Holy Spirit. Hope you kept your finger in Romans 12. We're still going to be in 1 Corinthians 12, but also back in Romans 12. I know. I'm trying to keep you awake here this morning. Back in Romans 12, we see a few gifts that Paul lays out. Looking at verse 4. For as we have many members in one body, and all members have not the same office. So we being many are one body in Christ, and every one members one of another, having then gifts that differ according to the grace that is given to us, where the prophecy let us prophesy. Or ministry minister. He that teaches on teaching. He goes through several. As Paul is challenging these believers to use their gifts, He encourages to continue to use them or to do so in a more biblical manner. He says those who teach continue to teach. Those who contribute do so generously Those who have a gift of mercy, do it with cheerfulness. And back in First Corinthians chapter twelve We see how we use it. How do we use these gifts? What does it look like? We're just going to read through quite a few verses here in 1 Corinthians chapter 12. We get an idea of what Paul means. So back in verse 11, he says, You have been given your gift by the Holy Spirit. These talents, these abilities. In verse 12, 1 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 12 says, For as the body is one, And as many members, and all the members of that one body being many are one body, so also is Christ. Now for the rest of these verses, Paul's going to lay out a really beautiful word picture. typically think about our thumb. And Paul's going to use this idea of a body being working together To describe believers, the body of Christ, working together to worship and praise our God. So let's keep reading. Verse thirteen. For by one spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free, and have been all made to drink into one spirit. Right here we see once again we are unified in Christ. Yes, there's diversity. Paul says there are Jews, there are Gentiles, there are slaves, there are freemen. But have all been made to drink into one Spirit. As a believer, we all have the Holy Spirit within us. We are united in Christ, joint heirs with the Son of God. Verse 14, For the body is not one member, but many. If the foot shall say, Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body, is it therefore not of the body And if the ear shall say, Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body, is it therefore not of the body? If the whole body were an eye, where were the hearing? Don't think about that too deeply, because that word picture is a little scary. If the whole were hearing, where were the smelling? But now has God set the members, every one of them, in the body as it has pleased him. Once again, God directing, leading, placing. Verse 19, and if they were all one member, where were the body? But now are they many members, yet but one body? And the eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you nor the head to the feet, I have no need of you. Nay, much more those members of the body which seem to be more feeble are necessary. That sum that you didn't think about today until you went to pick something up and it was necessary. And those members of the body which we think to be less honorable, upon these we bestow more abundant honor. And our uncomely parts have more abundant comeliness. For our comely parts have no need, but God has tempered the body together, having given more abundant honor to that part which lacked That there should be no schism in the body, but that the members should have the same care one for another. And whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it, Or one member be honored. All the members rejoice with it. Now you are the body of Christ, and members in particular See in this passage, Paul lays out how we are to use our gifts and an encouragement to us. A challenge and an encouragement. You see, believer, you are necessary for this church to function You have been given the gifts and the talents and abilities that you have to serve, yes, our God, but serving the church to serve God. What does he say back in 18? But now as God set the members, every one of them in the body, as it has pleased him. Verse 24, but God has tempered the bodies together. God has placed you here for a reason. You are a part of the joy and the sorrow of your church family. You see there in verse 26, and when one member suffers, all the members suffer with it. Or one member be honored, all the members rejoice with it. So I think about my body. If my throat hurts, I don't feel well. If your stomach hurts and you have the flu, you don't feel well. The rest of your body just doesn't feel right. So it is with the body of Christ. We hurt with one another. We rejoice with one another. You see, we are called to use our gifts In service of the Church, and therefore in worship of our Savior. And that's back in Romans chapter twelve. Romans chapter twelve, verse one I beseech you, brothers, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. That living sacrifice is using the gifts and the talents and the abilities you have each moment of every day Acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service, which is your spiritual worship. So how do we worship our God? What does it look like? It looks like using what he has given you to build up and edify the body of Christ. And as you do so, you are offering up thanksgivings to God, which is your reasonable service. So how about us? How are we worshiping? Are we joining in the sorrow and the joy of the church family? Are we using the gifts and the talents and the abilities that God has given to us not to boast in and of ourselves, because we have them not because of ourselves, but because of God? Are we using them to serve the church? Are we presenting our bodies truly as a living sacrifice, not as a one-time thing? But a daily sacrifice as we take up our cross and follow Him. It's not easy to follow Christ and serve Him, but it's what we're called to do. So as we apply this to our lives, I would encourage us. Maybe you were you were thinking about somebody in this church that you have seen them use their gifts and their talents and abilities. To serve you and serve others, and therefore to serve our Savior. I encourage you to go to them and thank them for this. Remind them that they are doing this and they're suing it for our Savior. Or maybe as you sat and thought, you said, Well, I don't have a gift or a talent or an ability. What do I have to give back? You know, we've all been given something. Something to serve our Savior. Even those parts, it said in 1 Corinthians chapter 12, those parts that don't seem to have a need, they have a need. They can be used. So maybe you can encourage someone else in the church. Go to them and say, I see this gift or this ability that God has given to you. Have you thought about using it? Here's how you could do it. Encourage one another, join in the joy and the sorrow of your church family as you worship our Savior. Let's pray. Father, I thank you for the time that we have just to look at your word, to be reminded of truth. Thank you for this word picture we see in Romans and in 1 Corinthians and other places in Scripture as well, of this body, how affical it is. That you have placed each one of us, and that we are called to serve you and worship you, and that we do so, yes, individually, but also most importantly as the body of Christ. Thank you for those who have gifts that are obvious to others and for those who have gifts that are less obvious. Because you have given them to us, and we're called to use them. I pray that you'd encourage us to continue to serve you by serving our church That we would be a pleasing aroma of sacrifice to you, that others would see this church serving one another in worship of their God God and desire that as well. In your name I pray. Amen. Thank you, Brother Willow. The passage that Brother Willow preached from is from Romans chapter twelve and talks about the body of Christ. The reason that the body of Christ, the church, exists at all, is because of what Christ has done for us in dying on the cross to pay the punishment for our sin. So that the passage that he preached from, the background of the passages, the previous 11 chapters of Romans Which explain that we God is holy, that we have sinned, that our sin separates us from God. That Christ died to pay the punishment for our sin. He rose from the grave three days later, proving that he could pay the punishment for our sin. And if we will accept that by faith. We'll understand that our sin separates us from God, but Christ died to pay the punishment for our sin, then we will become, we can become a child of God. The Bible tells us in Romans 5. 8, God commended his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. So if you're here this morning, And you don't know where where you stand with God, where your relationship is with God. Let me encourage you to come and talk with myself or Brother Boyle, somebody else you're comfortable with at this service. We'll be glad to help you understand where your standing is with God. The Bible tells us these things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. God desires it that you would know from the Word of God that you have eternal life that you are rightly related to him, that you are a child of God, and you are on your way to heaven. And so let us help you with that. We would really love to do that. For those of us who know Christ our Savior, this is a wonderful reminder that we are the body of Christ, that collectively as members, one of another that we are we are the the physical representation of Christ to the world. Think of it. How important is that? But Christ left, he ascended to the right hand of his Father, and he left us as his church to represent him to the world. And how do we do that? Well, we do that as we actually show love to one another. And so we thank you so much for the message. Thank you. Great passage to preach from. May we be reminded of the importance of us as members of the body of Christ as we show love to each other, we serve one another, we represent Christ well to the world. Why? So that the world can know who Christ is as we as they see us loving each other and serving one another. Thank you. I pray that this is a blessing to all of us. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.