Let's go to the Lord together in prayer. Father, we come to you and our hearts are full of the truth that we have sung about, the praises that we have offered to you. And as we just sung, truly the gospel contains elements of tremendous mystery. It is unfathomable to think that you, the God of the universe, would send your Son to die on the cross for unworthy sinners such as us. It makes little to no sense because there is nothing in us that deserved such a price to be paid. But you thought, because of your great love towards us, you sent your son. Christ died for sinners. Well, we thank you. We praise you. We this is a debt that we cannot repay. But Lord, you do call upon us to serve you with our lives, to offer up ourselves as living sacrifices. Truly, we don't belong to ourselves. We belong to you. Truly, the life that we have is is to be stewarded for your purposes, your kingdom. And Lord, we thank you for the institution of the church in which uh in which you have ordained to to proclaim your gospel. It is it is your principal work. It is the avenue in which you are building your kingdom And Lord, we are so unworthy even to be participants in that. And we thank you, Lord, for the the opportunity to be in your word today. Lord help us to be attentive to what your word says today. I ask, Lord, that there would be a sense of urgency to hear your word preached. And to have our hearts receptive to it. May you do, may you use your spirit, as we talked about in Sunday school today, to Show us the significance of the truth in your word today. We pray all this in Christ's name. Amen. Reading today from Romans chapter 11, 1 through 10 will be the text today I encourage you to turn there and read along with me, if you will, please, Romans 11, 1 through 10, before Pastor Jim comes and preaches. Romans 11, 1 says, I say then, has God cast away his people? Certainly not. For I also am an Israelite, the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin. God has not cast away his people, whom he foreknew. Or do you not know what the Scripture says of Elijah, how he pleads with God against Israel, saying, Lord, they have killed your prophets and torn down your altars, and I alone am left, and they seek my life? But what does the divine response say to him? I have reserved for myself 7,000 men who have not bowed the knee to Baal. Even so, then, at this present time, there is a remnant according to the election of grace. And if by grace, then it is no longer of works, otherwise grace is no longer grace. But if it is works, it is no longer grace. Otherwise, work is no longer work. What then? Israel has not obtained what it seeks, but the elect have obtained it, and the rest were blinded, just as it is written God has given them a spirit of stupor, eyes that they should not see, and ears that they should not hear to this very day And David says, Let their table become a snare and a trap, a stumbling block and a recompense to them. Let their eyes be darkened so they do not see, and bow down their back always. The Bible is intended to show us who God is. Many people are confused as they open up the pages of Scripture, they open up the Old Testament particularly, and they see Israel and the stories of the people of Israel, and they see God in there somewhere and trying to understand how how what what why is it all there. I mean if this really does show who God is, why do you have all of these different stories about Israel who are the people of God and God's interaction with them. In any good story or even a good movie, you have a you there are a few elements that you really need. This was brought to light when my family watched a really s dumb movie r re really uh recently we watched uh Moana Two How many of you seen Rwanda 2? How many wasted your life seeing Rwanda 2? That is I mean, we're watching this and my wife and are looking at each other going, this is so dumb. I mean Moano had some uh was was actually the first one was really good except it was you know had demigods and all kinds of objectionable things. But outside the objectionable things Um, it was ac it was rather entertaining. The second one was like really not. And if you analyze why, number one, there seemed to be no s no singular plot in the movie. There was not a lot of conflict. There was no cli uh climax. And uh at least none that I could detect. Uh the music was bad, the the uh the the animation was good, the character development was almost non-existent. I mean th really the whole thing was really lousy. One of the things in a really good movie you're going to have as you begin a movie or a or a good novel or a book, a fiction book, is character development. And one of the ways that you describe, you understand character development, the character is developed is as it interacts with other people. If if you see various relationships, maybe it's sibling relationships or parent relationships, depending on what the story is, you begin to see how that character develops uh care how that character interacts with other people and it develops the character so that by the time you get to the plot development you have a you want you you really care about that character. If you think of the Old Testament, you have this relationship. And it is the relationship of Israel, God's chosen people, and God. And you see interactions throughout the Old Testament of God and Israel, and God and kings of Israel or prophets of Israel, different interactions in the Old Testament. All of it develops the character of God. We see the character of God show forth in the Old Testament by all of these different interactions. And as we look at Romans chapter 11, what we're going to see as we go through this and as the Apostle Paul reflects on hit on God's relationship with Israel, we're going to see again the character of God. One of the aspects uh of the character of God that we see in the Old Testament is the idea of Israel being a son and God being a parent or a father. In Exodus chapter 4, verse 22 through 23 it says, Then you shall say to Pharaoh, Thus says the Lord, Israel is my son, my firstborn. In Hosea 11:1, it says similarly, when Israel was a child, I loved him, and out of Egypt I called him. So if you think of the relationship of God with the nation of Israel, and as a parent with a child, it's going to hell. The fact is, what we find as we go through the narratives of the Old Testament, we find Israel is a very, very wayward child. Just think about how difficult a parent's relationship is with a child when the child is rebellious and wayward and defiant It's a very, very difficult thing. Even if with the best instruction and a loving, caring uh family If a child grows up and he begins to defy and to rebel and to be wayward, he begins to break curfews and go to lavish drinking parties and gets into drugs and begins to deal drugs and get into the criminal kinds of things. If you can imagine how does a father relate to somebody uh to a son who gets in who who gets into that kind of of a of a criminal kind of that they grow up that way. There's a real tension. Sometimes parents are just they just bend over backwards and actually as a result they end up enabling their kid. An enablement is a possibility of someone who is too lenient. And on the other hand, someone who just I mean the idea of disowning a son or disowning a child, which is in some cultures and even in our culture has happened before. I mean, how can a father really disown a child? Neither one of those the tension between those two extremes is something that as you think about a parent, and some of you, many of you are parents, the struggle that you would have as your child grows up and goes a direction that you would not want them to go. How to relate to them. This is what we actually find when it comes to God, who is the parent of Israel How does God relate to someone, Israel, his own son, he calls them in scripture? How does God relate to someone who over and over and over rejects him as a parent. How does God the Father relate to someone who gives opportunity after opportunity after opportunity Just to have these people be completely unfaithful. Israel is a completely unfaithful in following after other gods and worshiping other idols. How does God deal with this. Well I'll tell you what he's not going to do. He's not going to reject his people I mean, in and of itself, that's amazing. When you read the Old Testament, by the end, if you read through the Old Testament, by the end you get to it and you go, dump them. Like like they are worthless. There is like I see no reason why God's going to do anything with them anymore, opportunity after opportunity after opportunity. And yet that is not what God does. Do you know why? Because God is faithful. The faithfulness of God is incredible. I I It it doesn't depend anything on what Israel does. God is still a faithful God. But Israel just doesn't get it. Why doesn't Israel get it? Well, we've learned this already in Romans In Romans 9, verse 30, it says, But Israel, pursuing the law of righteousness, has not attained to the law of righteousness. Why? Because they did not seek it by faith. But as it were, by the works of the law. For they stumbled at the stumbling stone. And when we were going through the passage, we learned that the stumbling stone was actually Jesus Christ. Christ came and he was a foundation, a rock, a place by which you put your faith to some, and he was a stumbling stone to others. And the nation of Israel as a whole. stumbled over Christ. Verse 33, that same passage in Romans 9 says, and as is written, behold, I lay in Zion a stumbling stone a rock of offense, and whoever believes on him will not be put to shame. We come to this passage. We come to Romans chapter 11. And the issue on the table, you'll see from the very first sentence, he says, Paul's saying, I say then, has God cast away his people? And the answer that the Apostle Paul is going to give in these ten verses has to do with God's present relationship with Israel. Like what is his relationship right now? We actually see that from verse 5. Look down at first verse 5 for a minute. You'll see it. It says, even so then at this present time, there is a remnant according to the grace of uh the election of grace. So at the present, so we know that Israel has this long history And some of what we've already learned in Romans chapter 9 and in Romans chapter 10 is what has happened in Israel's past history and how God has dealed with them. In this passage here, we continue to see the present relationship that God has, understanding that Israel essentially was repeatedly unfaithful, repeatedly missed Christ who is the fulfillment of everything. How do you deal with a people like this? Well, you don't reject them. And that's what we're going to see in this text this morning. And we're going to see, first of all, that God is faithful and won't reject his people. We see that in verse 1. It says, I say then, has God cast away his people? Certainly not. We've seen that phrase before, certainly not. We've seen it in Romans chapter 6. What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? Certainly not. The King James says, God forbid. It's the word Meganoia. May it never be. God will never reject his people I say then, certainly not, for I also am an Israelite. Now notice what he does here, of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin. Paul reflects on who he is. And he identifies himself with ethnic Israel. There's no question about that here. Is this talking about the church? Is it talking about what's it talking about? Paul says, I am of the seed of, I am an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin. Now, why does Paul do this? I think, and we see this actually throughout the New Testament, what is constantly on Paul's mind is his conversion. We won't take the time to turn there, but if you were to go back to Acts chapter 9, you see a man who is a zealous Jewish leader. This is Paul. This is a man who is so zealous about his faith, the Jewish faith of the time, that he wants to stamp out Christianity because he sees it as a threat to Judaism. And so he is on the road to Damascus to kill and to persecute Christians. And in the midst of doing that, God calls him to himself and he becomes the very people that he is trying to persecute. He becomes a Christian himself. Such a dramatic conversion we see in that passage. And Paul then recognizes that God isn't done with all of the Israelites, even Paul, Paul who rejected Christ. Paul who was turned who turned against Christians, Paul who was persecuting Christians, God chose to save him, an Israelite of ethnic Israel. And he says, look, Paul says, look, if you want to know if God's turned his back on Israel, look no further than here. God hasn't turned his back on me. God called me and he saved me and I am from ethnic Israel. Now, to really understand as we go through this, I want to try to help us understand God's purpose for Israel as we look back in the Old Testament. What was God's purpose? Well, God's purpose for all humanity when Adam and Eve were created was actually to glorify him, to show forth his character. He made people in the image of God to show forth, to reflect his character, like a mirror, if you will. Of course, we know sin, uh sin broke the mirror, if you will, and so we couldn't we couldn't reflect the glory of God because of that. So God chose to work with a particular people. And it says in Isaiah 49, 6. Indeed, he says, it is too small a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob, to restore the preserved ones of Israel. I will also give you as a light to the Gentiles, that you should be my salvation to the ends of the earth So God's in in God in choosing Israel in the Old Testament, He wanted to work with them so that they would reflect God's glory, that particular people, and they would reflect it out to everyone else. So that God would be made known to everyone, so that salvation would come to everyone. The problem was Israel constantly failed They constantly didn't do what God had called them to do in being a light to everyone else. So what is what did God do? I want to illustrate it this way. So suppose you have a man who builds a business. He's going to build a business building houses. And his goal is to build as many houses as possible for people so that it's affordable kind of housing. Maybe he offers to them in regardless of their financial situation. And we're going to call this man, we're going to call this company Israel Housing Company. Okay. I I'm not that I'm not that original. So Israel Housing Company. So this company, its goal, the man's goal for this company was to do what? build houses, right? Well in in in the way that he set this company up, he set up a contract with every individual in the company, every every bun one, every employee in the company And they would be supplied for life the benefits from the company. And that was just the way the contract was set up. And it entirely depended on upon him to provide that for them. This is obviously no real company. But the problem was that this particular company stopped building houses. Everybody in the company, they wouldn't build the houses. They wouldn't do what the company was intended to do. And yet there was a contractual agreement that they would be able to benefit from the company, and yet they weren't doing what the company intended what the what the the man who built the company intended intended to do. So what did this man do? What this man decided to do was to start another company A separate company, we'll call this church housing company. And he decided to that since Israel was not was not building houses, He decided that he would create another company and that they would begin to build houses and they would do what he wanted to do with the other company. But here's what he did. He allowed, there's a word in uh in Israel in the text called a remnant. Now let me be clear, the remnant is not the church. Okay, it's not Here's what this man, this builder, did. He allowed any any employee that really wanted to build houses to transfer over to this other company. Now, the company he left intact, but all of the people within the company that wanted to come over to help him, they could become employers, employees rather, of the church housing company. Now the read why am I doing all this? I'm I'm trying to explain that is this is exactly what God has done. Paul is the perfect example What happened with the Apostle Paul? Paul, before he was the apostle, was a Jewish person, but God set Israel on the shelf. They just weren't doing what God had called them to do. They were not a light. And so God didn't destroy Israel. He didn't reject Israel. But what he did do is set them on the shelf. He froze Israel, if you will. But what he also did allow in this present time, even to this day, is he does allow people from ethnic Israel that recognize who Jesus is to be able to come over and to become part of the church. And I think that's what he's talking about here when he call when he calls, but he calls it a remnant, a small amount. Now the truth of the matter is Over the history of the last couple of thousand years, you do have a remnant, and we're going to see that, but the majority of Israel have not really accepted Christ. Only certain people within Israel have, certain Jewish people have, over the history of the last couple of thousand years. And they then are included in this new entity that is to be a light to everyone that God is using. to spread his gospel to everyone. So let's understand a little bit more about this as we pick up and we see that it is actually by the graciousness of God. God's graciousness, God is gracious and preserves a remnant. So he will not reject Israel. There is never a time where he rejects Israel completely. He sets them on the shelf, he freezes them, but he will not reject them entirely out of hand. And we're going to see actually in future messages, we'll see how he uses them. But for now, this present time. We see this remnant. Romans 11, 2. God has not cast away his people, whom he foreknew. Or do you not know what the scripture says of Elijah, how he pleads with God against Israel, saying, Lord, They have killed your prophets and torn down your altars, and alone I am left. And they see my life. But what does the divine response say to him? I have reserved for myself 7,000 men who have not bowed down the knee to Baal. Okay, so what's going on here? The Apostle Paul refers to a story in the Old Testament. The story is found in 1 Kings chapters 18 and 19. It's the story, it's the well-known story of Elijah. And the prophets, and Ahab, and Jezebel. If you want to take your Bibles, you could turn there. I'm not going to we're not going to go through the entire story, but if you wanted to turn there, you could. In 1 Kings chapter 18. And you have on the scene you have King Ahab who is a very wicked king, and she marries an even wickeder person, Jezebel. I know wicker is not a word. Um Jezebel Jezebel is as wicked as they get. I mean she'll kill anybody just because she feels like it. And that's exactly what she does. She kills, she massacres the prophets of the Lord we see in verse four of 1 Kings chapter 18. Jezebel is just a very, very wicked person. She kills all the prophets. Obadiah, one of the prophets He is able to sequester like a 150 of them away, but for the most part, she gets most of them. And then she also She also exalts prophets of Baal and another god, Asheroth, and there are probably other gods involved as well. So she kills prophets of God, of the true God, and she raises up prophets of Baal, all, and Ahab, of course, she he he goes along with all this as well I mean Jezebel is as wicked as you think of you know who I think of when I think of Jezebel? I think of Cruella de Ville. I don't know why I I don't I don't know why I think of that. I I literally every time I ever read the passage I think about Jezebel. I just think of Cruel like the picture of this they did such a good job in the very first animation of like the most wicked villain you can possibly think of, this woman uh she's she's and that's why I don't know, that's why I always think of it when I think of uh uh Jezebel. And um now you will too probably. Anyway, um maybe I shouldn't have said that. Anyway, so you have Ahab, uh so so so what happens? Well what you have is Elijah. Elijah is the prophet that stands firm. He's going to be resolute in his loyalty to God. And God call tells Elijah that he needs to go to Ahab and he actually needs to set up a time of testing where the prophets of Baal can come and they can set fire to an altar by whatever means, by calling on their gods. And Elijah can do the same by Paul calling on his true God. So that's exactly what Elijah does. He goes to Ahab, he sets up a time, they come, and they do all kinds of crazy things to try to you might remember the story. They do all kinds of crazy things. to try to get their God's uh lowercase g, God's attention, Baal's attention. So they'll cut themselves, they'll fall on the ground, all these kind of things, and yet no fire comes from anywhere to burn up the the sacrifice Well, when it comes when it comes to Elijah's turn, Elijah uh he he comes and he actually gets people he gets pours water all over the sacrifice. He douses the whole thing with water. And calls on God one time, and the fire comes and burns up everything on the altar. This caused these prophets of Baal to be fearful and to run. But Elijah goes after them, valiantly goes after them, and he puts them to death, as exactly what he should do according to Old Testament law. They needed to be put to death, and that's exactly what he did. But then you have in 1 Kings chapter 19, you have Jezebel back on the scene. And Jezebel doesn't like what Elijah has done. And Jezebel threatens Elijah. In verse 1 it says, and Ahab told Elijah, Jezebel, I just, what a wimpy guy. But anyway, um, and Ahab told Jezebel all Elijah had done. Also how he executed all the prophets with the sword. Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah saying So let the gods do to me more also if I do not make your life as the life of one of them by tomorrow about this time. He sends some a messenger to Elijah and says, I got I if let the gods do to me with if I don't take your life by tom in in 24 hours. And obviously, this is a threat. Now, what does Elijah do? He does what every good strong man does, he runs And I actually can't blame him. I would run too probably if you want I mean, you know it it it's it's a little bit of a tension here because I mean in one sense Elijah God saw Elijah saw God work mightily I mean, great, just awesome fire comes from heaven and and and so God, you know, I've just seen God work, but he's just like all of us. And he's human, and he gets into a situation here, and he's quite fearful. So he goes off by himself, runs away, gets before the Lord, spends time uh alone. And God comes to him in verse 9, and it says, And there he went into the cave and spent the night in that place, and behold the word of the Lord came to him and said to him, What are you doing here, Elijah? So he said, I have been very zealous before the Lord of Lord God of hosts, for the children of Israel have forsaken your covenant, torn your down your altars, and killed your prophets with the sword, I alone am left, and they seek to take my life. Well, Elijah actually, he's very concerned about his own aloneness. He says this twice. He says, I alone am left. And then later on the passage, he's going to say the same thing again. Verse 14 He says, I alone am left, and they seek to take my life. This man is depressed as you could as ever anybody could have could imagine. He's hopeless. He has no hope. He thinks he is gone by the by the next you know by very soon. What is he to do? And he can and he thinks he's the only one left who is being faithful to God. I'm the only one. Everybody else isn't. Have a pity party. Notice what God says. God says in the passage, he says, verse 15, Then the Lord said to him, Go, return on your way to the wilderness of Damascus. And when you arrive, anoint Hazel as king over Syria. Also you shall anoint Jehu, the son of Nimshe, as king over Israel, and Elisha the son of Shaphat of Abel Meholah, you shall anoint as prophet in your place. It shall be that whoever escapes the sword of Azel, Jehu, will kill, and whoever escapes the sword of Jehu, Elisha will kill Yet I have received seven thousand in Israel, or I reserved seven thousand of Israel, all those whose knees have not bowed to Baal, and every mouth that has not kissed him God says, Elijah, don't worry. I've got everything under control. You're going to actually inaugurate a new king, and I've got 7,000 people waiting to serve me. Now, 7,000 people Relative to all of Israel was a very small amount. But that still shows the faithfulness of God. And what Paul is saying in this passage is that God is always faithful. And even in small times, even when things aren't great, even when things are not What they used to be, God is still faithful. He will always preserve a remnant. And if you look at the passage here in verse 5, We see by what means he preserves this remnant. It says, even so then as the present time there is a remnant according to what? The election of grace. It is by the grace of God. Election just means choosing. It is by the choosing of God by His grace, of no merit of anyone, of no works of anyone, of no self-effort of anyone, it is by the grace of God that God chooses a remnant. We actually see this in the book of Acts, for example. We see in Acts 2. 41, then those who gladly received his word were baptized, and that day about 3,000 souls were added to them. Those were Jewish people. In Acts chapter four, verse four. However, it says how are many of those who heard the word believed, and a number of men came To be about 5,000. 5,000 came to Christ. Acts 6. 1. There were many more others that were multiplied. God saved Gentiles in the book of Acts, but he saved many Jews as well, as part of the remnant. That God was going to preserve during this time. That is the so we see the grace of God. The entire nation rejected Christ. And yet God, by his grace, preserves a remnant. But I think there's a very important application for all of us, and that is this. God saves everybody by grace. We have seen this over and over in Romans. One of the things that Paul gets across over and over is that Salvation is by grace alone through faith and that not of yourselves, which actually is Ephesians 2. In Romans chapter 4, verses 1, verse 4, it says, Now to him who works, the wages are not counted as grace, but as death. But to him who does not work, but believes on him, who justifies the ungodly, his faith is accounted for righteousness. Galatians two sixteen says, knowing that man is not justified by works of the law, but by faith in Jesus Christ Even we have believed in Christ Jesus that we might be justified by faith in Christ and not by the works of the law, for by the works of the law no flesh shall be justified. You know why God does this? Do you know why God has set it up that salvation is only by grace through faith alone? You know why? Because that way God is glorified. No individual can ever be glorified legitimately by the salvation of someone. It is only God who is glorified because it is only God who can truly save someone. by his grace alone. But the question then becomes, okay, God preserves a remnant, but what about everybody else? What about all of those people, all of those Jewish people that reject Christ? They reject the promised Messiah. What about them? And the truth is, we actually do see the justice of God as well. Now some people really get hung up over the justice of God. They don't like to think about the justice of God. And the truth of the matter is nobody really likes to think of the justice of God when we're thinking about God's justice on us I mean, when we think about all of the injustice in the world, we think about all of the things that go bad and nobody really gets punished kinds of things in the world. Aren't we thankful that there's going to be a day where God's going to set everything right? Isn't it a wonderful thing to know that God is just and God will execute justice in exactly the way that He chooses? In the future, so that all things will be separate. There's something inside of us. There's something in our spirit, in our conscience that are our sense of justice that really struggles when we see so much injustice in the world. We wrestle with it. And rightly so. And the answer for the Christian is to actually realize that God will set it all right He is going to execute justice. It will be settled someday. So we actually ought to be thankful for the justice of God The fact is, God offers his grace to everyone so that we do not have to receive the justice of God But yet we can be thankful for the justice of God. And we see this in this passage, that God is just and hardens the rebellious. Look at verse 7. What then? Israel has not obtained what it seeks, but the elect have obtained it, and the rest were blinded. Just as it is written, God has given them a spirit of stupor, eyes that they should not see, and ears that they should not hear to this very day. So what's going on here? God explains what happens to the people that have rejected Christ, the stumbling stone. What has taken place? The Bible says that those who have been who accepted They they the elect have accepted, but those who have not, it says the rest are blinded. This idea of blinded is also is actually sometimes translated and hardened that is translated hard. It's the same thing. Blinded or hardened And a passage that I think really helps with this is Mark chapter 8. In fact, if you want to take your Bibles and turn there, you can. On Mark chapter 8, verse 14, it says this. Now the disciples had forgotten to take bread that they and they did not have more than one loaf with them in the boat. Then he charged them, saying, Take heed, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the Leven of Herod. Now we learned a couple of weeks ago, what is the leaven of the Pharisees? The leaven of the Pharisees is hypocrisy. Do you remember that? Now notice what it says in verse 16 of Mark chapter 8. And they reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we have, is it because we have no bread? But Jesus, being aware of it, said to them, Why do you reason because you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive or understand? Is your heart still hardened Having eyes do you not see, and having ears do you not hear, and do you not remember? What's going on here? Jesus says, Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees. Is Jesus talking about bread? He's not talking about bread. He's talking about the problem of the Pharisees and their hypocrisy. And he says, beware of this. But instead, what do they say? They are so they they miss it. They're blinded. They miss the point exact entirely. And they say, is he talking about the fact that we have no bread? See, that's the kind of blindness that people have to the truth. Outside of the work of the Spirit of God, outside of the work of God in the lives of people. There is a blindness to the truth. This is, Jesus wasn't talking anything about bread. He was talking about the leaven of the Pharisees as an ill- And 11 was an illustration to explain the nature of hypocrisy and the Pharisees. And yet the disciples didn't get it at all. And he says and God and God says Christ says you're blinded. John 12 40 says, He has blinded their eyes and hardened their hearts, lest they should see with their eyes Lest they should understand with their hearts and turn, so that they should heal them. And then we have in verses 8 through 10. What Paul does is he refers to the Old Testament three separate times, and he describes what this blindness looks like. Actually, this is a pretty hard t these are pretty hard texts to interpret, but I'm going to give you, I'm going to tell you what I think they are. So in verse 8 it says, just as it is written, God has given them a spirit of stupor Eyes that they should not see, and ears that they should not hear to this very day. This is actually a combination of Deuteronomy 29, verse 4, and Isaiah 29, verse 10. In Isaiah 29 verse 10, it says, For the Lord has poured out on you the spirit of deep sleep. So when Paul explains the nature of Israel, those are outside the remnant, how they're blinded, what does that look like? He's talking here then about spiritual drowsiness. So we have three descriptions here. Spiritual disblindness describes, number one, spiritual drowsiness in verse 8. But then we pick up and in verse 9, we f it quotes Psalm 69, verses 22 and 23. It says Let their table become a snare and a trap and a stumbling block and a recompense to them. I read that, I've got to tell you, I read that multiple times, and I I was like, what? Look at it again. Look at verse 9. Let their table become a snare and a trap. Let their table become a snare and a trap. What is that talking about? Their table becomes scared of the dam. And I'll tell you up front that the commentators do not agree on this. Like read read like five and you'll get five different answers. But I'll just tell you the best I can what I think is talking about here In Scripture, the Jewish people saw the table as a wonderful place. The table was a place where meals, people met a place of hospitality, a place of fellowship, a place of security, of safety. And there are a lot of things that could be associated with the table, with the with the meal time. And but we see from the text that there's a contrast in in the table, it says becomes a snare or a trap. So that which Israel saw as a snare, or as a safety, that which Israel saw as something that was comforting and safe, like okay, like comfort food. How many of you all ha there's certain things you like to eat when you get sick? I was just sick. You know what I eat when I get sick? Grits. I don't know why I eat I eat grits. I put ch some ch little cheese in it, maybe a little eggs in it if I want some protein. I had so many grits for that I like every single meal. I mean I don't like I didn't want anything else. I just ate tons of You guys were like, what where did you come from? Anyway, who even likes grits? I'm my my mother was from Louis Louisiana. My grandparents are from from there and I grew up on grits, and that's probably why I like them. Okay, so so So think comfort and safety, and yet the thing that you're finding comfort and safety in actually becomes a trap for you, a snare to you. A stumbling block and a recompense. I think what we're talking about there is the empty self-righteous religion In other words, what is why are the what does this spiritual blindness look like? It is finding security and self and satisfaction. in empty religion. And that was what Israel was doing. Why did they reject Christ? Because when Christ came, they found their own sense of security and satisfaction in keeping the law, in keeping all the rabbinical writings, in doing all the good things that they're supposed to be doing. That was where they found their sense of security Then number three, we continue in the passage, we see in verse 10, it says, Let their eyes be darkened so that they do not see and bow down their back always. Again, who bows down their back? Like that. But but again, that was a hard it was a little hard one to figure out. So I think what it's describing is a blind person who is constantly groping in the darkness trying to find their way and never actually finding it, and they're bending over to try to find their way and and never actually being able to find it. So we're they're talking some we're talking about someone who is continually burdened by searching without finding. And this is true of the nation of Israel as well. someone who they were continually burdened by the fact that they they were searching and working for eternal life and working for being in right standing with God, but they were never actually able to find it. They were never actually able to come to a place that they knew that they were right with God. 2 Timothy 3. 7 says, always learning and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. Now, this is all talking about ethnic Israel. But I think that there is clear application for us in Scripture as well. If you go back to Romans chapter 1, you actually, if you'll remember, all the way back to the first chapter of Romans, you've got You've got a creation set up as a way to show who God is. That People should be able to see creation and see the evidence of creation and see that God is powerful. They can't see everything about Christ, they can't see the way of salvation. They should at least know that there is a God, recognize the one and only true God, and recognize his power just by being able to observe creation. So that in Rome, but the problem was is that people don't. They reject the revelation of creation that they see. And so it says in verse 29, 21 Although they knew God, they did not glorify him as God, nor were thankful, but became futile in their thoughts, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Professing to be wise, they became fools Later on in that same passage it says, Therefore God also gave them up to uncleanness and the lust of their hearts to dishonor their bodies among themselves, who exchanged the truth of God for the lie And worshiped and served the creature rather than the creator who is blessed forever. This is the reality of all people. We are are are we are born blinded and our hearts are hardened. And when we reject the evidence that there is a one and only true God, When we reject the evidence of creation, we continue to be further hardened by God. We are turned over to a reprobate mind by God. But here's the good news. The good news is that if you're hearing this today and and you have ears to hear. Then you can receive the truth of the grace of God and accept Him this morning. There are three takeaways that we could see from this passage, and all of them have to do with the character of God. Number one, we see that God is faithful and keeps his promises. We need to rely on him. God is faithful. He will not reject Israel entirely Because he is faithful. He always keeps his promises. And if you know Christ as your Savior this morning, God is faithful. He will, you can rely on him. There is all other ground, as the song goes, is sinking sand. But on Christ, the solid rock I stand. God is faithful. And you might be here today, you don't know the Lord, you don't know this God of the Bible God of the Bible that is speaking of. And the reality is uh your life is sinking sand, it's confusion, there's problems, there's it's there's no stability. God is the only truth stable person in life because he is faithful. God is gracious. Trust him God is gracious. Trust in Him. The Bible actually tells us that these things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. God wants you to know that you have eternal life. And you can have that life today. God says He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And if you're here this morning and you don't know where you stand with God, maybe you've been trying to work be a good person or that your good outweighs your bad or your works are work you cause you to work toward heaven or And and you're never really sure if you have a the right relationship with God. Let me let me encourage you, come and talk with me after the service or somebody you're comfortable with, and we'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you have reached God That you have received the grace of God for yourself. And finally, God is just. Surrender to Him. God is a just God. We must surrender. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. And so when we see scripture, when we see these truths, that He is faithful to those who will surrender to him. He is faithful to those who rely on him. He is gracious to those who will trust in him. But he is just toward those who will not May we choose to surrender to him in our lives. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and thank you for your truth. We thank you for your word. We thank you that you are faithful and gracious and just We thank you because of that, those things, that you have made a way for us to be right related to you by your grace Jesus Christ died, satisfies your just demands, and if we will receive him, we will receive the grace that you offer to all of us. And Lord, we're thankful also to to to to just observe your relationship with Israel that no matter what happened to Israel, you would not turn your back on him on them. You would not reject Israel. And so we thank you for that. We thank you that you also will not reject us as well. No matter how much we fail you, you are faithful. And we are grateful for that. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide This helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.