Well good morning. Aren't you grateful for the nice warm weather God has been sending our way? We are going to be in chapter 11 this morning of Romans and verses 11 through 24. Romans 11, 11 through 24. Before we go there, let's bow our heads and pray together. Father, we come to a time that we are sitting under your word this morning. And Father, we are grateful and thankful that you have given us your word, your great and precious promises. And by your grace, you saved us through faith in Jesus Christ. We're grateful that we have purpose in life And Father, we're thankful this morning that you have given us this place that we can come together and sit under your word and sing worship and praise to you, Father. Just be blessed by the fellowship. And so this morning I asked that you would help us to set aside all the distractions of the week And all that we brought in and help us to concentrate fully upon your word this morning. We ask that your spirit would do a mighty work in our hearts And I pray that you would be with Pastor Jim and just give him the strength and clarity of thought and speech as he brings your word. And uh, Father, may we be changed as we leave here today from than when we came in. more and more to your image. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Romans chapter 11, and we are looking at verses 11 through 24. I say then, have they stumbled that they should fall? Certainly not. But through their fall, to provoke them to jealousy, salvation has come to the Gentiles Now, if their fall is riches for the world, and their failure riches for the Gentiles, how much more their foolness? For I speak to you, Gentiles, inasmuch as I am an apostle to the Gentiles, I magnify my ministry. If by any means I may provoke to jealousy those who are my flesh and save some of them For if their being cast away is the reconciling of the world, what will their acceptance be but life from the dead? For if the first fruits is holy, the lump is also holy. And if the root is holy, so are the branches And if someone, if some of the branches were broken off, and you, being a wild olive tree, were grafted in among them. And with them became partakers of the root and the fatness of the olive tree. Do not boast against the branches But if you do boast, remember that you do not support the root, but the root supports you. You will say then, branches are were broken off, that I might be grafted in Well said, Because of unbelief they were broken off, and you stand by faith. Do not be haughty, but fear, for if God did not spare the natural branches He may not spare you either. Therefore, consider the goodness and severity of God. On those who fell, severity but toward you Goodness, if you continue in the goodness otherwise, you also will be cut off. And they also, if they do not continue in unbelief, will be grafted in God is able to grasp them in again. For if you were cut out of the olive tree, which is wild by nature, and were grafted, contrary to the nature, into a cultivated olive tree, how much more will these who are natural branches be grafted into their own olive tree? How many of how many of you ever uh had made some sort of plan? Uh maybe You went on a trip somewhere, or maybe it was work plans or some kinds of plans, and you were very excited about the plans. But um something happened that were that totally interrupted your plan and and made it so that you would be like, I don't know what to do from here. I have no idea what to do. I'll give you an example. So imagine we're going to have an Easter egg cons in the next few few uh weeks here. What hap- what what do you think would happen if We had an Easter egg hunt, we've promoted it, we've put it on the website, we put signs out, and we get to the day, we set everything up, and we realize we don't have Easter eggs. I mean it would be kind of a problem, right? Like if there are no Easter eggs whatsoever and we have broadcasted an Easter egg hunt and everybody are coming to get Easter eggs and we like forgot them or something. And that would be a very serious problem where we would all go, what do we do now? How do we handle this? I have no idea what we are supposed to do. I um on occasion have had dreams, um, a recurring dream that I got up in the pulpit, I forgot my notes, and I have nothing to say. Literally. Oh man, that was just a dream. I've had that my entire ministry from uh uh like at not every night, thankfully, but but from time to time uh that that it happens and it's just the weirdest thing and I wake up and I go, man, I'm glad I'm glad I have something to say. Anyway, um So those are those are some kinds of things that that go on. Um have you ever have you ever made plans or were going somewhere or doing something And someone else interrupted your plans so that you were like, I really don't know what to do now. I've got nothing. Do you realize that God has never been in that situation? He has set forth plans and he has for the foundation of the world in such a way that people make choices and make decisions Some good and some bad, some favorable and some very unfavorable, some godly and some not. And yet God is never caught by surprise. He never goes, oh, I have no idea what to do now I had this plan, and the nation of Israel, for example, did this, and now I don't know what to do. Never has that ever happened with God. God is He makes plans and then when he He's able and such uh sovereignty and wisdom is able to take whatever decisions people make and to somehow fit them into his overall plan. And I hope that we can see today the wisdom of God, really the and just stand in awe of how God has taken the plans of man and the and the decisions of man and ultimately use them use them for his glory. We've been talking about In chapters 9 through 11, we've been talking really about primarily two entities, the Jewish people and the Gentiles. We have said before that really what we don't we don't really see the church per se in 9 through 11. We see saved Jewish people We have seen non-save, unsaved Jewish people, and we see saved Gentiles. And the two groups that Paul is speaking to are Christians who are Jews and Christians who are Gentiles. And it can become a bit sort of overwhelming and a bit confusing when you when we're going through these passages to see these the you know to see, okay, well what is the big deal about Israel and why is that so important and why is Paul saying these things about Israel that I really hope that we can see as we've been looking at the last several weeks, we can see the wisdom of God. And remember that God's plan overall is to bring salvation to people. From the point of the fall of man forward, God's plan has been to bring salvation to people. And I hope we're going to be able to see that today. We left off last week With uh understanding that Israel has been set aside in a sense for a time, but there that God would save a remnant And we pick up in Romans 11, verse 10, and it says, Let their eyes be darkened so that they do not see and bow down their back always. The picture there is that the Israel is overall, they are hardened and blinded to Christ and to the gospel. But even now, there is a remnant. There would some that would be saved, and there has been some. In fact, in the first century, the first large group of people that came to Christ were Jewish people. But overall, they have stumbled. Overall, they have rejected the Christ is the stumbling stone for them. They have stumbled. God is working, not He's certainly saving Jews and Gentiles, but by this point, when Paul is writing, there are more Gentiles that have been saved than Jews being saved. In Rome, very likely the Gentile Christians have outweighed the Jewish Christians. And so as Paul deals with this and tries to help them to understand God's overall wise plan, he asks a rhetorical question. He says in verse 11, I say then, Have they, talking about Israel, the Jewish people, have they stumbled that they should fall? That's the question. Have they stumbled that they should fall. And when it says fall the first time here, it's talking about have they been utterly destroyed? Have they stumbled? Yes, they have, but has it caused their utter destruction? And his answer is certainly not In other words, is God finished with the ethnic nation of Israel? Is he finished with them? And the answer is no. And we're going to see that extremely clearly in this passage today, that he is not finished with the nation of Israel. He has set them aside for now, essentially, as the main light. We talked about this last week, as the light that is that is uh to go out to all the world. God's not using Israel to to be a light to the world, he's using the church. But he will one day use Israel again for that purpose. So we see there's some reasoning here that he says. He says, first of all, he says, certainly not. That is not the case. Israel is not being destroyed. God does have a plan for Israel in the future. But then he says in verse 12, it says, Now if there fall. Now that could be a little confusing. Because you have the word fall before, and then it says again, verse 12, if there fall, but that word fall is a different word. It's the word trespass. It means to step over the line. If there trespass Which is actually the stumbling. If they're trespass, the the idolatry is actually what it ultimately was. Israel's idolatry and also their rejection of Jesus. If their trespass He says, is riches for the world. That is, if it results in actually being a gain for the world, And their failure, or you could say their loss, is our riches for Gentiles, then it says how much more their fullness, or we could say fulfillment, how much more has Israel fulfilled, has God used Israel to fulfill what he said he would. Now this is this is really amazing. Let me back up and just remind us that in Isaiah 49. 6, a really key passage in the Old Testament, key verse, in Isaiah 49. 6, it says Indeed, he says, it is a small thing that I should that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob, and to restore the preserved ones of Israel, I will also give you as a light to the Gentiles that you should be my salvation to the ends of the earth. God said he would make Israel a light to the Gentiles. and to bring salvation to the end of the earth. But the problem is, and we've known this before already, we've seen this, the problem is Israel in the Old Testament, they stumbled. In fact, they stumbled over and over and over again. falling into idolatry and uh uh uh false worshiping false gods over and over and over again until finally Christ comes on the scene, they don't recognize who he really is and they reject Jesus And so they have stumbled as a result. But here's what's amazing: God knew they would. God's in control of all things, God's all-wise. It's like God set up a win-win scenario. So that if Israel would have obeyed God, followed after him, worshipped him consistently, been faithful to God then they would have been the light to everybody else that God had called them to be. And Gentiles would have would have come to Christ come to God and ultimately actually come to Christ, they would have they got God would have used Israel to be the light to the world that He wanted them to be. But Israel failed to do that. They failed miserably They rejected Christ. They were in idolatry. They failed to do that. So how but but what Paul is saying is God still used that For the ultimate salvation of the Gentiles. How? Well, he essentially set Israel aside And Christ set up the church, essentially, and all believers now are Christians, are a light to all of the world. So that so that what you have here is it ultimatum, Paul is saying, ultimately, this is too in God's plan So that God used Israel, even though he didn't use Israel in the way they could have been used, he still used Israel to bring salvation to everyone. And let's remember who came through Israel? Christ did. Christ was the ultimate fulfillment of what God had promised. And so we have what we should be standing in awe about. is that God in his all-wise plan, he is not he's not shaken by the fact that Israel didn't do what he called them to do. He's not, oh no, what do I do now? They're not fulfilling their end of the bargain. No, God in his ultimate plan allowed uh he used Israel's disobedience ultimately for Gentiles to be able to receive the gospel, but also actually, and we're going to see this more clearly as we go through this, He's even using that, the Gentiles who many uh who are coming to Christ to ultimately um uh facilitate Jewish people coming back to him, the Jews, the nation of Israel. And we'll see how this works as we go through it. Galatians chapter 3, verse 6 says this. Just as Abraham believed God, it was a conduham for righteousness. Therefore, know that only those who are of faith are sons of Abraham, and the Scripture foreseeth that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preaching the gospel to Abraham beforehand, saying, In all in you all the nations shall be blessed. So then those who are of faith are blessed with the believing of Abraham. Then we find in verses 13 through 14 Paul then he speaks directly to the Gentiles and he points out, he's already pointed out, he's identified with ethnic Israel last week. We saw that in the passage. Now he points out that his ministry by God's design, though he is a Jew, a Jewish Christian, By God's design, his ministry is to the Gentiles. And he points this out in verse 13. He says, For I speak to you Gentiles inasmuch as I am an apostle to the Gentiles. He says, I magnify my ministry. I'm emphasizing my ministry here, my service here. in verse 13. But he says something that's quite interesting. He says, my hope is that in my ministry to the Gentiles, it's not Like your better Gentile, that you're better, that's why my ministry is them. My hope is actually that it will it will bring Jewish people to Christ. Notice what it says in the passage, verse 14. If by any means I have If by any means I may provoke to jealousy those who are my flesh. And when he says my flesh, he's talking about the fact that he is from Jewish, his heritage is Jewish. So he says, a little bit confusing, but he says that by reaching out to Gentiles and seeing people come to Christ who are Gentiles and they become Christians. His hope is that Israel would ultimately be provoked to jealousy. And what does he mean when it says that Israel would be provoked to jealousy? He's probably referring back to Deuteronomy chapter 32, verse 21, where it says this. God is speaking here, and it says, They have provoked me to jealousy. by what is not God, or by false gods, by their worshipping of false gods. They have moved me to anger by their foolish idols. But I will provoke them to jealousy. Notice what it says. By those who are not a nation, I will move them to anger by a foolish nation God says, God says in Deuteronomy, all the way back in Deuteronomy, that because they are not following after him, they are following after idols. that in order to bring Israel back to himself, he would actually use the salvation of Gentiles to, he says, to provoke them to jealousy So God first says, I've been provoked to jealousy by Israel. In other words, Israel is failing me, and so I've been provoked to jealousy. And now I am going to, the Gentiles will provoke uh provoke the Jews to jealousy. Now, what does this mean, this idea of jealousy? I mean, when we think of jealousy, we don't think of a good thing. I get the picture of middle school when I think of jealousy. Okay. All these middle school people and they're jealous of each other and they're jealous of of friends and maybe there's boyfriends and girlfriends in there and they're jealous of that I don't think of a I don't have a good picture in my mind when I think of jealousy. But the jealousy that they're talking about in Scripture, that we're seeing here in Scripture, it also is often translated zealous. There are three things I think we should remember about this con this idea of jealousy or zealous in Scripture. Number one, it's talking about passionate commitment to a person or a cause. This zealousness or jealousy is a passionate commitment to a person or a cause. It carries also the idea of forces that motivate a person, some kind of force, usually external force, that motivates a person. And also it carries the idea of a sense of exclusive belonging. All three of those things. In other words, there's kind of a range of meaning in this word, but I think probably all of this is what he's talking about here. That Israel's problem was they were not passionately committed to God. And so, and although God was passionately committed to Israel, And so God was going to use the commit, the passionate commitment of Gentiles to provoke them, to cause them, to motivate them to want to to be committed to him. And so and and to g to kind of give you uh a little bit more of an idea, uh a When we think of, you know, jealousy, high school jealousy, middle school jealousy, we don't have a good picture. But if you can imagine a married couple. And there is a healthy jealousy. There's a healthy a realization that we are that we are owned by each other. in a sense. And that that there shouldn't be anything unfaithful outside of that. That becomes a right thing, right? Or you can even think to some degree about a parent and a child. There is a kind of relationship there between a parent and a child that is exclusive. You can You might be able to watch my kids for a while, babysit my kids, but that doesn't mean you become their parent. They only have uh two parents. So it's that kind of idea, this relationship that Israel had with God, but Israel was not doing what God wanted, and yet got in God's overall plan Because of his great wisdom and I think probably his love as well, he's not finished. Even now, he's not finished with Israel. And so he says in verse 15, it says, For if they're being cast away is the reconciling of the world. That is, as Israel is being set aside It be it be it uh starts the the reconciling of the world occurs. Um Israel's rejection equals reconciling of the world. What will their acceptance be but life from death? He's basically looking at and saying that when they are accepted, that when Israel is accepted, they will actually accept Christ and they will be saved from eternal death. It's really referencing the resurrection in the future. Revelation 20, verse 6 says this, Blessed and holy is he who has part in the first resurrection. Over such the second death has no power, but they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years. So you so there's going to be A thousand-year millennial kingdom in the future, where God will set up his kingdom, Christ will set up his kingdom, and it will be an Israel, a Jewish kingdom. But they will accept him, truly accept him as their Messiah and as their Savior, and so that they will be included and God will use them once again. In fact If you really think about it, if you think of the book of Revelation, for example, God really even sets Gentiles aside in Revelation as the main witness during the tribulation period. You've got the two witnesses that God empowers to witness all over the place, and you've got the 144,000 Jewish witnesses. So during this time period, the church is the light to the world. But in the future, God is going to set Gentiles in a sense aside again to use the Jews to be that main light to the world. That's what we're talking about here. So what are some implications of this? Number one. We should stand in awe of the perfect wisdom of God. Some of this is a little complicated, some of this is a little bit hard to understand, but at the end of the day What we should see is that the plan of God is not thwarted by the decisions of man. That God is sovereign, He is in control, He is all-wise, and that no matter what is happening No matter what other people do, no matter what other decisions are made, God is in control of all of it, and he will ultimately use it for His good, for our good and for his glory. I think it's an important thing. You ever find yourself in a situation as a as a Christian? You just find yourself in the world and you are Really worried about decisions others are making. They're out of your control. There's nothing you can do about it. You don't need to worry As a Christian, God is in control of all those things. He is sovereign over all of that. We could think of Romans 8. 28, that he works all things to the for our good and for his glory to those who are called according to his purposes. And so and so we need to stand in all of this and we can have this confidence of knowing that an all-wise sovereign God superintends even over the bad decisions of ourselves, sometimes frankly, and the bad decisions of others. We can take great comfort in that Now, as we move to the next part of this, we need to understand some more about the relationship during this time of the Gentile Christians and the Jewish Christians Sometimes I think that when we think of Bible times in the first century, we think that everything is just wonderful all the time. That it is true, many, many people got saved and You have the first century church, many people came to Christ, and churches were formed, and churches were planted, and churches were multiplied, and it was a wonderful time in the first century, but they did have their set of problems. And actually one of the problems they had was a form of racism. As you actually find this a little bit in Acts chapter 6 with the Hellenistic Jews, the Greek-speaking Jews. and the more thoroughbred Jews, the the um and and there was dispute going on there. But you actually have as You know, in the beginning in the book of Acts, you see all these Jewish people getting saved. The first first uh at Pentecost, you have 3,000 people, they're all Jewish people getting saved. But as time goes on, You do see a shift in the book of Acts where God really begins to save many, many Gentiles so that, as we said before, there are more Gentiles being saved than there are Jews being saved. And this caused a lot of conflict. In fact, in Acts chapter 15, you have some debates going on about who should be circumcised, who should not. There there was a a lot of that kind of thing going on. And and yes, the Jews tended toward legalism. But what we see here evidence from this passage is actually that the Gentiles, they they kind of had a chip on their shoulder. I mean God was really saving a lot of them. They were outnumbering and it's the the Jews and it's uh who are being saved. And it's kind of interesting that that is the way we are. We're really bad about this. We as human beings have this desire to be more important than others. We have this desire to be greater than others, to have a life of significance It's kind of b almost seems to be built into us. Maybe it's built into our our flesh. But and and when you when you have a lot, when you when you're in the majority you really feel pretty good about it. If there's only a few people that think the way you are or l or are like you, you don't feel as good but When you have a larger amount of people that are like you are, then you start feeling good about that and you feel like you're a little bit more important. And I think that was what was going on in Paul's day. The Jewish Christians, I mean I'm sorry, the Gentile Christians were feeling they were feeling a bit more important, and they were beginning to think that they were more important than the Jewish people. Paul wants to correct this problem. And so he says, and so we see that God's wise plan leaves no room. for personal credit. We pick up in verse 16 and we see actually in verse 16 through 21 two illustrations, actually kind of three illustrations, but the first one is of doe Okay, uh or bread. So we see here it says in verse 16, for if the first fruit is holy, the lump is also holy. What is he talking about there? This is a reference back to Numbers chapter 15 verse 20 where it says that the grain that comes from the ground The first fruits of it, the first parts of it, should be grounded into meal and made into a cake. and then offered to the Lord. It says in Numbers 1520, you shall offer up a cake of the first of your round meal as a heave offering, as a heave offering of the threshing floor, so shall you offer it up. So it says, if the first fruit is holy, that is, if it is set apart unto God, then everything that comes from it is as the meal is made. uh from the grain and then it is made into bread. It's uh and that that bread is then giv the whole thing is given to the Lord. So the The first fruit is, the root of it, the first fruit is, then the rest of it is all given to the Lord as well. You can't really separate it And then he uses another another illustration to he's using he's making the same point with his next illustration. He actually uses the illustration of root and branches. And I think this will this is even clearer for us. So in verse 16 it says And if the root is holy, so are the branches. Well, that makes sense. I mean, if you have roots, what comes from the roots are of the same kind of character as the root themselves. So he's saying if the root is set apart, then the branches are set apart. Now this is what he's his point is. His point is ju the Jewish, the Jews are the root. The nation of Israel is the root. Gentiles, you're the branches. Don't despise the root. I think perhaps he is even specifically talking about the patriarchs, the Old Testament writers, the gospel in the Old Testament. He says, don't think that you're better than the root from which you came. Don't think that you're better than them. So then he says this, he explains this even more. He says, and this would be an illustration that they would understand completely. He moves to another illustration, verses 17 through 18, about an olive branch. So he says, and if some of the branches were broken off And you being a wild olive tree were grafted in among them, and with them became a partaker of the root and the fatness of the olive trees. What is he talking about here? Olives were a big thing back then. Um you you you they used them for fuel to light fires and to light lamps to to l uh light their homes at night They used them to eat. It was a ma major food source as well. How many of you have ever been to the Museum of the Bible? I'm curious And you go into that one, I think it's the second floor, and you go in there and you see the big olive tree. There's a- and then there's a there's an olive press. And that's, I think, appropriately a priority. That was a big priority. So everybody understood what olive trees were. And everybody would understand actually that there are cultivated olive trees And there are wide olive trees. The cultivated olive trees were the really healthy ones. They produced really good olives. They produced really good oil from the olives. Those were ones that were that were cultivated and into trees. But the wild trees were actually little scraggly bushes. And occasionally you get a fruit a few fruit from the a little bit of a little bit of olives from them, but they were smaller, they were less desirable, they were not as useful, you didn't get really good oil from them. So you have the the the the the cultivated really good tree and you've got the wild you've got the wild branches or the the wild um the wild tree which is like the bush Now he uses this illustration to explain that the cultivated tree is Israel. They would understand immediately the picture. They would understand, oh, wow, okay. So and this is what he says happen. He says that the branches from the cultivated tree were broken off, and the branches from the wild bush were grafted into the branches from the grafted in in place into the cultivated tree. Now immediately when they heard that they or read this, they would have said, Why would you do that? Right? I mean why would you take a scraggly little bush and take the branches from a scraggly little bush and and plug it into raft it into a nice big beautiful tree? It wouldn't make any sense to do that. That's an unnatural thing to do. And actually, verse 24 says that. It's an unnatural thing to do. But that is exactly- I think that's exactly Paul's point. What God did in uh in in breaking off the branch of Israel so that God so that Gentile Christians could be grafted in, what God did essentially was something that was very unnatural. What's the point? The point is that they have no merit in this. They're the scraggly bushes that have been allowed to be to be cultivated into a beautiful olive tree So that there is no, there's no boasting that should happen. It's not you're so much better. No, you have been allowed to be included in God's overall plan. And there should be no boasting whatsoever. And then in verses 19 through 21, it says, You will say then branches were broken off. that I might be grafted in. Oh, I'm better because branches were literally broken off so that I could be graphed in. So he's anticipating their reply. Apparently there was some boasting, some prideful some pride in their in their thinking about who they were And he replies to his own anticipated objection, verse uh 19 through 21, well said, because of unbelief they were broken off. And he says, and you stand by faith. Do not be haughty, but fear. For if God did not spare the natural branches, he may not spare you either. What is he saying? Saying, look, the reason that the branches were broken off was the f was because of their unbelief. And the reason that you're included in God's overplan is because of He's emphasizing that it is by faith alone, by no self-effort Not because you are better, not because you are ethnically better. There is nothing in and of you and your quality or value that makes you superior. It has nothing to do with that whatsoever. And he says he says it is a matter of faith. Now, this is definitely talking about ethnic Gentiles versus ethnic Jews. But I think that there is an application for us. The application, I think, is this That we as Christians have no reason to boast whatsoever as well. That we, our roots are the very grace of God And sometimes, sometimes we as Christians, if we're not careful, we can think we're kind of better than other people. We could see what other people are doing or maybe maybe the calamity of the lives of of non-Christians or those kind and if we're not careful, we can kind of look over there and think, boy, I would never do something like that. Or that's so horrible they're doing that. Or have this kind of superiority spirit simply because we are Christians. And we need to be reminded from time to time, boy, we we are we are just Saved sinners. There is nothing that we should boast about. There's nothing, we're not, we were, God did not save you because you're because you are more valuable than somebody else. God saved you by the good pleasure of his will, by his grace alone, and because you have trusted in him, just faith alone, by no merit whatsoever. 1 Corinthians 10 verse 12 says, Therefore, let him who thinks he stand, take heed lest he fall. And we need to be careful about thinking that we are somehow superior to others simply because we are Christians. But what will happen ultimately to Israel? We pick up in verses 22 through 24 and we see this. God's wisdom assures us of a future for God's people. In verse 22 it says, therefore consider the goodness. That word is usually actually translated kindness, the goodness or kindness and severity of God. So you have on one hand the kindness of God, and on the other hand, you have the severity, or you could say Harshness, sharpness, the the s the the the severity of God. Well who receives the kindness of God and who receives the severity of God. Well, it tells us there. Those who fell, or we'll say it this way, those who stumbled. Well who stumbled Israel did, right? So Israel stumbled, so they are re- they are receiving as an ethnic people right now the severity of God. If they don't set a Jewish person doesn't accept Christ as their Savior. Their dem their their destiny is like everybody else's. They're experiencing the severity of God. But Gentiles, it says, but toward you, goodness But it says this, if you continue in his goodness, he says, otherwise you'll be cut off. Now there's some people that think that what this is actually talking about is somehow a matter of loss of salvation. There are other people that think that this is actually talking about uh if you haven't possessed south this is saying that some people have professed salvation but actually haven't possessed salvation. Although that's true, that's actually not what this is talking. Neither one of these is what it's talking about. It's talking about whom God is ultimately using For his purposes, for his light to go out, for the gospel to continue. And right now we know that the Gentiles are being used primarily, Christian Gentiles, certainly Jews as well, who know Christ as their Savior, but As a majority, there are certainly more Gentiles that are being saved throughout this whole last 2,000 years than Jews. But That he says, but that can shift. In fact, we know from the rest of the Bible that it will shift. And so notice what it says in verses 13 through 24. I'm sorry, verses 23 through 24. Verse 23. And they also, if they do not continue in unbelief, this is Jews, if they do not continue in unbelief, Will be grafted in for God is able to graft them in again. God's not finished with them. They'll be grafted in again. Um look verse 24, for if you were cut out of the olive tree, which is wild by nature, and were grafted c uh and were grafted contrary to nature into the cultivated olive tree, how much more will these who are natural branches be grafted into their own olive tree. In other words, he says, look, if you were grafted as a wild scraggly bush, if your branches were grafted into this wonderful cultivated tree, How much more can God, who has broken away the branches of of of Israel, graft them back in? That would be more natural than taking wild branches and putting them in. This is not a problem. In other words Paul is saying that God is not finished with Israel, that God will use Israel in the future, and of course if we go, we won't take the time to turn there, but if we go to the book of Revelation, We definitely see how God establishes Israel again as his people to be able to bring to actually be he sets up his kingdom through the nation of Israel. And he establishes them again for his purposes. What's the point? The point is that if God is faithful in the past, he is uh his past guarantees he is also going to be faithful in the future. And I think there's an application for us as well there. Isn't it true, folks, that God has been faithful to us? If you look back at your life as a Christian, you look back at all the things that God has done in your life. Can't you say, boy, God has been faithful? It's not always been easy. There's been bumps along the way. It's been confusing along the way. Didn't always know what was going on. I've made wrong turns before, but ultimately God has been faithful. And we can know as well as Christians that God will be faithful in the future because of what he has done in the past. So as we think through this entire lesson, this entire message, there are three things I think we need to understand. Number one The wisdom and sovereignty of God should cause us to stand, let me put it this way, in restful awe The wisdom and sovereignty of God should cause us to stand in restful awe. God knows the end from the beginning. He has it all worked out. He's got it all planned out. And it does not matter what people do, the decisions that they make, how it will affect you. We get so I'm included in this, we get so caught up in Anxious about well if somebody does this then this could happen. If somebody does this and happen, this will affect me this way at all. Wait a minute. God superintends over all that. God, in his wisdom and his sovereignty, can use everything in our lives, even the bad decisions that others make. ultimately for our good and for God's glory. Do you know do you know the you know why we s we struggle with this though I think most of us know that academically. We know it in our head. But do you know why I think we struggle with it? I think we struggle with it because we actually struggle with with our own will, whether we're completely consecrated to God, whether we're willing to do whatever God wants, and willing to be whatever God wants, and willing to go whatever God wants. Look, if you in your mind and in your heart before the Lord say, Lord, I am willing to do whatever you want me to do Go wherever you want me to go. I am willing to have done to me whatever you want done to me Whatever it is, God, I want to be where you want me to be. I want to be I want to be used of you however you choose. If we have that kind If we have a Romans 12, which we're going to be getting to soon, kind of approach, where we say, as Romans 12 says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. If we have that kind of thinking before God, God, whatever you want, whatever you want I want what you want. And I know that you're in control and you're sovereign and nothing happens outside of what you uh of your plan When we say that, then we can stand in awe of the fact that God will take all of the things in our lives and use them for our good and for his glory. And we can be in awe of it, and you know what? We can rest in it. We can we can be settled about it. God says, thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee, because he trusts thee. in thee. Number two, as Christians we must remember our roots of grace. This is so important. The roots of our lives is the grace of our salvation, is the grace of God. That's the root. It's nothing else. So we absolutely have no reason to boast. And of course, that's exactly what Ephesians 2 tells us. For by grace you save through faith and it nod of yourselves is the gift of God, not of works, lest any one should boast. Number three, based on God's past faithfulness, we can trust that God will carry out his plan. This entire passage is about the God's plan, his cosmic plan in the world, and how God has carried it out and is continuing to carry it out and will carry it out. God is faithful. And we see from this passage that God's not alarmed by the rejection of Israel. God's not alarmed that they stumbled over Christ. God's using all of that in his ultimate plan to bring about salvation to the world and to bring about his kingdom ultimately. God is doing all of that And we can trust his faithfulness to carry out his own plan. If you're here this morning, And you're hearing all of this and you're hearing about God's wisdom and his sovereignty and his faithfulness and all of this. I just want to encourage you this way that you God desires, and what we see in this passage is that God is intent on bringing salvation to everyone. See, the problem ultimately is this, that we have sinned. And our sin separates us from God. Way back in Genesis, that's what we find. And our sin separates us from God And so that when we die, if there's no intervention, if there's nothing that happens, we will go to a crisis attorney and help. But because of what Jesus did in dying on the cross for us, he took our sin on himself so that he can then give us his righteousness. So that we, if we will accept it by faith, everyone comes to God the same way. It's by faith alone. If we will do that, the Bible says that as many as received him, to them gave you the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. If you are not sure where where you are in your relationship with the Lord If you don't know where you will spend eternity, if you're not sure if you are right with God, let me encourage you after the service, please come and talk with me or somebody else that you know that you're comfortable with. And let us take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you have a relationship with God. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you. We praise you for your awesome wisdom. We praise you for your uh for the fact that you are surprised by nothing, you're not caught off guard, you're never derailed We thank you for that. We thank you that as we look at your your interactions with Israel and your interactions with us. And your ultimate plan for Israel, how you will keep your unconditional promises to Israel that that that will happen Father, we're grateful for all of that, and we thank you that we can trust you because you are such a faithful, wise, and sovereign God. And I pray, Lord, that we would remember the things that we're we've learned even this morning as we go throughout our week, as we go throughout our days. Lord, just remind us that no matter the difficulties we're facing, no matter the struggles, no matter the insecurities or the or the things that we're afraid are going to derail our plans, or the need to uh make everything work out the way we want. Lord, I pray That we would just find our rest and our awe in your sovereign wisdom. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.