Well good morning. Aren't you happy to be here this morning? Amen. I love that. We are going to be in Romans chapter 11 this morning, looking at verses 25 to 32. But before we go there, let's uh go to the Lord first and ask for his guidance for us to us Father, we're thankful this morning and grateful for your goodness and your kindness to us. Thank you, Father, for how you watch over us this week and how you have provided so richly for us. Thank you for those blessings that we have received, and we just want to give you the praise and the honor and the glory, Father. We thank you for Jesus and what he has done on our behalf. And what he's doing now, even interceding on our behalf. And as we come to your word this morning, Father, help us to set aside all those cares and aches and pains and concerns. And help us to concentrate upon your word this morning, what you have for us. May you give Pastor Jim clarity of thought and speech As he brings your word. May our ears be open, and our hearts and our minds stayed upon you. And Lord, may we learn something new today that we will take with us as we go out of here And it will change us more and more into your image. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. So we are in Romans chapter 11. And we are going to be looking at verses 25 through 32, if I can get my glasses out of my deep pocket Verse 25. For I do not desire, brethren, that you should be ignorant of this mystery. Lest you should be wise in your own opinion, that blindness in part has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. And so all Israel will be saved as it is written. The deliverer will come out of Zion, and he will turn away ungodliness from Jacob For this is my covenant with them, when I take away their sin. Concerning the gospel, they are enemies for your sake But concerning the election, they are beloved for the sake of the fathers. For the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable. For as you were once disobedient to God, yet have now obtained mercy through their disobedience. Even so, these also have now been disobedient, that through the mercy shown you they also may obtain mercy. For God has committed them, all to disobedience, that he might have mercy on all. How many of you all know remember a TV show while back, I think it might have been even in this even in the even in the nine in the nineties maybe early 2000s, was a show called Extreme Makeover Home Edition. How many of you all remember that show? I'm dating myself a little bit there. Um uh kids probably don't even Silas remembers oh no he's telling me to turn my mic on. Okay. All right. Okay. There we go. Anyways. All right, my mic's on now and Sallas not remember that show, I would imagine. No, he doesn't. He said so he doesn't. So anyway, um Yeah, so so it was a show, if you remember basically back when uh back then they would they would kind of uh show it was usually this uh some s a story about a family, maybe there's some dis they were disab somebody was disabled or a veteran or something of that nature and they decided that they were going to send this family away on a on either a cruise or to Disney World or whatever and they would really completely redo their house completely from the I mean it didn't even seem look like the same house. My dad would always watch it and say there's no way they could do that well in a week. And uh and anyway, so um But i i either way they would do that and they'd come back and they'd have this big reveal and then they'd ha show how great the house is now and all that and the p usually the mortgage would be paid off There's something really amazing about restored homes. When I was working at um I was uh I did I was working the in the mattress business for a while. Um it got pretty boring. But one of the mo most one of the things that were more interesting is if when you went into an old home that was completely restored. You sometimes you couldn't tell it was restored from the outside. You go in and everything was completely different. And some of the unique characters, these old homes have a lot of character. We go into Baltimore City sometimes and Some of these row homes, they'd be completely redone on the inside and really, really quite amazingly done. And it showed, to some degree, it shows the character of the person who's restoring the home. If they like more m a more of a modern look that that's going to come out. If they like more of an old older kind of a look that comes out or the whatever the decor they choose. You could see the character of the builder or the restorer by what comes out in the home. And that really is the case when it comes to God's plan of restoring his people. You really see his character as as we see his plan unfold, and we're really going to see the plan unfold today. In fact, This passage is probably a passage, I probably think this passage more than any other passage in the New Testament. confirms that God is not done with ethnic Israel, that God, that ethnic Israel will come on the scene again in the future. He's not done with it. That the church is not Israel, that these are not they're not the same thing. This passage teaches that probably better than any passage in the entire New Testament. It is a passage that people that have a a covenant theology or an omillennial perspective, they come to this passage oftentimes and they don't know what to do with it. They really don't. It's really interesting to read some of the the they just don't know what to do with it. And in fact, it's actually changed some people's perspectives because this passage is so clearly explains that Israel does have a future. And we see the character of God in this. When we talk about the glory of God, there are two, there are There are two aspects of God's glory. There is the intrinsic glory of God, the glory of God that is just from him. When Moses said in Exodus chapter 3, 33, verse 18, show me your glory. He was saying, show me the glory that comes from you. And there is another kind of glory, that is rendered glory. For example, in 1 Chronicles 16, verses 23 through 24, it says, sing to the Lord all the earth Proclaim the good news of salvation from day to day. Declare his glory among the nations, his wonders among the peoples. And in 1 Chronicles 16, later on, it says, verse 19, give to the Lord the glory, due his name, bring an offering and come before him, O worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. And what we see from Genesis to Revelation is God's desire that we would fulfill the ultimate purpose that he had for us from the very beginning, and that is to render God glory. He already has glory, but but to reflect the glory of God back to him. And of course, you know, because of sin, that has totally been, that idea of being able to reflect the glory of God has totally been messed up. But God is in the process, and we see His word of restoring His people. We're going to see three things in this passage when it comes to the character of God, the glory of God. Number one, God's restoration plan reveals his sovereign working. God's restoration plan reveals his sovereign working. Number two, God's restoration plan shows his integrity. God's restoration plan shows his integrity. And number three, God's restoration plan demonstrates his fair mercy. His fair mercy. Now, I want you to look at all the all three of these and understand this. I want us to think in terms of how we view God. If you know Christ as your Savior, perhaps you've known him for a long time, sometimes our circumstances in life can cause us to ask the question, how could God really be sovereign or in control? How could God really be in control? We're going to learn from this passage that God is in control. Some may even question the integrity of God. God, how could you allow this to happen in my life God, could you really be good and also and also allow this to happen in my life? And then, are you really fair? Is God really a fair God? I mean, we see sometimes the weak, the weak and the sick are the ones that seem to have Calamity happened to them, and the rich and the powerful are the ones that seem to do even better. How is God really fair? And those three characteristics, the sovereignty of God, the control of God, the integrity of God, and the fair mercy of God. We need to see this very clearly in our lives, see this very clearly in the text, so that when we come across things that that cause us to question, we can go back to the Word of God and we can see how He is in control, how He is a God of integrity, and how He is actually He is equitable, He is fair. in his mercy. We're going to see these three things. We'll begin by looking at God's restoration plan that reveals his sovereign working We pick up in verse 25 it says, For I do not desire, brethren, that you should be ignorant of this mystery, lest you should be wise in your own opinion, that blindness in part has happened to Israel Unto the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. And so all Israel will be saved. You remember last week we talked about the blindness, the hardness of Israel. And that gave Gentiles, the opportunity to come to Christ really in droves, as we see in the book of Acts Now Paul is dealing with these Gentile Christians who apparently they've got a little bit of an ego trip going on. They're seeing themselves as replacing the chosen people of God like like out with the old and in with the new. And God wants Israel, or Paul here wants Gentiles He wants them to understand that they should not be, they should not have too much pride. So in order to do that, he says, I want you to know a mystery Now, when we think of the word mystery, we think of something that is hidden that still needs to be discovered. That is not a biblical mystery. When the New Testament talks about a mystery, it's talking about something that was hidden in the Old Testament, but has already been revealed in the New Testament. So that when Paul says this to the Gentile Christians, he's not saying, I want to reveal something new to you that's never been revealed before in the New Testament. No, what he's saying is, I want to show you something that has already been revealed, but it was hidden in the Old Testament. So a biblical mystery refers to a truth that has been hidden from God's people in the past, but has now been disclosed in the gospel. It has been revealed in the past. I don't know if you have that up there, but has now been disclosed in the gospel. We see this concept in a couple of different places in Scripture. In Romans chapter 16, verse 25, just a few chapters from here, it says, Now to him who is able to establish you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ. according to the revelation of the mystery kept secret since the world began. And the best passage to understand this idea of mystery is probably Ephesians chapter 3. In that passage in verses 3 through 9, it says this, how that by revelation he made known to me the mystery, as I have briefly written already. by which when you read you may understand my knowledge in the mystery of Christ, which in the ages was not made known to the sons of men, as it has now been revealed by the Spirit to his holy apostles and prophets. That the Gentiles, what is the mystery? The Gentiles should be fellow heirs of the same body and partakers of his promise in Christ through the gospel. So the Apostle Paul explains that the Gentiles in Ephesians are partakers of the same gospel as the Jews. But down in verse 9 it says this And to make all see what is the fellowship of the mystery, which from the beginning of the ages has been hidden in God, who created all things through Jesus Christ. So there were certain things that Israel did not realize was going to happen in the Old Testament that became obvious in the New Testament. Now you might say to yourself, well, why is it that God kept some of his plan in the Old Testament. And the reality is it's because there are some times that we just we just don't really aren't ready to hear certain things sometimes. Have you ever come across that with your own kids? There are just certain things that they're just not ready to hear yet. And they ask questions and you say, you know what, you're really not able to handle the answer yet. You're going to have to wait on mom and dad till later on and we'll explain it to you when you're ready. You ever thought to yourself what you what would happen to you? You look back at some of the things that have happened in your life and what it would be like to actually know ahead of time it's about to happen. It wouldn't be a good thing. If God told us what was going to happen next week or the week after or the month after or the six six month months after, I'm not sure we would be able to handle it. I don't think we would know what to do with that information. And so we don't know what happens in the future. Well, Israel, God had told Israel, you are my people. In the Old Testament. You are my chosen people, and I am going to work through you, and you are going to be a light to the nations, and Gentiles are going to come to you, come through you, come to me through you. Can you imagine if they would have also said if God would have also said back then, and by the way, at some point I'm going to set you aside and I'm going to work with the Gentiles and there's going to be a church and uh a new a new entity and well That wouldn't make sense to reveal that to Israel at that time in the Old Testament. They need to see themselves as the people of God. Like you imagine if God would have said to Israel, and you're gonna fail me over and over and over and over again. I'm gonna give you chance after chance after chance, but you're gonna fail me in idolatry over and over and over again until finally I have to put you aside and work with another entity. No, God doesn't do that. God, what he did was he told Israel what he it needed to know, and it tells us, and God tells us what it needed to know. What's interesting in this passage in Romans is it's going to take a step further, and it is actually going to tell Gentile Christians, along with the Jewish Christians that are in Rome, what not only is happening in the present, but what is actually going to happen in the future. We have a text here in the middle of an epistle on the gospel that's going to teach us something about what is happening to Israel in the future. And we're going to see this in this passage. And it's going to actually be helpful for the Gentiles to notice. Why? Because of what it says in the passage. He says, I tell you this, lest you should be wise in your own opinion. The Gentile Christians at this point, they're thinking that's this is where it's at. You know, you're working with God's working with us. Israel's been set aside, God's working with us, and we're we're where it's at. Out with the old and in with the new. They they they were getting a big head about about all the Gentiles that were coming to Christ because they were outnumbering the Jewish Christians. And Paul did not want that to happen. So what Paul is going to say to them is actually God's not done with Israel. You're in it you're God's working through you right now, but there's going to be a day where God begins to work again through the nation of Israel. You're not the final say on everyone. You're not the final people. You're not the you're not it. It's ultimately going to be go back to Israel, actually, and God is going to work through them. And he's going to explain this. What he says here in the text is that the blindness in part, talking about the blindness of Israel in part, and it's in part because we learned a couple of weeks ago, we learned that there would be a remnant during this time period, where we are right now There are some Jewish people that will see Jesus as the Messiah that will be saved. But the majority will not. And we've seen that over the last 2,000 years. that the majority of Christians, of Jewish people, don't come to Christ, although there are some that do. They are the remnant. But notice what it says in the passage. It says that that this blindness in part has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. What is this fullness of the Gentiles has come in? What is it talking about there? Well, I want to suggest to you first of all that this come-in has to do with coming into the kingdom. Now there's a lot of debate over the kingdom of God and when the kingdom of God starts and all of that. When does someone enter into the kingdom of God? John 3 verse 5 says, Jesus answered, Most assuredly I say unto you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. He told Nicodemus that. So does someone enter the kingdom of God when they trust Christ as their Savior? Is that when they enter the kingdom of God? Luke 13, verse 24 says, strive to enter the narrow gate. And so, and it says, broad is the way that leads to destruction, Matthew 7 says the same thing, and narrow is the gate, and you need to enter into the narrow gate. So when does someone enter the kingdom of God? And I would suggest to you that they do enter the kingdom of God when they come to Christ. However, God is not Christ is not literally physically mediating his kingdom right now on earth. Look around you see that. That's obvious. But we, when we come to Christ, when we are saved, we become a kingdom citizen so that we are part of the kingdom in that way. Some may call that a spiritual kingdom, but whatever you call it, we are associated now with the kingdom. Although Christ's mediating of the kingdom doesn't happen until the future. When does it happen? Well, it actually tells us in this text. When, it says here, when the fullness of the Gentiles has happened, have come in, that is, when every Gentile has been saved, that God wants them to be saved. When God is finished, then it says all Israel will be saved. Now, what's it talking about there? All Israel is saved. There's a lot of debate over what that means. There's tons of different views on this. When it says all Israel will be saved, is it talking about every individual Jewish person in the future at some point will be saved? Now folks, that that the answer has to be no to that. There's never been a there's nowhere in Scripture that it ever indicates that every individual of any signific of any ethnic group or any country can will automatically come to Christ We know that only people that come people only come to Christ by faith. So this can't be saying when it says all Israel will be saved, it can't actually be saying all Israel will come to a saving knowledge. of Christ, every individual in uh in Israel. That can't be what it's saying here. Some think that this is actually talking about the church. That in this passage, Israel is the church. Folks, that doesn't make any sense whatsoever, honestly. And there are godly people, my friends, that would disagree with me on this. They see they think Israel, the church does replace Israel And I respect them and I'm thankful for my friends that think this way. But Paul is already very clearly identified with ethnic Israel. You remember Romans chapter 11, verse 1? Look at it. It says, I say then, as has God cast away his people? Certainly not, for I also am an Israelite of what? of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin. That's not talking about some spiritual definition of Israel. We are talking there here about ethnic Israel. So to say that the church replaces Israel in this text, that doesn't line up with the way Paul describes Israel in this text. Some believe, uh the Omillennial folks believe, and I have friends that are Amillennials, they're good people, um, they believe that this is only referring to the remnant. This is just the remnant, and we've talked about what the remnant is before. But the problem with that is it says all. How is that just the remnant when it says all Israel? I'm not comfortable with that interpretation either. So what is it? What are we talking about when we are saying all Israel will be saved? When all of the Gentiles that God intends to be saved will be saved. That he is elected to be saved will be saved. When that occurs, then Israel, all Israel will be saved. What is that talking about there? So I want to I instead of just giving you the answer, I want to lead you to the answer. And we're going to look at several texts of Scripture to lead us to the answer. The first two texts we're going to look at are in the Old Testament. I have them up there on the screen so you don't have to turn. But in in assuming it worked. But in Jeremiah 31, 31 through 34, it says this. Behold the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with what? With oh it's not there yet. With the house of Israel. Okay? With the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. Talking about literal Israel here. Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand and led them out to the land of it of Egypt, my covenant which they broke, though I was a husband to them, says the Lord He said, I'm not talking about a different covenant than the Mosaic covenant. I'm talking about a new covenant that I will establish with Israel. Then in Ezekiel 20, verses 33 Through 38, it says this. Actually, we'll pick up it just in verse in verse 37. It says, I will make you pass under the rod, and I will bring you into the bond of the covenant. Now we're going to learn more about what this covenant is, but understand that there's a future time. Remember, Ezekiel is during the time of Babylonian exile. This is toward the end of the Old Testament. This is not the beginning. This is after the Abrahamic covenant. This is after the Davidic covenant. This is after all of that. And Ezekiel says, I am still in the future going to bring you into the bond of the covenant. I will purge the rebels from among you. I'm going to purge them out. And those who transgress against me, I will bring them out of the country where they dwell. but they shall not enter the land of Israel, then you will know that I am the Lord. You've got you've got authority and and you've got a lot going on here. Now We're going to turn to the New Testament, and in Luke 21, 24, we have our phrase, the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled. Okay, we've seen we saw that in Romans. Notice what it says there in if in Luke 21 24, and they will fall by the edge of the sword and led away captive into the nations, and Jerusalem will be trampled by Gentiles out of the time of the Gentiles are fulfilled. Now, that is going to go on in Luke to explain what is known as the coming of Christ or the second coming of Christ. But there is an event before that that's explained in Matthew. Matthew 29, it says this, immediately after the tribulation of those days, The sun will be darkened, the moon will be giv will will not give its light, the stars will fall from heaven, the powers of the heavens will be shaken. Then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in heaven And then the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. And he will send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they will gather together his elect from the four winds and from one end of the heaven to the other. He's going to gather his elect. That is Israel Now look at Revelation 19, verses 11 through 15. And actually, would you take your Bibles and turn to Revelation 20? I don't have that won't have that up there on the screen. I want you to be ready to look at that. Revelation chapter 20, if you take your Bibles and and turn there. To Revelation chapter 20. And while you're turning there, I'm going to read for you Revelation 19. It says verse 11. Now I saw heaven open, and behold, a white horse. And he who sat on him was called faithful and true. And in the righteous he judges and makes war. His eyes were like a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns. He made a name written that no one knew except himself. He was clothed with a robe dipped in blood And his name is called the Word of God. That is Christ. It's the description of the coming of Christ, the second coming of Christ. Notice what it says, and the armies in heaven clothed in fine white and clean, following white and clean, followed him on white horses. Now out of his mouth r goes a sharp sword, and with it he should strike the nations. and he himself will rule them with a rod of iron. Okay, now look down at at so what we have there is the second coming of Christ. Christ is going to come, he's going to conquer He's going to set up his kingdom. We see what that looks like in Revelation 20. Look at what it says. Then I saw an angel coming down from heaven, having the key to the bottomless pit, a great chain in his hand. and laid hold of the dragon, the serpent of old, and the devil and the and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years. Notice that thousand years. And he cast him in the bottomless pit and shut him up, and set a seal on him, and so that he should deceive the nations no more till the thousand years were finished. But after these things he must be released for a little while. And I saw the thrones and they found him and judged uh and judgment was committed to them. Then I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for the witness to Jesus and for the Word of God. who had not worshipped the beast or his image, and had received his mark on the foreheads or on their hands. And they lived and reigned with Christ. There it is. Reign with Christ a thousand years. But the rest of the dead did not live again until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection. So folks, when it says all Israel will be saved, it's not talking, remember we're talking about ethnic Israel. We're not talking about individual Jewish people, what we're talking about not saved from their sin. All Israel will be saved so that it is then established as a kingdom once again. So we're talking here, the fulfillment of this is the millennial kingdom. Now, I I have a a a a picture up here for you, a chart that will help us to understand what's going on here, I think. Are we ready for the chart? Thank you. Okay, so we are right now in the church age. You see that? So we're in the church age. The next, we already read it, is in the tr is the tribulation. Now, you say, well, where's the rapture? The rapture is not mentioned in Ro in it's not mentioned here in Romans 11, so we're going to skip that for now. Okay, it's in 1 Thessalonians, but it's not in Romans, so we're not going to deal with the rapture. What is this event? It's called. It's called the Millennial Kingdom. This is when Christ comes and sets up his kingdom during uh and establishes the kingdom. What kingdom? Israel That's the kingdom he establishes. He is going to establish the kingdom of Israel for a thousand years. And during that time He is going to then fulfill all of the promises and covenants in the Old Testament that have yet to be fulfilled. This is this why did so why did Paul say this to these folks? He said it for this reason. He wanted them to understand as we see over and over and over again in Romans, we see constantly, he wanted them to understand that you have no Gentile Christians who are getting saved, lots of people getting saved. You have no reason to boast. He says, don't be wise in your own eyes, because ultimately God is going to again work with Israel. You're on the scene right now. You're presently whom God's working with for the most part. But one day God will work with Israel again. This is so important for us to remember, folks, even as Christians. A perfect application here for us. is to remind ourselves how little God values what we would often boast in. Jeremiah says it this way, thus says the Lord, let not the wise man glory in his wisdom. Let not the mighty man glory in his might. Let not the rich man glory in his riches. But let him who glories glory in this, that he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord exercising loving kindness, judgment, and righteousness in the earth For in these things I delight, says the Lord. God says in his word very clearly that what he delights in, it's not riches. It's not academic wisdom. It's not s strength and power. God, that's what men d delight in. That's what the world delight in. I want more power, I want more intellect, I want more strength, I want more I I want those kind of things. This person's better than this person. This person's better than this person. You want to get to know this person because he's more powerful than this person. And she's more, she's smarter than her. God does not value those things. Do you see in the passage what God values? What God values in this passage is this, that he understands and knows me. That's what God values. God values how well you know God. This is incredibly important for us to understand. Now, I have a question for us as we work through this text. So we learn about Israel and we learn what God is going to do with Israel in the future. Why does that matter to us? I mean, what what's it matter? It's in the future. It's uh, you know, it'll happen when it happens. Why does God, why does this matter to us as 21st century Christians living in Maryland right now in 2025. Why does this matter to us? I'll illustrate it this way. Let's suppose somebody decides to pay you to build them a house. I don't know why I'm houses on late, I'm on houses lately. I like cars usually, but now I'm on the house. Whatever. Um and he they say to you, I'm going to pay you two hundred thousand dollars once you complete the building of this house. And you look at it and calculate it, realize you make a good profit on that, so you decide, okay, I'll do that. So you you become the general contractor and and you build this house, you get the supplies and the personnel that you need to build the house from the beginning to the end and you come to the person afterwards who has offered you the two hundred thousand dollars for the house. It's completely done. You come to him and you say, okay, the house is done. He goes in, likes the house, everything's great, everything's built perfectly. And he says, okay, would you uh uh can you pay up? And he goes, oh, I didn't mean real money. I didn't mean $200,000. I was talking figuratively. I I I meant that you would you would have the joy of two hundred thousand dollars, but not the actual money. Now what would you say to about a person like that? You would say that person is not a person of integrity. Right? That would be what you would be saying. So what does it matter? It matters for this reason What we have in the Old Testament are specific literal promises. And we're going to see this in a few minutes. Literal promises in the Old Testament. that have yet to be fulfilled on behalf of Israel and need to be fulfilled. And the question is, is God talking metaphorically or not? You see why it matters? I I want to say this up front that there are godly people that disagree with me on uh and disagree with my are the view that I'm going to present to you today But the question for me is, is God going to fulfill his promise or not? Or is it just some sort of figurative way of fulfilling Or is there a literal fulfilling happening? So I want you to notice what it says in the passage. It says, and so all Israel, verse 26 be, and so all Israel be saved, as is written, The deliverer will come out of Zion, and he will turn away ungodliness from Jacob. For this is my covenant with them when I take away their sins. What is he talking about here? There are two passages that he's actually drawing from in the Old Testament. One is Isaiah 59 and the other is Isaiah 27. Isaiah 59, 23, 21, and Isaiah 27-9. And in those passages, we see a couple of things. One, there's a deliverer coming, right? God promises a deliverer. And he says, who will fulfill his covenant. This is before Christ in the Old Testament in Isaiah. This is a pre-exilic prophet who looks ahead And he says, and he says, there is someone who is going to deliver you and is going to fulfill the covenant with you. In Isaiah 59, 20 it says this, the Redeemer will come to Zion and to those who Who turned from transgression in Jacob, says the Lord, as for me, says the Lord, this is my covenant with them. My spirit who is upon you, and my words. which I uh which I have put in your mouth shall not depart from your mouth and so on. And it will be, by the way, from your descendants. Actually this is an important part. Descendants. And then that the last phrase says, for from this time Forevermore. The covenants in the Old Testament that God gave to Israel are everlasting, unconditional covenants. Everlasting unconditional covenants. That's what we're going to see. So it says, notice what the passage says. It says, um So it talks, it says, verse 27, for this is my covenant with them when I take away their sins. What is it talking about there? Are we talking here, we've been talking about Israel as a whole. Are we talking here about individual sins? And I would suggest that the answer is no. Actually, Isaiah 27, 9 tells us what these sins are. It says, therefore by the iniquity of Jacob will be covered, and this all the fruit have of take uh all the fruit of taking away his sin when he makes all stones of the altar like chalk stones that are beaten to dust. There you go, wooden images. And incense altars shall not stand. What are the sins of Israel in the Old Testament? It's idolatry. So when. God, how is God going to fulfill his covenant? How is Christ going to do that? He is going to get rid of all idolatry. How is he going to do that? He presents himself as king This is what's gonna what happens during the millennial kingdom. There's no idolatry because the king's there. And he he He deals with there there's no possibility of idolatry in the hearts of Isra uh of uh in the in the nation of Israel, because Christ is literally physically mediating his kingdom in the millennial kingdom. And that way all of these covenants can be fulfilled. Now in verse 29, we see that there are two relationships that are mentioned here First, what is Israel's relationship to the gospel? Verse 28 says, concerning the gospel, they are enemies for your sake. So God says, right now, during this time, As a whole, Israel's enemy, they are enemies to the gospel. But then you'll notice here relationships to the fathers. That's the other relationship. Relationship to the fathers It's talking about the forefathers, it says, but concerning the election, they are beloved for the sake of the fathers. What is he talking about? He's saying that the covenants in the Old Testament that were given to Israel, the agreements in the Old Testament that were given to Israel, to the fathers, the forefathers Those are elected. In other words, those are going to take place. They're going to happen. Now there are things in the covenant that have to happen. For example, Genesis 15, 18 through 21 tells us this. On the same day the Lord made a covenant with Abraham, saying, To your descendants I have given this land from the river of Egypt to the great river Euphrates to the Kenites, to the Canaanites, to the Cabanites, to the Hittites, to the Perizzites, and so on. So we're talking about very specific land areas, and God has promised them. And notice what now the New Testament, what Paul says here, verse 29, he says this, for the gifts and the calling of God are what? They're irrevocable. They're without repentance. They're irrevocable. That means that it is not as though God can just change his mind or will change his mind. Or reformulate the covenant so it doesn't actually have to be fulfilled. No, the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable. They're not to be regretted or repented of. You know what this is telling us then? It's telling us that God is a God of integrity. This is a very, very important thing for us to understand. God cannot lie, does not lie, will fulfill his promises, and we see it very clearly in Scripture Numbers twenty-three verse nineteen says, God is not a man that he should lie, nor a son of man that he should repent. Has he said, and will he not do? Or has he spoken and will he not make it good? That's our God. Hebrews ten twenty-three, let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful. God is a God of integrity. We see then also, though, that God, in verses 30 through 32, we're going to see that God is fair. Now, parents, you know about fair, right? Because every one of us, uh one of our kids from one time or another, very likely, has said that's not fair to us. And when we were kids, at some time or another, we said that's not fair We we all think we have an angle on fairness. Like we know what fair means, what fair is. And um, you know, I I I can't tell you how many times a younger sibling has gone to a parent and said Mom or dad, he's or she's got a cell phone and I don't have one, that's not fair To which the parent replies, when they were your age, they didn't have a cell phone. So it is fair. Right? See, fairness is all depends on perspective. It all depends on who's, you know, a a child thinks that's not fair, that's not that, that's not fair. And we think Yeah, it's very fair. I mean the hope is that they get to and you know they get into college and beyond college and everybody realizes, oh yeah, mom and dad were pretty fair. That's the hope, right? Going through through it, nobody ever thinks that anybody's fair, right? I mean I mean our kids are constantly think we're not fair and that's not right and that's not I mean almost every day we're we're dealing with this Hopefully at the end they realize they look back and they go, oh yeah, mom and dad, not perfect, but overall pretty fair. That's the hope. You know, th our perspective on God, we often look at our perspective on God and we say, God, that's not fair. But it's like we're siblings and we're not seeing what's fair, and we're thinking we under we have an angle on what fair is, and God says, I hold the definition to fair. I'm the one who's fair. I know what fair is. I know what equitable is, because I hold a definition to it. Now notice what it says in the passage we're pick we pick up here. And it says For as you were once disobedient to God, talking about these are talking to Gentile Christians now, for as you were once disobedient to God, Yet have now obtained mercy through their disobedience. This is now you've obtained mercy through Jewish Jewish Jewish disobedience. Jews have been set up Jews have been set aside. You've now been obtained mercy because of their disobedience Verse 31, even so these also have now been disobedient that through the mercy shown to you Gentiles, they also may obtain mercy. In other words, God is going to be merciful to Israel in the future because of the mercy he's given to you. And what's the point? Verse 32, it's the point For God has committed them all to disobedience. So which one's obedient? Gentiles are disobedient? Jews are disobedient. Actually, we're all disobedient. God has recognized all of us are disobedient. And what does he say? That he might have mercy on all. At the end of the day, what we see, the other character that we see in God through his entire plan, God works for Israel He is over and over and over and over and over again merciful. Finally, they won't do what God called what he called them to do. He sets them aside. God works for it through Gentiles. And he's also extremely merciful to us, leading many people to Christ. But ultimately there will be all the people that are going to be led to Christ, will be led to Christ, and Christ will come. And then God is going to turn to Israel. By the way, there's a great application here for us, even in evangelism. I keep seeing it and I'm just going to mention it here. Isn't it wonderful to know that there are more people to be saved? We know this. We know there are more people to be saved because if there were not more people to save, we wouldn't be here anymore. Just take that as a great I mean there are times frankly in my life as a Christian that I'm like, man, I just would love to see somebody come to Christ. And I f I feel like, man, is it you know, I I want to give the gospel, I want to share the gospel, and I do, but I really I really don't know if they're gonna they're probably not gonna come to Christ. They're really not gonna We know that there are more people to be saved because we are still in a time of the Gentiles. That's just something to be to be thankful for and to and to be confident about and to help us to encourage encourage us to share the gospel of others. But what we see here in this passage is that God is a fair, he is, his mercy is fair and equitable. So what are the three takeaways? The three takeaways from all of this is this. Number one, God is sovereign and he alone deserves the credit for redemption and for restoration. He will not share the credit with anybody else. We cannot boast over any of this. God is the one. He alone deserves the credit for redemption and for restoration. This is important for us to understand. Number two, God's integrity is demonstrated in the fulfilling of his promises. God will has done what he said he would do already in bringing Christ and will continue to do what he said he will do in his timetable, in his way, but he will. God is a God of integrity. And number three, God is a God of equitable mercy. God's mercy is equitable by his own standard, not ours. God's mercy is equitable by his own standard. and not necessarily ours. Now you may be listening this morning and you say, boy, this is this is complicated. And it was. I mean I I have to tell you that this is the meat of the word. You know, you get to Romans chapter 11, this is like steak. It is arguably Romans 9 through 11 is arguably the most difficult passages in the entire New Testament. So this is this is hard. This is not easy to chew. You know, you got there we get to some passages of scripture and it makes complete sense and And and it just it just kinda you put it all together and it's like eating, you know, I don't know, grits or something. Uh some of you don't like grits, I should pick something nicer better, but it's Easy to easy to digest. This is steak. You've got to chew it for a while to get the flavor out of it and to get the nutrients out of it. You gotta you gotta chew. Some of you are listening to this. And you are, your your confidence in God has been shaken by something. Your character, you're questioning the character of God. Maybe you're saying to yourself, I don't really know whether God is really in control or not. It doesn't feel like he's really in control. Or maybe you're saying, I don't know, God doesn't seem to be a God of integrity. He hasn't done this, this, or this in my life. Or God is not fair. That is the bedrock beginning foundation of your relationship with God. You have to believe that God is who he said he is. You have to believe that God is in control, that He has integrity, that He is fair and merciful. If your understanding of the character of God is shaken Then why would you ever want to come to him? And you may be, it may be that you're here this morning and you don't know Christ as your Savior. You're not sure about your relationship with God. You're not even sure about a God. Whatever your situation is, understand that God God's word clearly reveals that He is in control, He is merciful, and He will fulfill His promises. And if you're not sure about where you stand in your relationship with God, let me encourage you to come and talk with me after the service or somebody else you're comfortable with. I'd love for you to be able to leave here knowing for sure where you stand with God. The Bible says these things are written, that you may know that you have eternal life So let me encourage you, if you don't know where you stand with God, let me help you. Or let somebody else help you. Take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure you will spend eternity with the Lord. For those of us who know the Lord, we we we revel in these things, we glory in these things, and we also look ahead to the fact that Christ died to pay the punishment for our sin. He shed his blood on the cross. And we have the opportunity to celebrate that now. So we'll go to the Lord in prayer, and then we will take a few minutes to celebrate the death of Christ and his shed blood. Let's pray. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you and thank you for your word. We thank you for your truth. We thank you that that even though it's a little bit hard to understand, there's a lot of moving parts to it. There's it's a lot of stake in there that we've got to chew. We thank you that ultimately what we see in your word is that you truly are in control of all things That you are a God of integrity who will fulfill, has fulfilled and will fulfill all of your promises. And you are a God of fair mercy. And so I pray, Lord, that you'd help us. to be encouraged by the truths that we've learned this morning. And as we enter into the time of communion together and and and celebrating what Christ has done for us, I pray, Lord, that you would help us to to really appreciate the sacrifice that Christ made on the cross for our redemption so that we could be rightly related to you. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.