And it's extremely dangerous to do that, to discover that there is actually living living organisms down there and sea creatures We have seen the lengths to which God has sent his own son to die, to pay the punishment for our sin. You've got 39 books of the Bible, and most of them are on Israel's failure. We so naturally want to do three things. And he's showing this, this, this, walk walking around the ramp and showing everything. What did Mary do? That's not the way it works biblically. He's the source of all. We should trust in him. Trust him. Who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. He sets Israel aside and he brings Gentiles in and he reaches out to the Gentiles all over the world to accept Christ That is the God's direction is unsearchable Amen. of the Swiss Alps and looking down and seeing all of the other peaks and just being in amazement, being in awe. For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor pr things present, nor things to come, nor height And chapter thirty verse thirty-two ends with this, for God has committed them all to disobedience. redeem the world through the line of Israel, and Israel would be God's chosen people and a light to the world, but Israel failed over and over and over again. And actually to provoke the Israel to jealousy and that one day he will move his attention back to Israel, all in a plan of what? And to know that, you know, you're you're you're on the shore and the and it goes so far and like you're gonna hit I don't know where it is, Europe or Africa or wherever over there. Before the ages for glory. Well, the gospel is such that we can grasp it and understand it and accept it by faith, and such that we can live our entire lives knowing more and more of its depths. And then we see this next word, the depth of God's knowledge. He said, it means that God has been able to produce a plan of salvation that caters to every eventuality and every possibility. constantly failing all the time. Fix things, we don't we don't do any no, we just kind of throw it throw it away and get a new one. figure that out. To three things. When we bring tailors up, we don't hit the airplane because it's millions of dollars if you do that. I don't know that for sure, but I suspect he's robots. The complexities of the plan of God, and it is unlikely that you will ever be in awe of God. Look, we're in awe of God when we're in awe of his word. over and you're looking up all the different words and you're looking at commentaries and you're trying to and it finally dawns on you what it's saying and you go wow it's the joy of discovery. to listen. And he is the goal to whom be glory. It says, For by him all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And to use me the way you want, whatever that might be. To have the best experience you can possibly have. That is to come, that really will magnify your greatness and your love, your wisdom so much, Lord. of God. He's in awe. What I want to do at the beginning of our message this morning is I want to identify a couple of the peaks Wow. I want us to notice a couple of these peaks. It says, therefore, by the deeds of the law no flesh will be justified in this sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. Paul says to those who have who have trusted the law, trusted the obedience to the law, adherence to the law, really trusted in themselves That righteousness comes apart from self. But now we have been delivered from the law, having died to what we were held by, so that we should serve in the newness of the Spirit and not in the oldness of the letter. You remember when we went through that quite a while ago? Spirit, rather under the enslavement and the bondage of the letter of the law. in us for the earnest expectation of creation eagerly waits for the revealing of the sons of God. nor death, nor any other created thing, should be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. and Israel and what God's doing with Israel and you think to yourself, well why what does this have to do with me tomorrow, Monday at work In verse 33. I mean God doesn't really care about how m money at all. Or in Romans chapter 9, verse 23, it says, and that he might make known the riches of his glory on the vessels of mercy which he has prepared beforehand for glory. toward us through Christ Jesus. In order to get the wisdom of God. And the depth of his wisdom, but he not only knows how to deal with a situation, he knows everything about the situation And a wisdom that is able to take the situation from an omniscience perspective and to deal with it in a way that produces an outcome that glorifies God. what is the width and the length and the depth to know the love of Christ which passes knowledge that you may be filled with all the fullness. I mean there are things in this world and I go, I I things that happen in this world, I go, God, why would you allow that? Uh let me let me let me illustrate it this way. something and you can pretty much predict what they're about to say by what they've already said. in and we've got to do everything with them. And so you'll tip over the plane. take hours and hours and hours of study, sometimes thirty, forty hours of study, and and bring it on on Sunday morning and s and give it to you in in less than an hour. The Apostle Peter actually says that Paul's writings are hard to understand. It says in verse 34, who has known the mind of the Lord? Now Christ when he was on earth could be taught because he's human. We need not be in a dialogue with God. And he shall direct your paths. and who are my people, that we should be able to offer so willingly as this, for all pe things come from you, and for your own All things were created through him and for him, and he is before all things, and in him all things consist. Present your bodies a living sacrifice. It is called the Exchange. And expresses how awesome you are, how unfathomable you are, how amazing you are, how awesome your greatness is. Let's go to the Lord in prayer together. Looking at what we can accomplish, but the work of Christ on the cross eliminates all possibility of boasting. thing to think about, Father. Through this portion of scripture, Romans eleven thirty-three through thirty-six. But now the righteousness of God apart from the law is revealed being witnessed by the law and the prophets they ski there. of Romans. Here, right as we are, Paul is expressing this passage, and he's looking down, and he's looking out at the other peaks in this mountain range Romans eight and eighteen through nineteen for I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed You ever felt yeah you felt like that? But when how often do we stand in awe of God? To be in awe of God. To be in awe of God. It's extremely deep. It's between Guam and the Philippines. It's that deep. This grace was given that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of grace. And yet God's, in God's wisdom, he brought forth this amazing plan. is incredible to bring forth this plan to redeem people. The gospel is intentionally simple enough for somebody to grasp and understand and apply by faith. among those who are mature, yet not the wisdom of this age, or the rulers of this age, or the coming to nothing. He is entirely omniscient, the depth of the knowledge of God. There is nothing that God has not foreseen because there is nothing that is unknown to God. Of God. I don't know why God didn't just just like okay Adam and Eve sinned and in God's foreknowledge he looks ahead and goes Man you guys are terrible and constant He transformed us by the power of the gospel of Christ. You don't know. 36 verse 6 says, Your righteousness is like a great mountain. Now, I've been uh had a part-time job and I've been doing a lot of training. So that so some jobs they pick you you you have one job and they sort of pigeonhole you for that job and then you just do that job. Do what I need to do. If you're going to be awed by God, you're going to have to be okay with not understanding some things. You're going to have to be content just looking and being in awe with it. As also our beloved brother Paul, according to the wisdom given him, as written to you, as also all his epistles speaking in them of these, in which are some things hard to understand. If you are unwilling to work at it and to analyze it and to study it, if you are unwilling to listen to a sermon that might be a little bit He's never done a Google search. unsearchable, the unknowable mind of God, who has become his counselor, you know what should cause us? do for him. Is that it's our reasonable service to sacrifice ourselves to God. It's only a matter of giving him back what he's already given to us. No, you got it wrong. Would respond by simply saying, I'm yours, accepting what is already true, that you that I'm yours But we can be in awe. Through your spirit, your truth, that it would really rock us to our core that we would go from this place not unchanged. of God. If you're in certain places it's the shore or somewhere else it's the beach. Or Ephesians 1:7, which says the riches of his grace. of God. There's all kinds of situations we have every day complexity situations, problems we run into, things we don't know what to do with. So God is not, He is, the depth of His goodness and His grace, the riches, the depth of His riches Now think about that. Uh you know you watch a team long enough and you have all these different scenarios of what happens when you know if uh okay well and you say, well, you know what, they'll probably do a running play here. You can kinda usually predict what's gonna hap what this team is gonna do, what the Ravens, for example, are going to do. detailed and a little bit hard to grasp. He is in awe of the word of God. Please come and talk with me. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. One of the most glorious, wonderful, and exalted statements which is to be found anywhere in the Bible. And he comes to a star a place and he pauses, and he just says, Oh It is though the Apostle Paul stands at the top of the peak of a mountain and looks down at the other peaks. You can imagine that the Apostle Paul has been writing from chapter 1 all the way through chapter 11, he's been writing all of these glorious truths. And then this mountain peak of the inseparable love of God in Romans 8 through 8:37-39. And here's what I want to ask you this morning. But then to think of the depth of the ocean. Or do you despise the riches of his goodness? And that's a helpful, helpful definition, isn't it? Because it's of the wisdom of God. We see the same kind of phrasing in Ephesians chapter 3, verses 18, talking about the love of Christ. But anyway, what the Ravens are going to do, but based upon what they've done in the past, it's trackable to some degree. How can we have our minds blown by God? We're kind of saying, well, this I know about God, this I know about God, this is God. on Monday or Tuesday and I'm reading and going, whoa, I what? It's it's like you stand in awe, you sit back, you go, whoa, I get it. And then the the source of wisdom. Isaiah 40, 13 says, Who has directed the Spirit of the Lord, or as his counselor has taught him? Who is first given to him and it shall be repaid to him. How many of you have have heard the of the importance of self-expression? Trust in the Lord with all your heart and lean, do you hear what it says? We have given you. It's all God's. And through him, and to him are all things to whom be glory forever. And number three, the purposes and plan of God are independent. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. There's quite a few of you. But now the righteousness of God apart from Allah is revealed. Actually that tells us that's exactly what Romans eight tells us, that in verses one through two, there is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus We move to the next mountain peak. And then last week in Romans 11, 32, the intricate plan of God that we've been looking at from chapter 9 all the way through chapter 11. The amazing, incredible, all-wise, incomprehensible plan that when the curse came, Christ or God had this plan for Christ to come to remain I think of the I think of an ocean is actually what I think of. that are able to survive at that deep of a level. They're untraceable. It's not trackable. Do you know why? Job 15, 8. I would not feel obligated to give it back to you again. Because God is the source of everything. God is the source of all, and we are the responders of all, giving back to God. Let not the mighty man glory in his might, but let him that gloryeth glory in this, that he understands and knows me. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. And all we can do is give our life right back to you as living sacrifices, which is our reasonable service. the majesty that is portrayed in this passage. But truly be uh be impacted by your truth. For of him and through him and to him are all things, to whom be glory forever. That's the first word slash letter in this in this passage. Oh the depth. An even emotional response to the greatness of what he has already heard. Why did God so frequently be why was he so patient with Israel? That's why people that try to figure out God's will, oh I need to know I need to know what God's will is. And actually, in the book of Romans, we've had opportunity to do that. Those of you who study the Word of God are faithful in doing so, you know what I'm talking about when you're studying the Word and you're really analyzing it and you're going The mind of the Lord is not graspable. His mind is who can know the mind of the Lord? I don't know. Become as a little child. I really like to actually find a way to repay this. And serving the Lord. The character of God is deep, and we should awe in him. He doesn't need our help figuring it out. All of what it life is about, all of what God has created, it's all for God anyway. You'd help us to be in awe of you, to do the work, to put the work in, to climb the mountain of your word, to study and work at it, knowing that we're not going to grasp everything because your mind's not graspable. Just our our will to try and do something to make up for it. How I I you know every every uh summer we go to the Atlantic, we go to the you know the shore, we go to the the the beach is what they call it and and you ever notice they call it different things or different places The depth of his riches, but also the depth of his wisdom. You feel like you you want to repay it, so you get you pay it back to me. The Bible is written. For who has known the mind of the Lord? Have you ever felt like that as we've gone through Romans, by the way? To really be in awe of God. And it's 1. When it says here the depth, it says the depth of the riches. Oh, the riches of the goodness of the grace of God. I think some people people think in their minds, you know, God owes me something because I've done this, this, this, this. That's why it says in twelve one, which we'll get to more, I beseech you, brethren, therefore, I beseech you therefore, twelve one, brethren, by the mercies of God that you present. As we have seen this elevated text that that um is just worship to you and and The depth of the character of God, the ungraspable mind of God, and the independence of the plan of God. Really, what they're talking about here I think has to do with the goodness and the grace of God. non-Christians, they'll say something like this. Okay, now I got I pretty much got it because I got these three things. It's the person who climbs it. So in covering all of this and looking at all of this, what are the three now that we want to boil all things down so we can control them, what what are the three things that we want to walk away with? And we will be I'd be thrilled to help you to know God. Oh. And then all you gotta do is apologize. And this brings us to, he says, with the depth of these things, Paul says, they're unsearchable. Who appreciates the engineering of a vehicle more, the person who's driving it or the person or the mechanic who's fixing it? If I give you I was gonna say a hundred dollars, but inflation makes me think a thousand dollars. We need to work at studying and exploring and knowing the word so that we can be in awe of God. Really, the focus should not be on us, but should be on Christ and you. Lloyd Jones said, Martin Lloyd Jones said, about this passage that we are in today, he said, it is beyond any question. Something that is incomprehensible, something that you just can't really wrap your mind about around, is something that you are awed by. And the situation that God had to deal with is the curse of sin. There's a point here. He does not feel like he has to repay us. Overcome by the lengths and the depth of your love I can't that's I don't think I could do that. We've been going through the book of Romans, and there are some glorious, amazing statements. The more you can't see, the more you need artificial light to be able to see. That's why Matthew 18:3 says it this way. And actually that's exactly what we begin to see here in the text. We've seen that in Romans. Let me just wipe you out and start over. Not to dialogue, but to listen. And I think to myself, I don't really want to know your self-expression. I'm really convinced of this. When Jesus came to their house, what did Martha do? She chose that better part. And Lord, there is a part of us which we feel like we should be able to do more. And we'll see this as we go through this, but we're going to see this in three different ways. Who appreciates the complexities of a building more? I don't really get it. Look at what it says, verse 36. Do his word. How unsearchable are God's judgments. We are as people, we are so prone to boasting and so prone prone to looking at ourselves and looking at our own achievements. As we just sung and and even asked the question, why should I gain from his reward? Well, what's unsearchable? God is his mind is ungraspable. And through him, he is the means by which all is accomplished. I'd be glad to help you understand how you can know God. The mountain peaks of Romans has now brought Paul to a place where he says, Oh the depth. Things like that. The only will you know is right here. How do we how do we be in awe of God? Have you heard the counsel of God? We ought not think that we're gonna tell God or we're going to we're going to give God some advice. More than I expected, actually. He says the depth of the riches of the wisdom and knowledge of God. And then the ungraspable mind of God. It's not like, okay, well, I need to dedicate my certain amount of time to God. Don't lean on your own understanding. And the words that he pens down now is a it Who values, what, who appreciates Mount Kilimajaro more? The Bible says this. Even I mean probably the the thickest part is in Romans 9 through 11 and we're going through the election of God and God's Word says, O the depths of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. It's actually one letter in the Greek. He is in awe. It's not trackable. Colossians chapter 1, verse 15 through 17 says this. So he says, the depth of the riches. I'm just trying to figure all this out. It's completely normal to do that. We need to sit back and listen. I give a portion of what's already his. And there have been different expeditions that have gone down that deep with great carefulness Do you know one of the reasons why? Sit on the lap of Jesus and listen. So we look at the text for today. For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ has made me free from the law of sin and death. So we're marshaling the airplanes in. He never needs to, because he already knows everything and more than Google will ever know. God owns it all. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible 2 miles deeper below sea level than Mount Everest is higher than sea level. This is what Peter says, 2 Peter 3, verse 15. God's already blessed you. And the next mountain peak, perhaps, I mean there's others, but this is one of the ones that of the future hope of glory. Or in Ephesians chapter 3, verse 8, where it says, to me who am less than the least of all the saints And it's a good idea, by the way. Obey him. Have you ever been talking to someone, had a conversation with someone, and you're talking to them, and they're talking and they're telling you a story or they're telling you We want to understand something, then we want to summarize it, and then we want to, we feel like we have control over it. The first peak I want us to notice is the revealing of the righteousness of God in Romans 3, verses 20 through 21. You ever wonder why God allows certain things and why God doesn't allow other things? Oh, we might be busy for God. Who appreciates the difficulty of a marathon more? She sat and she listened. And I don't know that I want to express myself all that much, frankly. That is the goal of all things. These things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. Well, one thing that's unsearchable is God's judgments. So let's get back to the question. It says, or who has become his counselor? And maybe you're saying this morning, I I don't really even know God, or I'm not sure if I know God. And God, and we saw from this passage how we can serve in newness of the sun. Okay. Wisdom is the ability to deal with a situation. They can't you can't track them. I want you to notice what Peter says about Paul's writings, and I suspect he means Romans. If you're unwilling to do those things, then you will not appreciate the Well in in Maryland it's the beach, so we went to the beach. I have never been there, but I have unders I understand it to be an amazing, incredible sight. We've seen the lengths to which God has brought people to Himself. I really don't know why God didn't do that. But God as deity can't be taught anything. And I pray that you'd help us too. Do you know the deepest the deepest part of the ocean is in the Pacific Ocean, though no uh uh surprise there. Holy, acceptable unto God. The deepest part of that Mariana Trench is called, it's been labeled Challenger Deep. I'm trying to gather all the information. And I grasp that and I understand that. But anyway, um if you can imagine climbing to the top of the Swiss Al to one of the peaks Like like you know, he's not doesn't have a net worth because he owns everything. Don't try to jump to it. You know what it's saying? Who has first given to him and it shall be repaid him to him? Right? If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. And then we you feel like you have kind of control over it. And their philosophy is they pretty much want to train you, at least introductory-wise, they have to certify you later, but that's train you, they train you on everything Do you limit wisdom to yourself? It's not traceable. I mean there's there's all so he's going and it's like i he's the way the trainer does, great trainer, but he's given as much information as possible. And then we move then to the ungraspable mind of God in verses 34 and 35. You know, we're in a culture today that that values highly self-expression. And assuredly I say to you, unless you are converted and become as a little child, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. This is a good way to do things where you've got this huge concept, and if you can if you can kind of whittle it down to three principles, okay, this huge thing, and if you can kind of narrow it down. The truth that he has penned down that has been under the inspiration of the Spirit of God has put him in a place where it has blown his mind. 1 Corinthians 2 says this verse 6. Why? You know I I uh I've heard this line of thinking among uh He is the source of all, the owner of all. That's why you were able to do something for Him. Don't try to figure God out. Oh the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge. It's the depth of it is 1,580 miles deep. What is God's will for me? Then we see in the passage, verse 36, the more we know God, the more we realize that He is the creator of all things, He's the Alpha and Omega, He's the beginning and This is not the wisdom of the world. Ephesians 3 describes this as the manifold wisdom of God would be made known through his church. And I'm trying to get it all in. God's never in that position. This is important for us in our service, in our financial giving, all of that. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. You know, the Christians believe that you're born a sinner and you're born on your way to hell and you're born a terrible person. If we give anything to God, it's actually because we He gave it to us. Why? It's all his. It's unsearchable. Because it was originally mine. Or who has become his counselor? Look at what it says. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. And then everybody laughs. We need to listen to God. Because it was him his the beginning. And that's what how we need to be uh we need to understand it. Are there times where you go, man, this is deep? And what we're seeing here in the Apostle Paul as he writes these things is that he is in awe of the things he has actually just written about. It's saying that God is the source of and originator of everything, and he owns everything Righteousness comes apart from the law. It's extremely deep. That you know. Because we value what we work for. Because Christ sacrificed himself for us. I pray, Lord, that you would work in us We're loading the huge, huge canisters like the size of a car. Or Ephesians 2. I I actually don't. Have you ever have you ever seen, like in football But sometimes what we actually need to do is be willing to be awed by what we don't understand You can't imagine everything God knows because it's infinite. Even if I gave it to you, you might feel like, well, you know, I really like to repay this so you pay it. God is the end and the beginning. That's pretty good. Can we admit this morning that sometimes we're not? We might be doing things for Him. Your judgments are a great deep. God, this needs to happen. So that we the only response we should have is to sacrifice our lives to him. Um that might be changing in the future actually, but for now that's what we do. Well, I'll tell you what the problem is. There have been times where I have read through a passage that I'm preparing to preach, and I've read through the passage It's a matter of stewarding what he has already given me. What is what is God's good will? We're going to see, first of all, the depth of the character of God. And so I I was I was thinking about the depth of the ocean. The depth of the knowledge of God. Over and over and over again they fail him in idolatry. It's infinite. So if I give you a thousand dollars and you feel like you want to repay me, so you repay it He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. Why? You can track it. And do you know what this should cause in our minds to understand the the the Lean not on your own understanding. His mind is ungraspable. So undeserving. How is it that we can be in awe of God? So because God is the way he is, is Father, I pray, Lord, that you would I pray these things in Christ's name. We will be in Romans 11, 33 through 36. I'm trying to figure it all out. Paul finally says this. What do you need to do? Uh we we we do that every year and and just to look out Do you see that in the passage? 1 Corinthians 2. Now that's a rhetorical question. I feel like I'm hearing it all the time. Don't try to figure out his will. And then we see that this righteousness delivers us from legalism. And you go down deep and deep and deep deeper and deeper, and it's like it's unsearchable. But you can't do that with God The person who's living in the building or the person who built the building? And I've got to really grasp it and understand it and then try to explain it. You ever heard something like that before? It was a very difficult situation to deal with. You ever try to predict what God's gonna do? Like I've got my time, and I've got God's time, I've got this time that I'll give to God. It's just reasonable. 7, which says that the ages to come, he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness. I mean, you can know about a situation Do you suppose it's talking about how much money God has? Forbearance and long-suffering, not knowing the goodness of God, leads you to repentance? That is, that means that they're for him, they're of him and for him, and We ask, Lord, that you would uh do this work by your power. We have seen the lengths to which we are justified and sanctified and will one day be glorified. Okay? Why? The depth of the character of God is first what we'll look at, and we see the depth of the riches. It says, may able to comprehend with all the saints The plan of salvation comes from a place of entire utter knowledge, uh omniscience. And that's what I would have done. Why? Who's come come up uh come to God and been a counselor for God? Proverbs 3, 5, and 6, a very familiar passage, but one that we need. That's actually why it says the very next verse we're going to get to, Romans 12, 1, which we'll get to in the future, not next week, but the week after. Lloyd Jones, in describing what wisdom is, he said it this way: He said, Wisdom is the ability to deal with a situation. His how why he does what he does, why he allows what he allows. The rest of it you can't figure out God's will. If you don't know God, if you're not sure where you stand with God, let me encourage you to come and talk with me afterwards or some It requires us to think deeply We won't look at all the peaks, but we're if we could just imagine ourselves at the top of the peak It's dark, it's dangerous, and it's very deep. And consider the long sufferings of the Lord's uh Lord to say of our Lord's salvation Jeremiah 23, 18. He's already blessed you with salvation. And to him are all things. Because in Romans chapter 2, verse 4, it says, in reference to the riches, it says Surely God will bless me if I've done this and this and this I know it's not football season. Here's the problem. Father, we thank you and praise you. I I I gotta have peace. Because I I don't feel like I have a grasp of it until I feel like I can summarize it and kind of control it so that I can Well, let me ask you this question. It's all his, and we're just responding back by giving back to him. However, we speak wisdom It's his judgment. And his ways past finding out. And sometimes the reason that we're not in awe with God is because we're actually putting God in the box. The character of God is deep and we should awe in him. May the Lord richly bless you. We should have to do more. The person who stands at the bottom and looks up, or the person who climbs it? How do you how are you in And so God gives everything we give to God, everything we offer to Him, everything we And all we can do is thank you Because Christ has freed us Why? We might be have we we might even pray sometimes. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, the hidden wisdom which God ordained It's horrible Every night I'm basically or most nights 16 says, For who has known the mind of the Lord that he may instruct him? Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. What does it mean when somebody says, that just blew my mind? But it's something different. It's not the wisdom that we that that the world has. Lloyd Jones said this. Uh I'll give you an example. I don't know. He's never in that position. The person who is the spectator or the person who's doing the running? God never needs advice from anyone. And sometimes in our prayers, we're like, God, I think this needs to happen, this needs to happen. 1 Chronicles 29, 14 says, but who am I Why would God do that? You can't do that with God. He's not trackable. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this God never had to look anything up on Google. No, we need to be in a position And what does it take for us And the in the independence plan of God. I think of the illustration, I think a great illustration, it's a biblical illustration. Father, as we consider your greatness and your great love towards us, we are Or who has first given to him, and it should be repaid to him Yet in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. This is a reference to the omniscience of God. That's not the case here. That he might have mercy on all Man, I'm wading through this is like this is like wading through some pretty thick stuff here Righteousness is declared and applied by Christ. He is the source and the final goal. All of what God has done for you I'm curious, how many of you have ever been to the Swiss Alps? It's obviously a rhetorical question. Everybody needs to have self-expression, self-expression, self-expression. The depth of the wisdom of God is What are his judgments? It's traceable. I gotta they don't understand. If you're going to be just like you go to the top of a mountain peak and you look out, and it's not like you can jump to the next peak. So why would God put something in the Bible that's hard to understand? And so to think that, see, God's the source of all, we never actually give him anything originally The depth of the riches of the goodness and the grace I mean that probably that's what you would have done. The problem is that we so naturally, in our world, in the way that we function, how we process Did you catch what he said? Because nobody's known the mind of the Lord. Amen. I'm like I I But really Look. God never had to seek instruction from somebody that some some wise advisor that's more experienced. That's why you are able to do something for Him. What's only reasonable is that you sacrifice your life Oh, I think God will do this. If you are unwilling to study this book and put in the sweat, It should cause us to sit back and want No, when we're telling when it talks about God, you know what we need to do For of him Amen. Oh. My mother apparently skied there. Oh Lord, you preserve man and beast. So this past couple of weeks have been uh I think I have three weeks He's not traceable I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. For who has stood in the counsel of the Lord and is persisted If you don't know God, even the beginning steps of knowing God and accepting Christ. And so, Lord, I pray as we consider the passage to come and the preaching He's going to make all things new So that the mercy of God could be extended as far as it could to everyone. So so we're bringing in airplanes that work for UPS, we're bringing airplanes, two airplanes usually are coming We hope to see you soon. You know, if you go down, the farther you go down deep into the ocean, the darker it gets It's not I give a portion of what I have of that what I own. I gotta be honest with you, when I realize how horrible we all are. Why would He keep allowing that? You know what that means? In all your ways, what should we do? Maybe often we're not. Over and over. You ever have that feeling somebody gives you a gift, but it's so amazing you sort of go Knowledge is different than wisdom. Talk about Christ. He is the center of all. Number two, the mind of God is ungraspable. But we really would love to meet you in person. But that's actually, in some regards, just our pride. We move on and we see the depth of God's wisdom. God is not traceable, he's not trackable. You say, well what do I do? God is the center of all. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. I don't think it's talking about that. So if you give if if I gave you a gift and you gave it back to me He is the purpose for which all things are accomplished. It's just such an amazing thing to me personally His judgments are the things that he allows and the things that he doesn't allow. This is what Paul expresses as he finds himself in awe. But folks, it is not, it is deep as well. That's interesting for Oh God won't do this. I mean you've got His ways past finding out Paul is moved by the depth of the character of God. You can't You can't Number one. But God God redeems us You know why? We're load loading them on to the to the airplanes. No one is the answer. Let not the rich man glory in his riches. It's a remarkable I mean we are such a we're a society that you know we throw things away and we start new. Encourage you to turn there as we are about to read through It's called the Mariana Mariana Trench We come to church. I think God will do this Because it's infinite. I pray that you would help us to grasp Romans 7:6 And what he says here is: it is unsearchable. Or okay, they're gonna do a passing play here. Come on Wednesday night and you'll find out how to deal with that. He is all in all. My grandparents were stationed in the military, been all over the world, and and apparently Maybe hardly ever we are And then it, you know How many of all can think of times where that's happened God, you know, God can't be taught anything. Psalm Okay. In fact, God says you have to become a fool. Wisdom is the ability to be able to deal with the situation. You can't figure it out If this would happen, this would happen, this would happen. Acknowledge Him We have the mind of Christ. And when you when you think of the word depth, what do you think of? Remember Mary and Martha? I pray, Lord, that we And in God's divine plan, It's really far This is mine, and I'm going to give this to God. We do We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. And we pray all this in Christ's name. Is there anybody here that have been there? It says for of him. You can We're going to make sure that we No And we Anyway. We've seen those things. Okay, wow. No. We don't