So that if I accept what Jesus Christ did on the cross to pay the punishment for my sin, I am then rightly related to God. It's all been God doing what he does in the life of a person, and the only thing we're involved in is by accepting it by faith, depending not on self anymore, but on Christ. But I want you to understand something. Well this says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies. Sometimes it would be bulls, sometimes it would be goats, sometimes sheep, but they would have all of these sacrifices going on all the time. That's what they did back then. I mean they think of sacrifice as somebody dying, as these people dying. So if my spirit is going to continue eternally and my body is just going to go away into the grave and nothing's going to happen to it, then it doesn't really matter what I do with my body. You are making an informed decision to then be able to serve God with your entire life. And it c I came across it and it was like a light bulb went on. And when you have those values, values of pride and selfishness and entitlement and all those kinds of things, then here's what happens. you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. You're gonna get twenty thousand dollars a day for the rest of your life. Where it says, who has exchanged the truth of God for a lie, and worshipped and served the creature rather than creator. Second Corinthians chapter 4 verse 14 16 says, Therefore we do not lose heart, even though our outward man is perishing, yet the inward man is being renewed day by day. and what he did on the cross and dying to pay the punishment for our sin in order to become a child of God and to become rightly related to God. But how how much can you actually spend on yourself? I'll invest it. Doing what I asked you to do, using it as in as meaningful a way as you possibly can. And I want you to see that in the passage. Where it says, we are justified by faith and at peace with God. to assurance that there is no condemnation. I will pray the Father, and he will give you another helper. You should present yourself a living sacrifice. It actually says, For God has committed them all in disobedience that he might have mercy on all. Jewish people would have understood that, but I think actually more likely everybody would have understood is what was the kind of sacrifices that were going on in Rome during the first century, and there were a lot of them. There was also political manipulation that would happen during this time. to show that he was really connected to the gods and by that sway the people to himself. And I know like you know we think of entertainment, we don't think of somebody, you know, gutting a pig or or a or a bullock or something like that. So I guess so I guess all of these different sacrifices were something that we're entertaining. Back to Romans chapter 6, for example. And it's the idea that everything physical is bad and everything spiritual is good. When people give their bodies to whatever it is, to doing different things, different kinds of activities, they end up giving over themselves to those kinds of things, and it ensnares them and traps them. We we have to depend on things. And in a sense, you can be enslaved to God. God is extremely benevolent. For this is your reasonable service. or lamb, uh so hey hey buddy, you're sorry, you're gonna you're gonna have to you're gonna have to do this. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's And what is the problem when a Christian isn't truly dedicated to God? It's not a command I've got to do. What is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God? And the answer is the world. the way we just kind of go on our lives. Well, what's the world here? That is, we are to be, we are to grow in Christ's likeness. Or you two are on the values of Christ, or you two are going to be pressed into the mold of the world, but you can't be both. And so what it's talking about is that our mind needs to be changed. What I do is by the grace, my giftedness, it's all by the grace of God, so that when I think in terms of everything being by the grace of God, I don't think of myself more highly than I ought to think. to the mold of the world, I guarantee you you're going to be constantly trying to figure out how much better you are than everybody else. But the end of the things are at hand. Do you know what the implication is? You better be picking keep your eye on the ball. Then what is going to happen is we're not going to think more highly than we ought to. then we will realize, we'll look around, we'll be watchful, and we will realize that we are integrally connected one to another. And you don't want to have one big eye. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. Having then gifts differing according to the grace that is given to us, let us use them. Let us use it in our ministering, he who teaches in teaching, he who exhorts in exhortation, he who gives with liberality, he who leads with diligence, he who shows mercy with cheerfulness. In fact, Paul says, you can't depend on self to become a child of God. They think of it in terms of what I need to sacrifice in order to gain favor with God Do I just do whatever I want? He's talking to people who have now accepted what Jesus Christ has done for them by faith. Still think in our minds, I want to serve to get. All of those are to serve to get. This is actually, the first two verses of this passage are probably outside of maybe John 3. And I want us to see three things in this passage. And the gospel unifies us to cooperate with other Christians. And there are several therefores in the book of Romans. that every person is born under sin's condemnation and punishment. You are in right relationship with God. Paul is not commanding them to present themselves, their bodies. Even in Romans chapter 9, verse 15, it says, I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy. to call together, to encourage. and encourage them to do something that perhaps at this point they haven't thought of before, certainly not thought of in these terms. is the abundant mercies of God. We don't serve to get. That would not be what the first century Christian who is reading this would think of. Now I know you and I we think why is why would a bloody pig be a t thing to sell you know we're all standing around watching this bloody pig be sacrificed. um where the high priest would take blood from the sacrifice and put it on the mercy seat and and as a as an atonement for the sins of the people so that they could to continue to have the sh the the presence of God there. They didn't have uh they didn't have, you know, I don't know, Hulu and all these different things that people watch and television. What does he mean by a living sacrifice? He made the ultimate sacrifice for us. Something that when we really realize the great mercies of God, then it just is a natural thing for us to want to present ourselves to God. but alive to God, God in Christ Jesus our Lord. that you should obey it in the lusts, and do not present your members as instruments of unrighteousness to sin, but present yourselves to God as being alive from the dead and your members as instruments of righteousness to God. And so the religious person would say, well, if everything is physical is bad, then it doesn't really matter what I do physically. the the your hands, your legs, your feet, every the He's getting very, very practical here. Romans 6, 16 says, present yourselves slaves to obey. I speak in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh. For with such sacrifices God is well pleased. In the Old Testament you had the sacrifices and what would happen is you'd have a group they they actually use either lamb or goats and and uh and during during as they were they were Therefore, by him let us continually offer the sacrifice of praise to God, that is, the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to his name, but do not forget to do good and to share This is an informed decision. Which one will you serve? The world would say, it's my life. The contrast is this. but with all boldness as always, so now also Christ will be magnified in my body, whether by life or by death, for me to live as Christ and to die as Cain. That are on their way to hell, apart from the grace of God, and yet God has showered his grace and mercy on me. Somebody does something for you and the kindness of their heart and they really want they're doing it. the world. Though that's what the world it's it's a sense of entitlement. The values of the world will, they will press you into their mold unless you refuse it. So it's actually the renewing of our mind that transforms us. Right? to the values and the thinking of Christ. But be renewed by the spirit of your mind. Say, well, how do you do that? Verse 10 it says, and have put on the new man, notice how it's renewed, which is renewed in what? Because if I don't, I guarantee I will be transformed, I will be molded into the mold of the world's values. It will happen with your kids. And they are going to be molded into the world. Delve into it. Give you different values, cause you to no longer be conformed to the world, and instead be transformed by the renewing of your mind. We're watching it. When we are truly presenting our lives as a living sacrifice to God, and we're not being conformed to the world, but we are renewing our minds day by day with the truths of the Word of God And it actually says that when we are thinking right biblically, when our minds are transformed by the Word of God the way they ought to be, That there is a oneness and that we are connected to each other. Other Christians together, working together for the sake of the body. is therefore not of the body? What is the point? And what God is saying is that in the Christian life, you've accepted Christ as your Savior, you are part of the body of Christ, and you are to work as one of the members of the body of Christ. It's written so that you can receive the grace of God, so that you can be rightly connected to God. Maybe you've never actually received the grace of God by faith, or you're not sure about that. Frankly, Christians, we should know this better than anything else. That you don't think more highly than you ought to think. glorifies God. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. You sent the ultimate display of grace, mercy, and love in your Son. We thank you, Lord, that Christ has paid it all. In knowing how to respond to this grace, mercy, and love. For I say, though the grace given to me to every one who is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think soberly, as God has dealt to each one a measure of faith And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Why do I need to serve God? But the Bible doesn't teach that. Is that the motivation with which we should serve God as Christians? Now, this is definitely fiction. self-destruction, overindulgence causes self-destruction ultimately. Christianity says, no, I already have the mercy and the grace of God. Do you see the difference? Verse 1, we're going to see that. He says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. Now, I want you to see that in this passage. Because if you think of all of the Jewish people that are listening to this, they've got a lot of commands, right? That word beseech is a really interesting word. And he wants to help them. Maybe we think of like a a soldier who goes and he gives his life, uh, you know, and that is a sacrifice, but that's kind of the thing we might think of, or somebody sacrifices their time or their money or something. They usually are thinking of a belief system. forgiveness for some transgression, forgiveness from the gods. Another one was a votive. for some request in in exchange for the vow. Three types of sacrifices. These three kinds of sacrifices, and maybe there were others, happened all the time in Rome. That you need to present your bodies a living a living sacrifice, they're going wait what Prior to 97 BC, when it was banned, before that they did actually have human sacrifices in Rome. He went on the he actually first left his left his for the presence of his father, came to earth, became a man. and died to pay the punishment for our sin and sacrificed his life, separated himself from his father for a time in order for us to be able to have eternal life. Here's what he's saying. something to self, to the world. The holy, we think of holy, we sort of think of like holier than thou, or we have different things when we think of holy, really is talking about separated for a particular use. Before you're a Christian, you are going to present your bodies for your own use. I think the best way to understand this is the word reasonable. Um, hey, you you uh sorry, you're gonna have to be thrown to the you know you're gonna have to be sacrificed for the gods or for the Jewish the goat. in a informed way. It is our reasonable and then this word worship service or worship. Or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and you are not your own? God said, Paul says, I want my life to be a magnifying glass for the glory of God. Grow in your gratefulness what Christ has done, the wonderful mercies of God. It actually has to do with the fact that our thinking is often worldly. I've earned. You'll think you deserve it. But notice what it says. If we do not deliberately not be pressed into the mold of the world, we then will be pressed into the mold of the world. It's talking about sinking thinking in terms of the gospel, everything in terms of the grace of God the mercy of God, the justice of God, what I should be doing in responding to all of that. self or what I want or what I need. Notice the shift. And Paul is dealing with this. So we being many are one body in Christ and individually members of one another. various functions in the body of Christ. It is ridiculously cliche, but there is no what in team. But now God has set the members, each one of them, in the body, just as he pleased. That is actually how you dedicate your life to Christ. You know, he'll he'll accept me. So that you can be on the other side of it and then you can live for God. And there are others that you might be more comfortable with that they can help you as well. We need to understand three things, I think, that will help us. If you realize that there should be a gratefulness that begins to then fuel your dedication so that you're not doing it out of drudgery, you're not doing it because it's commanded, you're doing it out of love. We love him why? unless you deliberately take this book and renew your mind with it. Some of us have been saved for so long. Because you have laid down our lives for us. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community here at BBC. alone. Well, you might say, well man, I'm gonna go have a party, I'm gonna blow it up, I'm gonna, you know. No condemnation, chapter 8, verse 1, to them that are in Christ Jesus. There's no command. Okay? And he says it is based on the mercies of God. Now they now there's a term in here that we read it bec and it doesn't mean a lot to us, but in the first century mind it would have been like, what? And it's this term living sacrifice. One were Jewish Christians, and they definitely would have had something in their mind when they saw this word sacrifice. And the word present is an interesting word. a living sacrifice. tending their flocks, they would select certain animals from the flock to be used for a specific purpose. That when you really understand and you meditate on and you let Romans 1 through 11 really become a part of your life. Philippians 2 says similar, chapter 1, verse 20, Philippians 1, actually, verses 23-21. sinners, as beggars, as people that have nothing apart from the grace of God, as people that are In Romans chapter 8, it says that we are to be conformed to the image of Christ And you say, okay, all right, I get it. Knowing the word, knowing the truth of the word, knowing the gospel of the word, knowing this book, knowing it well, meditating on it day and night, Psalm 1 But if you will, if you will just begin to know this book little by little, ask questions, meditate on it, think through it. Well, why would you do that? We need to think soberly. And then he says this, verse 4, for as we have many members in one body, but all members do not have the same function. Unified cooperation that we see here. Step by step, how you can know for sure that you can spend eternity with the Lord, that you are rightly connected to God through Christ and his death on the cross. If we struggle in our dedication to the Lord, then what I really would encourage you to do is to remember the mercies of God, to think about the mercies of God, to realize your own undeservedness. Humility fosters cooperation. Folks, we can't say we're truly dedicated to the Lord when we're not in cooperation with each other in the body of Christ. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. Your mercy, your love, all of which you have given to us. That God has been and actively working in people's lives to save them from their sin through what Christ has done. not by doing good things, not by works, not by being something, that relationship with God is accessed by faith God. See, what Paul is now going to do is he's going to address the question, how then should a Christian live I want to illustrate it this way. But to do good with what you already received. Gospel transformed thinking. But in the first century they didn't think of religion that way. You you you need to sacrifice. And God says, no, you need to actually present your bodies. To God for his service. separated for the use of God. Some people think that it means spiritual, and it's translated that way sometimes. For you were bought, you were purchased, you were bought at a price. The way that you know how much you value the gospel is how much you're serving God. And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove That means that there is a different subject, a different doer of the action. Unless you choose deliberately. We are to be transformed by the renewing of our mind. daily choice to to have our mind constantly transformed and renewed Well, what knowledge is he talking about? that renews my mind, so that I am transformed and conformed to the mold of Christ To everyone who is among you, what does he say here? or one big ear. Mind renewal results in transformation. Every Christian should be growing in their knowledge of God. It is unified together because it actually shows the unity of the Trinity. But we really would love to meet you in person. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. Let me ask you this question. Is that the motivation that we see in the Bible? But for the rest of the rest of your life, you will receive $20,000 every day. as slaves of uncleanness and lawlessness leading to more lawlessness, so now present your members as slaves of righteousness for holiness. You present yourselves entirely to God for God's use. So in contrast to an animal who is not informed about what he's about to do, right? And that's the motivation behind dedication that we have in this passage. It's talking about, it says the knowledge of Him, of the knowledge of Christ. Is it therefore not of the body? Now I have three takeaways for us this morning as we think through this. If you will realize that, if you will think of yourself as God sees you, and think of yourself both before you were saved and after you were saved. And that's why God tells us not actually just to read it, although we should read it, but to think, to meditate on it, to know it well. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. And your love, grace, and mercy towards us is so much greater and so much higher, and so much more than we could ever hope to try and. For as we have many members in one body, but all the members do not have the same function, so we being many are one body in Christ, and individually members of one another Lots of sacrifices to gods, to false gods going on during that time. So my use is for me. What this is teaching us is that we do not own ourselves. My whole life, that's what I want it to be for. How much do you value the gospel? I was thinking about just wrestling in my mind with the idea of dedication, of people truly, Christians truly being dedicated to the Lord. A dedication problem is a gratefulness problem. Be pressed into the mold of Christ. You don't value the grace of God, and then you are unmotivated to dedicate your life to God You can be really good at baseball, but if you go out and play baseball and you're in and you're a a shortstop, you better know where everybody else is. Then you're good you could be really good, but if you're not aware of what's happening with the team, then you're not gonna be effective That if you don't know, maybe you're saying, well, there there's been a lot about sacrifice and dedication and all that. we have thoughts of self and self promotion and self preservation and self n uh Lord, it's convicting. And I pray this morning that you would renew our thinking about who we are. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for. Romans 12, 1 through 8. Or somebody says, well, I want to be known, I want to know myself that I am a good Christian Our pillar goes to a cocoon, comes out a butterfly. And do for someone else. That we can now have a rightful, we can have a place to be made right with you That we cannot in any way, shape, or form earn on our own by our own merits, by our own will, by our own desires Some people say, well, I want God to bless me. And what God is saying is that you need to present your bodies for a separate use, a different use. In knowledge. In such a way that they would understand their own sin, their need of a savior, and that they would be saved today. And I want you to use that $20,000 the best way you can. What do we do because we have now accepted the gospel? So that's the nature of who we are as people that we are going to be dependent on something. But there's actually a key to how we are careful about this. Which we are so undeserving. And by faith is how it must be received. We thank you, Lord, for your word and how it describes these things for us. So we are members. You've never understood. And in order for that to happen, humility is essential. May we live, may we we lay down our lives for you because it's just reasonable. Reading from the passage this morning in Romans 12, 1 through 8. Why do you need to invest it? I mean this is really easy. Defense and all of that, Lord. That we are hopeless apart from you. Around your people, around your word, under the teaching and preaching of your word shortly. So that when someone becomes a child of God, they become a child of God not by something they do by their own self-effort. This passage tells us it is by everything is by the grace of God. And I there's a side of me that understands the sentiment, right? And in this book, what we have learned as we've gone through the first 11 chapters of this book so far is that is that We're careful. The sacrifice that we make of giving our lives to God, how do we do that? I think that that's important to understand. This would be a social time. But the problem is, we're going to then see here, the problem is that the world gets in, the thinking of the world. What is this age talking about? You're gonna serve one of them. That's the question that I think we can ask this morning that will be helpful. But to serve in order to get God's favor or to or to be blessed or to think of myself in a good light. When I hear this preached, I often hear, I've often heard it as a command there. The world is the do- or you could actually translate the age, either one is the doer of the action. Tear about it. That's why we see so quickly here. You've got two choices in life. Well we have some scripture that's that tells us about that. Why would somebody think more highly than they ought to think? It shows the unity of God when his people are unified serving and working together. And to allow there to be a relationship with God. Now he speaks to Christians. So when they heard this, they thought to themselves, living sacrifice? I'm entitled. The mercy of God by its very nature is something that you can't deserve, that you don't deserve. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for your word. This is a command. He says this. The implication is that pride grows from the inside without us even realizing it. But you're not really sure. So this text is telling us it's it's the li it's those it's selfishness, it's pride, it's wanting to promote self. We look at this and we know all of us need more gratefulness. Scripture says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, wholly acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. In verses 11 through 13 it says, Likewise you also reckon yourselves to be dead indeed to sin. Well, what are we informed about? If the whole body were an eye, where would the hearing? We're going to see that in verses 2 through 3. If you do nothing, and if you just allow your kids to kind of do whatever they want, they're going the world is going to impress on them its values. You better watch what's what else is going on. This is what he's dealing with. We all have bodies. It says, so we, being many, verse 5, are one body in Christ and individually members one of another. I encourage you to follow along with me here as I read this portion. So suppose I come to you and I say, I'm going to give you $20,000 every day. You're going to get $20,000. Gospel motivated dedication. This is something you're serving, you're actually worshiping is the way it can be translated. It's something I want to do because of what God has done for me. You thought, well, I'm a good person, or I figure my good outweigh my bad, or I never I don't really know, or or you know, hopefully I'll end up in uh before the Lord and Do I just I'm it's just that's it? I mean do you realize that actually overindulgence too much indulgence, look at where some of our celebrities have gone with too much indulgence. We're going to see that our response to receiving the gospel should be that we actually are offering our lives in sacrifice to God. We need to have a first-time mentality when we look at this. He's saying in life you have two choices. Now what does it mean when it says we need to think soberly? Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. We look at these these things and we we try to be merciful, we try to be loving, we try to be gracious. This is this is the the there needs to be a total shift. And if we are not deliberate, the world is going to press us into its mold. And also the other application and implication here is that we're looking around and we're seeing others around us. We've been Christians so long. Therefore, what do you do? He wants to urge them. Did you catch that? That would be ugly and not the body. I want you to notice something else in the passage. The most common type of sacrifice was called a peocular sacrifice. He he even uses the word in Romans 6 as the instruments of your bodies. The word reasonable there is um it's actually it's there's a lot of different variations of what this could mean. Therefore, be serious and watchful in your prayers. And Lord, if there is anybody here this morning who doesn't know you, who doesn't have a relationship with you, I pray that you would give understanding. We have just sung of truth from your word regarding your grace. We're actually going to go through verse five today. We serve because we have already received the mercies of God. We're enslaved, if you will, to something. I do what I want. We'll learn how to do that in a minute. The Bible teaches that we gain favor with God by faith alone in what Jesus Christ did on the cross. And now we have here, therefore, you have assurance that there's no condemnation. 1 John 2, verse 16 says, For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life is not of the Father, but is of God. The whole the whole group of people within the city would gather around. Notice what it says, acceptable to God. Don't be conformed to the world and be transformed. Not talking about just any old knowledge. I'm thinking about how I can live for Christ. You see, th the whole world, when they think of religion The word present goes back, actually, it's been used several times in Romans, and I really think Paul is actually referencing these times Say, oh, I value the gospel a lot. And if the ear should say, because I am not of not an eye, I am not of the body, All right. That accompanied vows. He is a benevolent master. That's what the world says. We understand this. He says this, for just as you present your members, the members of your body, the parts of your body, all of it, your mind, everything We need to have right thinking about self. Number one, gratefulness fuels dedication. Because of what God has given you, present yourself a living sacrifice to God. You know what it's saying there? Read it. We see in the very first sentence, I beseech you, therefore, brethren. You you you're going to be enslaved to something. It's the values of the world. It's metamorphosis that actually comes from that word. May we remember that we are just utter, complete sinners. And most of the world, when they think of religion, if they think of it in a positive light, they think of it as a belief system that helps them in some way. You either serve the creation or you serve the creator. It said, a dedication problem is a gratefulness problem. We are to- in other words, we have a contrast here. How do I deliberately keep from being pressed into the mold of the world and deliberately But frankly, it ha it'll happen with all of us. It means to come alongside of, to exhort. It's the same, it's a different form of the same word. What that means is that you do what God wants you to do. And that's where our command comes in. The Bible says these things are written that you might know that you have eternal life. Father, we come before you and we thank you for this good morning to be together. And so what God what Paul is saying here is you need as a response, not to gain anything, but as a response to what God has done for you in His great mercy. When we are truly, when we are when we are following ch verse one. It's so important that when Paul begins this new brand new section on how Christians should live, in the very third verse, he says, be really careful. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. As long as you believe I'm going to give you, which would be a wrong belief in my case, but as long as you believe that I'm going to give you $20,000 a day, why would you need to invest anything? It's actually used of the Holy Spirit in John chapter 14, verse 16, where it says It's renewed in knowledge according to the image of him who created him. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. I want to give you $20,000 every single day. And this passage teaches us something very, very different. Not people. Which one will you choose to serve? Because he first loved us. And he's not commanding. But when you become a Christian, not because you are commanded to, but because it is it is reasonable because of what God has given you, when you become a Christian. It's the idea of informed, willingly informed. Ephesians four twenty two twenty three says, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind They thought of it in terms of this idea of sacrifice. The word here, don't be conformed to this world. Dedication to Christ without dedication to his body is no dedication at all. We have been going through this wonderful book of Romans that's in the Bible. Is that what we see as Scripture? What is Paul saying here? I wouldn't. Unless you deliberately, you deliberately follow this command and do not allow them to be conformed to this world. Because that's what the world does. 1 Corinthians 12 says it this way, verse 15. It's like we've forgotten who we really are I think specifically we're informed by the last 11 chapters of Romans. He wants to beseech them. It's that important. I want to serve because I want God to look down on me and be happy. And then we're going to see gospel unified cooperation. Now, based upon what you have in the abundant mercies of God Uh animals. What's really going on? There are some that say, well, I I'm dedicated to God and I love God, I'm glorifying God, but people forget them. Here is an if if I'm already saved from sin in hell, The gospel motivates us to dedicate ourselves to God. And when you think you deserve, you will never see the mercy of God I mean, eyes are extremely important, but you can't just have one big eye. Let me encourage you after the service to come. Look, friend, you will be pressed into the world's values, its mold. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. This is not something that could happen one time. Not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think. And if you're not paying attention to what else is going on, if you're not aware of what's happening with the team Because we're all so horribly flawed. It's like we get our heads up out of the sand and we realize that we are interconnected in the body of Christ. So what would you do with it? We think of it, and when we speak of sacrifice, we often think of maybe like um Let me ask you a simple question. He's going to talk about all kinds of different giftedness in the body. There are some people that say, well, you know, he's a theologian, so he knows. One therefore is in chapter 3, verse 20, and is talking about the fact that we are under condemnation. No, there's no con there's no intelligent conversation going on. If you want to grow in your dedication for God, The arms not the eye. See, religion says, I do good to get Even that'll get old after a while. Because of what you have, what God has given you, dedicate your life. Know it. Or I just have this sort of sense of duty. Let's see this in the passage. And they would go before these gods and they would have a sacrifice and they would also make a vow and they would ask for some It actually says we need to think soberly. If prophecy, let us prophesy in proportion to our faith, or ministry This is false religion. How do we do that? It sometimes translated seriously, but it's often it's also translated watchful, which I think is very helpful. We need to understand something about this passage when it comes to the idea of sacrifice. A politician would come and he would give this great sacrifice Now, folks, when we think of sacrifice, who gave the ultimate sacrifice? It is called The Exchange. And then gospel transformed thinking But what he is saying here is that you need to present your entire life, your entire bodies It's very important. Why should a Christian serve He's doing something different here in the passage. Therefore, do not let sin reign in your mortal bodies. I mean you have to have all different parts of the body. Actually, it was people prior to nineteen ninety se uh or nineteen ninety seven, no. Because we feel guilty? The first first He's not trying to give a guilt trip. You do what you want to. The Bible does not teach that. For those of us who have received, like we're on the other side and we receive the grace of God, It's called pre-gnosticism. And he's saying you can link up to God Notice what it says. So look at the first one. But Lord, while we were your enemies, lost in our sin, lost in our transgressions, Because there are some things here that even if you have seen this passage, heard this passage preached, that you may never have gotten before, that hopefully you will today. We're going to see that gospel is motivated by dedication. This is completely opposite of what the world would say. What would you do with it? So we go from condemnation to justification. He is not commanding us Now what does that mean? And it is up to us to receive. There's no command there. That you need to present, as a Christian, you need to present your bodies as a living sacrifice to God. Number one, I I want to say actually it's not even the first takeaway. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. I mean we can all understand that, right I think specifically it's again talking about Romans 1 through 11, but more broadly, it's talking about the gospel. And we're also going to be realizing that we are all part of the body of Christ. If the whole uh the whole were hearing, where would be the smelling? Like we're talking about today. And I read a book called Balancing the Christian Life by Charles Ryrie. Our our values, our thinking has got to be changed from the world's values, from the thinking of the world We ask all this in Christ's name. And there was another kind of sacrifice, which was just a general purification sacrifice. The same word has been used back in Romans chapter 1 verse 25. See, our the world says, I deserve. And what this passage is saying is that culturally That's the indication in this passage There is no I in team. The word therefore is an important word. All of the mercies that we have already seen in the Old Testament, or in the previous books in Romans, previous chapters in Romans. Both of those are commands. If you're confused to the Some say, well, you know, I feel guilty if I don't serve God in some way. In Romans 6, verse 19, it's very interesting what it says here. According to my earnest expectation and hope that in nothing I shall be ashamed. Notice what it says. Number two Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. We praise you, Lord, for these truths. They would have think they would very likely have thought to the back to the Old Testament, and they would have thought of the sacrifice that was given on the Day of Atonement I am thinking in terms of glorifying God. How do we love God? Okay, I want to serve God so that He'll bless me. Doing good with it, doing right things with it. He wants to come alongside them. It's my body, it's my life, it's my world, it's what I want. It's just reasonable now that I go and I do something good with it. They've heard all kinds of commands from the law. And we're actually going to find in the text why we don't do that. What I have is by the grace of God And and and what you have to come to is And they they saw sacr they would do sacrifices to to seek forgiveness from the gods. And folks, you can see this. And then it says this for your reasonable You are to be pressed into the mold of Christ You must depend on Christ. We thank you for its truth Help us to be deliberate about renewing our minds with your word. There's no imperative for the for you grammar people. Like it's not like they had conversations with a pig. Be transformed by the renewing of your mind. It will happen. And in Romans chapter 11, 32, just a few verses back, Therefore, because Christ bought you with his blood. Number three. It's so important that a church cooperates together as a team I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. Hebrews 13 says it this way, verses 15 through 16. So the renewing of our mind is the main idea here. It's a deliberate Notice what he says, verse 3. And that relationship with God is accessed 16 and a couple of others, the most well-known passages in all the Bible. Did you know that there's no command there yet? This is a deliberate It's amazing how even as Christians we can You see, during that time another kind of weird philosophy went on back in that time, and we have some things similar today. Do you know that you can actually tell how much you value the gospel? You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. The thought of religion was equated with sacrifice, and they would sacrifice these animals. There was a social experience and bonding time and events that would uh would occur during this time. We are thanking God with our lives. And Lord, may we realize that we are nothing apart from you May the Lord richly bless you. So when Paul says He's not trying to say you need to do this because other not otherwise God's going to do something to you. You either present your body as a slave to Verse 2, he says this. And so We don't think of it that way. But when we see ourselves as What is the doer, who or what is the doer of the action of being conformed to this passage, conform to this world, conform to this age. It's not talking about who does that anymore? The legs not the foot. It show it In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. We thank you for these truths. In fact, they had That is, we here's the implication. We need to be renewed by the spirit of our mind. And if they were all one member, where would the body be? If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun interactive classes. And as we think about the message to come, we ask you, Lord, to help us First of all, the gospel motivates our dedication. Just like the Old Testament sacrifice, it needs to be holy and acceptable to God. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide Is that what God has in mind? And the question is, what now? It teaches this, 1 Corinthians 6, 19 through 20. How much do you value the gospel? Then it will begin to renew your mind. But maybe You have the grace of God. But they're interesting commands because they're actually passive voice commands for you grammarians out there. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. I mean I mean how how much can you actually spend on yourself? The next, therefore, is actually an assurance where it says, Therefore, there is therefore now Paul's response to these last chapters, chapters one through eleven, In fact, they actually had social bonding over these sacrifices And there were sacrifices even for entertainment To be transformed by the renewing of our mind. There is a collective How do you keep from thinking of yourself more highly than you ought to? If the foot should say, Because I am not a hand, I am not of a body, I'd love if you just come and talk with me. Then the next therefore is chapter 5, verse 1. It was a sacrifice that was intended to seek He wants us to understand that we're part of a team. So then what now? There will be nothing left over each day. This was very common in the first century. You're worshiping, you're giving your life over. Christ said it. Unless we are deliberate and watchful about pride, unless we're You are entirely In in contrast to that, it's your reasonable service. Now, with this in mind, Christian, I want us to understand a couple of things just by way of application. And you're just like, what can I do to thank you? Did you catch that? May the Lord richly bless you. Amen. So Paul wants to come alongside these Romans, Roman Christians in Rome. The Bible here translates it reasonable. But keep in mind they didn't have YouTube It says, I beseech you. They didn't have the radio. We confess before you that oftentimes we are It doesn't matter matter what I do with my body. That's what the passage says We thank you, Lord, for the work that you consistently do in our lives. I want to serve in order to be faithful. And this is what what Paul and what the Lord is calling us to do. That's what this is saying. It causes me to be grateful. That now is a command. But that's not what the Bible teaches. Dedication, a dedication problem is a gratefulness problem. We're going to be You either serve the creature, which is includes self, or you serve the creator. And that's kind of what he's saying here. And we are so undeserving The gift that you offer of salvation is offered to everyone Is that why we serve God in the New Testament? What would you do? You do this, you must do this, you've got to do this. For I say, through the grace, there he is again, through the grace of given to me. And we pray these things in Christ's name. I just want to mention this. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. It can mean to ask urgently or to beg or to invite But we really would love to meet you in person We hope to see you soon. You've got it's one or the other. You love God by loving others. But Uh There's a paradigm shift here. Now let that sink in They're all different parts of the body. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Not to gain, not to get something. You have the favor of God. There were in Rome, when this is being written, there were two kinds of people, two kinds of Christians. But maybe you've actually never you've never actually received the grace of God. They didn't have, you know, like like that not even AM. I am constantly thinking. It refers us back to, I think it refers us back to actually all the previous 11 chapters. They would say they're holy. I was reading through that book for a different reason. Going online and just googling anything. I'll take a Bible and I can and I'll show you This is such a key point It will happen The idea of transform, that's an easy word. That's not a body. That I mentioned the very beginning. Everything physical is bad, everything spiritual is good. We hope to see you soon. The gospel transforms our thinking. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. Huh? Christ did. But I think this verse is going to be really helpful for us. It's all going to go away anyway. It will do it. I'd love to help you with that. You're like, uh I can do a lot, I got I got I got a lot of stuff. It's written so you can know So whatever you don't use, you can't accumulate it. And probably it really provoked them. The implication is that we passively live our lives But the Lord together in prayers. No, actually, every Christian needs to be a theologian I want to be ser I mean, God being happy is to please the Lord. Today, when when somebody thinks of religion, Some translate it true. It's actually still grammarian's passive voice I'm not thinking about Remember several years ago, I was Now here's something else that's interesting. That's that's what we think of But now what? It says You don't value the mercies of God. It ends up causing real problems in their lives. What do we do now? That's not what Paul is saying here You've got to watch. Amen. Then I just want to serve. Somebody that depends on Christ? You've already got it They had nothing. That's why I'm here, frankly. It is called the Exchange. And then Paul shifts here Colossians, you might want to write this one down. We have Think of a caterpillar turning to a butterfly. No, no. We've seen this word conform before. Sometimes it would be pigs. So 1 Peter 4, 7 There's no reason to It's just It actually will cause Okay, now what? Number one. That is why we serve. Do you remember where?