I want to welcome everyone here tonight for our baptismal service. We are really thrilled to have you all here tonight. I wanted to do is to just spend a few moments really thinking biblically about what baptism is. Each one of our candidates that are that are baptized, going to be baptized tonight and have been baptized previously. Um and uh it is is They go through a baptism class that I think is very helpful and very important in order to really understand what baptism is, the meanings of baptism, all of that. So we're gonna take a few moments to do that this evening We're going to start off with just talking through what is baptism? Why do we do it? If you think about it, it's a little bit of a different kind of Where'd that come from? All that. We're going to look at scripture and see where it comes from. First of all, let's think about the different kinds of baptism. There are three kinds of baptism. Mentioned in the Bible. You've got John's baptism. That is a baptism of repentance. It's mentioned in Matthew 3 and Mark 1 and Luke 3. John one. But it was an it was a national call to repentance from Israel. It was a different kind of baptism. We know that because Because actually it was uh in the in the book of Acts there were some that were baptized by John and they had to be re-baptized. Um and so and so that's a different kind of baptism. Then we have spiritual baptism, Holy Spirit baptism. The Bible talks about that in Romans 6 and 1 Corinthians 12 and other places. it says that anybody that knows Christ, the Bible says that anybody that knows Christ is baptized by the Spirit of God. And what that means And what that means is that they are placed into the body, the universal body of Christ. So if you know Christ as your Savior, you are spiritually baptized. The baptism that we're we're going to be doing tonight is water baptism. It is a physical baptism. It's mentioned in Acts chapter 2 and Colossians 2. and Matthew 28, and that's the baptism that we're looking tonight. We're going to be looking at tonight. Now throughout church history, you've had different kinds of baptism, and I'll mention three tonight, three of the major ones. One is sacramental baptism. That's the baptism that Roman Catholics have. This baptism eradicates in their mind the sin nature and instills faith that will later be energized. This is not a biblical baptism. There is nowhere in Scripture that indicates that baptism does anything that has anything to do with saving merit. And so that is not what's happening here tonight. Covenantal baptism is another kind of baptism that if you think like the Presbyterian churches uh usually, if not always, practice this kind of baptism. Often they're uh it's sometimes called paedo baptism. Babies are baptized uh usually uh if they if they've been born to Christian families. Um this kind of baptism initiates one into the church. Uh they become what is called a child of the covenant and they see it. Um on some level anyway as a means of grace. So that is again not the kind of baptism. We don't see that in scripture, and we're going to talk about why we don't see that in scripture. A few moments. But that's another kind of baptism that you'll hear about. There are good, solid, genuine Christians that are Presbyterian that believe in that kind of baptism, but we don't see that That in Scripture. And then ordinance baptism, which is the kind of baptism that we will be doing tonight. There are only two ordinances that Christ left the church. church with for us to practice, and that is baptism and the Lord's Supper. And baptism is a symbol of God's salvation for the believer. Uh it's a symbol. That's exactly what it is, and we'll understand more about what that is in a few moments. In fact, I'll mention it here. When we think about baptism, we want to be sure that we understand that there that baptism Is different than salvation. They are separate. In other words, you when someone comes to Christ, the Bible is very clear by faith alone, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy. He saved us. It's by faith alone, not by any work, including the work of baptism. So it's not that is not what saves us at all. More uh a good illustration of what baptism is. It's a symbol. And so it's like it's like a wedding ring. So what does a wedding ring do? Well, a wedding ring shows that I'm married. Now if I take my wedding ring off and I set it here, which I don't take it off very often because my wife gets nervous and she afraid I'm going to lose it. Which she's right 'cause I do lose things. But anyway, um and so and so if if I take it off, am I still married? Absolutely I'm still married. married. Okay? So it's a symbol. It doesn't it doesn't mean it makes me married or it doesn't make me married, but it does show everyone pretty well that I'm married. If you if uh uh at least no in our day and age who knows what things show. But at least, you know, t you know, twenty years ago that's what it showed. And so I want to let people know that I'm married. I want to show people that I'm married. And so uh I have a ring on my ring finger on my left hand that I show people that I'm married. That's what baptism is. Baptism is it is publicly identifying with Christ. It is showing people that I want to identify with Christ in baptism. So the only so what are the prerequisites for this kind of baptism? First of all, you need to be truly, genuinely saved. It's interesting in the book of Acts, chapter 8, verses 63, or 36 rather, through 37, you've got Philip who goes to the Ethiopian eunuch. He's actually trans transported and um he witnesses to the Ethiopian eunuch and the Ethiopian eunuch mentions baptism and Philip says if you believe with all your heart you may That was the prerequisite. You needed to believe in what Christ did for you. He did, and so the Ethiopian eunuch that day was baptized. There is absolutely no saving merit in baptism. Uh so we need to we need to realize that. It's also important that that as a prerequisite that people understand what it is that they're doing when they're back. That's why we have a baptism class. There are some churches that you get you get saved, you come forward, you get saved, you get baptized, you get dunked, they all in the same time. And we don't do it that way because we want to make sure that you understand what you're doing And also make sure that you understand the gospel and and the best we under we can know have accepted the gospel So what are the purposes of ordinance baptism? I ask all our candidates this. Why do you want to be baptized? I mean that's a kind of an obvious question. What makes you want to do this? The first thing it's obvious is it's a command. It's command of the scripture to be baptized. If you're a genuine Christian, then God commands you to be baptized. Now that doesn't mean that that um if you're a child and you're growing up and you're not sure about things or whatever, you have to be baptized right away. But you should be to to To think of somebody truly, fully understanding the gospel, they are a child of God, and then not for some reason not wanting to be baptized, that is that is not consistent with the teaching of God of the New Testament. F. F. Barus said it this way: the idea of an unbaptized Christian is simply not entertained in the New Testament. So um so it is then number two to publicly, as we've already said, to publicly Acts eight sixteen for as they uh for as yet he was fallen upon none of them, only they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus Jesus. So where should this happen? What is the context of baptism? The context of baptism is given, it is to the it is in the local church. That is where baptism should take place. Actually, if you um actually I have it up on the screen so you don't have to take your Bibles, although you're welcome to. Matthew 28, we see this. In Matthew 28, verse 16, Christ is there. I preached on this not too long ago, on Easter Sunday, actually. And Christ said, I'm going to meet you. Up on a hill in Galilee, the disciples, and I think there were probably five hundred people there when uh in all when they all gathered there. That's debatable, but certainly the eleven disciples were there and they were going to be called to to be the foundation of the church that God was, that Christ was setting up. And it says in the text, verse 16, then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee to the mountain which Jesus had appointed to them. When they saw him, they worshipped him, but some doubted. Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority has given uh has been given to them. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. And so the command given, actually, it is most directly given to the disciples to baptize. There is an actual responsibility that we have And so it is a command that is given and it's given to the local church. We see it then practiced throughout the book of Acts in the context of the local church. Acts chapter 2 verse 40. And with many other words he testified and exhorted them, saying, Be saved from this perverse generation, and those who gladly receive His word were baptized. And that day about 3,000 souls were added to them. You've got something going on here, a pattern that we're going to see in the book of Acts and in the New Testament. where people are saved and then they are baptized and then they are added to the church. These things go together. Baptism and church membership We see the same thing in Acts chapter two verse uh forty-seven when in dealing with church membership, you know there's some people that say, well, what's this big deal about church membership? Where do you church Actually you see a lot. For example, in Acts chapter two, verse forty seven, praising God and having favor with all the people, and the Lord added to the church daily those who were beseduated. In Acts chapter 6, they needed to elect deacons. How did they do that? They elected deacons when they chose people from among themselves. assumes that there's there's a a numbered group that is that is collected as members in order to elect deacons to serve them in Acts chapter six. You have the sending and receiving of Members in Acts chapter eighteen, verse twenty-seven. And then in Romans chapter sixteen, it's a long passage, we won't take a lot of names, but he Paul is is acutely aware of the members, the individual members of them taking different roles and doing different things. in in Romans 16 so much so that it's actually inscriptuated for all time in that passage. Many different names. And then if you think in 1 Timothy chapter 5 of the care of the widows Talks about numbering the widows among them and identifying them as particular responsibility so that we do see, if you look at all of the evidence of the New Testament, you do Do you see not only the need for membership, but you see examples of church membership in Scripture. In fact, there is only one time in the entire book of Acts. Where you don't see baptism in the context of the local church. And actually that is with the Ethiopian eunuch. Of course, there was no church there when he was baptized. an exception to the rule, not the rule. But if you think about it, the Ethiopian eunuch went back and I would expect ended up planting a church. That's my guess. I don't know, but I doubt he just stayed alone. I doubt he did Did lead I I I imagine he went and led other people to Christ uh in Ethiopia and a church was planted there. Of course the Bible doesn't say that. Um but that is an exception. You do otherwise see that it's in the context of the local church. And there's a reason, there's another reason for that. If you look at, take your Bible and turn to Matthew chapter 16 for a moment. Matthew chapter 16. And in this passage, this is the first time the word church, the assembly, is mentioned in Acts, or in Matthew, rather, in the Bible, New Testament. And Peter has exclaimed that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the Living God, in verse 16. And in verse 17 it says, Jesus answered and said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Bar Jonah, for flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. And I also say to you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church. And the gates of the grave, the gates of the Hades shall not prevail against it. Jesus is Is referring to as resurrection. It is the resurrection of Christ that God says the church is built on. And verse 19, I will give you the keys And whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. And in Matthew chapter 18, verses 18 to 18. through twenty, you have in that passage, it says, again, whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. It's talking there about actually talking about church discipline and the need So this is all talking about church membership. So and it's all and and what we see in these passages is that the church is responsible Not to declare who's saved and who's not. They can't do that. The church can't do that. Or, but to recognize what God is doing in the life of an individual. In fact, it could be translated that way, where it's it's that shall whatever is uh whatever you bind on earth shall have been bound in heaven. So we're discerning the best we can as a church what God is doing in the lives of individuals, and we're observing and we're encouraging and we're helping and we're recognizing So we see again the pattern in Acts chapter two verse forty-one is this that they gladly received his word and were baptized and the same day were added unto them the three thousand. So the example is for membership to follow baptism. Finally, what is the mode for baptism? The mode for baptism is very clearly immersion It pictures very well the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. And it is scriptural because you actually have a Greek word, rentizzo. That Greek word means to sprinkle. That's not in the New Testament. You don't find that, at least it's not in it's not in in conjunction with baptism. It is the word baptizo, which means In fact, in the classical Greek, which was the period right before the New Testament Greek, you had this picture of a cup being fully immersed into a well. and then the water filling up the cup so that it was completely dipped in entirely. And this word is used in that context. So So we're talking so clearly, biblically in the New Testament, the mode of baptism is uh is immersion. In fact, the main line of denomination Greek churches, Greek Orthodox churches I don't know if they still do this, but at one time they when they baptized their infants, they dunked them. They dipped them in why? Because they understood what the Greek word means. means immerse. And so that is that is a un an important all these things help us to understand the biblical purpose of baptism. And I am thrilled tonight to be able to Able to baptize three uh young folks, all who have given evidence of the fact that they know Christ is their Savior. I have I've grilled you guys pretty good, huh? Alright, it's not too hard, right? You got you guys survived. I grew Kristen the hardest property. Anyway, um but um but uh and and uh s let me just kinda tell the rest of of you all what kinda goes on with the with the kids. Um I I have a parent in the room while I'm while I'm uh interviewing them. I ask them a lot of questions to make sure that they thoroughly understand the gospel. They write a testimony out. I read that Make sure that they're understanding the gospel from that. And then, um, and I ask them why they want to be baptized, all that kind of thing. And then I often will ask their parents, I'll say, do you see genuine evidence of salvation. Do you see fruit in their lives of being saved? And I've actually asked, I asked, I'll ask them, do you see in their own life, do you see evidence of being saved being saved. And um I could I'm I'm I'm always thrilled when I hear some of the things that people I mean people have, you know It's really um great because then when you when you could tell that not only they understand the gospel, but they are identifying in their own lives evidence of salvation, and then their parents are corroborating that You know the w it it seems very strong to me that the Spirit of God is really working in their life and it's wonderful to see. And I think you'll see that with all three of these candidates for baptism. And so that what what they'll first do is come up and they'll give their testimony here, and then we'll be able to baptize them, and uh we are thrilled to be able to do that. So let's pray first, and then we're gonna go in order Cameron will be first. Order of age, youngest to oldest. Cameron will be first. And then Ruby and then Kristen. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for the privilege that we have have this evening of um of being witness to this special time in these young folks' lives of of identifying with Christ and Publicly doing so. We pray not only that this would be a special time for them, but this would be a time for us as a church body to rally around them to Desire to encourage them to realize that there's a sense in which we have a responsibility to help disciple and encourage them in their lives as Christians. So we're thankful for this. And we thank you for your spirit's working in each of their lives, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right, Cameron, if you'll come on. Ephesians two, eight through nine. When my grandfather died a year ago, I realized that life is short, like a vapor. James four fourteen. I knew that becoming a Christian would bring hardships and trials, but I loved him enough to go through those. Before what Christ died on the cross so that we could fellowship with our Father above. He went from being glorified to being executed just for us. And now that I am a Christian Christ has begun shaping me into a servant of his own. What I live for is to serve Christ with my heart and with all my soul. Matthew 2237. So whenever a trial comes my way, I know that the Lord is there to strengthen me. I also want to mention that Cameron will be coming from membership as well. Well one of the things I do with the kids as well, I ask the parents, I send the parents the our doctrinal statement and con constitution. I ask the parents to make sure they go over that with the kids that they understand it. And So that they can join us well after they're baptized come out. All right, great. All right, Cameron, I now baptize you in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit, buried in the lightness of his death, his life. Cameron's also coming for church membership. Uh can I have a mo oh uh you've been saved. We've heard your testimony, you've been baptized. Are you in agreement with our doctrinal statement of our constitution? All right, can I have a motion from the floor to accept Cameron into our membership? All right, you've been moved and seconded. All in favor say aye. Aye. Like sign opposed. Motion is carried. Very welcome. Welcome, Cameron. Grab that railing there. There you go. All right, Ruby Girl. The gospel is the good news that Jesus, who is the Son of God, gave him to earth through Mary the Virgins and died for me so that I could be saved from the eternal and also Now, one I was blatantly selfish. I can picture a least one particular event where all I was thinking about was myself. Two, I only did the right thing because everyone else was and because I knew it was right, not because I wanted to please God. Three, I only asked for forgiveness to get out of the alternative rather bad outcome, not because I was actually sorry. This was my life before I was given a personal relationship with my Lord and Savior. As a church kid. Suppose it is true to say that I have been frequently interested in salvation and have been aware of my f of salvation and my name as Savior. I couldn't have told you a time when I did not know God or what he had done for me. me or nor a time when I was first told about the gospel. I can remember praying to God about that sort of subject and after being very pleased with myself and being confident that I that I was done and I was good But each time I distinctly remember doing it multiple times. While I might have understood and been happy at the moment, uh it never lasted. I was still the selfish, awful, unrepented person Which told that at the ages of five, seven, nine, ten, eleven those were good guesses, I I really did not understand either at all or not all the way. Until I went to Camp Calvary the summer of two thousand twenty two, the last week of June My pa my counselor, a young lady named Billy, and the speaker was a fast talking black man named Pastor Adrian. Wednesday, the evening service, Pastor Adrian walked around the whole auditorium looking Different passages in the Bible and asked me many questions of what it believes. In the conversation, I realized several things that I hadn't even known I had not understood. One, the reason why we did the right thing wasn't just because we wanted to please him but because we loved him. Two, Jesus if Jesus had not returned from the grave there would be no hope, he would just be gone. Three, the reason why Jesus' death was the worst awful It was because he had the whole punishment of our sin, my sin, on him at the same time. She explained them all very thoroughly and brought me to many, many passages in the Bible. John three sixteen and Romans uh two th three tw indeed three was one of them. That seems a clear thing though. I know I understood things I had not known during the other times. I felt like this time I really understood and and I understood everything I needed to. So that time I prayed again and that time was for real. I'm hoping and praying that I will be able to please God with my whole life. And we know that all things work together for good, to those who love him and to those who are called according to his purpose. As well as Romans eight Need a parent back here? Oh, you're there. Okay. I just like to see them. All right, have a seat. All right. All right, Ruby, I now baptize you in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Buried in the lightness of his death, raised to walk in newness of life. Ruby is also coming for church membership and And um she's been saved and baptized. And would you agree with our doctrinal statement in our constitution? All right, can I have our motion from the floor to accept Ruby into our membership? It's been moved and set. Second then Jimmy and Joe and others. And uh can uh all in favor say aye. Aye. Like sign opposed. Motion is carried. Welcome. Okay. Right, Kristen I've been in a Christian home all my life. My parents, grandparents, and even great grandparents are saved. I use a Christian homeschool curriculum and since my dad's a pastor, my life has been spent in the ministry. All these influences and spiritual discussions and the truth of the gospel were the foundation for my spiritual growth. However, because of all the doctrines and truths of the Bible being continuously engrossed in brained in to my head all the time. I became immune to the deep and personal reality of God. I began to sin a lot. I would cheat, lie, and steal almost daily. And I I didn't feel bad about any of it. I had steered my conscience. I was getting what I wanted all the time, and since I hardly ever got caught, it didn't affect my relationships with others. So I I was pretty content at where I was in life. One night though, I did feel guilty for all that I had done. My family and I were watching TV and all of a sudden my head felt cold I felt like I was going to throw up. I walked out of the family room and paced in the living room, trying to get myself to rid the feeling of guilt. But everything bad that I had ever done that I had ever done raced back to me. So I finally gave in to my new found consciousness conviction and blurted out a sin that I had committed to my parents. They were shocked and when they asked me what else I had done wrong in the past, I resorted to lying. But changed my mind and started telling them everything that I had done. That's when my life started to change its direction. I began to always want to tell the truth, and anything mildly bad that I had done, I confessed it Sure it was annoying in the beginning, but I'm so glad that the Lord prompted me to confess. I started to open up to personal relationship with God. I would read Bible passages that my parents told me to, and I tried to do what was Right. But when I turned twelve, I went up to my room and started asking myself, is there really if there really was a God? Or how could I know if he's really good. I told my mom about my doubts and she told me to read certain passages which helped. But unfortunately that was not the end of my doubts. For years I have been praying to God to take away my doubts. Let me live for him and save me from a The verse where the Father says, Lord, I believe help my unbelief has been a constant in my mind. But the doubts and questions raised through my head. How can I be sure if God is real? Are there any other gods up there? What if God has an agenda? What if I'm a part of the wrong religion. Maybe there is no God. Then I started to wonder if God really wanted me, since nobody I kn know goes through doubts like I do. That was my that was one of my first mistakes in thinking this. Turns out so many kids and teenagers who grow up in Christian homes have doubts in God just like I do. And because none of them want anyone to know that they are doubting, they feel so alone and miserable I would constantly go through the joys of the Lord and feeling that I was saved and God is in control. The next month, week, or even day, I would doubt in God and his reality again. Nothing in my life has been harder to experience experience than thinking I found my lord loving Savior till the next day when I think that he never really existed. But God has helped me to understand how to I've gotten a lot of help from my parents and other sources. One in particular said that one way she knows that the Bible is true is that everything in it works. God's principles and truths for knowing right and wrong makes And the world that he has created points to a loving creator. And his story and plan for salvation is unlike any other religion. And in other religions, there's almost always a factor that you have to work to be saved. and to find favor with a God. But with Jesus Christ he gave of himself to pay for my penalty, taking on my whole weight of sin, dying on the cross for me, and rising again to conquer death. And all I have to do is believe I guess that's the reason why I doubt of God so much. Jesus' work sounds almost too good to be true. I mean hope and love are taking a backseat to real reality these days. The world is messed up right now. What with wars, ugly sin and people fighting against It's somewhat difficult to believe that God can fix it all. But then I realize how small I am in comparison to his plan, and I can't fully understand why this world is such a mess and when and what life will be like when God Another conclusion that I have come to come to is how much I need God. Proverbs six fourteen says that a wicked man has perversity in his heart and that he devises evil continually, and so Discord. But in Psalm 18, 832, he says, God arms me in the strength and makes my way perfect. I'm far from perfect. I can put on a show on the outside, but I'm horrible inside. But I on the outside. But I have noticed that when I'm in fellowship with God, it helps me to please Him. Romans five eight says, But God demonstrates his own love toward us and that while we were still sick. Christ died for us. So the truth of God's character, the work and that He has already done, and His constant hand in strengthening His children to do amazing things for His glory. I can have the confidence to say that I trust in him. Yes, I will have doubts in the future, and I think a small part of me will always question the reality of God till he comes back. But by the grace of God, he will always remind me of his great love and his constant work Where his children will be with him, that leads me back to him. When I read that I thought this life of sin that she's had I think it started at like, you know, six or something. I read it I I read your testimony and I said, There's a lot going on off there. All right. Go ahead and hold your nose. Oh I didn't explain this to you to you how to do this. All right, here you go I did to everybody else, but not there. Hold your wrist there. Okay, there you go. All right, I now baptize you in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost. Buried in the lightness of his death, raised to life, walk in newness of life. Okay. You lurched a little bit, I had to push it down on Yes, she lurched a little bit, which actually happened to me. I must be a When I was baptized I lurched and my bat my pastor had to shove me back under and uh I didn't know I have to do that so I just And we had questions and stuff about about it and we answered those questions. Um are you in agreement with it? Yeah. Good. All right. Can I have a motion from the floor to accept uh Kristen into our membership? It's been moved and seconded. Uh all in favor say aye. Like sign opposed. Motion is carried. Welcome, Kristen. All right. Let's go ahead then and um we don't have a final song or anything, so let's go ahead and close in prayer. There is a there is a fellowship afterwards downstairs. You can Greet uh take they'll they need a few minutes to dry off and change and everything, but head on downstairs after we finish here and uh then you can greet them and can and uh and maybe Maybe have words of encouragement for them and there's dessert down there and that kind of thing. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for the wonderful work that we see in these kids' lives. We know that it is it is the work of your spirit through your word. And you use different different means, but ultimately it is the spirit who works through the word to bring people to place the saving knowledge of Christ. And we're thankful for that this evening. We're thankful to be able to be a witness to the testimony of these three kids and we do pray for each one of them. We pray, Lord, that you would help them to grow in the days ahead and you would help us to fulfill our responsibility and assisting in their discipleship. Be with their parents. parents as we uh endeavor to to disciple them, help them to grow, help them to know the direction that you want for them. Father, we ask, Lord, that you would just work in their lives in the days ahead. Help them in times of doubt, in times of struggle. Help them, Lord, to To be strengthened in their faith because they are planted deeply in your word. We thank you, Lord, and we pray, Lord, that as we Go to the fellowship this evening, that you bless that time as well. Pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to tell you We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.