Luke twenty-four, six through seven. He is not here, but is rhythm. Remember how he spoke to you when he was here in Galilee, saying, The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of Sis Luke twenty-four, forty-six through forty-seven, then he said to them, Thus it is written, and thus it was necessary For the Christ should suffer and rise from the dead on the third day, and that repentance and remission of sins should not be preached should be preached in his name to all nations John 11, 25, and Jesus said unto her, I, in the resurrection and the life, he who believes in me, though he may die, he will live. Romans 6, 8 through 9. Now if we died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him, knowing that Christ, having been raised from the dead, dies for war. Death no longer has dominion over him. Romans 8. 34. Who is he who condemns? It is Christ who back and furthermore is also risen, who is even at the right hand of God who also makes intercession for us. 1 Corinthians 15, 2221. But now, Christ is risen from the dead and has become the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. For since by man came death, by man also came the resurrection of the dead First Thessalonians 4, 14. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so God will bring with them those who sleep in Jesus' name. Revelation 1, 17 through 18. Do not be afraid. I am the first and the last. I am he who lives and was dead, and behold, I am alive forevermore. Let's stand together and sing Christ is risen. He is risen indeed. How can it be the ones who die and all our sin is sacrifice to conquer us? Everything of death think how they do verse two for joy a waste and dawning light when Christ disciples live their eyes. A line is standard, right in the middle. Right in his ribbon, he's ready in deep all the hollow. Join us for prison received Christ is written, is written indeed Where doubt and darts is one pass. They saw him and their hearts be mean of the those who have not seen. Yes, sing Hallelujah. Verse 4. Bound by fear, now falling faith, they preach the truth and power of race, And pouring out their lives, they gain life, life everlasting. Christ is friend, he's driven indeed all things, hallelujah on the foresting with the reading Christ is risen, he's written in. The power that brings from the dead now works in us to powerly save. He frees our hearts to live his grace. Christ in ring is raining indeed Oh sing Hallelujah Joel us for sing with glory Christ is reason, revenue in me. You may be seated. And I wrote you turn the cry of human easy. He alternatives I won't be must be all death and our day. We lose into the love before you want to see today. Our God is only on the world. Christ arose denied a thought, he died and gave us pain and gave us faith. Oh God, you need this righteous way, but five and chemistry things. It works for all you need, don't you? Although the land was rain, you never become lovely. All right, let's sing together once again an older hymn, but a very good one focusing on the resurrection. Thine be the glory, risen conquering son. In my friend, I won't. Let the blindness in the trial. Oh my Lord, I know death has not been flooded. Let it go. I did just come from the door. We sing of the resurrection, but before the resurrection came the cross, Christ died in our place, died for our sins. For the scripture says to his own self bore our sins and his bodies on the tree, that we being dead to sin should live unto righteousness. He died so that we may live And so we sing now the cross. Let's stand together. We sing the song, It's Still the Cross. Way for rise, we ever You will have a lie, you will be a very good cry. We have the one we need to have we could hide if we're not going to be able to do it. You may be seeing this. I look at my life, I in the world. I won't be bowed, dear, why will be one week, and we're not feeling. I didn't want to be the room, where you are, and my pain was right, my own wall. Amen. Let's stand together and continue singing of our Savior. Hallelujah. What a Savior. Go ahead and try and do it. And our family and and round number safety and We've done me to my life. You don't need all the heart one that we can do. Navrhý rozhodnobila, taka minha mniej braví na náschou, Maybe see it. Let's take your Bibles and turn to John twenty. John chapter twenty this morning. And the New Testament in our Bibles There are four Gospels, and each of those Gospels have a description of the resurrection. And they're coming from different perspectives. They're all true They all speak of the truth of the bodily resurrection of Christ, but each one has a different perspective. John is arguably, he's the most relational, most personal of all the disciples. He called himself the disciple whom Jesus loved. John is the one who was very close to Jesus. He is one of the three closest people to Jesus. And we find in his gospel over and over again references to a relationship with Christ. And we also find in this gospel The goal of the Book of John, the goal is that we might have life. In fact John chapter twenty at the very end of this passage says, and truly Jesus did many other signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in the book But these are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in his name. God's desire is that you would have eternal life because of what Jesus Christ did for you in dying on the cross, taking his taking our sin on himself, dying on the cross, paying the punishment for our sin, and rising from the grave And if we believe the way John describes belief, which we'll see here, if we will believe in that way, we can have not just a formal kind of sterile relationship. We can have a personal, close, intimate relationship with God. Let me ask you a question this morning. Have you ever had been in some sort of relationship with somebody, and you felt that in this relationship, you spent time with them over time, you felt that in this relationship, you really were just being used You really you really were just it wasn't as though people it wasn't as though there was like you know a a mutual goal in mind or mutual teamwork or anything or or a mutual receiving and giving. You were doing all the giving and and you just felt used. Now it's interesting that in John's gospel, in the very beginning of that of the book of John, It refers to a time where Jesus was doing a lot of miracles. And during this time, it said that people believed on him. It says in John chapter 2, verse 23. Now, when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover during the feast, many believed in his name when they saw the signs which he did, but Jesus did not commit himself to them Because he knew all men, and he knew what was in man. That passage tells us that they that he was doing all kinds of miracles. He was healing people, he was feeding people, he was doing all kinds of things And they believed in him, but Jesus, knowing people's hearts, not we can't know people's hearts, but Jesus can and did, knowing their hearts, he didn't believe their belief You ever been in a relationship with somebody and you sort of go, I don't know if I really believe you're sincere. Well, we don't know when we don't we have no idea when somebody's sincere. We can't see somebody's heart, but God can And Christ did. And he saw that their hearts were not, they believed in a way, but it wasn't the kind of belief that led to a true relationship with God. Later on in chapter 6 of John, we actually find this where it says and he answered he was he was feeding people. He was feeding you remember the feeding of the 5,000. He was doing a lot of feeding, and it says, and he answered them and said Most assuredly I say to you, you seek me not because you saw the signs, but because you ate of the loaves and were filled. They were seeking Jesus. They were going after Jesus. They were following Jesus because of what they could get out of Jesus. And there was a kind of belief A kind of following, but it was not a true belief that created a relationship with God. By the time we get to John 20, We now have a passage where Jesus has risen from the grave, and the description that we have in this passage of Jesus rising from the grave describes the effect that it had on people in them having true belief that led to a true relationship with God. That's what God wants. He wants to have a relationship with you this morning. God desires true belief. Now in this passage, We have four scenes. And each one of these scenes in this passage, it's a narrative, it's a story And you have four scenes in this passage that each one of these scenes tell us of a different effect that Jesus, who bodily rose from the grave, had on people. Four different scenes. And these scenes show us four things. First of all, that true belief turns observation to investigation. We'll see that in the passage. Turns observation to investigation. That's scene one. The second scene is that true belief turns grief to going. Sounds a little funny, but we'll see you'll see in a minute. Turns grief, well it says gladness there, that was true too, but going. Turns grief to going. Number three, true belief turns fear to mission. Next scene, turns fear to mission. And then finally, true belief turns doubt to declaration. We're not going to spend a lot of time in each one of these scenes, but in each one of these scenes I want you to see some very important things about what happens When Christ shows himself to different people, and when they truly believe on him, what takes place in those different different scenes. So the first one we're going to see, we pick up in John chapter 20, and it says, Now on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene, this is one of the people that followed Jesus, went to the tomb early while it was still dark, and saw the stone had been taken away from the tomb Then she ran and came to Simon Peter and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved. This is John himself, he's writing here, and this is that's him. And said to them, they have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him. Peter therefore went out and the other disciple and were going to the tomb. So Mary Magdalene, she comes on the scene, probably with some others as well, but they just wants to f John wants to focus in on this one person. And so Mary Magdalene comes in the scene. She sees that the stone has been rolled away. She sees that the tune tomb is empty and she goes and tells some other people. She tells Peter and John, who are other his other disciples. And they were kind of on their way and he went to they went to she went to tell them And so then we see the story that Peter, he's he's one who likes to initiate. We know that. He he's he takes initiative quit pretty quickly. So he goes, and John goes with him, but it uh John is actually um quite a bit younger than Peter. And John gets to the tomb first, probably because he's just faster. And he gets to the tomb first, and where he's there at the tomb, and he just looks in. And the passage is interesting here because we see in this passage this word saw. We see it several times in the passage For example, in verse um verse 5 it says, and he stooping down, looked in, saw the linen. You see the word saw there, saw the linen clothes. And then it's going to say in verse 6 there, it says the same, and Simon Peter came, followed him, following him, and went into the tomb and saw the linen clothes there. Um uh that's the same same thing, verse ver uh uh Simon Peter there. And then we we find so we have another and then we have look at ver verse eight, it says Then the other disciple who came to the tomb first went in also and he saw and believed. Three times you have Saw. Okay So what's going on here? Actually, these there are three different meanings to each of this word saw. You can see the same word, but there's actually three different meanings. different words in the original language. So there's three different meanings here. And I want you to notice in the text what it says here. First of all, look up look at verse four and pick and pick up here. And it says, so they both ran together, and the other disciple outran Peter and came to the tomb. Verse 5, and he, this is Peter, stooping down and Actually this is John's verse 5. He stooping down and saw the linen clothes lying there, yet he did not go in. And the word saw there is just a glance. He just glanced in. He didn't go in, he didn't examine it closely, he just kind of observed that that he was that the tomb was empty, and he stepped out. Presumably he probably told Peter, but Peter went into the tomb. That's the next verse here. Then verse 6. Then Simon Peter came following him and went into the tomb, and he saw the linen clothes lying there. That's a more detailed saw. It's more detailed and he's examining it more carefully. And then you see in verse 7, and the handkerchief that had been round its head, not lying with the linen clothes, but folded together in a place by itself. So you've got this arrangement. It's not like it's not like there was some uh a group of people came and and stole the body and the cloth the clothes were left. No, this was something that looked very deliberate. And things were folded, things were placed in a certain way. And then we see in the text it says, then the other disciple, that's John. Who came to the tomb first, went in, and notice what it says, and he saw. That's another word, another meaning. And the third saw there was the is the idea of to carefully examine to observe, to view attentively, to see with aberration, desire, and regard. So what you actually have this passage is you have, starting off, you have a mere observation, but by the time you get to the end of this part of the text, you've got John who is investigating. And he sees the evidence, and it says in the passage that when he when he examined the evidence, he realized what happened. He believed that Jesus truly rose from the grave. Now let me ask you a question this morning. Have you really considered who Jesus is and what Jesus did? I mean you you're celebrating Easter, you're here. But have you ever really examined the evidence? There's a lot of people that that they like the idea of Jesus being alive and the resurrection and the tomb and all that. But they don't really actually believe that Jesus bodily rose from the grave. But John examined the evidence. And there's a sense in which this passage is inviting you to examine the evidence. In fact, throughout the book of John and throughout the other New Testament books, you actually find in the Bible, the Bible says Acts chapter 1 verse 3. There are many infallible proofs. There are many witnesses. There is all kinds of evidence that God gives us to show us that this is not just a spiritual resurrection. This is a bodily resurrection of Christ. And this detailed investigation that Peter made here brings him to a place of belief. And the truth is there are a lot of people, they study all kinds of world religions. They they they look at Buddhism and Taoism and and they look at uh all these different world religions But when it comes to Christianity, they sort of just pass it by instead of really looking at the evidence. The scriptures actually invite you to look at the evidence to really examine it. John did, and he believed. In fact, true faith does look at the evidence, does examine the evidence. In fact, Hebrews chapter 11 verse 1 says, now faith is the substance of things hope for the evidence of things not seen. Can we see the resurrection now? No, we can't. We can look at the evidence and we can come to a place of understanding that Jesus truly did bodily rise from the grave. The disciples left the scene and Mary had returned. They left the scene, they went on their way. It actually says in another text that Peter was mar marveled by this, but there was not an indication that he believed. He probably did not believe at that point. John did, but very likely kind of kept it to himself. But Mary returns back to the tomb. She is sh this is actually kind of, I find this kind of funny, the next scene I don't know if John intended it to be funny or if it's intended to be that way, but it really is kind of a funny story. So you've got Mary. And Mary is grieving. She is distraught over what has happened. Where did they put the body? Oh no, where did they put this body? From the text it seems that she thought a gardener took the body or some caretakers took the body. It wasn't uncommon for uh grapes to be robbed during that day, apparently, from what I can tell, from what from what history shows. But for whatever reason, she is very concerned about where they where this body is, and she's very emotional. In fact, she's she's weeping in the text. That's not the funny part, by the way. She's weeping in the text. Notice what it says, and Mary stood outside by the tomb weeping, and she wept, she stooped down and looked into the tomb. Now notice verse 12. She sees two angels. In white sitting at the head of the and the other at the feet where the body of Jesus had lain. There's two angels there. It's interesting that in Luke it says that these angels are gleaming like lightning. They're these are not your normal everyday Mark actually says that they're young men, they look like young men. But but but in Luke 24, 4 it says they're gleaming and they're bright and they're like lightning. I mean this is not any normal round-of-the-mill guys that you just happen to see there. And and Mary Mary looks at them, he see she sees that they're there, and they say to her, Why are you crying? Verse 13, Women, why are you weeping? she said to them, because they have taken my Lord taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him. So she tells them. Now, here's where it gets interesting. Jesus comes on the scene himself. He appears to Mary. Verse 14 says, Now when she had said this, she turned around and saw See that word saw again. We see we see this. We keep seeing this. Saw Jesus, saw Jesus, Saw Jesus. Here it is again. And saw Jesus standing there and did not know that it was Jesus. So she sees these angels, and then she sees Jesus and didn't know it's Jesus. Verse 15 says, Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Why are you seeking? And she, supposing he's a gardener. Now, just put this all together. You think you've got these angels there that are gleaming, bright angels, and you would think there'd be some sort of supernatural indication that there's something going on beside the gardener. And Jesus comes. And she doesn't recognize them. Now there's possible a couple possible reasons for that. Mary could some people think she was in such grief that she just didn't recognize Jesus And that's possible, I guess. I mean, when you're in grief, some of you know what grief is, and when you are in true grief or you've lost someone very close to you You you're not thinking right. Your mind is not right. You're in a fog, and I suppose she was in such a deep fog with such urgency and such worry and all of that. I suppose it's possible that she just didn't recognize him or take the time to really see who it was. So that's possible. It's also possible we know from another passage in Luke that Jesus deliberately concealed his identity. And that's also a possibility here as well. We don't know for sure, but it's possible But what we actually see from the passage, I think that is really important, is that she doesn't recognize Jesus until Jesus calls her name. Notice what he does, she s it says here in verse 16. And call and he she she he just says one word, Mary. And I think there's a reason for that. I'm not sure why she didn't recognize Jesus and why why she she didn't understand who it was. But I think very likely what we do see here is that John and the Lord want to emphasize that there is a personal relationship here. And I think something else. In John's Gospel in chapter 1, you actually have this description of Jesus as the Word. In the beginning was the Word. And the word was with God, and the Word was God. You have that, talking about Jesus. And we also know that the Scriptures are the Word of God as well. So when he is, when she is confronted with the word, with Jesus, and he says, Mary, she realizes who it is. It's similar, uh it it kind of makes us think back to John chapter 10, where it says, My sheep hear my voice and I know and they know me and they follow me. And I and so so see that here in the text. Actually it says, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. And I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any snatch them out of my hand. Now what she he says marry she realizes it she said she says Raboni she's excited about the fact that she sees who this is she clings on to him she Maybe hugs him, hugs his legs. Some of my clings on to him and she and he says, Hey, stop clinging on me. I'm not going anywhere. I need to I still need to go to t tell the disciples. I'm not ascending yet And then he says some a very important phrase. He says, go. Go tell. Then he says this, go tell my brethren. Now he up to this point Jesus has never taught told them that he is he is a brother to them He said in John 15 that they're friends. He says, I no longer call you servants. The servant doesn't know what the master is doing. I call you friends. But now he is saying, go tell my brethren. There's a personal relationship that Jesus has as the living Savior that she that he's going to now establish with both Mary and all the other disciples Because he is a living, risen Savior. In fact, this is prophesied in Psalm 22, and it's fulfilled in Hebrews 10, verses 10 through 13, where it says this. For it was fitting for him, Jesus, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, and bring many sons to glory to make a captain of their salvation perfect through sufferings For both he who sanctifies and those who are being sanctifies are all of one, for which reason is all ashamed to call the brethren, saying, I will declare your name to my Brethren, in the midst of the assembly, I will sing praise to you, and again I will put my trust in him. And again, here I am, and the children of God has given me. We see this relationship is a familiar relationship. It's a close relationship. There is a oneness that we can have with Christ as the risen Lord and Savior. So Mary, you know what she does? She goes. She's grieving in the beginning. Jesus says, Jesus reveals who he is. She's glad about this. He says, go tell them. And that's exactly what she does. Verse 18. She goes. And then Jesus appears to the disciples. We find this in verses 19 through 23. Actually we know from another text in another book of the Bible and Mark and I think another place as well, we actually find that when Mary goes, sh I don't have any doubt that she told the disciples, but they didn't believe her And they didn't believe other witnesses to the resurrection of Jesus either. Jesus actually has to go himself and present himself to the disciples. And we pick up in John chapter 20, we see this in verse 19. And it says that, and what we're going to see here, I'll just tell you up front, that what we're going to see here is that true belief turns fear to mission. Turns fear to mission. See, you see, the disciples are afraid. They're scared. They're afraid because their master, their leader is gone, and they're concerned that other people are going to go after them now. And so they're kind of huddled in a room, afraid of what's going to happen. And Jesus appears to them and says verse 19, then the same day at evening, being the first day of the week, when the when the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst and said to them, Peace be with you. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples were glad when they, there's the word again, saw the Lord. Jesus said to them again, peace to you. As the Father has sent me, I also send you. And when he had said this, his But he breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit. If your f if you if you forgive the sins of any So Jesus comes, he says, peace to them. That would have been a common phrase. But he says it twice in this in this passage because he really is wanting them to see that they can truly have peace. Before he died in John 14, 27, it says, peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. Jesus comes into them and he says, Peace be with you. You do not have to be afraid anymore. I am here And then what he says next is, as the Father has sent me, so I send So in this belief, they they see the Lord, they believe obviously he's there, they see that he's risen from the grave. He now gives them a commission. And we see the sending in this passage that he says, just as the Father sent me to this earth, he says. disciples, you you need to go and you need to, I'm sending you. And frankly, Christian, there is a there is a call for us. to carry on. We have a mission as well. It's interesting that John in his epistle later on, in a different book of the Bible, John chapter four, verse four, first John chapter four, verse fourteen says And we have seen and de- and testified that the Father has sent the Son as the Savior of the world. They testified that Jesus is who he said he was. He is the Savior of the world. And that is how the truth of Christ, the risen Christ, and belief spread to other people. But he didn't but But people, Christians, followers, don't have to do this on their own. In fact, they don't have the power to do it. We don't have the power to help other people understand this. We need the Holy Spirit. And we see in the passage that it says, and he breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit. This is a command to receive the Holy Spirit. I think that the fulfillment of this command is not until Acts chapter 2, where they actually receive the Spirit there. But they he understands at the very outset that they are going to be empowered by the Spirit of God. And in Acts 1, verse 8 it says, And you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you. And you shall be witnesses to me in Jerusalem and all Judea and Samaria and to the other end of the earth And I want you then to notice the message. The message is about forgiveness. That's the message. And the text The way the text reads, it could read, and you read it, you could look at it and say, well, they're being given the power to forgive, but that's not the case. In fact, we know that's not the case because Jesus died so that people could be forgiven. So that can't be the case. The disciples can't actually forgive themselves. What it's actually referring to is the fact that Jesus uh had the power to forgive sins. He indeed had that. And they would be able to recognize when someone would come to Christ, they would recognize the forgiveness that people would receive and experience. This idea of forgiveness is a very important term. The word forgiveness means to leave. In fact There's a the word is used in Matthew chapter 4 verse 20 where it says immediately they left their nets and followed him. They left what they were doing and they followed him. This word forgiveness means It's gone. It's left. You've left it. And there's a text in Mark that actually says that Jesus said to somebody, he said to a person who was paralyzed, your sins are forgiven. Jesus said this. And some religious leaders got really upset. And they said, and they're right about this, they said, who can forgive sins but God alone? And you know why Jesus said he could forgive sins? Because he is God. He truly did have the power to forgive sins. And so it says, but that you may know that the Son of Man has power on earth to forgive sin. When Jesus went to the cross, he took our sin on himself so that he could then give us his righteousness. so that we could truly be forgiven of our sins. They could our sin could leave us because of what Christ did on the cross for us. He took our sin on himself so that we could be forgiven. That's the message of these disciples. That's the message that if we know Christ our Savior, that's what we receive. And that's the message that we need, that other people need to hear as well, that they can be truly forgiven of their sin. See, the problem is that our sin separates us from God. That's why we need to be forgiven of our sin, because our sin separates us from a holy God. And we cannot be in right standing with God because God is holy and he is just. But when Jesus Christ died on the cross for us, He satisfied God's justice. The Bible says, for the wages of sin is death. And so Jesus died in our place, fulfilling that just punishment, so that we could have our sins forgiven, and so that we could be in right relationship with God, right standing with God. The key is that we must believe. That's the key. That's what John's trying to get across. We've got to believe this. Now you say to yourself, you know, I I'm seeing I'm seeing Mary and she has this close relationship with the Lord. And I'm seeing the disciples and they they they are thrilled and glad that Jesus is alive and they see him, but I have doubts. Well, you're in good company because the next scene, we've got somebody who has doubts. Apparently, this man Thomas, this disciple of Christ, he wasn't with the other disciples when Jesus appeared to them. And so the disciples tell Thomas, and you know what Thomas does? He goes, Ah, no, no. If I I don't believe this. Unless I put my hand in his side, unless I am confronted with Jesus myself, I will not believe. Now you may maybe even heard the phrase doubting Thomas. You may have heard that phrase before. I actually think Thomas gets a pretty bad rap and maybe he shouldn't. Because the the truth of the matter is all these other disciples, they didn't believe till Jesus Jesus came either. And so they're really no better than Thomas. And and Thomas is Doing the same thing that the other disciples did actually. He didn't see Jesus yet. And so he he has to be shown the word. He has to be shown Christ himself. And it says eight days later, he exactly, he actually, he was. He came, Jesus appears, and it says in the passage, and Jesus came and the doors being shut and stood in the midst and said, Peace to you. Then he said to Thomas, Reach your finger here and look at my hands, and reach your hand here, and put it into my side. Do not be unbelieving but believing. Do you know what Jesus did? Jesus didn't hide himself. Jesus didn't make it hard for Thomas to figure out what in the world is going on here. Jesus appears to Thomas and says, look, Thomas, put your hand in my side. And I think this shows us a little bit about who Jesus is. And who God is. God is not hiding himself from us. God is not like making it mysterious for us to try to figure out uh who he is. No, he sent his own son to earth to to seek and to save those who are lost. He is presenting himself to us. He wants us to come to him. He's showing us who he is We see that here. I think of even scripture where it says in Romans chapter 1 verse 20. It says that since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes are clearly seen. Being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. You look at creation and you know there's a creator. He's not trying to hide himself. And he sent Christ so that the world could be saved. And he sent people out to give the gospel. All of us who know that accept the gospel are to be sent out so that we are on mission for God. God desires for people to come to him. So what happens? Notice what Thomas does. He says, my Lord. And my God. We see true belief turns doubt to declaration. My Lord and my God. He Lord has to do with authority and God has to do with ability. He says, you are my authority and you are God. My Lord and my God. That is the declaration of Peter, of Judas here. Not Judas, of uh Thomas here. Judas did not do that. That is Thomas's declaration. And that that is true belief. That is the declaration that we ought to make as well. that he is our Lord and our God. Notice what the text then says. Jesus says Happy are those, blessed are those who believe without seeing I think Jesus anticipated the fact that he was not going to be able to appear to everyone for all of history. And of course, Jesus didn't do that. In fact, he commissioned his disciples to go out to spread the gospel, and those who accepted Christ were to continue to spread the gospel, and those who accepted Christ were to continue to spread the gospel until he came to those of us who know Christ. as Savior to continue to spread the gospel. That's God's method for people being saved. But this word blessed is an interesting word. It means happy. And in 1 Peter 1, verses 8 through 9, it says this, whom having not seen you love. Though now you do not see him, yet believing you rejoice with joy, inexpressible, and full of glory rejoicing, receiving the end of your faith, the salvation of your souls. Have you ever met somebody who has truly believed the gospel? Perhaps they've lived in sin. They've understood that they're separated from God. They've understood that they're destined for hell. But they they without seeing, they believe, and as a result of their belief, there is this inexpressible joy and rejoicing. It's something I love to see, I've got to be honest with you. I love to see somebody who passes from death to life, who goes from unbelief to belief. who then realizes what they have. They have this relationship with God. And there is inexpressible joy. And that is what God desires for all of us. He desires this for you and for me. Now in the text, We have then this our verse that we started off with in verse 31, that the book of John is written. So that you might believe and that you might have life through his name. That God's method for you to know him is through his word. The word who is Jesus, he came to earth to display himself, to show himself. He died on the cross, rose from the grave, showed himself there. But he shows himself now through the Bible. This is how he shows himself. And what I would invite you to do this morning is to examine the evidence. The Bible says in Romans chapter 10, verse 7. So then faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. I deliberately skipped a verse in this passage. In verse 9, John says this, for as yet they did not know the scripture that he must rise again from the dead. See, from this point on, when they began to began to put everything together, and they knew what scripture says about the rising from the dead, they understood all of this, they began to show what the scriptures say. And the Bible tells us actually that faith comes by the hearing of the Word of God. It is the word of God that shows us. In every one of these situations, every one of these scenes, you've got Mary, who uh you've got John, he sees the evidence And he is able to come to belief because of that. But he had a very close relationship with Jesus prior. And then you've got Mary, who doesn't even recognize Jesus until he reveals himself to self to her and there's this personal relationship. And then you've got the disciples that he reveals himself to them And you have Thomas, and he reveals himself to Thomas. How does he reveal himself to people today? It is through the Bible. So I have three questions to ask at this point. Number one. Have you examined the evidence? Are you here this morning and you have doubts about this? You don't really not sure about who Jesus is, have you examined the evidence of Jesus? You know what I encourage you to do? I encourage you to take this book, John. that we've been in today and read through this book. That's what it's there for. It's there to show you what true saving faith, what belief looks like. Have you examined the evidence of who Jesus is? Number two, if you have and you know Christ is your Savior, Christian, are you on mission? Do you see what Christ did here? He said to his disciples, the Father sent me, and now I'm sending you. And there is an implication here that we also are sent. If you're a Christian this morning, then you are you and I, we need to be on mission for the cause of Christ. It shouldn't just be so often we're we're comfortable. One of the most dangerous enemies of being on mission is just being comfortable or being preoccupied. God desires that we be on mission for the gospel of Christ. Number three, have you experienced the risen Christ in true belief? Maybe you're here today and you're not really sure. You would not say today that I disbelieve the gospel, that I'm not really you would not say, well, I'm against what the Bible says. But you've actually never come to a place either where you've truly experienced a personal relationship with God. And if you say, yeah, that's kind of where I'm at, I'm maybe I'm kind of like Thomas or I'm doubting, or like some of these other people, that they really Christ hadn't revealed himself yet. Let me encourage you. I would love to take a Bible. Come to me and talk with me after service or talk to somebody else that you're comfortable with that you know has a personal relationship with God. We'd love to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you are a child of God, that you have a right relationship with God, that you've experienced saving faith. You could be saved today and really celebrate the resurrection of Christ. Don't leave this building without knowing. The Bible says These things are written that you might know that you have eternal life. Don't leave today without knowing for sure where you stand with God. Come and talk with me afterwards or somebody else that you're comfortable with. And we will be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you have a true personal relationship with God. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you. We praise you for who you are, and we praise you for what you have done. And we praise you, Lord, that our faith is not a dead faith, it's a living faith. It's not a faith that's just based upon theory. It's based upon the reality of the resurrection of Christ. We thank you for what Christ has done in coming to live a perfect life, in dying in our place on the cross, and then rising again from the grave. So that we can have a personal relationship with you. Lord, it is my prayer that if there is anybody here this morning that doesn't know Where they would spend eternity, whether or not they truly have eternal life. They don't know where they stand with God. They're just not sure about these things. I pray that you would work in their heart. Lord, help them to know for sure. Help them to be willing to have the courage to come and talk with one of us after the service and and help them to know for sure where they will spend eternity. and to have a relationship with you. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.