And so we'll look tonight at uh not an not an unfamiliar passage of scripture in Nehemiah chapter 8. I think most of us hopefully are familiar with this passage. But one that I think have has truths that we need to very frequently be reminded of. I've preached from this passage on many occasions. And yet, last time I preached on this passage was in 2019. And yet I don't think it's one that I'm, you know, in in in in preaching on it again a couple of years later, I'm doing it too often. Frankly, because it is a very important passage. So let's do this. Let's go ahead and just read a read through the passage first, and then we will look at it together. Nehemiah chapter 8, and we're going to look at verses 1 through 18 tonight. Now all the people gathered together as one man in the open square that was in front of the water gate. And they told Ezra the scribe to bring the book of the law of Moses, which the Lord had commanded Israel. So Ezra the priest brought the law before the assembly of men and women. and all who could hear with understanding on the first day of the seventh month. Then he read from it in the in the open square, and was in front of the water gate from morning until midday. Before the men the men and women and those who could understand, and the ears of the butt people were attentive to the book of the law. Notice that they were attentive to the book of the law. So Ezra, the scribe, stood on a platform of wood, which they had made for the purpose Beside him at his right hand stood Matathaiah and Shemah and Anaiah and Uriah and Hilkiah and Messiah and On his left hand Badaiah and Meshal and Malkaiah, Malchiah, and Hashem, and Hashbadadah Hashbadana, Zachariah, and Meshilem. And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people, for he was standing above all the people, and when he opened it, all the people stood up. And Ezra blessed the Lord to the great God. Then all the people answered, Amen, Amen while lifting up their hands and they bowed their heads and worshiped the Lord with their faces to the ground. Also Jeshua and Bonnie and Sh uh Sheresh, Biah and Jemon, and Achob and Shabbataih and uh uh uh Hodijah and Messiah and Khalida and Azariah and Jezebed and Hana Hannon And Teliah and the the Levites, I just want to say that some sometimes I think the Lord has a sense of humor in putting so many of these names in the Bible. Uh my family's going through the reading through the whole Bible uh the in the this year and we're in Chronicles right now and literally whole chapters are just names and I'm reading through all of these names and I think I think maybe the Lord has a sense of humor and I don't know. Anyway. So the Levites helped the people to understand the law, and the people stood in their place. So they read distinctly from the law from the book in the law of God, and they gave the sense and helped them to understand the reading. And Nehemiah, who was the governor, Ezra the priest and scribe, and the Levites who taught the people, said to all the people, This day is holy to the Lord your God. Do not mourn nor weep, for all the people wept and they when they heard the words of the law. Then he said to them, Go your way, eat eat and eat the fat, drink the sweet, and send portions to those for whom nothing is prepared. For this day is holy to our Lord. Do not sorrow, for the joy of the Lord is your strength. So the Levites quieted all the people, saying, Be still, for the day is holy, do not be grieved. And all the people went their way to eat and drink and to send portions and rejoiced greatly, because they understood the words that were declared to them. Now on the second day, the heads of the fathers, houses of the people, with priests and Levites, who gathered to Ezra the scribe in order to understand the words of the law And they found written in the law which the Lord had commanded by Moses that the children of Israel should dwell in booze during the feast of the seventh month And that they should announce and proclaim in all their cities and in Jerusalem, saying, Go out to the mountain and bring olive branches and branches of oil trees. Myrtle branches and palm branches and branches of the leafy green trees, and make booths as is as it is written. And the people went out and brought them and made themselves booths, each one the roof of his house And in and in their courtyards, or the courts of the house of God, in the open square at the water gate, and in the open square of the gate of Ephraim So the whole assembly, uh the whole assembly of those who had returned from the captivity made booths and sat uh under the booths, and s and since the days of Joshua the son of none under the day of the children of Israel had not done so, and there was very great gladness. Also day by day from the first day into the last day he read from the book of the law of God, and they kept the feast set seven days, and on the eighth day there was a set a sacred assembly according to the prescribed manner. Now the reason I want to look at this passage of scripture is we have here in this text A lot going on, but the main thing that we see here is that the that the nation of Israel is approaching it's approaching the Word of God, the law of God, in the way that God intended. They are viewing it and appreciating it and focusing on it, and their approach to it is exactly the way that God intended it to be. I've entitled this message Being in the Way of Truth because I want to ask us this question: are you and I really in the way of truth? Are we really in the way of truth? I want to illustrate this way. How many of you have been, well, most of us have probably haven't been in airports recently Josh has been an airport, Joe, actually there's been a few, okay. Well on most airport most larger airports, BWI included and others as well, you have those you have those, I mean they look like conveyor belts that you walk on basically, you know what I'm talking about to get one. from one end of the place to get to the other faster. I'd like to suggest that we can that illustrates the world, the flesh, and the devil really well. I mean it's just going, and it's going in that direction. Ephesians chapter 2 says the world, toward the course of this world, like it's going a direction. And all of us are on this belt. And we're all going a particular direction. The world, the flesh, and the devil. And when we come to Christ We are to turn the other direction and go and go the other way. That's what repentance is, to turn. Now here's what a lot of people are tempted to do. A lot of people are tempted in their faith and in their walk with the Lord to just stand still If you stand still on a most people, you're born in sin and you're walking that direction, you're going that way, and if you're walking the same way that conveyor belt is going, what's going to happen? You're going to go faster down that conveyor belt. If you walk against the conveyor belt and you walk fast enough, what's going to happen? You're going to be able to beat the conveyor belt and go the other direction. But if you stand still, if you just passively stand still, what's going to happen? You're still going to be going the wrong way. And let me just suggest to you that the Christian life, you can't stand still. Now, that doesn't mean you can't stand in the Word, like 1 Peter says. But when it comes to our walk in Christ, God calls it a walk. Paul calls it a race. The Christian life is something that is active, that we've got to be engaged in, that we've got to be focused on, that we've got to approach the right way. And it's not something that we can just sort of coast. Because if we coast, what's going to happen? We're going to go toward the course of this world, even if we're going backwards. We're still going toward the course of the world. We're going the wrong direction. And what we find in this passage Is that they are they are the nation of Israel has done this many, many times before. They just they go into idolatry, they sort of I mean the nation of Israel is proof that you can't just stand still and have a right relation with God uh and and and not be engaged with him. You if you're not engaged with him, you're gonna have an idol on the in the back door that you're gonna start worshiping. I mean that's the other side of it. When you're going the wrong way or you're just trying to stand still, you're gonna be focused toward an idol. Jonathan Edwards said this in his book, Religious Affections. He says, it is a hard thing to be a hearty, zealous friend of what has been good and glorious. Can you put the f put the quote up there? I think I have it up there. It is a hard thing to be a hearty, zealous friend of what has been good and glorious And to rejoice much in it. He says it's hard to do that. It's hard to be a zealous friend of what is good and what is glorious. Why? Because the conveyor belt's going the wrong way. So it's hard to go upstream and to be a hearty, zealous friend of what's good and glorious. And rejoice much in it. But yet, I humbly but am fully persuaded, we shall never be in the way of truth nor go in a way acceptable to God, and tending to the advancement of Christ's kingdom till we do so In other words, what he is saying is you must be a hearty, zealous friend of what is good and glorious, or you aren't pleasing God. There's no, okay, I'll do the church thing on the side, or I'll be religious, quote unquote, on the side. Or I'll be a Christian on the side. No, we must be a hearty, zealous friend of what is good and what is glorious. David said this in Psalm 84: My soul longs hard after thee. Yea, it even fainteth for the courts of the Lord. My heart and my flesh crieth out for the living God. Is that can you say that about yourself toward God? That your heart and your flesh and your soul cry out for the living God. If you can't say that, if you are not a hearty, zealous friend of what is good and glorious, then you are not, and I am not pleasing God. We're going the wrong way. The idea of a passive Christian, of a comfortable Christian, of somebody who's just hanging back and like, you know, I'll just sort of coast through life and be a Christian. Is not what God intended. He says, uh Jonathan Edwards says in other place, that religion Which God requires and will accept does not consist in weak, dull, and lifeless wishes. Raising us but a little above a state of indifference. Did you catch that I'm going to read it again. That religion which God requires and will accept does not consist in dull, weak, dull, and lifeless wishes, raising us but a little above a state of indifference. Is that where most Christians lie? They're like not indifferent, they care a little. Like if you ask them, do you care about the things of the Lord? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, sure, sure, yeah. I care. They're a little above the state of indifference. Jonathan Edwards not very perceptive in what he's saying here. God in his word greatly insists upon it that we be good in earnest fervent in spirit and our hearts vigorously engaged in what he calls religion. He's talking about the Christian faith as it really stands. It is such a fervent, vigorous engagedness of the heart and religion. That is the fruit of a real circumcision of the heart, a true regeneration, and that has the promises of life. Jonathan Edwards understood in his time period, just as you and I need to understand today. That a true Christian has this kind of intentionality about his life And what you see in Nehemiah chapter 8 is an example of an entire congregation who has this kind of an intentionality. about God's word. And that is where the whole thing starts. In Nehemiah chapter 1, you recall that Nehemiah has a burden. Do you remember that? He wants to rebuild the wall. It has not been rebuilt as time has allowed. He wants to rebuild the wall. And you'll recall in chapter 2, Nehemiah is commissioned, and he goes out and he makes an assessment of what's going on He gets to work in chapter 3, his work is attacked in chapter 4 and 5, and the work is accomplished in chapter 6. And all the people are registered in chapter 7. God has done a great work. He's done great things. for them. But they didn't see this as a finished thing. Okay, he's done great things for me. Now we can coast. No, he's done great things for the nation of Israel in rebuilding the wall and they'd fulfilled the goals that God accomplished. Now it's time To really approach the Word of God in a way that's very serious. And so we are going to see here that we must approach the Word of God in six different ways. And the first one is up there on the screen. The first one is in verses one through three. We must approach the Word of God worshipfully We must approach the Word of God worshipfully. They're gathering themselves together, it says, together as one man. There is such unity right now. in the nation of Israel. They're to gather together and they are as one person. That's how unified they are in their own mind before the Lord. They got together, they spake unto Ezra the scribe, and they asked the congregation is asking Ezra to open the law of God and to read it to them. It's not the pastor begging everybody to please come to church. It's the it's the people say begging Ezra to come to to come and read the law. That would be wonderful. And it wasn't, could you keep it to 30 minutes? You're going to find actually in this passage that they were there for six hours straight, and they loved every minute of it. Here, open the book of the law, verse 2, and Ezra the priest brought the law before the congregation, both of men and women, and all that could hear with understanding about the first day of the seventh month And he read therein, and and they could understand, and their ears were open, and they were attentive to the law, and they're worshipping the law, they're bowing down, there's all kinds of things going. They are approaching the Word of God in an extremely worshipful way. They are unified around the Word of God. And they are listening carefully to the Word of God. They have the heart of David when he says, Open thou mine eyes, that I may see wondrous things out of thy law. They are listening to the law of Moses. Now listen, all he's doing here is reading from the law Now he's going to later on explain the sense of the text. But in the beginning, all Ezra is doing is reading from the law, reading the law. Let me ask you a question. When's the last time you just read through the law? Just read through Leviticus or Exodus. My family has been doing that. And if I'm really honest, some of it is a little dry. Some of it is a little bit uh it's a little bit hard to read. Chronicles with all the names is particularly hard to read. I've actually found I like Leviticus better than Chronicles. Least I mean it's not just a bunch of names. Now, it's not that it's there. They're all there for a reason. I don't want to diminish anything in God's word. But these people were so engaged and so hungry for the Word of God that they were really fine with Ezra just simply reading it to them. And they were willing to just simply listen. What keeps us from doing that? I mean honestly, practically, well I I just don't have the time. I you know I've got to work for a living. Okay, well yeah that's true. But what keeps us from really being engaged? And do you know that the same things that God said would keep us from being engaged 2,000 years ago, actually Christ said them, are the same things that we have a problem with now. I'll give you three, all three of them. And they're found in Matthew chapter 13. They're not made up at all. They're right in the text. You remember the story of the sea the seed that's sown? And some falls upon different kinds of ground. And it says in verse 21, it says, yet hath he not root in itself, but endureth for a while For when tribulation or persecution arises because of the word, by and by he is offended. Actually, tribulation and persecution For some people, it will pluck the word out of them. It will, it will, tribulation, hard times can either make you or break you. Hard times will either cause you to delve deeply into the Word or will actually cause you to stray away from the Word. Tribulation, verse 21. Another one is just the cares of the world, verse 22 of that passage in Matthew 13. The cares of the world. Verse 22, he also that receives seed among the thorns is he that heareth the word, and the care of this world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word. And then the second third thing is the deceitfulness of riches The cares of this world are just worries and things we're concerned about and anxiety and things that we're just occupied with and pre-occupied with. And the third one is the deceitfulness of riches. The see riches have to we have to be really careful with that. It's easy to get caught up in making money. It's easy to get caught up in um in in just just trying to make an extra buck. So recently um Most of you probably I'm sure you know this if you're on Facebook. Uh we we have this little side hustle thing that we're doing with our family where we're s selling mattresses. And uh and it's kind of funny. I mean we've we've been able to do you know, some weeks are good, some weeks are bad, but uh you know, we've been able to make some money out of it. If we're not careful, it can become preoccupying. Even if something as simple as that, of selling mattresses, which sounds really boring, But when you get somebody that wants a mattress and they and you want to sell it to them, it can become like, oh man, they want a mattress. It's kind of fun And, you know, we can we're trying to figure out what we can do to get the mattress sold, and my wife and I we're gonna, our whole family's kind of talking about it, and it's kind of fun. But folks, it can become preoccupying if we're not careful. Nothing wrong with it in the right frame and if we've been good stewards of it, but it's something that can that that it can become where we're just always preoccupied with it. Anything can be like that. The deceitfulness of riches is something to be very careful about The tribulation, the cares of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, God says they distract us from allowing the Word of God to really take root in our hearts. Isn't it interesting that God says that 2,000 years ago and we got the same problems today? Exact same problems. It's no different. They didn't have cell phones back then, but somehow they had distractions. Somehow they had the cares of the world. They didn't have all the pro all the all the tribulations that we do today. They don't deal with traffic, but they guess they dealt with something back then. They dealt with all kinds of tribulations, probably much harder than ours, actually And certainly the deceitfulness of riches. All those things distract us. Are we approaching the Word of God worshipfully? Number 2, verses 4 through 6. We must approach the Word of God submissively. We must approach the Word of God submissively. In verse 4, you see them, they are elevating the Word. Ezra, you have this picture of him standing on top of a large wooden platform above the people. Not that Ezra is above the people, but the word is above the people. And they're submissive to the word. And he was high enough so that when the word was read, they were able to stand. In reverence to the word, and in submission to the word. Verse 5 of that passage says, and Ezra Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people. For he was above the peop all the people, and when he opened, all the people stood up, and Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God, and all people answered, Amen, Amen, and lifted up their hands, and they bowed their heads and worshiped the Lord with their faces to the ground. This was not, okay, let me sit back and hit listen to a nice little sermonette. Let me just kick back and you know maybe I'll close my eyes a little bit and just sort of listen to the sermon. Um, that's not their attitude. They're engaged. They're responsive They're putting their hands up in certain places and they're bowing to the ground in certain places and their whole being is in this. Their whole everything is in this for them And they're submissive to it. They're bowing their face to the ground. And they're worshiping the Lord, all in conjunction with the Word of God. It is the Word of God that we must approach in the right way if we're going to worship the Lord in the right way. And then we find in verses 7 through 8, how do we do that? How do we worship the Lord the right way? Well, we must approach the Word of God understandingly. Understandingly. This is amazing in this passage. Do you know how often in this passage in Nehemiah the word understanding is mentioned? Did you ever notice that if you read through this passage? The word understanding is mentioned in verse 2, it's mentioned in verse 3, in verse 7, in verse 8, in verse 12, and in verse 13. You've got six different times in this passage that the word understanding is mentioned. Do you think that God wants us to understand his word? Not passively listen. Not go, okay, yeah, I got a pick I picked up a couple things there. Yeah, okay. I got my I got my nugget for the day. I mean some of the things I see on Facebook, I'm sort of like It's not a nugget. I mean, you know, it's not like a little, oh, I got my energy for the day. It's not a power drink. Okay? It's the word of God. Then you find the same thing in Matthew 13. Matthew 13, 13, 15, 19, 23, all those verses in that same passage where it's talking about the seed on the soil. You have this word understanding in those passages as well. God really wants us to understand His Word. But notice this, folks. That they were approaching the Word of God the way they were, and then they understood. They were reverencing the Word of God, submitting to the Word of God, standing For the w and attention to the Word of God and respect for the Word of God, bowing down to the Word of God. They were doing all of these things, and then they understood They had the right, can I say it this way, they had the right attitude when it came to the Word of God. People say, Well, I don't understand the Word of God, that's why I don't have a good attitude about it. You got the wrong attitude. Have the right attitude first, and then you'll understand the Word of God. It takes work, it takes attention, it takes submission Fourthly, as we're moving along here, it requires uh it also it results actually in joy. See when you've done all of this Now you're ready to really enjoy the Word of God. Chapter 8, verse 9 through 12, we see in this passage They they apparently heard the law and realized they were not following the law to the extent that they should. We're going to find an example of that later. So much so that very likely they were under conviction and they were mourning. And frankly, that's good. Sometimes if we're if we're coming the Word of God every single all the time and we're never convicted by it, something's wrong But then there's a time where we need to we we are convicted. We want to we need to change we need to change have a change of heart, a change of mind. And then we can have joy. There's this joy. When you mourn over your sin, when you are convicted, on the other side of that conviction, when it comes to the Word of God, there's this joy on the other side. And in giving direction, we have this direction given here where he says, okay Um it says uh verse nine and Nehemiah which is uh Nehemiah which is in Tershitha and Ezra uh Ezra the priests of the scribe and the Levites that taught the people Said unto all the people, they give this direction, this day is holding the Lord, mourn not nor weep. It says, okay, put your mourning aside now, and now you get to joy in the Word of God. Celebrate the Word of God For this day is holy unto our Lord Neither be sorry be ye sorry for the why? For the joy of the Lord is your strength. You feel weak from Christian? You struggle with weakness and depression and pro and hard and despondency, those kinds of things Well, we've got to approach the Word of God the right way. You must approach the Word of God joyfully. The joy of the Lord is your strength. Number five, we need to approach the Word of God obediently. Obediently. Now the situation, we've already read through it, but I'm going to give you the situation. Here's what's going on. So they're reading the law through the law and they realize that one of the things are in the law that they're not doing is this Feast of Tabernacles, or sometimes called the Feast of Booths. Now the Feast of Tabernacles, the Feast of Booths, the purpose of it was to remind them of when they were sojourners, they weren't in the land yet, and God was leading them. And they would and God wanted to remind them of the time where they were They were they were sojourning and they were not they were not in a stable area. They're not settled. God reminded them wanted to rind remind them of his prop provision and his leading and all of that. And he had a very elaborate way of doing that. He actually m required them to build booths, to build tents. And they were all, all these families were supposed to build their individual tents for this Feast of Tabernacles and dwell in those tents for like eight days. Just to take time to remember what it used to be like, to remember the faithfulness of God and the leading of God and the provision of God. And God commanded them to do this. But somehow, somewhere along the line, well, actually says, since the time of Joshua, they stopped doing that. They just didn't do it anymore. Now it's possible it's possible that they on some level did the Feast of the Tabernacles, but they didn't do all build all the booths and do everything they were supposed to do. Now, why didn't they do that? We don't know exactly why they didn't do it, but my guess is, if I'm guessing, my guess is it was inconvenient. And it didn't practically make a lot of sense. I mean they already have houses, they've already got dwelling places, why would you need to go and build another booth outside? Like why would you want to d why would you do that? And you know, sometimes that's how we approach the Word of God. We just don't understand why we have to do that that way. Because God said do it that way. That's why we do it that way. Simply because God said it We are living in a day where people are sometimes doing theological gymnastics to get around what God clearly says to do There's a meeting last week where a guy was trying to tell me, or a pastor was trying to tell me from In 1 Peter chapter 2, where it clearly says women are not to teach and usurp authority over men in the church. It's really clear. Like it's plain, the plain meaning it's right there And trying to tell me why that's actually not what it says. And I'm looking at him. Wait look it says it it's it's clear as day. Well it It it it doesn't really mean that because of these other reasons that are could possibly uh factor and I'm looking at it and I'm going, it's it's really clear He was taking some extant example and trying to impose it on a clear text. Terrible hermetics. And I told him, I I I was really hopefully not overly blind. I hope I wasn't rude, but I just said, look, it sure seems to me that we're just trying to get around the plain meaning of the text here. The Bible says do it, we gotta do it. And friend, there are going to be times in our lives, throughout our lives, where we're going to look at God's word and we're going to say, this doesn't make sense to me. I don't know why God's telling me to do this. But if it's clear to do it, you gotta do it. We just have to obey. Sometimes I don't have to understand. Sometimes I just need to obey what God says. Now, frankly, God is very clear in that particular passage why he's saying to do what he's doing, saying to do It's really, really actually very clear. It's entirely based on the creative order of Scripture. And why God how God had set it up that way. And I'll tell you the truth, when you don't follow that in 1 Timothy chapter 2, when you don't follow that, what you have is a discipleship problem. And I'll explain and I explained this. I was there. Here's the thing here's how it goes. Usually what you have, and God says this is going to happen, women will step up and men will step back. And men will be passive, and women will be the leading, and the men will step back and let the women lead. And before you know it, men are off AWOL. It happens all the time. And so men aren't leading their homes, they're not leading their families. The women are having to do everything. This is not good. It's not fair. It's frankly not fair to place the responsibility on the woman that God says is for the man to have. It's not right for the woman. It's not treating her right. She is she is an honored vessel. Alright, I'll get off my soap. That was actually not my notes at all. Anyway. But we need to appro the my point is we must approach the Word of God obediently, even when we don't like it. And finally, number six, we must approach the Word of God repeatedly. They didn't stop just even after they did all of this. What's clear in the passage Is they didn't do this just for eight days. They just kept doing it. It was a perpetual thing. It was essentially in perpetuity Also, day by day, verse 18, day by day from the first day to the last day, there's this constant repeated kind of a thing going on And so they kept the peace seven days, and on the eighth day there was a second assembly according to the prescribed manner. So they did it the whole time, but there's this indication that they kept doing this. They kept on Look, the bottom line is we have to approach the word of God. All of these other things we're doing, we have to keep at it. We've got to keep repeatedly doing this with the Word of God. We never can coast. We never can just, okay, I'm going to float along. We never can do that. Because why, folks? Because we have the course of this world that's always taking us this direction It's always going this way. And frankly, if we're if we're going along the course of the world, no wonder sometimes the Word of God, we're we're in the course of the world, the Word of God says don't do this or do this and and It doesn't make sense to us. And what God says is we have to obey. And we have to do all of this repeatedly. Day by day, consistently. And you know what happens when we do that? We get experience, you know what they're experiencing here? They're experiencing spiritual revival. When you're submissive to the Word of God, now just think through this, when you are attentive, when you approach the Word of God attentively Engaged actively, not passively, worshipfully. When you say this is how I am going to approach God's Word, And we do it with understanding, and we do it with worship, and we have joy as a result of it, and then we're strengthened as a result of it. And then we're able to obey because we're strengthened by the joy that we have, because we're understanding the Word of God and we're approaching it the right way. It's sort of the cycle that comes part, that that becomes our life And that's exactly what God intends. We're attentive, we understand, we worship We joy, we're strengthened, we obey, and now we're going to know God's word more, we're going to be a ten of it more, we're going to understand more, we're going to worship more, we're going to have more joy, we're going to have Strengths. So the question really the final question is as as as Jonathan Edwards says, right now When we're thinking about all this, right now would you say with Jonathan Edwards, yes, I'm in the way of truth or not? The question is, are you and am I in the way of truth? And this is the kind of question that we need to ask every single day. Constantly, am I in the way of truth? Am I active and approaching God's Word in the way that God intends for me? It is so easy to let that's why in Hebrews chapter 2 it says, be watchful, be careful, lest these things, you let these things slip. Don't let these things slip. Stay active. Stay engaged. So that why? Because we don't you want the joy of the Lord? I think of Psalm one that says Blessed is the man that isn't under the counsel of the ungodly, nor stands in the way of the sinners, nor sits in the seat of the scornful, but his delight is what? In the law of the Lord, and in his law he meditates what? Day and night. And if you do that, then you'll be like a tree planted by the river of water. And you'll bring forth fruit in your season, and your leaf will not wither. Whatever you do will prosper. But you've got to delight in the law of the Lord day and night in order for that to happen. Let's pray together. Fathers, we have come to your word and looked at just for a few moments at a wonderful passage of Scripture from Nehemiah. I pray, Lord, that you would remind us of the importance of actively engaging in your word. Whether it's here on a Sunday morning or Sunday night or Wednesday night, whether it's in our personal devotions or time, Lord, may we be engaged. And we admit before you, we confess that our flesh is so prone to wander, our flesh is so prone to go into autopilot, our flesh is so prone to just sort of coast But we have this warning in Ephesians 2 that if we do that, we're going according to the course of this world. We can't coast toward you. We have to actively walk or run toward you. And we do that as we approach your word in the right way. I pray you'd help us to remember that. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call. so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for. Please call us at 410-768-4273 or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.