All right, 1 Peter chapter 3. See, when you text me, you never know. I might just broadcast it to everybody, so be careful what you text me. Anyway. All right. Or maybe I won't. Either one. Uh we are continuing our series in First Peter. It is an it it's been uh I I think a helpful and very convicting series And I think to this tonight will be no exception to that. Let's uh let's read our chat our the passage we're gonna be looking at tonight. I still don't have the screen up here, Pat. Um the uh I guess I don't really need it, do I? That's true. I don't have a PowerPoint. That's a good point. Okay. Um in verse nine, uh chapter three, verse nine, it says this Finally, all of you be of one mind, having compassion of one another. Love as brothers. That's actually verse eight. Love as brothers, be tender hearted, be courteous. Verse 9 Not returning evil for evil or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary on the contrary blessing, knowing that you were called to the this, that you may inherit a blessing. For he who would love life and see good days, let him refrain his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit. Let him turn away from evil and do good. Let him seek peace and pursue it For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears are open to their prayers. But the face of the Lord is against those who do do evil. We all love a good plot And whether it's a novel, a book of some sort, or a movie, um we all like uh uh just a good solid plot. One of the plots that we like a lot, and it's used in movies a lot today Is just the general idea of having a victim at the beginning, someone who is oppressed and someone who is uh not being treated well And as the story ends up going along, the story basically ends with the person who is the victim, the person who is oppressed. being able to conquer his his or her oppressor or being able to um the oppressor gets his just desserts and everybody their sense of justice sort of says, yes, that guy got what he sh deserved. How many stories are like that? Well there are actually many stories, many plots like that. It appeals to our sense of justice. It appeals to the idea that the person who is being victimized or being oppressed, he should be the one to be able to get back at the oppressor. And there is, we're made in the image of God, and God certainly is one who is a just God. He is one who is um who is greatly uh uh uh um one who who who is just and we are made in the image of God so we have that sense of justice But very easily that sense of justice in our hearts can be turned the wrong way where we want revenge over someone who has wronged us. And a natural way for us to to deal with those who we feel have have wronged us is to go get back at them. to to resort to some sort of behavior that that gives them their just desserts. It's just natural for us to want to do that. Now, with that in mind, I'd like to ask another question How is it that if you look at church history, you see many people, the church was persecuted throughout church history? In fact, it's interesting if you look at church history. The majority of history where the church is uh is existing, the majority of that history the church is under persecution. Did you know that? We are actually living in an exceptional bubble that may burst anytime. But the the reality is that throughout church history, most of the time, the church has been under some sort of persecution. And you know, we know of the different stories. If you read through Fox's Book of Martyrs or uh or various various stories in church history, you find that there are these Men and women who have done amazing things and seem to have been able to keep their joy and their peace and their love for God and their courage and all those things in the midst of persecution, in the midst of suffering. And I have a question for you. Why? Why were they able to do that? Well, we immediately would say it's God's grace, and we would all be right if we said that Certainly it is the grace of God, the grace of God that transcends pain and suffering, but the love of God that That we are never separated from, no matter what we are going through. The strength of God that He gives us in times of weakness, as Paul says in 1 Corinthians Or in 2 Corinthians, rather, chapter, I think it's chapter 9. That's the kind of strength and grace, that's the kind of thing that we see in church history. But is there a role that these that these martyrs played? Is there a way that they responded? Did they respond in such a way that it helped the grace of God to be on them? That it encouraged the peace of God in their hearts. That it allowed for the joy of God to remain in their souls in the midst of suffering and persecution. And the answer is yes And the answer to that is the fact that God is actually going to teach us in His Word here that we ought to do the exact opposite of what seems just to us when it comes to persecution. Our natural response to persecution is to fight back. Our natural response to somebody who wrongs us is to wrong them back. But what God says to do is exactly the opposite of what our natural response is. Would you notice what it says, picking up here again, it says, do not return evil for evil or reviling for reviling, but contrary-wise blessing. Knowing that you were called to this, that you may inherit a blessing. God says, don't return evil for evil. Or or reviling for a while. Reviling. Don't return those things. That is exactly the opposite of what we are naturally wanting to do. to fight back. And God says when when and he says these people to these people who are under persecution no respond differently. Do not do not return evil for evil. Do not revile toward those who are reviling against you. That you need, if you're going to have, and you're going to see how this works, but you're going to have the grace of God and the joy of God. you're going to have to respond in a different kind of way than what is natural. And so this passage is teaching us that God desires us to respond to mistreatment. That's really what he's talking about here. Respond to mistreatment in a godly manner. And the question the question we're going to answer tonight is, what does that look like And we're going to answer it by asking by answering two questions. The one is how do we do that? How do we respond in a godly manner? And secondly, why do we respond in a godly manner First of all, we'll look at what how we respond in a godly manner. And we see that we respond as we return evil with blessing. Our responsibility is that when somebody does evil against us, and in the context particularly if someone is per persecuting us for our faith, that our responsibility is to return that evil with blessing. And that's what the passage is saying here. Don't return evil for evil. or reviling for reviling. Now God has already mentioned this in first, and Peter's already mentioned this in 1 Peter. In chapter 2, verse 23, it points out that Jesus did this. It says in that passage, verse chapter 2, verse 23, who when he was reviled, that is Jesus, and it's the same word here, reviled, Did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten, but committed himself to him who judges rightly. He committed himself to him, the Father, who judges rightly. And Jesus is exactly to be our example. When Jesus was on earth, he was reviled, wasn't he? He was mocked. He was scorned. He was beaten. And how did Jesus respond? Did Jesus respond with evil? No, he responded by dying for the very people that put him on the cross. And you remember what he said on the cross? Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. And what Peter is telling us here to do is to follow Jesus' example. And so he says, don't return evil for evil. Well, this is the first time that the New Testament talks about this. In fact, Jesus was the first one to talk about this kind of behavior. And we find that in Matthew chapter 5. In fact, I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn there to Matthew chapter 5. We'll be back in 1 Peter, so you might want to keep a finger in 1 Peter. But I'd like you to turn back to Matthew chapter 5, and we'll pick up in verse 38 here. This is the Sermon on the Mount, and Jesus is speaking here, and he is going to give very similar instructions to Peter, but he's going to flesh them out in a slightly different way that will help us really understand what Peter is talking about here. In Matthew 5, verse 38, it says this: You have heard that it was said, I an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. But I tell you not to resist an evil person. For whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn other to him also. If anyone wants to sue you and take away your tunic, Let him have your cloak also. And whoever compels you to go one mile, go with him too. Give to him who asks you, and from him who wants to borrow from you, do not turn away. 1 Corinthians 4 verse 12 verse 13 says this But we labor, working with your hands, being reviled we bless, being persecuted we endure, being defamed we entreat. We have been made as the filth of the world and the off-scouring of all things until now. The attitude of the disciples was was the same attitude that Jesus has, and Peter is commanding all of us to have the same attitude. And that is that when we are treated in a way that is inappropriate or wrong or harmful, when we are treated in a way where we feel abused verbally That we are to respond in a different way than what our sense of justice wants us to respond. The Bible actually says for us to pray for those who persecute us. And we need to understand the importance of doing that. Well, then the question becomes, what is the nature of this blessing? We are to bless those who curse us. We are to bless those who revile against us rather than reviling against them. So what is the nature of this blessing? Well, what we're not talking about here is some sort of trite kind of, well bless you. Somebody somebody sort of uh does something to you and wrongs you in some way and you just say, Well bless you. Some sort of trite thing. Bless his heart. Um I've said that before. I've been guilty of that. Bless his heart. That's not really what it's talking about here. There's something far more involved here than that. The word blessing is act is actually the word where we get the word, um we get our word uh the uh of eulogy It's the same same root word, eulogy. Well what is a eulogy? A eulogy is where you are actually praising someone, you know, in a in a in a funeral, you're trying to praise someone who has died. That's a eul eulogy, you're blessing or praising them. Uh I've done many funerals uh in as a pastor, and sometimes it's very easy to find things that that in people's lives where God has really worked in their lives. There's really good things to say. I have to admit to you that sometimes it's actually kind of hard. And so depend there's a few of a few of them where I've actually had a hard time. I didn't know them well or whatever. But what God wants us to do in this passage is teach teaching us is actually to speak well, to find something good to say about someone who is actually treating you in the wrong way. Do we do that? Is that how we handle it when we are treated in a wrong way? When we are mistreated, do we respond by saying something good about someone? Now, sometimes that's very, very hard to do. But there's a reason that God wants us to do that. The reason that God wants us to bless the people that that uh that curse us or bless the people that mistreat us is because the hope is that they will actually be able to experience the same blessing that we've experienced in Christ In other words, Christ, we have sinned against Christ, have we not? We have been an offense against Christ, have we not? We have reviled Christ in our sin, have we not? And yet, how, what did Christ do? He blessed us with his own life. He died for us, and we are partakers of the one who blessed us, even though we reviled him with our sin. And yet, what we want others to be able to do, the desire of our heart should be when when others mistreat us We ought to desire for them to experience that kind of blessing in their lives. That they would truly be a child become a child of God. That they would truly be blessed by God with the gospel. And Paul knew exactly what this looked like. Because when Paul in Philippians chapter 1 speaks to the Philip the church of Philippi, He's he's speaking from being in prison for his faith. He's being persecuted. And he says this in verse 12 It says, but I want you to know, brethren, that the things which happen to me have actually turned out for the furtherance of the gospel So that it has become evident to the whole palace guard and to all the rest that my chains are in Christ. Now let me ask you a question. If Paul would have been that prison, and if the pri and if he would have treated the prisoners who were oppressing him and persecuting him, if he would have treated them badly. If he would have called the names, who do you think I am? And do you realize who I am? And and you scum or you Roman pagans or you're going to hell in a handbasket. I mean the the kind of i you ever heard that term hell in a hand basket? I haven't heard that since I've been down south. Anyway, but um the that kind of an attitude If Paul had that kind of an attitude, how do you suppose the the prisoner the prison guard would have responded? I could almost guarantee that they would not have responded the way they were. They were responding, it says that you know Paul says that it turned out for the furtherance of the gospel, it's become evident to every w everyone that my chains are in Christ. Everybody understands here that I'm actually being persecuted for Christ. And the implication is that someone are pr some of these people are probably coming to Christ. Because he's in prison, but because he's responding in the right way. And Peter is commanding these Christians, and frankly he's commanding all of us, when we are, maybe we're in the workplace. And we are under some sort of persecution for our faith. We are being and that happens, by the way. I just heard of an incident last week of a Christian who was persecuted for his faith That happens in the Christian in the in in the workplace for one reason or another. And when that happens, how are we going to respond in such a way where it really pleases God. And it turns out that we can say, as Paul said, it actually turned out for the furtherance of the gospel. But we've got to be able to respond in the right way, in the right manner. Now, um, so it says in the passage here, as we're back in 1 Peter chapter 3, it says uh uh Verse 9, not returning evil for evil, reviling for reviling, but on the contrary eyes blessing, knowing that you were called to this, that you may inherit a blessing. So now we find some reasons. There are reasons why God says for us to be sure that we are we are responding in the right way, that we are blessing those who are cursing us, that we are responding in the right way to those who are mistreating us. And before we get into that, I just want to just sort of flesh this out a little bit more, what it is what does this mean practically? This means, folks, that practically When people wrong us, we actually try to find something good to say about them. Is that hard sometimes? Sometimes it's really hard. Sometimes it's so I was running today and I'm going to use a my the illustration I'm going to use is going to be um it it's not a really safe illustration. It's it's a little bit unsafe. Now everybody's paying attention. So I don't know if I should use this or not, but I'm going to use it. So anyway. So um I was running and I was thinking about this and I was thinking I was med meditating on this And I was thinking to myself, you know, okay, so it's quite possible that the United States government one day will actually impose persecution on believers. I think that's entirely possible. I'm not saying it's gonna happen. I'm not saying that it's I'm not a prophet or something, but it seems it seems quite possible that sometime in the future that that might happen. So I'm thinking about the current administration. I'm thinking to myself, okay, if I'm persecuted by the Joe Biden's administration, what good am I going to say about him? So I'm running and I'm really trying to think. I'm thinking really hard. What am I going to say good about him? It's policies really struggling with a pol I mean I you know I like I before I wasn't sure where he stood on certain things when he before he uh he became elected, but now it's becoming pretty obvious and I'm sort of going Okay, he's married to a woman, a biological woman. I mean that's what That was literally what came into my mind. I'm like, okay. That was really a stretch, right? And I thought, it's gotta be more than that. There's gotta be more than that. Something what's wrong with me? I've got to think of something more than that, something good to say about him And I was running a little bit more and I'm thinking, Lord, I gotta be able to think of something good to say about him. I might have a real problem here. I'm really struggling here a little bit. Um and I finally said, you know what, I think here's what I would say I think that he probably is a compassionate man. Now I don't know that, I don't know his heart, but I think he probably is. Now, I don't agree with how he handles his answers to his compassionate heart. I don't agree with his policies on a lot of things. I don't agree with a lot of that kind of stuff. But I think he probably is a compassionate man How does that rub you? The truth is how that rubs you. Some of you are probably recoiling by me just even saying that Some of you are probably struggling with me even saying that Joe Biden may very well be a compassionate man. And if that's the case, we really need to rethink this. We need to think about are we genuinely, are we genuinely willing to to s to bless those who curse us? Are we willing to bless those who mistreat us? Now I'm probably going to get four emails afterwards and 5,000 texts and people talking to me afterwards and saying, you know, Joe Biden, I don't think he's really compassionate. I think he's just playing the playing the political game and don't do that. Let me think my good thought about him. It's the only one I could find. Okay. Okay. Um I'm joking it I'm I'm joking somewhat about this. All right, but I'm not, there is a point to what I'm saying here that we have to respond in a way where God wants, God is saying to do this. And we really have to think about this. And whether it's whether it's the our current administration, whether it's whatever it is, whether it's our co-worker who's oppressing us, whatever it is, We really need uh to to respond in the right way to this. All right, so then we move on here and we see in verses Verses 10 through 12. We move on and we say, and we see here it says, we pick up in verse 10, for he who would love life and see good days. Let him refrain his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit. So it says, but uh don't return evil for evil nor reviling for reviling, but in contrary wise blessing, knowing that you are called to this, that you may inherit a blessing. In other words, he says You need to bless others because you then need to inherit a blessing. You're called to inherit a blessing Well, what is the blessing that we are called to inherit? And God is going to teach us exactly what that is in the following verses. And we we find, first of all, this blessing that we are going to receive is to love life and see good days. Do you want to love life and see good days in the midst of persecution? Now here's what this is not saying. This is not promising that if you will speak good of those who are mistreating you, that you'll have a wonderful life that has no problems and no suffering and no issues, and you're just going to have every day is going to be just a great day That's not what it's saying. But what it is saying is that there is a life that God offers us in the of grace and joy and peace in the midst of the trials, of persecution, and mistreatment. In the midst of it, there is a life that we can live in the midst of mistreatment. That is a life of joy and peace if we will choose, for example, not to have a bitter heart toward those who are mistreating us. That's really why we don't bless people, isn't it? It's because we have a bitter heart and we're we are bitter toward those who are mistreating us. We're not like Christ who's on the cross being put to death by Roman guards and he's saying, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. We're not like that. We are bitter. And the Bible says that when we're bitter, that that that bitterness in our hearts springs up and defiles many. And we're not blessing people. Instead, we're doing exactly the opposite. What God is actually telling us here is that there is a way to live in peace and love. And and and and grace and that kind of life in the midst of trials and persecution and struggles. And I just gotta say this, we better learn how to do this Because whether or not we are experiencing national persecution or personal mistreatment, at some time or another as Christians, we're going to experience mistreatment. Isn't that true? That's exactly what Jesus said. Jesus said, don't, if they persecuted me, don't expect them to do any different to you. It's going to be the same. So we see number chapter verse 10, we have the goal here to love life and to see good days, that that is a possibility, even in the midst, even in the midst of persecution. And then we see this. That we should refrain our it says refrain his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceitful, from deceitful speaking. We should refrain from our tongue lashing out an evil, speaking evil, or being deceitful in how we speak. We want to respond mistreatment. We want to often exaggerate the problem of the other person. We want to exaggerate their mistreatment of us. We want to twist things a certain way, change the narrative a certain way so that we look really good and they look really bad, even though they may really be persecuting. God says don't do that. Peter's warning against this. He says instead, you need to seek and pursue peace. Now what you have here in this passage is a quote. from the book of Psalms, Psalm 34. And as you go through this, you see these couplets. They're called parallel, it's it's it's in Hebrew poetry you have parallel phrases. So you'll see here, verse 10 He who would love life and see good days. That's a pa that those are two parallel statements that go together. And in the next one, let him refrain his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit So those two go together. The next one, verse 11, let him turn away from evil and do good. Well how do you do that? There's a couplet, there's an next phrase helps us know how. Let him seek peace and pursue it. What God calls us to do as Christians is to be people who seek peace and pursue peace. Now, there are some that have actually used this text to suggest that Christians should never serve in the armed forces, should never go to war. should never defend their country on a national level. And I don't have the time to go through why all of that is. That would go beyond beside the point. But I'll just suffice it to say that there is that there are many passages that explain that is not uh the pacifist idea of that is not uh something that we see uh in and the whole mind of God in Scripture as it relates to how we should be citizens of a country. And furthermore, as Throughout church history, that has never been the dominant view of this passage. This is speaking particularly of an individual Christian who is being persecuted for his faith and how that individual Christian should respond to persecution and mistreatment. And so we we ought not apply this to uh to being in the military and fighting for our country or something like that. This does not apply in those situations, and I really don't have time to go into why But suffice it to say that that's the case. But what we have here is we ought to have, when it comes to individual mistreatment of ourselves, we ought to be taking a different approach. And understanding this is important. We ought to seek peace and pursue it. Why? The ultimate reason we find here, verse 12. For the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, and his ears are open to their prayers. But the face of the Lord is against those who do evil. It says the righteous, the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, and his ears are open unto their prayers. Okay. When you have someone's eyes on you and they are listening intently, what would we call that? You have their what? Attention. This is telling us that if we will respond in the right way To those who mistreat us, then we have God's attention. That is a really good reason to treat people in the right way. But the opposite is also true. If we respond in the wrong way, it says the face of the Lord is against those, the attention of God is against those who do evil. There is even an implication of punishment here. He punishes evildoers. If you are going to do evil when evil is done to you, You end up being in a place where God can't can't answer your prayers. He can't respond in a gracious manner. He actually has to discipline you Don't be in that place. And that's interesting that over in Hebrews chapter 12, where we see the root of bitterness that defiles many, it's in the same context of discipline that the Lord whom the Lord loves, he disciplines. So don't be in the place of God's discipline by responding wrongly to mistreatment. It's like this. There's an illustration. I'll illustrate it this way. Occasionally, as you know, I have three girls. I don't occasionally have three girls. I always have three girls. But occasionally uh they will uh one of them will come to me and they will say that the other one has wronged them. All right, in one way or another. And I'm sorry my girls are here, it's just the way it is. And I will say to them, and usually the one that's really the the the main culprit isn't here right now. Um anyway. Um and and so so um I'll talk with them and I'll get the whole story. I'll say, okay, you both sit down. Let's talk about this. Okay, let me hear your side. I'll be quiet. I want to hear their side. Be quiet, I want to hear this side. Okay, alright, I heard your side, okay. Alright, now you be quiet, I want to hear your side, okay. And it and sometimes, if not many times, they're both they both wrong done wrong. And I say to the person that came to me, I say, well look, you have done wrong too. Here is how you have done wrong. So if I'm going to punish her, I've got to punish you too. Do you see the dilemma? I think parents have all been in that dilemma before. Now if a person if I said if you I'll say them, if you just come to me and you don't do and you don't do anything wrong back Well then I'm going to thank you for coming to me and I'm going to be able to deal with them. You know, it's it's very similar to what it's saying here. The eyes are on the righteous, and his ears are over their prayers, but the faith of the Lord is against them that do evil. There's this guarantee there's this promise here. The Bible says in other places in Romans chapter 12, or Romans chapter, I think it's 13, 12, 13, right in there, it says that vengeance is mine, saith the Lord, I will repay There's this sort of comfort when we have this sense of justice that I don't have to take things in my own hands because God is going to deal with the problem. Right? But if I choose to take things in my own hands, then I am complicit in the evil, and God has to deal with both of us. So there's a there's a there is a uh a comfort here that we don't have to ri retaliate against those who offend us. We don't have to go out go after those who uh who revile against us. So there's a comfort here, but there is also a warning that if we do, we also will be complicit in the evil. So God wants us to be very clear about this. Three things to think about as we wrap all this up. Number one, true believers will persevere in persecution. What this passage is actually teaching us is that we are called to inherit a blessing, and true believers are going to persevere in persecution. We ought there is a sense in which, folks, we really should not be afraid of persecution in the future. Or in the present, for that matter. Now there's you know nervousness about it, I think that's natural and normal, and the fear of the unknown, that's normal. But we do not have to have overwhelming fear about persecution or mistreatment or what's going to happen to us in the future or whatever. Or now or whenever. No, why? Because God, there is a way that God gives grace and joy and peace. in the midst of mistreatment, if we will respond correctly. And frankly, this applies to mistreatment in our homes. A husband toward a wife, a wife toward her husband, parents toward children, children toward parents, siblings toward it it applies to all kinds of different areas. Number two. Believers must respond to mistreatment with blessing. Believers must respond to mistreatment. with blessing. We will persevere, but we must respond to mistreatment with blessing. We do not do that very well, folks. That's not the flesh. Our flesh does not want us to do that. But we actually need to retrain our thinking. So that when mistreatment comes, we respond by blessing them. Number three, God blesses believers with attention and receptivity to prayer. When they respond well to mistreatment. God blesses believers with attention, and his ears are open unto their prayers when they respond well to mistreatment. Respond well to mistreatment so that you have God's attention and let God deal with what you can't and shouldn't deal with. And God will give you the grace to go through what you're going through. And God will bless you and give you peace and joy in the midst of it. Doesn't mean it'll be easy. Doesn't mean that you won't be suffer pain. Doesn't mean it won't be difficult, but God will sustain you and you will persevere through it. God gives you that promise in many places in Scripture, including Romans chapter 5 and Romans chapter 8. We will persevere. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this evening and we thank you for your word. We thank you for your truth and we thank you for the instruction that we have. on how to respond well to mistreatment. Now, Father, I pray, Lord, that you would teach us how to do this. It is, I admit, before you myself It is so easy for me to want to respond. An eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth. This is something that is so natural in me to want to respond in that way. And we can confess before you, Father, that that is how we tend to respond. And sometimes our sense of justice even allows us to think that that's okay. Sometimes our sense of justice actually helps us to rationalize that kind of behavior. Lord, may we go back to what your word says to do and follow your word. Which is going to require us to trust you. We can't do this on our own. This is something that requires gospel power in our lives to do. We can't possibly do this on our own. This is going to require your working in our lives to bring this about So that we have to trust you and obey your word, that you will direct our paths in a way that you want to. And I pray, Lord, that you teach us how to do this. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call. So we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need, we can pray for Please call us at 410-768-4273 or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.