Well, good morning. We are going to be in Romans today, chapter 12, looking at verses 14 through 21. Before we do, let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come with great joy in our hearts this morning. We are grateful and thankful for what you have done through your Son Jesus Christ, our Lord and our Savior. And Father, as we come to this time to sit under your teaching, I pray that you'd remove all the distractions from our hearts and from our minds. And Lord, help us to set aside all the cares and thoughts. And I pray that we would take this time to concentrate fully upon your word. And we pray that your Holy Spirit will have its way in our hearts and minds to teach us and give us understanding and knowledge. And Lord, as we learn these things, help us not to be just hearers, but help us to be doers of what you teach us and we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Starting in Romans chapter 12 verse 14 through 21. Bless those who persecute you. Bless and do not curse. Rejoice with those who rejoice, and weep with those who weep. Be of the same mind toward one another. Do not set your mind on high things, but associate with the humble. Do not be wise in your own opinion. Repay no one evil for evil. Have regard for good things in the sight of all men. If it is possible as much as it depends on you you. Live peaceably with all men. Beloved, do not avenge yourselves, but rather give place to wrath. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. Therefore, if your enemy is hungry Feed him. If he is thirsty, give him a drink. For in doing so, you will heap coals of fire on his head Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. I'll begin by asking a question. Outside of what Christians believe, what they might proclaim verbally, how do you tell The difference between a Christian and just a moral person. If you have to look at their behavior, if you have have to look at their life, how do you tell the difference between a moral person and a and a true Christian. I think that some of the answer to that question we're going to find in our text this morning We have a list of commands in this text that God has called Christians to obey. And I want to remind us that this isn't a chapter that started off With the exhortation that we need to be living sacrifices as a response to the abundant mercies of God in our lives. I also want us to remember that in verse 2 it tells us that we are not to be pressed into the mold of the world. That is, we are not to allow ourselves. to be pressed into the mold of the values of this world, what the world values, but instead be trans I'd also like to remind us that over in Romans chapter 8, it tells us that we are to be pressed into the mold of Christ, conformed to the image of Christ. And you cannot be pressed into the values of the mold of the world and be pressed into the values of the mold of Christ at the same time. Those two things don't go together. I think before we go through this passage, it would be helpful to think for just a few moments about what the values of our world are. And I have some phrases, I think you'll recognize some of these phrases that kind of come from our culture, and part of what they do when we hear these phrases We sort of say, yeah, that's right, or the phrases sort of justify a certain kind of behavior. For example. What goes around comes around. You ever heard that phrase before? I mean you've heard that phrase before. If you haven't heard that phrase before, then you're really living in a hole or something, okay? What goes around comes around. How about this? You scratch my back, I'll scratch yours. You ever heard that one before? You scratch my back, I'll scratch your back. How about this? They had it coming All of these are are these sayings that come from our culture and make us think, yeah They had to come in. Or yeah, they scratch my back, I scratch theirs. So yeah, that makes sense. Or how about I'm just giving them a taste of their own medicine You heard that one before? Just giving them a taste of their own medicine. That's all I'm doing. You do something harmful to somebody else or you do something that's a little underhanded. I'm just giving them a taste of their own medicine How about this one? If they can do it to me, I can do it to them. You know, that's what the Bible says. That's not what the Bible says. Some people take do unto others as you would have them to do unto you, and they get that all twisted. See, the Bible says, they did it to me, I didn't do it to them. It's not what the Bible says. How about this one? Don't get mad, get even. I don't get mad, I get even. You ever heard that one before? I mean these are all it didn't take all of these are things that we've heard before. Um real simple, you've probably heard this from your kids before. They started it. I'll finish it. They started, I'm gonna finish it. How about this one? I'm just returning the favor. I'm just returning the favor. See, all of these are common phrases in our culture That tell us something about the world's values. And you know what the world's value is? I'll treat you the same way you treat me. You treat me good, I'll treat you good. You treat me bad, I'll treat you bad. And that almost sounds moral, doesn't it? It almost sounds like about right. And it's totally unchrist-like. It's not even close. And what you're actually going to see this text In this text, most of these phrases, you're going to see something that is not natural. It's really supernatural. It's the kind of attitude That you're going to have if you know Christ, and if you're walking in the Spirit. In fact In fact, in Romans chapter 8, several chapters back, verses 5 through 6, it says this: For those who live according to the flesh, set their minds on the things of the flesh. But those who live according to the Spirit, the things of the Spirit. For to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace. I think this is fleshing out practically how you are to, how to be carnally minded? Carnally minded is they had it coming. Currently my it is you scratch your back, I'll scratch my other way around. I'll scratch my back, you scratch your I didn't get that right again. You know what I mean. I I clearly have not said that phrase very often, thankfully So we see in the text here, we're going to see five things. And we're not going to list them all in the beginning. We're going to see them as we go through here. What does it look like in our response to others, in our reaction to others, as we relate to others, when we are truly a Christian? And when we are walking with the Spirit of God, the attitude is going to be completely different than the world's attitude. And you'll see this. The first one, I think in some ways the first one's the hardest, verse 14. We are to respond to mistreatment with blessing. Look at what it says, verse 14. Bless those who persecute you. Bless and do not curse. Have you ever heard that from the world before? Never. Bless those who persecute you. I mean, that is not something, that's not from the world's values. That's from Christ's values. That's what happened when Christ came. They persecuted him and he died for them. Bless those who persecute you. Bless and curse not. The word blessed means to actively seek someone's good. To actively seek someone's good. Persecute is sometimes translated to pursue. It literally can mean to pursue someone's harm. And the probably the classic example is the Apostle Paul himself before he was saved. What did the Apostle Paul do before he was saved? He pursued Christians. He went after Christians to put them to death. To persecute them, to pursue them. How can I truly bless someone? How can I work towards someone's good? who who is out to harm me only by the power of Christ. It's only by the work of the Spirit in the life of the Christian That's where the moral person, that's where it will begin to break down. We might put up, you know, the world can put up with persecution. can run from persecution, can can resist persecution, can endure it, but the world's values is not to bless those who are persecuting. to look and work toward the person's a person's good. There's an illustration. Actually in 1 Corinthians 4, verses 12 through 13 it says this. And we labor, Paul's talking here, and we labor working with our hands, being reviled we bless. Being persecuted, we endure. Being defamed, we entreat. We have been made as the filth of the world, the off-scouring of all things until now. That's persecution. We see Christ. What did he say on the cross? Father, forgive them because they do not know what they do. And Stephen, the first martyr, as he was put to death, he said, Lord, do not charge them with this sin. Bless those who persecute you. Or Peter says it this way, 1 Peter chapter 2, verse 21. For this is you, this is you For to this you were called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should follow his steps. who committed no sin, nor was deceit found in his mouth, who, when he was reviled, did not revile in return. And when he suffered, he did not threaten, but committed himself to him who judges righteously. John MacArthur tells of a story of his own nephew. who was who was shot to death at a convenience store. John's brother, the nephews The nephew's father had a choice. He could either be vindictive, he could either respond in hate and anger, and certainly, folks, every one of us would have understood that. That, right? I mean if somebody shot your child, how would you respond? And yet John MacArthur, by the grace of God alone, his his brother, by the grace of God alone Prayed for this person, the murderer of his son, and even went to the prison and gave him the gospel. That doesn't happen by human nature. That doesn't happen by the world's values. That happens only by the grace of God. Well we begin we transition to the next one. And the next one now we see a movement here. That is really could be A persecutor could be Christian, non-Christian, it's sort of a general thing. In the context, it would be more non-Christians persecuting Christians But now we move on to verses 15 through 16, and we see that, actually just look at the text. It says verse 15. Rejoice with those who rejoice, and weep with those who weep. Be of the same mind toward, and there's our phrase, one another. So we're talking about relating to other Christians. Do not set your mind on high things, but associate with the humble. Do not be wise in your own opinion. So this text is talking about the importance of promoting unity one to another. God, if if we're going to live the kind of life that God wants us to live, And to have the kind of attitude, a Christ-like attitude, we are going to have to promote unity one to another. Now how do we do that? Well, first of all, there should be a united attitude. In the body of Christ Remember last week we talked about this, that God calls us in the body of Christ to treat each other like family, to be kind, which comes its root for it is kin. Kindly affectionate one to another. And this text tells us to some degree how you do that. You rejoice with those who rejoice, and you weep with those who weep. You know who I think of? I can't help but think of this right now. You know who I think of really rejoices with those who rejoice, who celebrates the wins and the successes of others. And and weeps with those who weeps, you know who does it well? Moms. I had to get it get in there somewhere, right? But I mean think about it I don't know. Moms do this. They celebrate the wins of their kids, the successes of their kids. They s they celebrate that. I'm not a mom, I'm a dad, but I still have that. I just when my kids are happy, when they rejoice, my Caitlin just came home recently and now everybody's a little happier because that's you know just how I asked my they're probably gonna hate me after this but I asked my youngest um do you are you ready for Caitlin to come home? And she said, yeah we need more energy in this house Anyway, she's right. Anyway. When you re that uh and it makes us as parents rejoice when others rejoice. When our kids rejoice. But folks, do we do that in the body of Christ? Do we. It's interesting that That sometimes we are we are better at weeping with those who weep than we are at rejoicing with those who rejoice. God wants us to do both. That's what you do with family members. You rejoice with those who rejoice and you weep with those who weep In Proverbs chapter 17, verse 5, it says this: He who mocks the poor reproaches his maker. He who is glad at calamity will not go unpunished. It's the exact opposite. Are we ever glad at the calamity of somebody else? John Chrysostom, a church father, said it this way. He said, It requires more of high Christian temper to rejoice with them that do rejoice than to weep with them that weep. For this nature in itself fulfills perfectly, and there is none so hard-hearted as to not weep over him that is in calamity. But the other requires very noble soul, so as not only to keep from an envying, but even to feel pleasure with the person who is in esteem. I think that's pretty interesting If I talk to the average after my dad dies, if I talk to the average- I mean I'm I'm talking to like bankers and investment people. And everybody I'm probably supposed to do this, but they're everybody saying, I'm sorry for your loss. It's in our culture to do that. But to joy in the successes of others? Does that happen on the workplace usually? You know, somebody gets a promotion and everybody just joys over the promotion of somebody else? That's not usually how it goes. But in the body of Christ, when it comes to one another, we uh When we're really following a Christ-like attitude, we're going to learn to rejoice, and we're going to joy, truly joy when others rejoice in the body of Christ. Then we are to be united in thinking. How are we to be united? Well, first attitude, but also thinking. It says, be of the same mind. to one another. Later on in Romans chapter 15, verse 5, a couple of chapters later, it says, Now may the God of patience and comfort grant you To be like-minded toward one another according to Christ Jesus. Can I ask you a question this morning? Are you like-minded with the body of Christ? Philippians 2 2 says, fulfill my joy by being like-minded. How do you do that? Having the same love. That's how you do it. Being of one accord of one mind. See, in the body of Christ, we have the same values We love the same thing. We love the same person. We want the same things. I wrote down a list. Just a quick list. This is not comprehensive. We want God to be glorified. We want people to be saved and discipled. We want Christians to grow spiritually. We want marriage and families to be strengthened. We want the gospel to be to be carried out in all the world. Those are priorities. Those are things that we all ought to want with all of our hearts. Colossians chapter 3, verse 1 says it this way, verses 1 through 4. If then, if you are raised with Christ, that is, you are a Christian, if that's the case. Seek those things that are above, where Christ is sitting at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on the things of this earth. For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, appeared, then you also will appear with him in glory. You know how you unify with the body of Christ? You want the same things. You have the same priorities You know what happens in the body of Christ when you don't? When we don't want the same things, when we don't have the same love, when we don't have the same priorities? Contentions. occur. Strife occurs. Problems are created. We must want the same thing. Be of the same mind one to another. Well you know that's kind of hard. Isn't it? I mean we just naturally want what we want, but that's actually the point. This is this is in a sense it's supernatural, these attitudes And we see actually how we do this in the text. It says we are to be united through humility. Humility brings us to a place of unity. It says, do not set your mind, we're still talking about the focus, the mind. Do not set your mind on high things. Don't do that. If you are to be unified with the body of Christ, don't set your mind on high things. Our example is Christ. He is the highest of all. He is God. And he condescended to come to earth. Philippians 2. 1. Therefore, if there is any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship with the Spirit, if any affection and mercy, fulfill my joy that you be like-minded, have the same love being of one accord of one mind, let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than themselves. Let each of you look not only on your own interests. Did you catch that? Let each of you look not only on your own interests, but also on the interests of others. And then it says this, this is interesting. If we're to have unity in the body of Christ, it actually says that we have to be, we have to associate with the humble. Did you see what it says in the text? At first when I read the text, I was like, well, what does that mean? But associate with the humble. But I began to think of other texts. I thought of James chapter 2. Do you remember in James? You know what he said? You remember there? You know what the problem there was? The problem was a matter of partiality. Giving, associating, through partiality, associating with the rich rather than the poor. Somebody with wealth comes into the into the assembly and they give them the best seat. Somebody who's poor comes into the assembly and they don't pay as much attention to them. James says, don't do that. He says it this way, verse 1, my brethren, James chapter 2, my brethren do not hold the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ. the Lord of glory with partiality. Don't hold the faith of Christ with partiality. For if there should come into you an assembly of a man with gold rings and fine apparel, and there should also come to come in a poor man in filthy clothes, and you pay attention to the one wearing the fine clothes and say to him, You sit here in a good place, or say to the poor man, You stand there, or sit here at my footstool, have you not shown partiality among yourselves? And become judges with evil thoughts. Listen, my brethren, has God not chosen the poor of this world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom which is promised to those who love him? But you have dishonored the poor man. Do not do not the rich oppress you and drag you into the courts So God warns them, do not be partial. Do not be par associate with the humble. There's an illustration of this in Scripture. Christ mentions it in Luke chapter 14, verses 12 through 14. And in that text, he basically says this. Well, I'll just read it to you. He says. When you give dinner, we do that sometimes, dinner, party, that kind of thing. But if you give a dinner or supper, he says, do not ask your friends, your brothers, your relatives, nor rich neighbors, lest they also invite you back and you be repaid He says, Don't do that. Don't every time you you do something want to be have figure out a way to be repaid. Verse thirteen of that passage says, But when you give a feast, invite the poor, the maim, the lame, the blind, and you will be blessed. Because they cannot repay you. For you shall be repaid at the resurrection of the just. That's the heart of a Christian. That's the heart, the supernatural heart that God gives us. That's the Spirit of God working on us to help us to value what God values. Now for the rest of these, as we move through these, we're going to see that they build. Paul builds on what Christ has already taught. To some degree, that that was in the previous ones as well. But we're really going to see that more as as as we see these. And I want to remind us of a couple of passages in the Sermon on the Mount just to set the stage for these other ones, these other phrases here, that will help us. Matthew chapter 5, verse 43 says it this way. Christ said this. You have heard that it was said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, love your enemies. Bless those who curse you. Well, we've seen that before, right? Do not go do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you. And in Luke 6, verse 27, but I say to you who hear, love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you, and pray for those who spitefully use you. So verses 17 through 18 tell us this. Show mercy to your enemies. Folks, that is not, again, that is not something That you see as a rule, as an attitude in our world. Repay, it says verse 17, no evil for evil. Don't do it. Don't repay evil. For evil. And Christ explains this in a really, I think, helpful way when he talks to his disciples. He says, Luke 6, 32, he says, but if you love those who love you, What credit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them. He's talking about even the non-Christian, even the heathen, even the they love everybody loves those who love them. What is that? And if you do good to those who do good to you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners do the same. See, that's no that's not exemplifying Christ-like attitude is not just doing good to those who do good to you or doing good to those who you think will do good to you. No, it's doing the good to those who don't do good to you. That was the heart of Christ. Matthew five, thirty-nine. But I tell you not to resist an evil person, but whoever slaps you on the right cheek, turn the other to him. him also. And we see, notice what it says there in the passage. It says, he's talking now still about the issue of partiality. He says this. Have regard for good things in the sight of all men. This idea of regard He's talking about esteem or regard or partiality. And he just reminded us that we should associate with the humble. And now he's saying this. You know how you keep from from favoring one person over another to some degree. Now the truth of the matter is we are all, none of us are really objective. You realize that? My pastor told me that years ago. He said, Jim, nobody's really objective. And I thought I'd never heard that before. Like we're yeah, I've heard we're supposed to be objective. But he he said, nobody's really objective. Everybody is everybody is swayed somehow. from their own perspective, their own subject, there's just too much subjectivity for any of us to really be objective. But if there is any objectivity in our lives at all, you know why? You know what's what how it comes? When we regard, when we respect what's right. Above all else, when we decide that that is where what we're going to esteem, we come into a situation and one person says this, and another person says this, and you're inclined one way, or you're inclined another way. The question is what's right? That's the question. What is right? That's what we have to have loyalty to. Loyalty to what is right. It might be my kids. You ever run in a situation like that? My kids could never do anything wrong. Teacher talks about my kids, says something. I I get we get emails. Okay. And uh some things have been I've been like, yeah, what, huh? And other things are like well, yeah, that's it. That's that's my kid. But you know my first instinct when it's my kid? That teacher's gotta be wrong. I do, I I do. I think I think to myself, she didn't really do that. Why? Because I love my kid. And I'm proud of my kid. And I don't think they can do any wrong. I mean that's of course I know that's not true. But that's my first instinct. Well out of the two, the teacher or my kid, that teacher's got to be wrong. But you know what? Sometimes the teacher's not wrong. I need to I need to decide I'm going to I'm going to follow what's right. I'm going to be loyal to what is right, even if it's somebody I really love or I really care about or I really respect, what is right? That has to be what I'm loyal to. And that's what we see in the passage. Don't have partiality for people. Have partiality for what is right. And then we see it says, if it is possible, and this is interesting because it has a condition. It recognizes that not everything is in our control. Look at what it says. If it is possible, as much as depends on you, live peaceably with all men. The goal for the Christian is to live peaceably with everyone. As much as it depends on you. Now I want to be clear, number one, to be uh to start this off, is to say it a lot does depend on us This is not an immediate, okay, see not everything depends on me. No, we first need to understand if I'm if I'm not living peaceably with somebody What is my responsibility in this before God? I'm going to have to stand before the Lord someday. How what is my responsibility? Have I done everything I can to live peaceably with all men? But there are times, frankly, and I think most of us who have lived any length of time in life, there are times in our lives where we sort of go, I think I've done everything I necessarily to do. I mean the Bible actually stuff it's interesting. One place in Scripture it actually says if you know someone has ought against you, if you know someone has a problem with you, leave the gift on the altar and go to him. Some people say, Well, I have a problem with him, but he's got a problem with you. And if you know that, you're supposed to go to that person So there's a lot of responsibility on us as individuals to live peaceably with all men. However, there are times Where we really look at it and we go, I think I've done everything I know to do. And they're still not willing to live peaceably. That's why God has the condition. It's his perfect word. Scripture knows that. It takes, you you've got two imperfect, sinful people. That are at conflict with each other, sometimes you have done all you can do, and you just have to simply give it give the rest to the Lord. But as much as lies within you, live peaceably with all men. Verse 19 brings us to the next next principle here. Actually, it's really um really kind of just moves uh uh into the neck into the flow of thought and it's a strong, it's pretty it's actually a pretty strong command. Refuse to retaliate against wrongs. Refuse to retaliate against wrongs. Verse 19, beloved, do not avenge yourselves, but rather give place to wrath. It's interesting that Paul says beloved at this point. I think that's interesting. Why does he in a in a list of all these commands suddenly say beloved? It's like he comes around the side, he puts his arm around somebody. Maybe there's uh likely there's been people that have been very hurt. They've been burned even. And there's a temptation to retaliate. And so he wants to put, he understands that there is there could be genuine hurt, very and all that. So he puts his arm around the person and he says uh uh metaphorically and he says Don't retaliate. I I remember my grand I was dealing with something a long time ago, and I actually don't even rem remember exactly what it was. I don't remember the situation. But I remember feeling in my you know you get that little attitude in your heart where you want to just you wanna you want justice to be done. You want you you want to get it and I and I I so I'm going I'm I'm explaining this to my grandfather and I I I literally don't remember what it was. I just remember what he said to me. He said, Jim, he said You you wouldn't do that. Just just the way he actually I would. But but he just the way he said that. He just said, you know, essentially like you know, you're better than that. You're you wouldn't do that. I I know you wouldn't do that. And I think that's the heart of Paul. Paul's like, you know, don't do that. There's it is a strong command though. Do not, do not avenge yourselves. And then it gives you a reason why. It says, but rather give place or leave room for wrath. Leave room for wrath? What does that mean? 1 Peter 2, verse 23 says this, who when he was reviled, this is talking about Christ, did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten, but committed himself, notice what it says, committed himself to him who judges righteously. Do you know what this is saying? And we're going to see the context is definitely what it's saying. That even Jesus, as an example to us, when he was on this earth and he was reviled and persecuted in every way imaginable. left it to his father for justice to be done. We have in our spirit, we have in our own heart the desire, in our own flesh the desire to have justice be done. But the truth of the matter is we can't see well enough. We can't. We're biased. We have our own perspective. And what this is telling us is that instead of retaliating Instead of avenging ourselves, we need to leave it open for God to do what God's going to do. God may choose to have mercy, and we should be okay with that. But God knows with not with a big machete, but with a scalpel, with precision, he knows exactly how to execute justice. in his way, in his time correctly, and not leave a bunch of other people in the wake in the process. Deuteronomy 20, then we say it says, for why we have a based on Old Testament on Old Testament text. Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. Deuteronomy 32, 35, Vengeance is mine and recompense, their foot shall slip in due time. For the day of their calamity is at hand, and the things to come hasten upon them. Did you know that there is justice? Certainly there is ultimate justice for everyone someday. But even in this world, according to the Deuteronomy passage, which Paul quotes, there is even some justice in circumstances that aren't the final day. And what the text is saying is, take your hands off of it and let God be God. We can't be God. And we for us to try to execute justice or vengeance, we're going to mess it up. And there is even an indication here. That maybe God, I'm not dogmatic on this, but there seems to be an indication here that if we try to retaliate, maybe God puts up, maybe God steps back And doesn't execute his justice in the situation. Ultimately he will, but in the circumstances, perhaps not. So if we're supposed to get out of the way, what are we supposed to do? If we're supposed to get out of the way and let God be God and and we be us, The next text tells us this, verses 20 through 21. We are actually supposed to meet the needs of our enemies. We're supposed to meet their needs. This is so anathetical to the world values. Therefore, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him a drink. For in so doing, notice what it says, you will heap coals of fire on his head. Now the first phrase there in that in verse 20 is a reference to Proverbs 25, verse 21. And actually both phrases are. And it says, If your enemy is hungry, give him bread to eat, and if he is thirsty, give him water to drink. For if you will heat coals of fire on his head, the Lord will reward you. Now isn't the I want us to understand something. In Proverbs you have general principles. It is not saying here that every time if you do this, this will always happen. Now I think ultimately God will always reward it. But in our circumstances, you can't say every time this will happen if you do this. I think this is a general principle of how God often works. So what does it mean when it says, for so you will heap coals of fire on his head? Well back during all if you go all the way back to the Egyptian days, there was a ceremonial ritual, apparently, where an enemy would express uh a change of thinking, repentance, if you will, by by having a sensor of fire on his head and coming to the enemy. You got two bat two war two people warring. to you know an Egypt is warring with somebody else and the leader comes with a sensor of fire in his head to indicate a change uh a change to indicate a surrender, to indicate a a repentance, if you will. And there is a sense in which if we will choose to return we to to take evil toward us and do good in return. If we will choose to do that then there is a sense of which on some occasions, maybe most occasions, if we will do it consistently, the person will go, oh I'm not justified in my harm of that person. I'm not justified in how I have treated that person. And there's a sense of shame that can come that causes that causes the the evil to be overcome by good. Which is exactly what the text says, verse 21. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good God desires for us to overcome evil with good. But I don't want to I don't want to move past that first phrase. Verse 21. Do not be overcome by evil. Did you know that you can be overcome by evil as a Christian? based upon how you respond to somebody else. If evil is done to you, how are you overcome by evil? You become like them. If you return evil for evil, you have now been overcome by evil. And so this is a warning. It is, look, it is very natural, it is very normal to punch back, to fight back. That is very normal, but it's not Christian. Instead, what the text tells us is that we are to choose to overcome evil with good. That is the conclusion of this chapter, or of this section rather. So I have three questions for us. Number one. Is that your how you respond? Do you respond to mistreatment with mercy and blessing? Do you do that? Is that your is that e is that even how you want to respond? See, to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace. This is what it means to be spiritually minded. This is what it means to function in a Christ-like manner, to be pressed into the mold of Christ. Rather than being pressed into the mold of the world, will you respond to mistreatment with mercy and blessing? Number two. Are we genuinely celebrating the wins of others, particularly in the body of Christ, as it says in Scripture, and mourning the losses of others? You see, this is how we, this is part of how we know we actually are loving people. When we can do this. When we can truly be, I mean truly rejoice, be thrilled when someone else is rejoicing, and to weep with those who weep Are we even aware when people are rejoicing and when they're weeping? Are we connected enough to do this? Number three, does our unity in the body come from having the same eternal priorities? Does our unity in the body come from having the same eternal priorities? That's what we see in the text. How does a church stay unified? We don't have individual agendas, we have Christ's agenda. We have eternal priorities. We set our mind on things above, not on the things of this world. And I then am pressed to ask the question that I always ask after every service, and that is, do you know Christ? This text actually shows you what a Christian should look like in the world. And every one of us has seen what the world looks like in the world. But this is what a Christian should look like in the world. So let me ask you a question. Are you a Christian? It is even possible for you to go through this text and go, I don't want any of this. I'm not interested in this. And boy, if somebody comes after me, I'm going after them, and I don't care. Are you a Christian? It might be a question you need to ask. At least, Christian, you need to ask, am I spirit filled and walking in the Spirit? Because I guarantee you're not. If you are coming to a text like this and you're saying, I don't care, I'm just going to do what I want. At least not spirit-filled. Perhaps a Christian not spirit-filled, but maybe not even a Christian. So the Bible tells us that we should see if we're in the faith. And maybe you're here this morning and you say, you know, I I'm not sure I'm really in the faith. I I look at all of this and I'm I'm just not really sure this is this is what I quote signed up for. Let me encourage you. To come to Christ. And if you're not sure about these things, if you have questions after going through this message with me, Let me help you. Let me help you take what Scripture says, take the gospel. And the Bible says these things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. life. So God wants you to know. And I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you have eternal life. pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for your word, your truth. And it is convicting, Father, because all of us would confess, I think all of us would confess before you that None of us do this perfectly for sure. Many of us, I don't think, do this that well. And we need and it and it causes to see how much we need to be dependent upon your spirit. These kinds of texts cause us to realize how much we need you. And we ask for your help, Lord. We know that apart from your spirit working in our hearts, we are never Going to be able to do what this text is telling us to do. So, Father, I pray that you would help us in to come to a place of utter dependency on you. and just humble submission to you, that we would say, Lord, I can't, but you can Help me to yield to your spirit. Help me to follow you one step after another, one foot in front of another, and help me to have this kind of attitude. As I respond to the treatment of others. And then I will grow in Christ's likeness as a result. I pray that for all of us who know you this day. And if there is anybody here that doesn't know you I pray that they would realize that. The first step to getting saved by Christ is to realizing they're lost. So I pray, Lord, that that would be the case today. If there is somebody here that doesn't know you, they would realize it and then they would seek out Christ today. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.