Let's go to the Lord in prayer together. Father, we thank you for so many things. We thank you for your goodness, your greatness. your graciousness. We praise you this morning for a well lit building and safety. We thank you for For the ways in which you work that we do not even recognize, the things that we do take for granted. And Lord, as we consider even the words that we have just sung, we recognize How difficult it is to have you as our vision, that your truth and your word would would fill our minds and our hearts. There are so many things That are competing for our focus and our direction. And Lord, we we pray that you would help us to understand And recognize where we falter so often in these areas. And even in the in the the passage that we'll be looking at at here in a little while we one of the things that we struggle the most in it seems is when it comes to the authorities that you have placed In front of us, above us. And Lord, honestly, we think of these things, and if we if we look at it with your perspective, we recognize that it is you Who puts people in authority? Your word is so clear, so amazingly clear, that it is you who is sovereign over all of these things. And that truly gives us great comfort. To know that people do not get in authority without you understanding and actually orchestrating it to be so. We thank you for that, Lord. May it increase our faith and our trust in you as we consider these truths, and we pray in Christ's name. Amen. Looking at Romans chapter 13, encourage you to turn there with me and read along. Romans 13. We were going through verses 1 through 7. Romans thirteen, one through seven, says, Let every soul be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God, and the authorities that exist are appointed by God. Therefore, whoever resists the authority Resist the ordinance of God, and those who resist will bring judgment on themselves. For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to evil Do you want to be unafraid of the authority? Do what is good, and you will have praise from the same. For he is God's minister to you for good. But if you do evil, be Be afraid. For he does not bear the sword in vain, for he is God's minister, an avenger to execute wrath on him who practices evil. Therefore, you who must be subject not only because of wrath, but also for conscience' sake. For because of this you also pay taxes, for they are God's ministers attending continuing continually to this very thing. Render therefore to all their due, taxes to whom taxes are due, customs to whom customs, fear to whom fear, honor to whom honor. Let me ask begin by asking this question. Do you compartmentalize your faith? You say, why what does that have to do with this passage? The passage that we're looking at this morning is a is kind of the classic passage in the New Testament on the Christian's relationship to authority, to civil authority particularly But I want to make sure that we're not we're not pulling it out of its context. Because the context that we have in this here is that the in is the entire book of Romans, which establishes what true saving faith looks like. And then we learn in Romans chapter 12, verse 1, that that that saving faith should result in true Complete dedication to God, presenting our bodies a living sacrifice to God, and that true dedication should then result in fulfilling our responsibility. in relationships. If we truly love God with all of our whole heart, soul, and mind, then we will love others the way that God wants us to. And the relationships that we have seen in Romans chapter 12 so far has been the relationship first, the responsibility that we have to the body of Christ. He starts off there. We have spiritual gifts. We have certain things that God wants us to be doing, a certain way that God wants us to relate to. each other to one another in the body of Christ. And then we see in verses 9 through 16 our responsibility to people in general. Some of it is includes the body of Christ. Oh, all of it includes the body of Christ. Some sp some it emphasize the body of Christ in that passage, and others people in general. And then we moved our responsibility to enemies. What do we do with those who are against us? What do we do with those who persecute us? What do we do with those who are actually trying to execute evil against us. And the Bible actually tells us that we are to overcome evil with good. So when we think of all of these responsibilities toward relationships, It actually isn't that abrupt for us then to look at verse chapter 13 and we see our responsibility to civil government. Notice all of these relationships all stem from ultimately the gospel The gospel and our trusting of the gospel results in our dedication to God, which results in our responsibility to all of these different areas. In other words, if you compartmentalize your faith and you say that your Christianity pretty much it's You know, you've got church over here, and you've got your sphere of your work here, and you've got your um your You know, government's over here and politics is over here. Everything's kind of separate in their own b compartments and there's no there's no mixing of all all that you really don't understand Christianity. You really don't understand the nature of the gospel because the reality is the gospel truly accepted and truly lived out affects every area of our lives. You know, some people sort of say, uh, when it comes to Things like the government, the church should stay out of the government. Well, there's a sense in which that's actually true, but it doesn't mean that the Bible doesn't address the government. It does. In fact, in extremely explicit terms here, we see God has a particular approach that He wants Christians to have when we view the government. That brings up something. How does our culture view the government? We've been going through these different relationships, our responsibility to these different relationships. And um we've kind of looked each week at uh first how the culture views these different things. How does the culture view our response to someone to someone going against us? We need to punch back. That's how the culture views it. So how does the c future how does the c culture view the government? Um some I th uh and actually it's gonna be mixed. Okay You rub shoulders at work and you talk about the government. You're going to have a mixed, it's going to be a mixed bag. There are some that view the government as the provider. They're the provider. They are the ones that we need to get as much from the government as we can. There are some that view the government as the great extorter. That the government takes from us too much and it taxes us too much. It draws from us too much. So some say, well, the government's taking too much from us, and other people say, well, the government needs to give us more. And by the way, you can't actually have both of those, but the math doesn't work on that. Some of us grew up where we believed strongly in extremely limited government. I grew up that way. And I still believe to significant limit significant limitations to government. But I I I threw I I I really grew up with really strong limitations to government. government and I also grew up fishing in the Patapsco River at Potasco State Park. And uh I loved Patabsco State Park, still do. And I moved away to a very, very conservative area up in Pennsylvania. Very conservative. They don't, you have to pay for your own trash up there. That's how conservative is. You say, what? Um yes, actually there is a connection. The the local area, it doesn't come through taxes, you've got to pay for your own trash, you've got to pay for your own water. Water was like, if I remember right It was like over a hundred bucks a month for water. Um it was it was you you had I I thought, man, I don't want to pay for trash, uh trash pickup. Everybody said, no, you don't have to. You can burn in a barrel. I said, okay, so I said I got a bur a barrel and I put it outside my house and there's some things don't burn very well in the barrel. I got com a compost a compost thing and I started we started using compost. We started putting them putting them burning stuff in a barrel and the place smelled. In fact, the entire area of Bellwood smelled like burning barrels and compost all the time because nobody wanted to pay for trash. And there were no state parks because you know the government had And everything was a little ugly. And I began to think, you know, maybe, maybe, maybe the govern maybe this is okay. Maybe we should actually have state parks and people picking up picking up their own you know like the state f the gut local areas picking up trash and you know I'm kind of okay with taxes on that a little bit. I don't really care where you stand But the reality is it's not quite as clear sometimes when it comes to the role of government when you talk to different people when when you discuss different people. And everybody I one thing I'll say is that the majority of people have some problem with it somewhere. As a whole, it's not viewed very well. But do you realize that in God's mind, the government is viewed as something that's positive. It's viewed actually as something that is a good thing. Civil authority is actually government is actually one of the three Institutions ordained by God. You say, boy, that does not sound right. Something doesn't sound right about this. This is like not. Are you sure you're a Christian? I am, really, I am. And then this is what the Bible says But when you actually read through what Paul says about civil authority and about government, it is to be viewed positively by the Christian, not negatively. Sometimes I think we are so negative about government because we actually just don't know what it's like to not have it anymore. Can you imagine what would happen if we didn't have government? It would be chaos and anarchy because we all have sin natures, are inherently greedy, we have serious problems. The reality is we actually Christians should should be pro-government. Now, I'm going to show that to you, but I want you to see a couple of things in the passage. I want to see I want you to show you a couple of connections here between Romans 12 and Romans I want you to notice that in Romans 12, it spoke several times about doing good. So if you look at Romans chapter 12, verse 2, it says that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect. And then if you'll skip your eyes down to Romans chapter 12, verse 17, it says, have regard for good things. And then 1221, it says, be overcome Overcome evil with good. And now it's going to say Romans 13, 3 through 4. Actually just look at verse 4. For he is a minister to you for good. So there's actually a connection there. We as Christians are supposed to be doing good, and it's the role of the government to help us to do good. culture. We see actually the concept of wrath in chap in Romans chapter 12, verse 19. Remember from last week, we are not to execute wrath on somebody. We We leave it up to God to do what only God can do in su in in the life of somebody. He is the one that can execute justice Romans chapter 12, verse 19, beloved, do not avenge yourselves, but rather give place to wrath, for it is written, vengeance is mine, I will reveal. paid. But but ultimately that wrath is probably going to come e uh in in the next life, not this life. And yet there is someone who is to be and an ex executor of judgment in this life, that's government. And we actually see that in the passage as well in Romans 13. So we actually see some connections between chapter 12 and verse and And actually there's another one in chapter 12, verse 14. It says, Blessed are those who persecute you, bless and do not curse. Now at this point in in in the church's history when Paul wrote this there was it looks to me from what I can tell it looks like there was not significant persecution at this point. But they certainly anticipated persecution. Christ told them to to anticipate it. And Christ was persecuted by the Roman government. And so they certainly would have had that in their mind, the possibility of persecution. So what we're going to actually see from this passage is that Christ-likeness requires a right relationship with civil authority. And there's actually how how does that happen? What is the right relationship? Just two things. Number one, we submit to government government authority. We submit to government authority. And number two, we satisfy obligations to the governing authorities. What how should and you know what? It's not going to matter what government what government it is. It's not going to matter what authority it is. It doesn't matter who's in office and who's not. None of that's going to matter. Our role as Christians is to submit to governing authorities and to satisfy obligations to governing authorities. So let's look at this. First of all, to submit the governing authorities. It says everyone must be subject to governing authorities. It says everyone Everyone. There are no exceptions. It's not as though the church or somebody in the church is going to be in a uh like not not in a th you know they they're exempt from the authority of the government. Everyone is to be, even as a Christian, to be under the authority Under the authority of the government. What does it mean to be in subject to the civil authorities? What does that mean? Well, I think it means at least Three things. Number one, it means that we have to submit. First Peter two, verses thirteen through seventeen, and in that context, you actually have persecution that's happening at And ramping up. You have Nero, actually, that's an emperor, and anything anything you know about him, you realize that he greatly persecuted Christians. He used the death, he used, he burned Christians to light his gardens, historically, apparently. They said in 1 Peter 2, verses, thirteen through seventeen. Therefore, submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, whether to the king as supreme, or to governors, as to those who sent by him for the punishment of evildoers. And for the praise of those who do good. Submit. The word means to arrange yourself under. How are we supposed to be subject to governing authorities? We're to submit. Number two, we're to pray. We find this in first Timothy chapter two verses one through two. Therefore I exert first of all that supplications, prayers Intercessions and giving of thanks be made for all men, for kings, and all who are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty and re and reverence. And we lit need to live peaceably. God wants us to live peaceably under authority Titus 3, 1 through 2 says, Remind them to be subject to rulers and authorities, to be to obey, to be ready for every good work, to speak evil of no one, to be peaceable, gentle, showing all humility in all men. And in 1 Thessalonians 4, it says that you also aspire to lead a quiet life, to mind your own business, and to work with your own hands as we command. commanded you, that you may walk were properly toward those who are outside and those who though that you may lack nothing. There is a general theme as we sub as we are subject to the civil authorities that we live peaceably and submissively and prayerfully. That should be be our default disposition when it comes to civil authorities. Now this doesn't mean I want to qualify, it doesn't mean that we condone everything that civil authorities always It doesn't mean that we we vocally support everything that civil authorities always do. And it doesn't mean that we fully participate in everything that civil civil authorities all uh uh always do. But what we are but what we see from this passage is that the Christians the Christians Place and relationship to government as a default is one where we view it positively and we submit ourselves under it and we pray for those who rule. uh over us. We pray. In fact, I think we need to do a lot more praying and a lot less viewing sometimes. Uh I think that we should s uh what what would happen is if ev if every time we watched the news And every point we prayed for it. We paused every once in a while and just prayed for whatever is going on in the news. One of two things would happen. We pray a lot more or we watch a lot less. And both of them are a whim. It would change our perspective, wouldn't it? I'm not I don't think we stick our head in a hole and we don't know anything and we don't learn anything about anything. I don't think that's the case. I think we are we are not to be isolated from the world But folks, if we are going to insulate ourselves from the world, we are going to have to do it. We are going to have to look at and view the news, and we ought to think biblically, and we've got to pray, pray. The things that we are seeing. And that's what we see in Scripture. Well, what are the reasons? Why is it so important? Why does Paul put point this out? And why is it so important? There are actually in Scripture seven reasons in here in this text. And in these reasons, he sets them up as reasons To be subject to authority, we find much about the nature of God's view of government. What is government supposed to do? What does God say government is supposed to do? And we'll begin by looking re at reason number one. Government is by divine decree. It's by divine decree. It says, for there is no authority except from God, and the authorities that exist Are appointed by God. It says, there is no authority except from God. You know what that's saying? It's saying that God is the primary and supreme authority over all. That's his role. He is supreme over all. Psalm 62:11 says: God has spoken once, twice, I have heard this: that power belongs to God. Isaiah 40 verses 23 through 24, he brings the princes to nothing and makes the judges of all the earth useless. Scarcely shall they be planted, scarcely shall they be s uh shall they be sown, scarcely shall their stock take root in the earth, when he will also blow on them and he will wither and the whirlwind will take Take them all away like stubble. He can rise them up. He can put them down. They can be like chaff in the wind. He can do whatever he wants. In fact, in the one time that I know of in Scripture where it says that God laughs Psalm 2, it's in reference to the rulers of this world thinking that they are the ultimate authority and they are battling against each other. And it says, the Lord sits in the heaven and he laughs at this. Aren't you glad about that, by the way? That God is the supreme authority. He is over all, and he controls all. But we also see that the authorities that exist are appointed by God. That is, the authorities that exist are delegated by God. So there is the primary authority, God, and every other authority is delegated by God. The institutions that God has established, the three institutions mentioned before, include the government, so that the governmental authorities are ordained by God. This has caused great angst over the over the history of it of Israel and the church, actually. A man by the name of Carl Barth. During n the Nazi Germany time really uh questioned the the what this passage was actually saying. A man by the name of Ernst Caseman during that time actually believed that this must not be Pauline authorship, that this doesn't belong in the canon of scripture. Because of during World War II and all that happened with Hitler and all that. But the reality is we there are some important implications here from this passage and from this idea that God is primary and everything is delegated. One is we do need to take civil obedience seriously And when we can, we ought to submit and obey. But we also have to remember that everything is delegated, and so that God is the primary authority. So that there are times where we have to obey the primary authority and disobey the secondary delegated authority. And the apostles and actually Apostle Paul as well as Peter and John the Apostles in the New Testament, we see this. It's a funny thing. Somebody uh in in in Acts chapter 4, verses 19 through 20 It says Peter and John they answered, there was some uh the Jewish authority actually at that point, that they were coming and they did they wanted Peter and John to stop giving the gospel. And here's what Peter and John said to them. Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you more than God, you judge. Did you catch what he said they said? It's kind of like saying if you're if you have uh if you work for a company and the owner of the company tells you to do one thing and a supervisor under the owner tells you to do another. And you say to the supervisor, you judge whether the owner would be happier if I do what he says or do what you said. It's kind of obvious. And it's obvious for us as well as Christians. If the government says don't preach the word of God, then we preach the word of God anyway. If the government says, don't pray, don't hold public prayer meetings, then we do it anyway. Why? Because God is the primary authority. And everything else is delegated authority. We learn also another passage in Acts that says that Peter and the other apostles answered and said, We ought to obey God rather than man. Reason number two. Government resistance is rebellion against God. Government resistance is rebellion against God. This comes down very clearly and very uh uh very harshly. Other than the fact, other than when God has said something in his word, which is the primary authority that contradicts what the government wants, government resistance is rebellion against God. Therefore, it says, whoever resists the authority resists the ordinance of God. Now, some of you at this point are going, well, wait a minute, what about like the founding of our country? Well what about our the gu what about the revolution? And you know the best thing I can say to that? It's complicated I I uh I've I've I've learned that that's what young people say when it comes to relationships sometime and actually like you'll see it on social media, they're not in they're not in a relationship or out of a relationship, it's complicated. And frankly, the American Revolution is is pretty complicated actually as far as uh as as far as whether they were resisting government or not. I think the best rationale that I've I can come up with, and this is for personal opinion, is when Abigail Adams wrote to to um to her husband, which was a non-political environment, and basically said, we are not leaving Great Britain. Great Britain is leaving us. And that was the basis of the revolution. I think still it's pretty complicated. But I think actually what we need to do is realize that regardless of our nation's history whether you see it as a uh th whether there's a clear rationale for doing what we did in the beginning or not, there is a sense in which Americans can be on the rebellious side of things. You're like, no, of course not. No, we really can't. We can have sort of an underlying cultural rebellion that we need to actually ask ourselves the question, is this biblical? And realize that as Christians, our first responsibility is to be biblical. That our view and our attitude toward government is one that is biblical first. Number three, government resistance will result in punishment. Government resistance will result in punishment. This is so obvious. Like why should you obey government? Because you're going to get punished if you don't, right? This is very simple. This is not hard to understand. This is something that even the smallest of children can understand. So it says, and those who resist will bring judgment on themselves. You're going to bring punishment on yourself. if you resist the government. Number four, government serves at to restrain evil. And herein lies one of the one of, if not the primary divine purpose of government It is to restrain evil. We don't have the time to turn to Genesis chapter 9, but you see that clearly there. It is that's the role of government. Government is as a reac as God established government as in in in response to the reality of the sin nature that we are all sinful, that we are all evil, and unrestrained we will all destroy ourselves. Number five, government serves to promote good. Government serves to promote good. Notice what it says in the passage, for you want to be unafraid of the authority, do what is good, and you will have praise of the same. Do do you ever met somebody that it's it it seems as though they're they're always looking over their shoulder? You don't have to look at your shoulder. your shoulder if you're doing right all the time. Right? I mean kids need to learn this, right? When you're with your parents. If you just do right, you don't need to look over your shoulder to see if your parents are looking all the time. And the reality is it's the same with our gut with the government. Now you say, well, wait a minute, the government might actually assess something wrong, and absolutely that's true. But if we are doing right. And the government the government punishes us for doing right, then what do we call that? It's probably persecution. And God actually says He blesses those who are persecuted. So we've got to actually view this The way that God does. Government serves to promote good. And it says he is God's minister to you for good. First Peter chapter four two verse fifteen says, For this is the will of God, that by doing good you may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men, as free yet not using liberal liberty of the cloak for vice, but as bondservants of God, honor all people, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the king. For he is a minister, Scripture says, of God, God's minister to you for good. Verse Thessalonians chapter four verses eleven through twelve, that you also aspire to lead a quiet life, to mind your own business, to work with your own hands as we commanded you. is gonna this for this idea of of living a life of peace and working with your hands and walking properly and all those things is gonna come up in a few minutes. Government is divinely, number six, government is divinely authorized to punish disobedience. It is divinely authorized. We are not divinely authorized to punish disobedience. But the government is. We see that here. But if you do evil, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. What does it mean? It means that the uh the the ability to execute, the ability to execute punishment, those are things that reside in in in the authority of the government. Why? Look at the next we actually see a position here. For he is God's minister, God's servant is actually the word He is God's minister, an avenger to execute wrath on him who practices evil. Government is actually divinely authorized to punish death. And finally, government should be followed to please God. We should follow government simply to please God. Verse 5, therefore you must be subject not only because of wrath. but also for conscience sake. Not only because you're gonna be punished if you don't, that's a good reason by the way. I mean most of us obey the speeding laws because we know that we're gonna get speeding tickets if we don't I mean, I don't know anybody going really slow on the Audubon. But there is another reason to obey government. It's actually because it pleases government. God. Am I willing to obey government to please God? Not only for because of wrath, it says, but for conscience' sake. But it's interesting that the Apostle Paul uses that because that's a there's there's two applications of that. It is for conscience sake that I obey government, and it would be for conscience sake if I don't And the only good reason to not obey government is when the Bible has trained my conscience to go a different direction. Now, I want to make this as as practical as possible. We've gone through these different reasons for why we need to be subject to government. And I want it to be as practical as possible as you can. Actually we're going to get really practical. But before we get there, I'd like you to take your Bible and turn to Jeremiah twenty-nine. I referenced this passage not too long ago, but I think this is going to be very helpful for us in asking the question, okay, what happens when I don't agree with the government? What happens when the government is tyrannical? Is that possible? Does that happen? What happens if the government is not doing the right thing? Well, what you actually have in Scripture here, as we pick up in Jeremiah 29, is that the nation of Israel is about to be captured and taken into captivity. And they are going to be taken over by the Babylonian Empire ultimately. Nebuchadnezzar, remember the stories of Nebuchadnezzar and Daniel. Daniel. They are going to be enslaved by Nebuchadnezzar and the Babylonians. Some of the men are going to be castrated for the use and servitude, including Daniel and his friends. for the youth and servitude of Babylon. This is a extremely severe, serious situation that God has actually ordained to occur. Israel's identity is going to be in question. They are no longer going to be able to function as a nation at all. They're going to be under a pagan, idolatrous rule that that is going to suppress them and oppress them, and they are going to have to work with underneath that system. And you know what God doesn't say to do in that situation? We need to fight and we need to rebel and we need to constantly cause problems for them. I want you to notice what it says in Jeremiah twenty nine verse three. It says the letter was sent by the hand of Ela Elasah, the son of Shaphan And Gemariah the son of Hilkiah the whom Zedek Zedekiah king over Judah sent to Babylon to Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, saying Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, to all who were carried away captive, whom I have caused to be carried away from Jerusalem. He says, for whom I have caused, God has caused this. Build houses and dwell in them. What do we how are we supposed to function in a government we don't agree with? How are we supposed to function In a situation that seems to be completely unreasonable, build houses and dwell in them. Plant gardens and eat their fruit. Take wives and beget sons and daughters, and take wives for your sons, and give your daughters to husbands, so that they may bear sons and daughters, that you may be increased there, and not diminished. And seek the peace of the city where I have caused you to be carried away captive, and pray to the Lord for it, for it is for its peace, you will have peace. Do you see what you see in this passage? The same kind of thing we see in the New Testament, where Paul says, lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. And reference and and build houses and plant a garden. You gardeners out there, it's biblical. Some of you would do far better off if you just plant a garden instead of watching the news. It's much more peaceful. And you actually have some some kind of hand in it. The news is frustrating, and it's actually function often to get a rise out of you. That's how it's designed because it it's you know you can get more clicks and more likes and more kinds of those things kind of things if it just You know, if it gets you all riled up, plant a garden. Uh uh build a house Get married. Not if you're already married, don't get married. The idea is that even in oppressive governments, in a situation that seems totally frustrating. God says, you know, you can function as long as much as you can, as much as the government will allow you to function in a normal way and seek the peace of it. And it doesn't matter for our country, it doesn't matter who's in office. It doesn't matter if it's Biden, it doesn't matter if it's Trump. It doesn't matter if there are tariffs, it doesn't matter if there aren't tariffs. It Doesn't matter. You we are going to do the same kinds of things the best we can with what we're given because we have no control other than our our election our our our duty to to to vote We're simply going to pray and submit and do the best we can under the circumstances. That we find ourselves in and realize that God is the ultimate authority. disagree or not, because this is an illustration, and it's my illustration. Um when when tariffs first came out, I thought, okay, that makes good sense. Um, you know, like you know, we put tariffs on foreign on the for on foreign countries and then and then it allows us to be able to build from the inside out. And I'm like, that makes good sense. And the more I looked into tariffs, I'm going I'm not sure that makes any sense. I'm I think there are some some uh m issues here that are going to cause problems. And then I you look at the history of the use of tariffs in our country and it doesn't look so good Guess I don't know what some of you are like, what's wrong with you? I like tariffs. And some of you are like, yeah, you're right, tariffs are bad. You know what? It doesn't matter. As far as a Christian is concerned We need to follow what the Bible says. And we need to function the way the Bible tells us to function. And that means we are to submit and to pray. Doesn't mean we have to agree. There are a lot of things I don't agree with. I a and I'll be honest with you, whether it's Republican or Democrat in there, it doesn't matter. I disagree with all of them on a lot of Things. I I do. I've never been under a president where I agree with everything they've done or said. And there is to varying degrees, frankly, depending on who's in But at the end of the day, as a Christian, we come back to what the Bible says and what our disposition is supposed to be and how we we are supposed to respond and the guidance that we're given in Scripture Now how does this flesh out in real life? Well it's interesting. In the book of Daniel you have you have a lot of what happened as Daniel and his friends, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, they began to apply the things that they were taught to do as much as they could. In Jeremiah. And they did run into problems. Big problems. They started out with problems like like uh you need to eat And so what did they do? They up they they had civil appeal. We see that. They appealed. Can can a Christian legitimately appeal to their government? Absolutely we can. We can, did you know you can be be submissive and make appeals at the same time? I try to tell my kids this. There is a rebellious way to make an appeal, and there is a submissive way to make an appeal. And as I I teach my kids, it is perfectly fine for you to make one at least one appeal, usually just one appeal. Uh uh as long as you make it respectfully. Um it I I am not you know why I allow my kids to do that? Because I'm not perfect. And I might be seeing I might not see something that needs to be seen. And if they are allowed to make a respectful appeal, then it gives me a chance to sort of go, oh yeah, I hadn't thought of that. I hadn't considered that. But after the appeal is made, then authority has to be established. We could do the same thing in government. David uh Daniel did. But then when there are things that came about like bow down to the idol, that uh Daniel chapter three You have clear civil resistance. They said, we're not careful to answer you this matter. We cannot bow down to that idol. And whatever happens to us, happens to us. They were willing to take death. To obey God and not to and not to bow down to the idol. And then there was sometimes just civil Disobedience, quiet civil disobedience. Remember Daniel? They said uh they they put put out a decree that you couldn't pray publicly, and and Daniel did. Daniel went on and did what he did. Why? Because biblically He was called to pray. So God has a way for a Christian. It doesn't matter the government. It doesn't matter the situation. God has a way for us to function. And number one, we trust God because He's the ultimate authority, number one. And number two, we function in a way that will be best for our family, we are best for us uh to function in a way where we are peaceful with each other, where we are promoting God's kingdom, not our own. This is how we must learn to function. comes to government. But number two, yes we've got to subject ourselves to government. Scripture says it. But number two, we need to satisfy the obligations to government authorities. Verses 6 through 7. Number one, verse 6, we need to pay our taxes. Look at what verse 6. I this could not get any clearer on God's position toward taxes. It says, for because of this you also pay taxes. For there are God's ministers attending I'm tending continually to this very thing. Render therefore to all their due, taxes to whom taxes are due, custom to whom custom, fear to whom fear, honor to honor. And you look at that and you say, well, that's pretty clear. Do you know that there are Christian, professing Christians, that I have met, that have somehow made the argument that they should not pay their taxes? As clear as this is, and this is really just a reiteration of what Christ said when he said, render therefore unto Caesar the things that are Caesar, and to God the things that are God's. This could not be any clearer. And yet there are some Christians that somehow make this idea because the government goes to support things that I don't like, so therefore I don't need to pay my taxes. Does that what the Bible says? Well, except when the gut you don't like what the government is doing, then you don't have to pay your taxes. It doesn't say that. I mean, our federal government, we still have what's called the Hyde Amendment, which keeps keeps the federal government, at least allegedly, from supporting abortions. But if that Hyde Amendment amendment goes away, do we still support do we still pay taxes? I mean consider the context of the first century and the people that were in power. Uh Nero and the things that he was doing and all the different w there is no except the the Bible is really clear on what we are supposed to do. We We just because we pay taxes doesn't mean we condone everything that the government is doing. God says pay your taxes. Now, it also is fine not to pay like if there's a way for you to you know, claim your deductions and all that, that's perfectly fine. Nothing wrong with that. It's good stewardship. When it comes right down to it, we need to pay what we owe. This is really clear in Scripture. Apparently, part of this issue back then, according to Roman historian Tacitus, uh was that there was a considerable resistance in the middle 50s A. D. and paying indirect taxes. In fact, Nero, when he was first in power, and actually he wasn't too crazy, when he was first in power, thought about the idea of removing all indirect taxes, but he chose not to, and all this culminated in a tax revolt in A. D. 58. What are indirect taxes? Well we know what those are, right? We live in Maryland. Things like tolls. If you go this way, you're gonna hit a toll. To go this way you're going to hit a toll. To go that way you're going to hit a toll. You might as well get easy pass. I'll just let you know. If you're new to this area, just get easy pass, put it up there and expect a bill. Or this thing called emissions testing. It's a tax is what it is. It's an indirect indirect tax. At least that's what I think. it is. Maybe I'm wrong. I'm that's not Bible truth, by the way, that's just what I think. Whether they're indirect taxes Or whether they're called taxes, what does the Bible say here in the passage? Render therefore to all their due, taxes to whom taxes are due, custom to whom custom, the word custom could actually be Translated tolls. Custom to whom customs. Fear to whom fear. Honor to whom honor. God says that our responsibility is to pay our taxes. But it also says this. We need to pay respect. Fear to whom fear. There is to be according to in the scripture a proper rev reverence for those whom God has placed in authority. And there does not seem to be there doesn't seem to be a um Now that that does not mean that you have to respect the person. There are lots of people in civil authority over many years that I I have almost no if no respect for the person. Politic politics is so corrupt mean, politics is you have to s promote yourself just to get in there and there is so many vying um uh special interest group And things that cause you to want to go a different way. I mean i i i it there's a lot to it. And so we cannot expect that our government leaders are going to be extremely idealistic. They probably aren't. But there, according to Scripture, there is a sense in which we respect the position. the position that we respect. We don't necessarily have to respect the person, I don't think. This is my opinion, but what's clear in the passage is we do have to respect the position That they hold. Because ultimately, ultimately, God put them there. And this is what Scripture says. There's no way around it. Whoever it is in office, God put them there. You say, well, I don't understand why God put them there. There's all kinds of things in life that we don't understand why God does what he does. It happens all the time We we cannot assume that God wants even the success of this nation in in the long term. We don't know what God wants. God gets to do what he wants to with the United States of America Because God is God and He's sovereign. And our God is not the United States of America. Our God is God. And if the nation falls, it falls according to God's will. And if it rises, it rises according to God's will. Our trust, our honor, our respect, our allegiance ultimately is entirely to God, and our allegiance to the leadership of this nation is based upon our allegiance to God. And God says we pay respect. It's very clear in the passage. And number two, number three, we pay honor. Honor means that we attribute proper weight to. We attribute proper value to. 1 Peter 2 verse 17, honor all people, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the king. That's what God says to do. So what is why do we do all of this? Because ultimately God wants us to grow in Christ's likeness Think about when Christ was on this earth. How did he respond to government? Did he join the rebellion, the the rebellions of that time, and there were many? He did not. He was submissive to government, even to the cross, even to the point of the cross. And we need to follow the example of Christ. So how do we do that? Let's just remember these three things. Number one, the Christian view of government is positive, not negative. It's positive. God instituted it, He established it. And so as much as I don't love paying taxes and as much as I don't love everybody that's in office and as much as I really don't trust certain people and all of those kinds of things I have to view government as something that is positive because ultimately God instituted it. Number two. The Christian submission to government avoids punishment and pleases God. Submission to government avoids punishment. I mean that's essentially all those seven reasons. Bottom line, it avoids punishment and pleases God. Makes pretty good sense. And number three, the Christian should pay all required taxes. This is really dirt practical. There shouldn't be any wiggle room here. You really if you don't I mean there's not much that you can do with this passage to make it sound look take it any other way. And and have the passage um still have integrity when you're interpreting the passage. So we need Now you're saying, boy, this was not what I came for. You know, I wanted to be encouraged and I wanted to uh be uplifted. Remember that God's goal for us as Christians is Christ-likeness. And no matter who is in government and what is going on in government, God will use all of it always for His glory and for our good. Romans chapter 8 28 tells us that. That when we view things like government and we watch the news, we ought to look at all of this and And say, you know what? I don't know how, but in some way, God's going to use this in my life for me to grow in Christ-likeness. When we view things that way, it puts things into perspective where we just trust the Lord and be as obedient as we know to be. in the situation that we find ourselves in. If you're here this morning and you don't know the Lord, you might be hearing things that sound a little bit strange. This is not the way that much of our culture thinks when it comes to comes to government. If you want to know more about the Christian faith, let me encourage you to come and talk with me afterwards and I'd be glad to answer any questions that you have. From this text. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for your word. We thank you that it is it at times lifts us to the great The great heights of your character, your sovereignty, and your mercy, and other times gets extremely practical. We thank you that the Christian faith is not to be lived in a vacuum. That the gospel is to be lived out in every sphere in our lives, including our Relationship to civil authority. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us in trying times, in difficult times. To learn how to please you. That should be our goal. How do we please you as we submit and subject ourselves Lord, we need your help with this. All of these areas that we have gone through over the last few weeks, we come to this. We can't do this without your help. We must trust you and depend on you. May this drive us to realizing we cannot, but you can And help us to realize how we can trust you and obey you through all of this. And then finally, Father, we are grateful that you are king over all. You are the High King of Heaven, as the hymn goes that we sang previously. And we thank you for that. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, may the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.