We are going to be looking into Proverbs chapter 3, verses 1 through 6 this morning. But before we go there, might we bow our heads together and go to the Lord in prayer? Heavenly Father, we are grateful and thankful this morning that you in all of your wisdom and all of your love have given us your great and precious promises. And Father, as we come to this time this morning, to sit under your word and your teaching, I pray that you would be with Brother Enrique, Lord, and just give him wisdom and discernment, clarity of thought and clarity of speech. And I pray that you would work in our hearts and our minds. Help us, Lord, to clear out all the things and all the thoughts and all the things that distract us. May we take this next time to be Listening to your word. And Father, not only be hearers of it, but doers of it. So we ask for your Spirit to work mightily in our hearts and our minds as we come under your word this morning. May we be changed more and more into your image when we leave this place than when we came in. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Proverbs chapter 3, verses 1 through 6. My son, do not forget my law, but let your heart keep my command. For the length of days and long life. And peace they will add to you. Let not mercy and truth forsake you. Bind them around your neck. Write them on the tablets of your heart. And so find favor in high esteem, in the sight of God and man Trust in the Lord with all of your heart, and lean not on your own understanding, and in all of your ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct your Path, Brother Henri. Thank you, Harry, for reading that for us. Well, Pastor Jim and Elizabeth are away. For those visiting with us, I am not your typical preacher up here. Well, hopefully I'm typical in one sense Maybe not the other, but um uh they are away celebrating their anniversary. So it's a great time for them to get away. And uh Pastor Jim has asked uh me to uh preach in his stead and so I am uh glad to do so. I tell you what, this is um this is a passage that is very well known by most of us, I would think. Very quotable. This is probably one that we have memorized, likely. And even if uh you haven't memorized it, you probably could. It is very um there's a meter to it. It's very rhythmic. It it feels uh it it feels it rolls off the tongue very easily and it's easy There are tremendous truths in this passage. But you know, genuine trust in God. Trust in God is one of the of those things that we people do we not find it difficult to do at times? Or maybe most of the time? We may know intellectually trusting God is the best, right? Our decisions, though, and our actions They can often betray the fact that perhaps we aren't as trusting in God as we should be. Is it not interesting that for those of us who have trusted Christ as our Savior, We can trust God with our eternal destiny. We can place our souls in his hands. And yet we struggle. For the day-to-day, for the hour by hour, in trusting him. I mean what is the difference? Is there really any difference between those two? You know, Jesus has paid the price for our sins. There is nothing left for us to do to earn salvation. He has earned it all. By accepting this remarkable gift of salvation, we place our faith, our trust, our dependence in His sacrifice. And the Bible says that Jesus saves us. God saves us through the sacrifice of his son For the day-to-day, we also have very little control over what takes place. Yes, we have decisions to make. Yes, there are many things to do on a day-to-day basis But apart from the decisions we make, very little is in our control. And in fact, stuff that's outside of our control can change our decisions that we have to make on a whim, perhaps You know, we aren't immediately with God. Jesus saves us. He takes he removes the penalty of our sin away from us, puts it on him. And if by the way, if that is a foreign concept to you, this morning. That might be good to might be good for you to come take me aside or one of the other individuals here that you know and ask us about what the Bible has to say about salvation. There are many days to live out on this planet, right? Um trusting and depending on God for all things is what the Bible proclaims for us to do. But we forget, we seem to be so forgetful in trusting God and how to do it. We actually instead, instead of trusting in God, we rely we rely on other things. Perhaps that is why God has made sure to put passages like this one in the Bible. We need reminders of what trusting God really looks like. Because we so easily stray from these principles. My hope is that whether you are struggling with trusting God right now, or you're coming out of a period of where you really needed to trust God, Or whether you are going into a period of where you will be struggling with trusting God with something. My prayer is that this will be this message will be an encouragement to you, a challenge, a help. This message I am about to preach, it could be called what is normally referred to as a life message. What do I mean by that? Well, uh a life message typically has the passage as the framework, and certainly the truth of God's word is central. But there is an interweaving of a personal journey that goes along with it. And so that is the plan for this morning. There are few of you who know this story already. But many of you do not. So, yes, we are going to look at this biblical truth as it is played out, as it is fleshed out in this text I have uh I have, you know, to be transparent, I have purposefully delayed telling this story publicly. Um there may be reasons why you'll see But my objective will be to make sure that you take this message as intended. An awesome work from an awesome God as he showed himself mighty in the life of one of his faltering children. To reinforce the biblical truth found in this passage, that God is completely worthy of our trust today, for tomorrow, and for the months to come. As a twenty-one-year-old college student, the prospect of finding a wife was very important to me. And cannot get an amen, right? Yeah. It's pretty critical. I was quite confident that God would have me marry someday. And it was up to me to make it happen. If you don't see the irony or the uh fallacy in that, you'll see why in a little while. Um after being kind of obsessed in my teenage years for finding a future mate, I came across a book that wasn't perfect, but it had a lot of good uh a lot of good principles. And it was called When God Writes Your Love Story by the Ludis, uh couple, Ludi. And in this I learned that bringing two people together is God's work, not man's work. I learned there that it wasn't up to me, so I didn't have to worry about it. A future mate was God's business, and I just really needed to be along for the ride. Well, that's what I was trying to do So fast forward a few years, and it was the fall of 2003. I had just entered my sophomore year of college after taking a year off And um there were a few years of not really living by God writing my love story. My impatience, my stressing, my tension, um, it wasn't working. So with this knowledge and trying to capture all of this together, um I I planted I I I planted in my head that I was going to commit to not stressing about this This year. College is college. God is God, and He's going to work it all out. Many of you met uh Craig Comstock and Leanna Comstock. We went to college with them. They were same class classmates with us. And uh Craig was my best friend in college, and um and so I was having a conversation with him, and I told him, I said, I think God is going to do something great this And because of how because of how many of our conversations went, he said, What do you mean, like with a girl or something? And I said, Yeah, maybe I don't know. I I just we'll see. You see, finding a spouse was something that I was so focused on to my judgment. But I was learning some important things. Like I can't wreck my future because of some incidental missed opportunity. God is way bigger than any of that. So while there had been many failed attempts at finding a future Mrs. Lopez, I was content to see see how God would work. And by the way, by failed attempts, just so you all know, that is me asking and being told flatly no multiple times. And they couldn't even give me a good reason either. I don't know. Look, whether it is a future spouse a prospective job, a choice in which college to go. Life is full of fork in the road decisions, right? And it's those decisions and options that we can severely stress over because we can't go to chapter and verse, and God's not going to directly tell us. Go to this college, take that job, marry this person, so forth and so on. He's not going to do it. We would want it that way. But is that really for the best? Something to think about. Many of you are perhaps facing some of these even today. How are you handling them? How have you handled them in the past? So, are we left in the dark? Do we have no help? In our passage today, we are given truths from Proverbs that show us that one who genuinely trusts in God That one who genuinely trusts in God has great help from the Lord. We who are trusting in Him, we are not alone. But what do we mean by trust? What does genuine trust look like? Well, we will find out today that genuinely trusting God includes, along with being wary of dangers and pitfalls, we we are so familiar with this passage. But have we considered what it would look like to do the exact opposite? So look look at the passage. Let's read let's read the the section again. I had ri uh Harry give us a little bit of the context when he's a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of He read the whole thing, but our focus will be on five and six. So it says in the in the scriptures, it says, Trust in the Lord with all your heart, lean not on your own understanding. What if we reverse every single one of those? What does that read like? Maybe it reads something like this: trust in yourself with all your heart And always lean on your own understanding. In all your ways, ignore God, and you can direct your paths. Now I think when we when we read that, there is a little bit of a shock value to that, right? Like we we read that and go, no, no, not that. We don't want to do that That's not it. But let's take a moment. Are we not often bent to actually trusting ourselves before we trust God? Are we not often bent towards leaning on our own understanding before God's? Are we not at times pr prone to ignore God rather than acknowledging Him in all our ways? And do we not fundamentally often just want to direct our own paths? Hopefully we don't try to do all of these at once. I think that's probably pretty rare. But there are certainly segments of where it can be like that. That looks really bad. That looks really bad when you do it that way. But let's let's dive into this passage and see what it really says. Okay? Not that. So the first part says to trust in the Lord with all your heart. This is genuine trust in God, must be done with one's whole being. Number one. Genuine trust in God must be done with one's whole being. You might call this trust's magnitude. To trust is to be confident in, to be secure in, to be sure, to put confidence in, to make your hope in. The truth is that trust and lean are very connected in this passage. Lean actually talks about that physical experience of supporting yourself. We'll get to that more in a moment. But we must have continual regard to God's providence in all our affairs as one as one uh individual as one um as one commentator put it. In all our affairs with our whole hearts in every aspect of our being What this means is there that there cannot be a part of our lives which we do not trust God. In that book when God writes your love story. He he talks about the compartmentalization of trust. And I found that pretty helpful as far as what trusting can look like in the normal person. Yeah, we have we have areas in which we we like to trust God in and we're comfortable with it, but then there are these segments in which in which we really struggle in that regard. And that's, I think that's part of our human nature, part of our human condition But when we're talking about our whole heart, it means that it is every part of us. We are not holding back in any regard. You know, we might, as far as that compartmentalization, we might have little to no trouble about trusting God when it involves our income, let's say. Okay? Maybe we're steady on that and we we we don't have any problem trusting God that. But when it comes to our children, we actually hold back trust in God. God and and we actually trust more in ourselves. Maybe we have very little difficulty trusting God in the realm of schooling, for instance. Many of you are in college, I know, and many of you are studying. Maybe we don't have any trouble with that, but what we do struggle with certain relationships Friendships or otherwise perhaps, and we don't trust him fully. Sometimes when we're not trusting, some of those indicators where we're when we're holding back on trust, some of those indicators can be when we're trying to manipulate, when we're trying to um trying to manipulate circumstances or perhaps even scheming with people. to bring about a certain event that you want, well that's that's evidence that we're not trusting God with the situation. We're actually We're actually leaving some of that trust in ourselves, at least. Some Can anyone guess what I was struggling to trust God with as a 21-year-old college student? Yes, a future spouse. I did want to trust God with it, but that was good. You know, as that fall semester went on, things were really cool. Uh friendships that I had begun my freshman year picked up right where they left off. And knew New friendships began as well. I remember a trip before all of uh all the classes started that a bunch of us students took. There were multiple vans involved. Many of my older friends were there, new acquaintances were there, and among them was a certain Miranda Griffiths. For those who don't know That is my wife, her maiden name, and new friends that I was making also. I vividly remember helping Miranda across across the rocks of the gorge By holding her hand. Now I say it that way because this is a Bible college. If you're not familiar with Bible college and some of their rules, like no touchy touchy was pretty much always the rule, but there were circumstances. I figured at the time You know, she could either plunge into the icy waters or I I help her out. And so um uh that trip it it kind of reminded me of of a chat that Miranda and I had in uh in our freshman year towards the end. And um we spent a bit of time talking once and it was probably the longest conversation. We have her and I were part of the same circle of friends for a while, freshman year and then uh my sophomore year as well. Apparently after that uh I after that conversation with her, we were we were probably just a f a week or so away from the the cool the college year ending. I left that conversation kind of looking back at it and going, huh Maybe, right? Possibly. I didn't know it at the time, but she had a very similar thought about me. So I began to do that fall semester. I began to do what any self-respecting male Bible college student would do. I did some investigation. And the reconnaissance actually provided some rather troubling news for me. Apparently, there was a graduate student at the college who liked her. And they were both going to the same church, uh uh we called it extension at Northam Baptist Bible College. We all went to the they went to the same church, served together at the same church, along with a couple other students. It wasn't exclusive, but this guy liked her I found out that she uh she had worked summer camp beforehand that that previous summer, and there was a guy from Bob Jones who worked that summer camp also, and she liked him But I didn't know what the status was with that. Okay. And then, after, much to my dismay, after just a few weeks of the semester passing by One of my new friends, JP, asked her out to uh to the artist series. I'm going, what in the world? It's three obstacles. That's ridiculous. So for me at least now some guys might have treated things differently. For me, that was that was this girl is off limits, basically. And I was good with that. Because what did I say? This is God's work, not mine, right? My newfound focus was I trust in God to do all of these things. Not my business. Not nothing I have to worry about. And the truth is, I was I actually asked a couple other girls out, and as was the uh typical result of those days, they both said no But looking back, that was that was God's way of closing doors, right? He was he was shutting those doors. But nevertheless, I was learning this next part. Okay? I was learning this next start, learning to put it into practice. Now, my newfound confidence, though, was going to be tested quite a bit. Now that brings us to the second point and the next part of our passage here. Genuine trust in God does not rely on one's own understanding. Genuine trust in God does not rely on one's understanding. You could also put knowledge there. This is trust's source. This is trust's source. Leaning, so we often when we think of the word lean, we're we're kind of thinking like this, right? This is this is a lean. And we can kind of get that picture when we look at this passage. And so when we think of lean, we're not really in our vernacular, we're thinking this is just sort of something I can rest on. It's not a full support, but the word actually means to put your full trust and confidence in someone. something. So so it would be like I would, I'm not going to do it, but I would get on top of this pulpit here and then sit on it or stand on it and That's I would be lean that would be the biblical way of leaning on this pulpit. Sitting on a chair, standing on a chair. You're putting all the weight of your confidence into it. And so when we think of it like that, this is this is uh the passage is indicating to us our Our tendency. Rather than trust in the Lord fully with our whole hearts, what we really want to do is be supported by our own understanding. By our own wisdom. And you know, this the truth is that that all the wisdom that a person might acquire As one commentator put it, can never replace the need for full trust in God's superior ways. It doesn't matter if we have lived a very short time on this earth, or maybe some of the longest times on this earth. Our wisdom and our experience is no match for that of God's. You know the main reason why? It's because God has the complete picture. He has the complete view. He has the perfect perspective. You and I, we sometimes don't remember how limited we really are. Our understanding is right now, right here With my very little ability to do anything about it. Compare those three with God is all powerful everywhere And he's all knowing. Can you compete with that? Can I compete with that? Not even a little bit. Not at all. That's why the passage here says, lean not. Support, don't support yourself with your own understanding. Rather, look back to the first part of that verse. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Going back to that word heart, the the biblical understanding of heart is the will, the mind, the emotions, everything that encompasses. as a person. And so that leaves no room for compartmentalizing trust. That leaves no room for, well I am happy and content with 90% trust in God. 90%. That's pretty good, right? And I'm going to reserve this 10% in these arenas here. For me, my trust. I'm gonna rely on myself. That's what I'm gonna do in those scenarios. No, that's not what the Bible says. Bible says to Do not lean on your own understanding. Don't support yourself with your own understanding. Instead, trust fully in God. One of the commentators said, those who know themselves cannot but find their own understanding to be a broken reed, which, if they lean to, will certainly fail them. In all our conduct, we must diffident our own judgment. You know I didn't write that. That's someone else for sure. In all our conduct, we must be diffident of our own judgment. And confident in God's wisdom, power, and goodness, and therefore must follow providence and catch this, not force it. I thought that was an interesting take. I mean we would never we would never say I'm going to force Providence today. But is that not sometimes how we act? Do our decisions that we make sometimes not betray that? Are we not guilty at times of forcing it? Following God's providence, following God's providence is so much easier than forcing it. What myself and so many of us are prone to do is to overthink, to worry, to stress about current situations, future unknowns. God offers us a different route in this so well-known passage. Instead of a route that takes us down unmet expectations based off of our own will and limited understanding. God has told us so far that we are to trust in Him with all our hearts, holding no portion back and avoiding relying on our own limited knowledge. While I was learning to trust God with all my being, I was learning to lean and rely on God. During this time in that semester, I was still gravitating towards Miranda, even though there were these other obstacles that I told you about a little bit ago. So fun fact, uh again the the Comstocks come into this once again, um Liana was actually Miranda's roommate at this time. And Liana was serving at the same church that I was at that time. And we would always be ragging on each other. It was me and three other students that went and served at this church. One of the individuals was Josh. You know, we were always talking about, you know, our different like interests, love interests. whatever you want to call them. And um I don't remember this girl's first name, but there was an a guy named Josh and he was interested in uh You know what happened one day? We were driving down the road to either a way or to this church, and there was a giant billboard. That said Callahan's on it, right? And we said, hey Josh, look, it's a sign. Check it out. He didn't think it was very funny. Just said, be quiet. And so we were always doing this to each other. But one day on a drive, Liana was prying into my life. And uh she dug out the truth that I liked Miranda. Well, if you you know if you talk with uh Liana et al Sh he she has a bubbly personality of about 510%. When she found this out, it made her the happiest person on the planet. planet to the to the point where she was ready to just hook us up and get it, you know, and I said, no no no no look, there's this guy, and there's this guy and then there's that guy. And it's not my place, not the time, nothing like that going on, right And um so once she found that she was like, okay. But she basically said, I'm gonna I I'm in the same room as her all the time. So she was actually it's very fortuitous that that she found this out. I wasn't happy about it at the time, but it was very good that she did this because she gleaned some information for me. So what I found out was that she didn't like the grad student. I found out that the the guy on summer camp during the summer camp he was like totally silent since then And that was frustrating her. She actually said told Liana, I'm just done with guys. And Lianna knowing that I liked her, no, no, no, no. There is someone out there for you. Just just hang in there, Miranda. It's gonna be okay, right? And um so the last person that was in the way was was my friend JP. I knew that JP still liked her Um we were in the same friend group. Um now so I wasn't totally giving up. What I honestly what all this delay was was it was making me and Miranda be friends ahead of time With all that romance stuff getting in the way, you know. Which, by the way, is not bad. Not a bad thing. You get to know the person a little bit more re uh there's no there's no putting on a show. You get to see them more for who they really are. That was free. So So because of this, I liked hanging out with her. We had fun as far as friends. We were in the same friend group. I knew that Miranda spent a lot of time in the library. So I decided to spend a lot of time in the library too. And over the few weeks I got to know her better. I was just being patient. Didn't feel right to jump in front of JP, so I was just gonna wait. All was well. All was great until a particular Thursday night in November. You see, this was uh this was one of the nights that the college play was going to be performed. And all of us were going as a group. Craig was going to be there. Uh Leanna was going to be there and other friends that I haven't mentioned. JP was going to be there. We were all going to be there. It's probably eight, ten of us or so. And we happened to get in line first. We were right at the doors. We were just waiting for them to open. Right? And it was at this time that I decided I need to pray. Because I had this thought in my head. What if I go into this play and I actually happen to sit next to Miranda and I actually have like a really great time being next to her. And I, you know, I've been keeping it cool this whole time. I don't think I'm going to be able to keep it cool after this. So God, I'm asking you. Please do not let me sit next to Miranda. Very clear prayer, right? Very simple. Well, guess what happened? The doors open. And I happen to just go through first thinking, yeah, I'm gonna get away from everybody, right? So I I go through and uh I turn around, there's Miranda. And then way in the distance is all the friends. All of them. Losers. Lollygaggers. They None of them came right away. They were just having fun talking to each other. And Randah doesn't know. So so I just go and sit, and she sits next to me, and I go, why did you deny I request. That was that was simple, right? Now you can see how fragile my mind is, right, at this point. And these are these are the these are the real tough things that college students have to deal with. Young people, right? But it was real for me at the time. And sure enough, the play happened. There was intermissions. We laughed. We looked at each other. It was fun. It was happy. And I had a great time. And when it was all done, I left. And I was not good. I went to my spot. I had a spot on campus next to the lake. where it was cold, I could get by myself. No one else was out there because it was cold. Wisconsin, Northern Wisconsin, Northern Baptist Bible College. Not warm. Almost ever. Snow on the ground. I had my my trench coat that you sometimes see me wear here during the winter wrapped up. I just started to pray. I started to give all this to God. And that's what I needed to do. And that's where we get to this next time. You know, I had been giving all this to God the whole time in prayers, but it was time to take it to the next level with God. And that brings us to our third point. It says here, genuine trust in God is not limited to select portions of your life. Genuine trust in God is not limited to select portions of your life. This is trust's scale. It says, in all your ways, acknowledge Him In all your ways acknowledge him. Acknowledge, in its most basic sense, this root word is to know, is to know something, know someone. It also has a Sometimes in certain cases, it's to be aware of and to have fellowship with. In all your ways, be aware of God. In all your ways, have fellowship with God. One of the commentators says, we must ask his leave and not design anything. But what we are sure is lawful. We must ask his advice and beg direction from him. Not only when the case is difficult. When we know not what to do, no thanks to us having our eyes upon him. But in every case, even if it's ever so plain, the commentator says. Whether it there's nothing but fog in the distance or whether we can seem for miles, always acknowledge God. In other words, the text is telling us to not let God be excluded in a single part of your life. Don't ignore God in your ways as our opposite, our opposite version of the text. Remember? Say it in all your ways, ignore God. Don't do that. Include Him in everything. Now on face value this feels normal, but why why would we even exclude God from any portion of our lives? We do it, but why? Well, there are many answers to that question. But one reason that I am certain of would be this because we don't like the idea of not being in control. You see, trust fundamentally requires us to say, not in control. You're in control, Father You are. And I'm going to stop fighting you in that regard. If things are going how you like, include him in all your ways and pray to him. If things are not going how you like, God has not suddenly become untrustworthy. Go to Him in prayer. By doing this, you are demonstrating that you aren't merely relying on your own knowledge. And you are in fact casting all your reliance on him. By doing this, you are demonstrating that you trust him for the outcomes. even if the outcome is something that you think you won't like. So as I said, after the play I went directly to that spot. that I would often go to do some acknowledging of God. And I'm pacing and I'm not doing very well. I have all these emotions and I I and no right way to act on them. And even if I could act on them, I don't know if I should. So after some of the mutterings that I had before God at at that late hour in the cold I was frustrated and I literally threw my hands outward. I looked up to the sky, which was full of stars up in northern Wisconsin. Johnson and I said, Lord, just give me a sign. And you know what happened? Not a blessed thing. Not a thing. Not a thing. So in that silence, um I I realized I realized that wasn't the right way to pray. That's not how to pray. And so I was a little ashamed and and I I re I I did a redo and I said to the Lord, I said, Lord For however reason for whatever reason, everything seems to be pointing to this girl that I should pursue her for marriage. So if she's the one you want me to pursue for marriage, have everything keep pointing to her. And if not, point me elsewhere. That was the prayer. And that was a hard prayer. You know why? Maybe some of you know why. Because it left room for another person Which, again, in my here-now limited ability, I couldn't see any better person. So it left room, which it should, leave ample room, for God knowing best and knowing better than me. And you know, when we think about times like that, when we relinquish control over to God We're always thinking about outcomes and we think there's no way that that what I want isn't the best thing. There's no way that my plans aren't the best. There's no way that what I'm thinking right now aren't the best thoughts But we know the truth, right? We know the truth. God's thoughts are the best, and his thoughts are higher than our thoughts, and his ways better than our ways. We might not always vocalize it, but we almost always think that what we want is the very best. There is no way, there's no possible way that another obscure option that I don't even know about could be better. And this this doesn't just apply to a relationship, right? This applies to everything in life. Schooling, friendships, job situations, job choices. All of it What I was essentially asking, which I hadn't been really willing to ask yet, was for God to direct my path. And this brings us to the final point. This passage gives us the outcome of these principles here. What does it say? Looking on unto your own understanding, in all your ways acknowledge Him. And what is this? And he shall direct your paths. He shall direct your paths. Brings us to the fourth point. Genuine trust in God desires that God directs one. Path. Genuine trust in God desires wants God to direct one's own path. This is trust's result. Trust's result. There are two general aspects to what this means. One is that God is taking the path that you are on and making it straight, making it planar It is not without hardship or trouble. This isn't saying that this is make going to make an easier path without tragedy, without hardship, without struggle, without tension, without stress, doesn't promise any of that. But, as one commentator put it, it's a life that is worthwhile. It is righteous, and it is at Peace, which is actually how this part of Proverbs start. Remember in verse 2, for length of days and long life and peace they will add to you The second aspect of what this means is that it includes all of that and adds that God has a goal in mind for you. And nothing will thwart that divinely appointed outcome. The trouble is that sometimes we struggle with what that outcome is going to be. We think I used to laugh. I used to laugh at um you know certain certain um preachers. I I I I never I never thought of myself in this position You know, the preachers who say, Um, follow God's will, do what he wants, and he's not going to do get you to do something miserable. He's not going to make you do something that you're just going to hate for the rest of your life. Is that what you think is going to happen? He's make you a missionary to the to the the unknown regions of the Congo or something like that, right? Some of you I think I'm I'm feeling like you've heard some things like that too. God's not doing that He's directing you. He's giving you the outcome that he desires. And if it's in God's will, can I just say you're going to love it? You're going to love what God's doing with you and around you and through you. So this means more than just guidance. It means God removes obstacles, making a smooth path, a way of life. It's bringing one to an appointed goal. If God has in mind for you a particular outcome, What can thwart his plan? Let me just real quick. God is your provider, right? So maybe you actually do struggle a little bit with your day-to-day finances and how you're going to survive and what you're going to do. with the limited money and resources you have. Is God going to provide for you? Does he promise that he will Okay? He doesn't promise X amount of dollars, but he promises permit provision, Matthew 6, right? Do you trust him with his idea of provision for you? Are you in a position to quarrel with how he decides to provide for you No, no you're not. But he's gonna provide. For some people, provision means he gets you enough food each day. For some of you, provision means you can have enough what you need now, but you might not have enough for those future, some of those future goals that you would like to have. That might be the case. But if God's gonna provide for you, is he gonna forget? Is he going to be stopped? Is anything going to stop him? No. Trusting God with all our hearts must involve our trust in his directing, taking our hands off, removing the perceived control that we want to grasp with a vice grip. And recognizing the truth that already exists. God's in control. And that's for the best. His way is perfect. Now, as I conclude the personal story that we've been tracking through this message, I must stress a few things before we get to the next part. This passage is not saying that God will give direct revelation about a decision. We cannot go to that realm. Some people look at direct and say, well, that includes like intervening in a miraculous way to actually tell you what to do. That's not what this passage is talking about. Really, what we're seeing here, and one commentator puts it sort of like this, he says This means that through all of the legitimate means we pray, we study, we apply biblical truth to the circumstances that we're in, God will so work out matters that He will direct us in exactly how He wants to do it. God directs it, and it isn't by direct revelation in this era of God working. We don't need to go to God demanding answers or asking for signs to confirm his will. But we do think we'd often like it that way, wouldn't we? What if life was like this? You wake up in the morning. And you wait a few minutes, because it's always like five or ten minutes after. And God says, hello. And he gives you your itinerary for the day. What if it went even further? For the week? For the month? For the year? At the outset, we would we would kind of say, yeah, that would make things less complicated because I would have exactly what I would need to do. And I mean, I'm sure I would follow it, right? Oh. Really? You know, it's funny. We see in the Bible, in the pages of Scripture, there are a lot of people that get direct revelation. And do they do they always obey? No. Jonah's a great example, right? I ain't doing that. I'm not going to Nineveh. with those wicked people. And sometimes it's not always obey. It's belief. It's not trusting. Remember Zacharias? I was reminded of this with this passage. He gets he gets direct revelation through the angel Gabriel, right, about what's going to happen with him and his wife and the future son. And he says How will I know that these things will be since I am old and my wife is old? Now I don't know, Miranda likes to quote it this way The the answer is, I am Gabriel. Like, I'm a messenger of the Lord, and I've just told you everything you need to know, and you still don't believe? You're mute until all this takes place. That's what's going to happen for you. It says uh you will He says, you will be mute and not be able to speak until the day of these things takes place, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their own time. But you know who else I think of, too? I think of Gideon, who had been given direct commands from God, and he did obey eventually, but do you remember what he asked for? He asked for some signs. Three different times, actually. Judges 6, verse 12 says, And the angel of the Lord appeared to him and said to him, If the Lord is with you, you mighty man of valor. Gideon said to him, O my Lord, if the Lord is with us, why then has all this happened to us? And where are all his miracles which our father has told us about, saying, Did not the Lord bring us up from the Midianites? But now the Lord has forsaken us and delivered us into the hands of the Midianites. Then the Lord turned to him and said, Go in this might of yours, and you shall save Israel from the hand of the Midianites. Have I not sent you? Gideon then describes how he is the lowest member of the least of the clans and the tribes of Israel. He doesn't essentially say, I'm not qualified for this, Lord. Not qualified. But he doesn't realize he's going to learn, but he doesn't realize that God does not operate based on who's quote-unquote qualified And then verse 16, And the Lord said to him, Surely I will be with you, and you shall defeat the Midnanites as one man. Then he said, If now I have found favor in your sight, then show me a sign that it is you who talk with me Do not depart from here, I pray, until I come to you and bring out my offering as I set before you. So, after this request of a sign, God complies, and he gives him the sign. So um And then verse 22, Gideon perceived that he was the angel of the Lord. So Gideon said, Alas, O Lord God, for I have seen the angel of the Lord face to face. Now you would think that that would be enough if if if first of all The command itself should have been enough. Gideon asks for a sign and and God complies. But you would think, well, if there's anything else that God wants me to do I sh should be willing to do it, right? And just believe. Gideon then does that important work of destroying altars for Baal worship. He initiates the conversation again about what he wants him to do in regards to saving the Israel. And then verse 36. So God Gideon said to God, If you will save Israel by my hand As you have said, look, I shall put a fleece of wool on the threshing floor, if there is dew on the fleece only, and it is on dry uh dry on all the ground, then I shall know that you will save Israel by my hand. As you have said. And it was so. And he rose early the next morning and squeezed the fleece together. He wrung out the dew of the fleece and a bowl full of water. Sign complete, but not done. Then Gideon said to God, Do not be angry with me. But let me speak just once more. Let me test, I pray, just once more with the fleece. Let it now be dry only on the fleece, but on all the ground let there be dew. And God did so that night. It was dry on the fleece only, but there was dew on all the ground. You know, not a single commentator This is this is a narrative, right? And often in the narratives we don't get a judgment pronounced. It's just it's just written there plain as it is. But not a single commentator says Gideon did the right thing He should have just believed. And all of them also basically said, but because of God's great mercy and love for his child, he acquiesced to them. Anyway, each time. Some say it's because Gideon's lack of personal experience with God that he did this. You can see Gideon knows he's pushing it by the third time, right? He says, please don't be angry with me Can you just do this sign in reverse now and make it so? Twice getting reminded God of what he had said. Twice Gideon asked God to refer him his promise with a miracle. And the fact that God stooped, as one commentator put it, the fact that God stooped to Gideon's weakness only proves that he is a gracious God who understands how we're made. Psalm 103. 14 is referenced here, which which talks about the frailty of humans. Now we are dust. He made us like this. He knows our weaknesses. He knows what we are dealing with. And in his mercy and love, he doesn't always judge like he did Zacharias. He instead often will be merciful and acquiesce anyway. Anyway, Gideon did not have it all together when it came to following God. And that actually is helpful, isn't it? To see that even someone who got direct revelation from God said, can you please confirm? Can you certify this please? It's comforting to know that this is typical. How we interact with God and this level is typical. We can often get really down on ourselves when this happens, but it is a great comfort to know that God is someone who is merciful and loving when his children falter in trust. He works to strengthen our trust in him. Not like some kind of drill sergeant yelling at us, demanding that we do better. No, instead reminding us of truths from his word that we need to apply in every situation. Truths like the ones found in these two verses in Proverbs. Really, I felt ashamed when I demanded a sign from God the night after that play. Little did I know that God was in the process of comforting me in quite a unique and rather humorous way. That Thursday night, after my time alone with God, me and you all many of you know the Kill Cups as well. Ben and I were we were at college at the same time. Jeff, his brother, was in Marinatha, four hours away. From where we were. And in our dorm room, we were going to see Jeff in a play at Marinatha Baptist Bible College. So we planned our route. We chartered a course. I got my old road atlas. You know what I'm talking about? Some of you don't know what I'm talking about. An old road road atlas, like Thick, had the states. And some cities blown up, you know, close. And so um we chart a course and I was initially planning to take all highways. through there, right? And then what I saw was, oh, I could actually cut through these other roads uh to get to Watertown, Wisconsin, where Maranath is. So I saw, okay, Route 151, take these other roads to these towns, get there. Sounds good. That's how we'll do it. So we planned when we would leave, and uh taking my big red truck, Bess, which I still have. On our way down there, Ben and I were talking. We had uh a Petit CD playing, we were talking about music for a little while, and eventually the conversation died down and I was left with my thoughts and you know I thought about everything that had been going on And in that silence I was thinking about you know how we teased Josh about the Callahan sign, the billboard. And I said to the Lord, I said, It'd be funny if You gave me a sign that had Miranda's name on it. So we go down the highway a little bit further. I take the exit to go on to Route 151, Highway D, two lane road, and I get down a little farther down the road. And to my shock and awe is a sign that says Miranda Way on it. And I I really didn't believe it. I didn't believe what I had seen. Um I asked for a sign, which I had no right to do, and the Lord, in his love and his mercy, his tenderness, he gave me a sign, a literal sign. It is tough to explain my utter shock, honestly. My stomach did like a gymnastics floor routine inside me. Ben had no idea. He was sitting next to me. He had no idea. In fact, I He still doesn't know. I never told him. I was honestly in disbelief. I wasn't really sure if I I saw what I saw. Uh the play was great. Jeff was the bad guy. Um enjoyed that tremendously. On the way back I had needed to drop Ben off to a mall where he was he was part of a singing group for Northland, so I needed to get him with his group This stop would take me past the sign. So when I dropped him off, I committed to the I'm gonna go back. I'm gonna go back and see if that thing's really there So I drove 45 minutes the wrong direction to verify what my eyes had claimed they had seen, and sure enough, it was there. And you'll see here in in a second, I did a little Google search, Google Maps search. It's there to this day. It's right there. Um I don't think at the time there was a Synorama place there, which if you look at the next uh next picture Apparently, yeah, Synorama. So this is where signs are, apparently. Synorama. This is how God is using this spot now. No, I'm I'm just kidding. Uh don't don't take that for for serious there. So when I got there, I had one of those Kodak disposable pictures. Picture uh phone um cameras. The disposable cameras. So I took two pictures of it. I drove home, uh drove back to the dorm, and look, I wanna I want to stress, I did not presume that God was revealing something special to me, and there is no one here that should get that impression. What I had experienced was my loving father showing himself strong in my life by orchestrating something that was an incredibly unlikely occurrence. Finding a literal sign with Miranda's name on it. Did I know 100% that I would marry Miranda one day? No. No. I don't think I could push put a percentage on it. Although my next action Really, what happened was my trust in my God was elevated to a level that it had never been elevated to before. After that night and some of Sunday, I reflected on all that had happened in the previous 48 to 72 hours. I began, and really over the whole semester, and I began to write it all down. I'm not a writer. I wrote it all down, and I wrote it all down with a purpose. You see, it was a letter. It was a letter that I was writing to Miranda for her to marry me. And it was a letter that I was going to hold on to until the right time. So no, I did not just hand her the letter the next Okay, don't, it's not like that. Um, fast forward many details. God began to continue to point me in the direction of Miranda and pursue marriage. JP, he ended up out of the picture the next week In the last two weeks of the semester, I've felt like, okay, that obstacle's out of the way. I'm going for it. So I spent as much time as I could, you know, without being creepy, uh, with Miranda. And through that I got her email address, physical address. I told her I would miss her over Christmas vacation. And the spring semester we began dating officially. By that summer, I was ready to propose. We were in Wisconsin before her senior year at college, and I took her to this road. And I handed her the letter that I wrote many months earlier. In that letter, I tell her much of this story that I just told you. I propose. So while she is coming to the end of the letter, I get down on one knee. She's sitting on the back of my F-150, and I do just that. And clearly she's sitting What are our take home applications for tonight? This morning rather. First off, God is fully trustworthy. He can be relied on. His understanding is infinite, and he is in the business of directing people's paths, why would we turn to ourselves? Why would we do that? How have you seen God direct your paths? I'm sure he has. I could give you m multiple stories of how God has directed our paths, both as a single man and after being married with kids. I see God doing this all the time, in little ways and grand ways, in areas of provision, in areas of people, all of that. Let God's works in the past strengthen you. Let this passage strengthen your trust in Him. Next, we must trust God with every portion of our lives. Is there any portion that we are actively holding back? Please reflect. Think. Is there any, you know, maybe not a percentage, but I know that in this area of my life, I haven't been trusting him. I have been trying to control. I've been leaning on my own understanding. Maybe I have, in fact, been ignoring God in this part. And then lastly, genuine trust in God believes that his designed outcomes for us is better than anything we could conceive of. That's tough to swallow sometimes. But when you know God truly for who he is and you genuinely trust that he has what's best for you in mind Then whatever outcomes we think we have for ourselves that we think are the best, and just nothing's gonna be better. Now his ways. our best. We often think we have it all figured out. It would be better if I got this job or I got this position. It would be better if I was at this school It would be better if I was in this relationship. It would be better if I owned that car instead of owning this rundown thing. There are hundreds of it would be betters for us, right? In our heads. But none of them None of them rival God's best for our lives. Let's pray. Father, we praise you for your incredible guidance, incredible Um incredible working that we are so undeserving of. Lord, you could have theoretically Saved us from our sins, rescued us from a future in hell and damnation, away from you. And then left us alone. Led us to figure this life out on our own. But you did not. You've given us your word, which is a light unto our path. It is a guide for us. You have revealed yourself there. May we go to it intensely to seek your face. And in those pages, Lord, may our trust in you be elevated so that there is not a single aspect of our lives that we do not put our full trust in you for. I pray, Lord, that if there's anyone that is struggling, anyone that is not not sure about how things are going to work out and they are struggling with trusting you for the outcome. I pray that you would strengthen them today. I thank you, Lord, for how you've worked in many of our lives already. We can look in the past and see your goodness, both collectively as a church and as individuals. We see how you work. You do amazing things to guide us. You do amazing things to comfort and bring us peace in life, even In the midst of emotional storms, physical storms, different struggles, Lord, you are trustworthy through all of it. I thank you, Lord, for how you've worked in my life, not only with this account that I was able to share today, Lord, but in all the other ways. You have shown yourself mighty in my life I pray, Lord, as we are about to sing about your leading and guiding, I pray that That you would encourage us and strengthen our trust in you to a level that it has not been before. May we go to you for all things. May we trust in you fully. May we not lean on our own understanding. May we desire you to direct our paths rather than us ourselves. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, may the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.