Psalm thirty six Verse 1 says, The transgression of the wicked saith within my heart that there is no fear in God before his eyes. For he flattereth himself in his own eyes until his iniquity be found to be hateful. The words of his mouth are iniquity and deceit. He hath left off to be wise and to do good. He deviseth mischief among uh upon his bed, and setteth himself in a way that is not good. He abhorreth not evil. The mercy of the Lord is in the heavens. And thy faithfulness reaches unto the clouds. Thy righteousness is like the great mountains. Thy judgments are a great deep. O Lord, thou preservest man and beast. How excellent is thy loving kindness, O God! Therefore the children of men put their trust under the shadow of thy wings They shall be abundantly satisfied with the fatness of thy house, and thou shalt make them drink of the river of thy pleasures. For with thee is the fountain of light. In thy light shall we see light. Father, we thank you and praise you that you are a righteous God, you are a faithful God, and you are a God who has chosen through your Son To give us a way to be rightly related to you. Lord, we have much to celebrate today. We praise you, Lord, that we have a chance to just thank you For those who have given their lives and sacrificed for this country. We thank you for the freedoms that we enjoy. We thank you that we are still relatively free among uh the nations of the world to be able to worship you uh in the way that we see fit and according to our conscience. We thank you for that. We praise you. We pray, Lord, that we would not take these freedoms for granted. Lord, we thank of those who are graduating from high school that are from our church We thank you for each one of them and we pray that it would be a special day for them as well. And we think of the kill cups. We are we're just So thankful for their faithfulness to you, their example to us in their Christian walk and their marriage and their fellowship with us over the years. And Lord, would you bless them and strengthen them today? And may we have a sweet time of fellowship with them as well. More importantly, Lord, we're here to worship you. We're here to honor you, to reflect on your faithfulness to us. Lord, as we anticipate the message, I pray that it would strengthen us Help us to glory in the truth of your word. Help us to be firm-footed in understanding your faithfulness to us. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well good morning. As we prepare to sing our first hymn this morning, I have a question for you to consider. What are some things in your life that you thought would always be? It would not change. It would be reliable and dependable. It'd just be this way all the time. Maybe it was a job or a relationship, maybe a friendship, maybe a living condition, whatever it is, you thought, you know what, this is gonna just be here all the time and and you find years later things change. Things change greatly. It seems like every few years our lives are constantly changing. As we continue to consider our Savior, I want us to sing hymn number 119, 119. We're going to focus on our God being faithful, our God being dependable, consistently always there and unchanging. Please stand if you're able to, and we're going to sing hymn number 119. Great is thy faithfulness. Great is thy table and oh God, my father. The remote with me That maybe not that As thou hast been thou forever will be crazy thy faithfulness, crazy thy faithfulness. Roy we roy boy me do her thy All I have in thy hand from my way. Slower and turn three time and for him. Sun will have signed air force is all amazing had your Ring by Windows, Will by Windows. The Lord makes for me and the war, so I must be well brings me. So you'd be seated as we continue to see this morning. We're going to see in Hymnumber 345. No other name. Scripture is very clear that Christ did not claim to be one of the ways. He did not claim to be the best way. He claimed to be the be the only way, the only name, the only path. Hymn number three forty five, no other name. What about the rolling girl? Go out and wave when we go out and wake them. We must cry. And we will And for remote today, it is replied to human It is right for me, where you don't. We were priests. My black color No wow, you could have a control. We must try to have all your Our third hymn this morning, as we prepare our hearts for the message, is hymn number three. 383, the Solid Rock. And this hymn begs the question, are you depending on Christ as your rock? Are you depending on yourself instead of Christ? Or are you depending on Christ? I'd invite you to stand if you're able to. As we see in hymn number three eighty-three, the solid rock. My Well I didn't know it was even a bad bathing. When darkness fails in love to make high rest on the brain, every eye has for the Lying the wall here in the hill Lord, but I said all other round meetings, all other rounds. All my open day, one like the falling, right there, all other ground is winging hand, all other crowd is winging. When he shall come here from his health, or may I let him have the people? I'm right the body, like I said, all other round is meant, all other round is me. Amen. Our final hymn this morning is hymn number ten. Immortal, invisible God only wise. So we're going to dismiss the children on the third verse for children. Church. He might be a warning woman, one in the world All right, victorious, I remain replay, I'm resting my hasty, and I read Nor want me, nor waste me thou, I'll give my mountain my story all. By both wealth in trouble, and all people like that. You all great, all right, both in the life. We want to let forward me all the time. Mary Hather of Light, the nature of Oh, it's a good idea. In that easy Good morning. Let's bow our heads in prayer. Heavenly Father, we are grateful this morning for your goodness and your kindness to us. We thank you, Lord, for the freedom we have to come here and work. We thank you for those, as Pastor Jim said, who gave their lives on our behalf, Lord, that we may have these freedoms. And Father, we are grateful this morning that you have been grateful gracious to us. And we ask as we come to this time, Lord, that we sit under your word. I pray that you would help us to sit aside all those things that we have been thinking about all week and help us Lord, just to concentrate in this next hour, Lord, to be listening to your word. And Father, as we receive it, help us to ponder it and think it through, Father. And I pray that you would help us to apply it to our lives, that in all things you would be glorified and lifted up. And we ask in Jesus' name name. Amen. We are in Romans chapter 3 this morning and we're going to be looking at verses 1 through 8. Romans chapter 3 verses 1 through 8. What advantage then has the Jew, or what is the prophet of circumcision? Much in every way, chiefly because to them were committed the oracles of God. For what if some did not believe Will their unbelief make the faithfulness of God without effect? Certainly not. Indeed, let God be true, but every man a liar, as it is written that you may be justified in your words and may overcome when you are judged. But if our righteousness demonstrates the righteousness of God, our unrighteousness demonstrates the righteousness of God. What shall we say? Is God unjust who inflicts wrath? I speak as a man. Certainly not. For then how will God judge the world? For if the truth of God has increased through my lie to his glory, why am I also still judged as a sinner? And why not say, let us do evil that good may come, as we are slanderously reported, and as some affirm that we say. Their condemnation is just. I was uh began my study on this passage on Monday and uh began working through the passage, reading it and studying it out and um And uh it was interesting. I was reading through it and studying it. It is blazing hot in here. This is coming off. Um and if you I encourage you, some of you guys still have some suit coats on you, maybe me hot. So that's completely true. And I'm not really sure what else is going on with the air conditioner, but anyway, this is where we're at. Um I will have to get here earlier. I I I turn oh they're also telling me my mic is um Okay. Anyway, um my mic's not on because the air conditioner is not working. Um that's a joke. Anyway. So so um All right, let's get back to to this. Uh please feel as cool as you can. I'm glad we've got the fans going. I will obviously that is not Elizabeth, that's a that's the heat. That's not the air conditioning. That's not gonna do anything. All right. Anyway, these are the two air conditioning thermostats. They're set down to like sixty-seven and it's not getting cool in here, so I'm not sure what's going on. But hopefully we will begin to preach the word and forget about the temperature in just a few moments. So have you ever been in an interview or you're driving and you're headed to an interview, or maybe it's a job interview, or maybe it's a presentation that you're giving. Or maybe even a difficult discussion that you're about to have. And you're thinking through the interview or the discussion or the presentation, and you're also thinking about the various objections. What might they object to? What might they question? What might they follow up with based upon what Now I know that if you are raising teenagers, you've definitely had this at one time or another. You ever been surprised by how they respond to you by what you say? it's funny what happens is as kids get I have three teenagers now. Well two and two and one that's almost but anyway. Um and so what happens is as they're young they grow up and you tell them what to do and they do it Or they don't do it. One of the two. And if they don't do it, you deal with that. And if they do it, then you reward them for that. And then they get to a certain age and you begin to ex Explain things to them and they say, Well why? And why is it this way? I mean, albeit it might be respectful, but they're or they they get these looks on their faces. And you're trying to interpret what looks they're giving you. And teenagers you gotta admit this is you do this. Right? I mean, you're beginning to think through things and figure things out. And not everything that dad says or mom says is always taking at face value and sometimes you come up with some ideas of your own or some questions in your own and I'll tell you sometimes the things that they come up with are makes you stop and think, oh, that's actually a pretty good point. I hadn't think thought of it that way. So what happens is moms and dads got teams I'm going to give you a little hint um what goes on behind the scenes. Moms and dads get together and they begin to say, okay, well how should we address this issue with our team And they start talking to each other and they say we've got to make sure we're on a unified front, we're on the same page, we're gonna make and then they start discussing with each other um what objections might they make and what what should we consider and you gotta make So Paul in his Paul in his um in his letter here, he is he is anticipating objections. He he's preached that circumcision will not give you a get out of jail free car And just because you possess the law and don't obey the law does not mean that you suddenly you still are going to have eternal life. He said this to the Jewish He has challenged their thinking on a lot of things, but he also is now anticipating their objections. Now we don't know whether or not the what he's dealing with here are actual objections. That they have posed, that's possible, or whether he, being a converted Jew, being a very orthodox Jew, actually thought to himself These are the objections that they're going to have, and then deal deals and they dealt deal with it there, with it based on that. In other words, he thinks Either way, Paul is very knowledgeable about Jewish thinking and how to deal with the objection. And what we find here are these objections. Now, it's difficult to actually, when you read through this, it is it is commentators say that this is the most difficult passage to understand in Romans. So at least three of the commentators that I read suggested that this was the most difficult passage. I don't know. There's some few a few other ones that are quite difficult as well. But this one is pretty difficult and the reason it's difficult is because some of the objections are not clearly stated. Paul is just answering them, so we're kind of having to All that to say, though, that there is some very, very important material material in here because isn't it true that as people we have sometimes questions and objections to the Christian faith. We don't understand why certain things are the way they are. We think to ourselves, well, God, can He really be faithful when this happens? Or is He really Really good and powerful when he allows evil and suffering to take place? Those are the kinds of questions we ask ourselves. So the truth is we all have questions, we all have objections, if you will, and so this passage is going to help us. And what Paul is going to do is he is really going to be very clear on the character of God. That the character of God is unmovable. They thought God would work one way and he doesn't. They think God will get is guaranteeing one thing and he isn't. But that doesn't change the character of God. And that is very important for us as a lesson to understand. As well. I want to walk us through just a little bit here, just kind of recap the flow of thought of Romans to help us as we get into this. You'll recall that in Romans chapter 16, or chapter 1, verse 16 we have the theme statement of the book. It says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God to salvation to everyone who believes. For the Jew first, and also for the Greek. For verse 17, in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith, as is written, the just shall live by faith. We have said then that the purpose statement, a good purpose statement, goes like this: to explain the work of the gospel in conveying God's righteousness. So the work of the gospel in conveying God's righteousness in three ways, resulting in salvation from sins. penalty, power, and future presidents for all who accept it by faith alone, apart from any self-effort or ethnic merit. Paul is dealing with various parts of his purpose as we go through this book. And you can see actually as we'll see in this book and and what we've seen so far in chapter two is that he is dealing with the conveying of God's righteousness and the reality of the penalty of sin And also that gaining freedom from the penalty of sin comes not by any self-ethor effort or any ethnic means So that's what Paul is dealing with in this passage. So in Romans chapter one, verse eighteen it says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all unrighteousness of the w And then so he deals with the non-Christians, the Gentile non-Christians, in chapter one, verse eighteen through the end of the And then we pick up in chapter two, verse one, and he's going to deal with the Jewish people that are non-Christians. Therefore, verse one, chapter Romans two therefore you are inexcusable, O man, whoever you are who judge, from whatever you judge another you condemn yourself, for you who judge practically And then the very last verse that we learned last Sunday and studied last Sunday was Romans chapter 2 verse 20. Which said, But he is a Jew who is one inwardly, and circumcision that is of the heart, in the spirit, not in the letter, whose praise is not from men but from God. Paul addressed the issue of circumcision. Remember that God uh that that God had given circumcision As a sign for the covenant of Abraham, but they had taken what God had given, and the Jewish people said that those who are circumcised have sort of this guarantee of eternal life. And Paul says, no. Paul says you do not have that guarantee. In fact, you are on the same plane as Gentiles. You are a sinner before God in need of a Savior. And he explains this in chapter 2. He says He says the unbelievers are the the the the Gentile unbelievers are not saved and need to come to Christ, are sinful and need to come to Christ. You Jewish person who is also a non-believer, you are a sinner in need of a Savior as well. That's ultimately his point that he's going to begin to develop in chapter 3 and chapter 4. So we begin we pick up here and we have these objections. Regardless, and and part of what's going on is that they are not understanding. that the that the character of God does not change regardless of human response. And what Paul is going to double down on in this passage is that God's righteousness is consistent with his character. And how is he consistent? We're going to see three Three ways. One, God's righteousness is revealed through his word. His righteousness is revealed in verses one and two. Number two, God's righteousness is faithful and true. True in verses three and four and also verse seven. And then finally, God's righteousness is j uh God's righteousness is just in verses five through eight. His righteousness is Let's pick up then God's righteousness is revealed in verses one through two. So the question is asked what advantage then has the Jew or what is the prophet of circumcision? So he asked this question, okay, if Jewish people and Gentile people are equal in that they both need Christ, they both are sinners. In need of a savior, they both stand guilty before God. Well, is there any advantage at all to being a Jew? The expectation at this point might be no. But Paul says Yes, certainly there is an advantage. He says, much in every way, chiefly, because to them were committed the oracles of God. Yes, they were advantages. They're not superior, they're not immune to judgment, they don't get a jail, get out-of-jail free card, but they are advantaged. Why? Because they have the very Now they had put over com more m too much confidence in the Word of God, where they had essentially made it its own idol. Where the Word of God now they just the fact that they possessed it, that it was read in the synagogues, that it was That the rituals were taking place, they began to believe that that was enough to keep them in right standing with God. And Paul says previously Obviously, no, it's not, but don't believe for a minute that that's not an advantage. In other words, that they had the word of God was certainly an advantage. Now if you think who was We've got Moses at Mount Sinai, who was given, I think, what would be called the first oracles of God. And it says in the passage that it was committed to them What does it mean that is committed to them? Well, this word committed is used in several other places in Scripture. It in 1 Corinthians 9, verse 17, it says, For if we do this willingly, we We have a reward, but against my will I have been entrusted with a stewardship. They have been, the Jewish people, were entrusted with stewardship God was intending to use them to be a light to the Gentiles. He was intending to To use them to take the Word of God, to apply the Word of God, to accept the Word of God by faith, than to be a light to the Gentiles so that all may come to the Word of God. The Jews were fail they failed in doing that. You look at Old Testament history, and time and time again, they fell into idolatry and they were not able to fulfill the purpose that God originally intended. In fact, they really misunderstood the purpose ultimately, and we're going to see that later on in the passage. Four or three other times in the New Testament, this idea of entrusting or committed to the oracles of God. See, when God gives something to someone, what he is doing is he is entrusting it to them as a stewardship. And that's exactly what he did with a Jewish people. And this gave them an advantage. Well, what are the oracles of God? Acts chapter 7, verse 38 calls this the what was given at Mount Sinai It says they who receive the living oracles to give to us, the living oracles of God. That is the very words of Scripture given from God, the spoken word given from God to Moses. And then written down and given to all the people, this put them at great advantage, and they were certainly very privileged. In Hebrews chapter 5, verse 12, it's an interesting passage. These people were Jewish believers, the book of Hebrews is writing to, but they were being tempted to defect from the Christian faith and go back into Judaism. They were really struggling. The reason was because they were not actually truly living by the gospel as they should. The Bible says in Math in Ro in uh Hebrews 5 that they by reason of use they needed their exercise, they needed to exercise themselves to just They weren't doing that. And so God says that they needed to learn first the principles of the oracles of God again. In other words, they needed to understand again. from the very foundation of what was given to them with Moses and the law and all of that, how the gospel did actually come from all of that. So this certainly they were of great advantage because they had the word of God. In fact, this word is used again in first Peter chapter four, verse eleven. It says, if anyone speaks Let him speak as the oracles of God. Now, I think there's great application here for us. Do we not have the written word? in our homes. We have we have access to it on our phones and on tablets and on our computer and on it is just everywhere. But there is a danger with so much access that we become so familiar with it that it is no longer not no longer special to us anymore. If you think of church history Truthfully, the majority of church history, they have not had the kind of access we have had to the Word of God. Not even close. And from in fact from five hundred uh five hundred AD to about fourteen hundred 1500 A. D. , you have a decline in access to the very words of Scripture. priests interpret the word of God for them because they couldn't actually get access to the very word of Scripture themselves. Hundreds and hundreds of years went by with this encase. And obviously as that happened, the gospel also did not go forward as it would as it could have had the word of God been in the language of the common. Man. But there were men like Wycliffe and Tyndale and John Huss and others who died. They sacrificed their lives because they believed. that the word of God needed to be accessible to everyone. And so although these our Bibles are all but free We have access to them. We have so much abundance of them. The reason we have them is at a great cost. And I wonder if one day there will that will happen again. That I don't know that sometimes We are not as diligent at memorizing them as we should, as meditating on them. We're not as diligent as we should at valuing the scriptures, valuing the Word of God. Graduates, seniors, if I could encourage you to do anything at all, it would be this: to put the word of God first in your life. In Psalm chapter 1, Psalm 1, verses 2 through 3, in the first part of it it says, don't be influenced. But verse 2 says, but his delight, the person who who is i his delight is in the law of the lord and in his law he meditates day and night. That person who puts the word of God first, who is Is it influenced by the world? Is it influenced by the values of the world? Is it influenced by the foolishness of the world? But instead loves the word of God, delights in the word of God, meditates on the word The word of God enjoys the word of God. That person will be like a tree planted by the rivers of water who bring forth fruit in the seed. And his leaf will not wither, and whatever he does will prosper. It's going to be tempting. I'll tell you, it's going to be tempting as you go into college to make this second. It will. I promise you it will. It will be tempting for you to put schoolwork first and studying first and all the different classes that you have and work first and everything comes. first and before hand uh and before long this becomes lower and lower and lower and lower in priority. And I and you'll say and you say to yourself, well, you know, that's just while I'm in college. You know, after I get to college, it'll be easier. It's not going to get any easier. And the and the habits that you make in college, the priorities that you have in college will carry with you for the the very likely for the rest of your life. Put the word of God first in your life. Proverbs chapter 2 verse says this. Verse verses 1 through 5 says this. My son, if you You will receive my words and treasure my commands with you, so that you incline your ear to wisdom and apply your heart to understand. Yes, if you will cry it out for discernment, and lift up your voice for If you will seek her as silver and search for her as hidden treasure, then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. It's going to take work. It takes work to study the Word of God. It takes work to memorize the Word of God. It takes work to meditate on the Word of God. You can't get it by osmosis. It takes work. There is no way getting around it. But God says that if you will take it as valuable as for silver, more valuable than gold, if you'll see it for its value. And you will be diligent about searching it out. You will find the knowledge of God. Those who put it second never find it at all. So let me encourage you, as you head out, and frankly this applies to every one of us, doesn't it? There's not a soul in this room that doesn't need a reminder that this must be first in our lives. Every one of us have responsibilities. Every one of us have things that get in the way and we put this off and we We'll get it to it later, or we'll eventually make it first in our lives. No. This has got to be the word of God is as the very name of God. It must be first in our lives. So there is a value. The fact that you grew up in a Christian home, the fact that you have a Christian heritage, all of that puts you in a In an advantageous place. There are some of you out there, you're a first-century Christian. And I'm always thankful for you because you're like a pioneer in your family. And and and you have to learn things that that we just those of us who grew up in a Christian home, we just kind of kind of didn't have to just kind of it was always that way Understand there is a privilege, but you know what? There is also a responsibility. Just like for the nation of Israel, there was a responsibility that went along with this privilege. There is for us as well. Now Paul begins to address another objection. Yes, the answer is yes. Script yes, Jewish people did have an advantage because they had the very But Paul explains that all are sinners and that their circumcision and possession of the law does not give them an automatic in with God. We pick up in verses three through four and we see this. He says, Here's the question for what if some did not believe will their unbelief make Here's what Israel was saying. Israel was saying, God is faithful, so that if I will take so Circumcision and I will possess the law. I'll do that. Regardless of faith and regardless of obedience, is if all I'll do is those two things. If I'll go through those rituals, then God will be faithful. to me as an Israelite. And by saying what Paul is saying, the objection is, well God it must not be faithful. If not every Christian, if not every Jewish person that takes Circumcision is going to actually receive eternal life, then that means that God isn't actually really faithful. And Paul says, No, that is not the case. Certainly not. He says, let God be true and every man a liar. Where do the people get off? Where did Jewish people get off on this and think Thinking that, okay, well, if God doesn't accept these kinds of things, then then he's not faithful. They really misunderstand A couple of different things. First of all, they misunderstood the promise. They didn't understand that it actually required faith. Paul is going to explain that later. We'll save that for later. Romans chapter 4 is going to explain That Abraham believed God and it was counted for righteousness. That was why righteousness was imputed to Abraham, not circumcision. But they they misunderstood the promise that was in the Abrahamic covenant. So number one, they misunderstood that. They also, I think they misunderstood or they they forgot God's ultimate goals. It kind of goes like this. They said, well, God's goal is that he collects for himself a covenant people. We are the apple of God's eye, and biblically they were. But we are the ultimate goal of God. God's goal is to make his covenant relationship with us, and we are his goal. But that is never the ultimate goal of God. God. The ultimate glor uh goal of God is to glorify Himself. We are created for His glory. Even when God uh made the covenant with Abraham. and with and later on with others when he made that covenant for the nation with the nation of Israel. His goal was not, the end goal was not just to have a covenant people. His end goal was to glorify himself through these covenant people. But how can he glorify himself well if they don't even believe in him rightly? That's the issue. They're not truly putting their faith in the provision that God has made, and so in so doing, they're not they're not believing in Jesus ultimately. That's the problem. They're not believing in the provision of God, and so therefore they're not glorifying God. They're not meeting the ultimate goal. And so they think that God is the one that's being unfaithful. And yet Paul sets them straight. No, God is always faithful to his promises. He says, let God be true and every man a liar. He's saying that no matter what men do, and by the way, are is every man a liar? Actually they are. Every person at one time or another has lied. And so it is actually true that God is all true and everyone Every person is a liar. We see we see this is an emphasis of Jesus, though. Jesus wanted to be clear to the disciples that God is true. John three thirty-three, he who uh has received his testimony has certified that God is true. Romans 8. 26, I have made many things to say, to judge concerning you. But he who sent me is true, and speak to the world those things which I heard of him. Christ verified that God is true He is all truth. He is completely truth. He is faithful in what he says because he is true. The faithfulness of God, the truth is. The truth of God and the righteousness of God, they are all they are all stable and they don't change based upon what anybody does or doesn't do. And by by the way, aren't you grateful for that? Aren't you thankful that the faithfulness of God does not depend upon you or me or what we do? No. God is always true, He is always faithful. So then we see in the passage it says, God has proved right that you he quotes Psalm fifty-one here. Now this is a quote from Psalm 514. David is speaking there in Psalm Psalm fifty-one, and he is repenting of his sin with Bathsheba ultimately. That entire shalm is on repentance. And what he is saying in Psalm 51 4, it says this in this in the actual Psalm Psalm, against you, you only have I sinned and done this evil in your sight, that you may be found just when you speak and bless you Blameless when you judge. See, the one who is truly repentant sees God as just for judging sin. He see they see God as the constant, faithful, just righteous God for judging sin. And that's what the Jewish people need to Needed to see. They needed to see that their sin needed a savior instead of thinking that God was just going to overlook their sin And just take care of them and not judge them. No, see, when you're truly repentant, you say, God is just for judging me. It's a different perspective. They felt that they were deserving. Lots of pride going on, we learned from last Sunday. Jewish people thought they were very deserving, that they they deserved uh favor and status and all those kinds of things. But a truly apparent says no, I I am deserving of nothing. What I am deserving of is judgment from God. A truly repentant goes person goes through his life and says, Oh, that happened to me. I don't deserve any better Does that happen to be? I deserve worse than that. Even when he's falsely accused. You ever been falsely accused? You go, I don't deserve that. We should probably follow it up with I I don't deserve I may not deserve that because I didn't do that, but there's a lot of things, uh other things I did deser I do deserve. That's one who lives in repentance. That's where these people needed to come to. They needed to come to a place of repentance. Now, the truth is, you and I, we we get things mixed up in our lives too. We get things mixed up when it comes to the faithfulness of God. We get things mixed up when it comes to the promises of God. We have expectations that God will do certain things. things and God doesn't fulfill our expectations. But I want to begin simply by pointing this out in our application that God's faithfulness is always true. It's always stable. It doesn't matter what you do. In fact, we ought to be very, very grateful for that. 2 Timothy 2, verse 11, verses 13. If you're struggling with your own assurance, if you're struggling with doubts, if you're struggling with whether or not you're good enough to be God's child, or any of that, this is a wonderful verse. A couple of verses This is a faithful saying, for we did we die for we die with him, we shall also live with him. If we endure, we shall also reign with him. If we deny him, he also will deny us. If we are faithless, catch what it says: He remains faithful. He cannot deny us himself. What a wonderful verse. Now this is not saying that you don't need to put place your faith in in Christ to pay the punishment for your sin. Romans is going to make that extremely clear. But in times where your faith wanes, in times where you feel as though you don't have any faith at all, in times where that you're struggling with all that, understand that God is faithful. He cannot deny himself. The key is you've got to make sure your confidence is in the right thing. See, your confidence cannot be in a ritual. Your confidence cannot be in praying a prayer. Your confidence cannot be in the fact that you grew up in a Christian home, as we said last week. Your confidence has got to be on the finished work of Jesus Christ to pay the punishment for your sin. And if you are placing your faith in that, God cannot deny himself. He is faithful. You know what? We run into problems though. Just like the pe the Jewish people and misunderstanding the promises of God. I'll give you a common one. In s in second chronicles seven fourteen, have you heard this applied to the United States of America? America, if my people who are called by my name will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will heal hear from God bless America. Is that verse given to America? Is that a promise given to the United States? Now look, I hope God blesses America. Don't you But that verse is not a promise to the United States. That per verse is a promise to the nation of Israel when the temple Is being built. We have to understand that the promises of God are specific to specific groups of people. Now there are promises to us, but actually every promise in the book is not mine. There are some promises that do not apply to me. And we need to be careful when we're interpreting the scriptures and understanding the Word of God that we don't take the promises of God that actually don't apply to me Think they do apply to me, and when they don't come through the way I think, suddenly I've lost my faith. But, on the other hand, we do rely on the promises of God. I'll give you one that is for the If you are a Christian, this one is for you. No question about it. And we know all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. For whom he did foreknow, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. If you know Christ as your Savior, God promises that what you are going through will be for your good and will be for His glory. He's going to make it that way. That's a promise to the Christian. That's one you can hold on to. That's one you can be true. And you say, well, I don't think that's always true in my life. You haven't lived your whole life yet. Some things you don't understand this side of heaven at all. There are things that we go through, we say, Well, I don't see how on earth the goodness of God is there. I don't see how God is ever going to use that in my life to make Yeah, you don't know everything. God is God, and you are not. You've got to trust his promises. And so on the other hand, you need to make sure the promise is for you and it's in context and it is May it is for you, but once you know it is, yes, we absolutely rely on the faithful promises of God that do not change based upon how I respond. That don't change based upon my behavior. Love the song Standing on the Promises that cannot fail. When the howling storms of doubt and fear assail, by the living word of God I shall prevail. Stand on the promise. I'm thankful as the cook cups go out. I don't really address people directly in a service usually, but I am here and I don't think you'll mind. I'm thankful that we can all stand on the promises of God here. That you all can stand on the promises of God, that how God you can attestify you actually should be up here and I should be down there listening to you, uh frankly. And actually I have from time time gone to them and talked with them and learned a lot from them over the years and I'm gonna miss that. But no matter what happens in life and how the Lord directs and how everything is going to work how everything we're gonna all these new things that are gonna happen. How we're gonna get along without the couple. Who am I gonna go to? You guys don't know this, but I go and visit them and I try to be a blessing and they're a blessing to me every time. And I'm gonna miss that. And uh so so the fa God is faithful. He will do all of what he is doing in our church. How how is Bethel Baptist Church? We've never been without you guys. You you do need to keep praying for us. I would exhort you from the pulpit today that you keep praying for us. But God is faithful. He will be faithful to Bethel Baptist Church to use it in exactly the way that God wants to use it. Because he is faithful. We do stand on his promises. It was a final realization that God used un unrighteous men. Paul was essentially at least implying this if not stating this in Romans. that God actually uses the unrighteousness of men to show, to highlight his righteousness. Actually, that's true, isn't it? If you think of a flashlight, simple illustration, but you think of a flashlight. You turn all the lights out in a room, you turn a flashlight on, and if all the lights are there, it it may or may not not look bright You turn all the lights off in a room and you flash shine a flashlight and it's going to be extremely bright, right? The brightness is more distinct in the And essentially that's what God that's what God does. He takes the unrighteousness even of the Jewish people. All of this idolatry in the Old Testament, all of the sin in the Old Testament. And God takes all of it and in his own wise way uses even sin, even unrighteousness to shine forth in a distinct manner his own way. The gospel, the redemptive work, the grace of God, all of that would not be on display had it not been for since Sin. Now, that is not to say that God is the originator of sin. It's not to say that we understand how sin all the ins and outs of why God allows sin to come and There are questions about that that are unanswerable, but here's what we know. We know that God does use everything ultimately for his glory. But there was an objection, as uh at least a perceived objection, maybe a real objection, that when it came to that. Look at verse 5. But if our righteousness demonstrates the righteousness of God, what shall we say? Is God unjust who inflicts wrath? If our righteousness demonstrates the righteousness of God, what shall we say? Is God unjust who inflicts wrath? What is he saying? Well, he is very likely alluding to an objection which pretty much goes like this. How can if if God uses my unrighteousness How can then God judge me for my unrighteousness that he's using? How how can he do that? Does that not mean that he is unjust? That's really very likely the objection that That Paul is dealing with here. And what's the answer to that? Is God un uh he's asking this sort of rhetorical question, is God really unjust? And then he says this phrase I speak as a man. You know what he's saying there? He is saying that is a very human way of thinking. That is a very human argument. This is a human way of thinking. Paul's done this before in other places in the New Testament where he has essentially said this is speaking as a as a from a human perspective, this is not uh he he's he's done that before and that's very likely what he's doing here. So um and so he is dealing with Now I didn't mention it before in verse four he uses this word certainly not. The certainly not is mega noita, it's this idea absolutely under no circumstances It is not. Your King James says, God forbid, the word theos is not there, but it is, it is, it means certainly not under any stir circumstances. Absolutely not. God, then he says this, for then how will God judge the world? This is what he's saying. Now I have to unpack this a little bit, but this is what he's saying. The Jewish people understood that God would judge the world. They knew from scriptures like we won't take the time to turn there, but Jennifer. Genesis chapter 18, verse 25, Job 34, 17, and many other places, that God will judge the world. The Jewish people knew that. They just thought they were exempt from that judgment. And God and they expected that God would judge Gentiles. They totally expected that God would do that. But what Paul is saying is that God uses both the Jewish sin and the Gentile sin ultimately to show his revealing of his own righteousness so that if he didn't judge them How could he judge anyone? In other words, Paul is turning it back on them, and he's saying, for God to be just, he must judge you just like we know he's going to judge the Gentile unbelievers. People have objections today, all kinds of objections like this. Well, how could God be good and powerful? I mentioned before, how could God be both good and powerful? And yet allow suffering and evil in the world. The main problem, folks, is that we are trying to think as God thinks. And the fact is, what we really need to do is trust the Word of God and the Will of God and simply believe what God says even when we don't understand. Isaiah 55, 9 says this, for as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts higher than your thoughts. That's what God says. Your His ways are not our ways. His thoughts are not our thoughts. We must trust what His Word says as So then we pick up here, and we see a presumption that resurfaces in verse 7. Look at what verse 7 says. It says, For if the truth of God has increased through my lie to his glory. In other words, they understood from what Paul was saying that that God would increase his glory through everything. And the logic then is if God is increasing through my lie to his glory, why am I still judged as a sinner? That is a resurfaced question. question that we've already he's already answered. But he's gonna elaborate more on this because it's actually gone a step further in verse eight. What and why not say let us do e evil that good may come. Hey, if God uses sin to glorify himself, if God uses right the unrighteousness to highlight righteousness, well why not just sin even more? And you know what Paul and how Paul answers this? This is actually an accusation. This is what went around apparently as an accusation that that's what the apostles taught. As we are slanderously ported and some affirm that we say. It's interesting how Paul ends this. He just says, Your condemnation is just. That's all he says. He stops there. you need. Sometimes we get all loud and say all kinds of things, but actually we need to get quiet and say one simple thing and and that's the right thing to say. And what Paul says here is their condemnation is just You know what he's saying there? He is saying that those who have this kind of presumption, those who say, Well, if God glorifies is got if God's glorified in my sin, then I can just do whatever I want, you And the truth is, that is the case. See, when someone truly is forgiven of their sin, they understand their own guilt, they understand the grace of God in the their lives. There is a gratefulness that occurs that causes them to not desire to displease their Savior. They don't want to sin anymore. It's not, oh now I get a license to do whatever I want. No. He's going to say later, what shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may above us? God forbid, how shall we who are dead to sin live any longer therein? Romans 6. No, no, no, no, no. If you have that kind of thinking, if you say, oh, I guess I get to be able to do whatever I want. Because I've been saved by the grace of God, you have not been saved by the grace of God. The change, the work of change in your life has not occurred because when it occurs, you want Now I'm not saying that no Christian could ever say that at any point in their life. I'm simply saying that if you come to Christ that way and you don't have a desire to please God, And you have this sort of, okay, now I got just a license to do whatever I want. That is not a change. That God has worked in your life to circumcise your heart, as Paul said in the previous passage. Our lives must be and our hearts must be changed by the Spirit of God, through the Word of God, as we believe it by the working of the Spirit of God. So all of that now leads us to three questions. Number one, are we truly grateful for the privilege of knowing the Word? Are we truly truly grateful for the privilege of knowing the word? I I I can't encourage you enough. I I was convicted myself in thinking through this. I remember as at your age, I remember as a teenager, some of you guys. I remember as a teenager praying that that God, I don't know if I was a I don't remember when. I don't know if I was like in a service or whatever, but at some point in Psalm one, I was reading Psalm one, and I prayed that God would give me a a delight in him. His word. I just, Lord, would you give me a delight for your work? Can I just tell you that God answered that prayer? There there's no other way to explain it. When God gives you a love for the Word of God, and you just want to delve in You want to dig it out, you want to understand it, you want to apply it, you want to live it out, you want to meditate out, you're thinking about it all the time. That's not from your flesh. That's not from us, that's from God And I do wonder, young person and old person, and everybody in between, I do wonder if it would be wise for us to pray, Lord, please give me. Lord, help me to enjoy your word. Because the reality is, those of us who have prayed that and seek God answer to that prayer, some Sometimes that can wane. That desire can be shoved off to the side. What a wonderful thing. That this I I think that's an answer that that is something that God would love to answer in your life. If you would sincerely pray, Lord Lord, give me Lord, would you give me Lord, I realize I don't have a desire for your word that I should. Lord, would you give me a desire for your word? That would be a wonderful thing to prayer to pray. And then obviously get to follow up with work and see what God does. Number two, will we choose to experience the faithfulness of God through truth and obedience. Will we choose to experience the faithful of God? See, here's the thing. God's always faithful. Always, whether you believe him or not, whether you follow him or not, whether you obey him or not. But there is a real sense in which you're not going to really experience the blessedness of the faithfulness of God. If you are not obedient to God, it kind of goes like this. You have the faithfulness of God that doesn't change. But in the faithfulness of God, God can bless the righteous and he can punish the unjust. And God is faithful in punishing those who are sinful, and he is faithful in blessing those who are righteous. of uh it may be just spiritual blessing. It may be reward in heaven. I'm not saying that you can measure this quite right. But you will on some level be able to experience the faithfulness of God if you will trust him and And consistently obey him. And if you don't trust him and don't consistently obey him, don't be surprised if you doubt the faithfulness of God. So God is always faithful, but whether experience it or not depends on whether we trust and obey Him. Number three, do we have a healthy fear of the justice of God. Folks, that's important. God, whom the Lord loves, he chastens. And he is always just. He's always right. He will always do right. So understand this that as a Christian you're not exempt from from harmful things happening to you simply because you're a Christian. In fact, if you are living in disobedience to God, don't be surprised if you are chastened by God. In fact, whom the Lord loves, he chastens, Hebrews says. So they misunderstood, the Jewish people misunderstood the the justice of God. We ought not do the same. Do we have a healthy fear of God? If there is anybody here, and there very well may be, maybe, maybe you you haven't really experienced the grace of God. God you haven't really experienced the fact you you're you you sinned, maybe you understand that. If you don't you need to understand that. The Jewish people who thought they were righteous were not righteous. They had sinned. We are all born into sin. And our sin separates us from God. We are under the faithful justice of God because of our sin. But Jesus died. He died to pay the punishment for our sin. The rest of the book of Romans is going to hit on this. But Jesus died to take our sin on himself. So that we could place our faith in Jesus and what he did on the cross. And that truly would bring about the faithful righteousness of God into our lives so that his righteousness could be applied to us. us so that we could be made clean by God. And then we would have a right relationship with God. Do you have that relationship with God? Where you know that you that you are a child of God. If you don't, let me encourage you, come and talk with me afterwards and and talk with somebody that you're comfortable with. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can Know for sure that you have a relationship with God through Christ that you can know it's by Jesus Christ alone. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and thank you. We thank you for your goodness to us. We thank you for your grace. We thank you for your faithfulness. We thank you for your word. I pray, Lord, that what we have looked at today that it would it we would we would not just as a mirror look at it and then walk away and forget what we Looked at. Instead, Lord, would you help us to change our thinking, to strengthen our faith, to change us We pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.