Now have you guys ever heard or seen these uh psychiatrists, doctors where they're watching children's behavior? And they go ahead and they put the candy on the table and they have their double glass mirror window thing here and they tell the child, hey, don't touch it, uh, don't eat that. Um I'm gonna leave, I'll be back, and when I come back, you can have it I'm sure that many of you have seen these different types of things. And you see the child actually like struggling to obey and has this anguish to obey And here I I want to kind of think about that and I see I I I know if I was the kid standing in front of that candy, it'd be gone. It won't even be a question, right? That's just my nature Let's think of it a little bit differently. What if the tr the child really actually trusted the fact that he was going to receive that candy? He just had to wait a minute. Just had to wait. He wasn't going to receive it. He would get it. He just had to wait. And he had to trust the fact that that doctor, whom he doesn't know, or actually just first time seeing, is going to give it to him. Now it's probably pretty hard for that child to actually trust this physician to do that, right? But let's think of it this way. What if there was a couple different elements that were added to the case? I thought about what kind of elements would change the scenario. And I put together maybe a picture book, one where it has pictures of your parents, and the eight-year-old will say can read and then the In there it also says obey, wait, patient. You know, and he can read these things and he can look at pictures. That might change it a little bit, right? Putting it right next to the candy opened up with mom and dad smiling at you saying, obey Or what about if it was not just that picture book right there that said, obey and gave instruction, but right to his left side, his father sat silently. His father sitting silently next to that young child, I have a feeling, would be very interesting. I bet you that child would sit tight until that physician came back. Now, as we take a look here, the title of the message is Obedient Unto the End, Knowing the End. Do we see the truth in the words of Scripture and trust it? What keeps us from true peace and the love of Jesus? Understanding some of the background before we get into this here, Jesus is preparing the disciples for what is to come. He had just finished washing their feet, talking to them about the up-and-coming betrayal that was going to happen. They were confused. They didn't really fully understand. This is going back in chapter 13. They didn't fully understand everything he was saying. You also see in chapter 13 that Peter is going to be called out for his soon denial of Christ. Jesus was talking to his disciples here in the upper room discourse going into this, telling them of how he and his father are one, and that he is leaving them with a comforter, the paraclete. And we'll come back for them. Believers who love biblically will keep his commandments Well, being strengthened by the Holy Spirit that was left for them, or that is left for them. The question I want to ask is. How can believers consistently love Christ and keep his commandments? How can believers consistently love Christ and keep his commandments? Let's take a look at the text in verse 15. It leads me to our number one point, the believer's blessing. If ye love me, keep my commandments. Loving him is seen by keeping his commandments, right? In first John 2, 3 through 6 it says, And hereby we do know that we know him if we keep his commandments. He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him. But whoso keepeth his words, in him verily is the love of God perfected. Hereby know we that we are in him. He that saith he abideth in him ought himself also to walk, even as he walked. We don't just see this commandment and this idea of loving him and keeping his commandments just in the New Testament. It's also in the Old Testament, and you can see that in Exodus. twenty and for sake of time because we have a lot to go over, four through six. I'm just going to read six. It says, and showing mercy unto thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments. Keep in mind that when we're going through the text today We are covering a lot of verses. It's not exhaustive in any manner here, but we're going to try to go ahead and get as much as we can. We have a blessing of keeping his commandments because we know him. He loves us regardless, but we demonstrate our love to him by keeping his commandments. He loves us regardless. It's a blessing. The comforter is left for the believers to abide, and we see this in verses 16 through 17. And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter. This is the comforter that is left. It's the third person within the Trinity introduced here. We see Jesus' I in the text, and the Father and the Comforter being the Holy Spirit. The word comforter has a greater meaning than what we would maybe think though. We may think that somebody comes besides us and kind of rubs our back when we're sad, right? Or the idea of a comforter that uh maybe we're using on our bed at night. The word has a greater meaning. The word in the Greek actually is a paracle, and I was looking at this word, and it has a lot more meaning than what we are just similar to what we're used to in the word comforter itself. You can't really fully describe it with really just one word. It has a lot of oomph in it. Really does. So the idea is one that pleads another's cause before a judge or a counselor or a defense, it has this legal assistant aspect to it. an advocate, an intercessor, a helper, an aid. It's going to be the word that says the call to one's side. So I was looking at these words and reading different commentaries, and a good main word for this here would be actually helper, but not helper in the way of you think, hey, my little child, come alongside me. Uh he's my little helper, my little buddy, right? He's much greater than that. This is the idea that I can't do it. But he can In 1 John 2. 1, he says, My little children, children, these things write I unto you that ye sin not, and if any man sin, we have an advocate. With the Father Jesus Christ. He is our advocate to the Father on our behalf. We can't do it. He can. Where is all this happening? And he and what how does it work? If you look at the verse in 16, he abides with us forever. This is a permanent relationship. It doesn't come and go. Some have it, others don't. If you are a child of God, you have this comforter abiding with you forever. What a blessing to know. The Paracle, this big word here that describes many things, is left with us. It's a huge blessing for the believer. The spirit of truth is to the believer, and the world cannot receive it. And we see this in 617. It says, even the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not Why can't the world receive it? Well, they don't know him. They haven't trusted him. They haven't heard the truth to know him. They are blind. In 2 Corinthians 4, 4, the God of the world has blinded the minds. This glorious gospel can't be seen to them that are blind. This is a blessing to the believer. We can see it. The disciple not only had him to see, but now they will have him indwelling in them The believer's blessing is that we have the spirit of truth indwelling in us. Keep in mind the context. This is Christ talking to the disciples. Okay? The difference between the indwelling spirit, just so we have a clarity here, the indwelling, uh the difference between the indwelling and the filling of the Holy Spirit is that the indwelling of God's Spirit is when the Holy Spirit takes up permanent residency. in the believer. At the point of conversion. The other, the filling, is being under the influence of God's Spirit and requires the believer's submission and yielding Wearsby says this, to be filled with the Spirit is the same as to be controlled by the Word. The Spirit of Truth uses the Word of Truth to guide us into the will and the work of God. The Spirit uses the Word to lead and to teach. In order for us to benefit from this blessing, we must know the Word of God. We can't walk around aimlessly expecting these blessings to impact our lives if we cannot proclaim and know the Word of God. The Spirit doesn't give us some mystical new revelation. The Spirit works in conjunction with the Word of God. In verse 18 through 19, as we look at this, he doesn't leave them comfortless, but with hope. What a blessing for these disciples. What a blessing for us that he doesn't leave them as an orphan, this idea. He doesn't leave them comfortless. He tells them in this text in 18, I will not leave you comfortless. Why? I will come to you. He tells them that he's coming back to them. Again, the blessing for the believer. To know that we are not left alone. We are not left fatherless. He cares for us and is coming again. He is the great father, the teacher, the guide. He protects, he cares for us, and he loves us perfectly. This is the comforter that he leaves for us. In Matthew 28-20, not the whole verse, but he is with us to the end of the world. If we look at John fourteen verses three, and if I go, I prepare a place for you. I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am, there you may be also. He is preparing a place for us when he And will come again for us. It's sad though, if you think about it, for the unbeliever, they don't have this blessing. They really don't. But we as believers can rest on these blessings that he has for us. In verse 19, it says, Yet a little while, and the world seeth me no more. The world isn't going to see him when he comes back to the disciples. After his crucifixion, he's going to make himself known to his disciples. He gives them the hope for what? Because he lives, they shall live also. He says, Because I live, ye will live also. The believers will live as he lives. We are going to live as he lives. And we keep seeing the believer's blessing with with the promise here that he's giving. So let's look at now verse 20 through 21. Promises to the believer. And if we see it says, at the day ye shall know that I am in my Father, and he in me, and I in you. The blessing to disciples seeing Christ's resurrection is going to convince them that they have a permanent union with Him. Just as Jesus with the Father, they have Jesus and the Spirit now indwelling in them We see this in 14, chapter 14, 10 through 11, Jesus speaks the words of the Father. I'm not going to read it for sake of time, but you can read that on your own. He speaks the words of the Father. In verse 21, and he that hath my commandment, again, here we go, commandment, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me. The love for Christ makes believers more obedient to God. He revisits what he's saying in verse 15. It makes me think it sounds pretty important, right? It's pretty important for us. The result of this love allows for a more intimate relationship with God. God is love and loves from the beginning. Believers don't need to initiate this love with their obedience to get his love. It's there. However, the example I want to use here to illustrate this is this. It's like a family unit. There's a close relationship with a child. When a child obeys the father, if I have a child that obeys me well, Does that mean I love my child more? No. I love my child if he's unruly or if he obeys. It doesn't, I don't love the child any less or more, but guess what? I do have a deeper relationship with them. A more intimate relationship with them. Right? Because of this intimate love God shares, He makes it more known to them or us. He gives more responsibility to us the more we obey and follow him. As a father, I know my children will obey and do what is right no matter what. Yeah, right. Right. My love for them is the same. However, if they do obey and actually follow the instructions I give them, and I can actually see evidences that they're living right and doing right, what do you think they are allowed? They have a little bit more freedom, right? They have more trust. They've gathered this trust I have no issue with them having more freedom in this case. D. A. Carson says the groundwork is being laid for the oneness between Jesus and his disciples that mirrors the oneness between Jesus and his heavenly Father. Those that love Jesus biblically will want to follow and keep his commandments. Jesus is the great teacher. It isn't as if he says, hey, good luck, right? He's not just saying good luck. He actually gives instruction, which brings me to my second point. The believer's great teacher The believer has this great teacher. This is a great blessing for us. And we're going to take a look at that through verses 22 through 26. Judas here asks the question: how is he going to manifest himself? That's a good question, right? Now this man, Judas, is the son or brother of James, and you can cross-reference that through uh Luke 16, 6 Uh 616 or Acts 113. So there's two Judases. You have this one and then you have the Judas Iscariot, right? So there's two Judases here for clarity. It also might be the same Manestadius, which you can cross-reference that is in Matthew 10, 2-4, and Mark 3, 16-19. But Judas is asking a question here, which really they all have. He's asking the question they all are wondering, how are you going to do this? How are you going to manifest yourself? To us and not the world. Look at 22. Judah saith unto him, Not Iscariot, Lord, how is it that thou art going to manifest thyself unto us? And not to the world. It's a fair question. These disciples are confused. They don't fully understand everything that Jesus is saying. And so these questions are fair. They didn't understand Jesus would rise bodily. And they certainly did not understand the Holy Spirit was going to be indwelling them. They want to know what Jesus means. What does it mean, Jesus, that you're going to reveal yourself to us privately after your resurrection? You know what's interesting about this? We have the whole complete word of God. They don't. So we can hear this like questioning and be like, oh they're dumb. Yeah. You hear this guy? They're dumb. No. We have the whole written word of God. And it's a blessing for us to have this. They didn't understand everything that was going on. They're questioning, they're trying to figure it out. Verse 23, I think, is really cool. Jesus' response Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he keeps his my words. I love it. He really didn't clear up Judas' misunderstanding. He really didn't. He didn't say, Well, Judas, let me explain this to you real quick. He didn't do that like we maybe do with our children. Well son, let me tell you, right? He just kind of he doesn't go into that. He says, love me and keep my words, keep my commandments. This was an important subject to Jesus. Why? Because he keeps repeating it. It's interesting Um I guess you could say I came from the school of hard knocks a little bit, right? At least uh a lot of people that know me. I'm still in the hard knocks world, right? Yeah. But it's interesting. Don't we all need to hear things over and over and over sometimes? And that's the same thing that's going on here. Jesus is telling him, hey Keep my commandments, love me, follow me, follow my instruction I'm giving you. He wants them to clearly see the importance of loving and obeying him. He wants them to have a strong and intimate and a deeper relationship with the words that he's saying. He wants them to keep his commandments and you see that not Only in this verse, but you see it in 15, you see it in 21, 23, 24. This is all within this same chapter, and there's more Jesus also continues making the connection with his union with his father. They are interlinked. Jesus promised to those that love him that his father will love them. As I gave you the illustration earlier, I won't go over that again. But it's it's this deeper intimate relationship. Jesus and the Father will make an abode for them. If we look here in verse 23, the bottom it says, and make our abode with him. This is for his children. We have this blessing that he's going to make this abode for us In 1 Corinthians 6, 19 through 20, what? Know ye not that your body is of the Holy Ghost, which is in you, which ye have of God, and ye are not your own? For ye are bought with a price that for glow therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. In eight Romans eight, nine through eleven But ye are not in flesh, but in the spirit, if so be that the spirit of God dwell in you. Now if any man have not the spirit of Christ, he is none of his. And if Christ be in you, the body is dead because of sin, but the spirit is life because of righteousness. But the spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you. He that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies by his spirit that dwell in you. Charles Spurgeon said this. Little faith will take your soul to heaven, but great faith will bring heaven to your soul. Your heart cannot become a heaven on earth. Your heart can become a heaven on earth as you commune with the Lord and worship him. That's a wonderful place to be. We see the contrast here of what it looks like in verse 24. Those that Don't keep his sayings, right? He that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings. Alright? So here Jesus is teaching them that those that don't live love him will not keep his sayings And he's telling them that the sayings aren't just his words, they're his father's words. These are words of his father. If you look here, it says, and the words which ye hear are not mine. But the Father that sent me. Do we realize that we have the words of God here That's pretty important to think about. John 14, 10. Believest thou not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? The words that I speak unto you, I speak not of myself, but the Father that dwell in me, and he doth the works, in John 8. 28. Do nothing of myself, but as my Father hath taught me, I speak these things. These are the words of God. In verse 25, we see, these things have I spoken to you, being yet present with you. Jesus has been with them, telling them, teaching them, all these things. He is personal with them. But he's also about to leave them. But you know what the blessing here? He doesn't leave them comfortless, right? If you look at the next verse, he says what? But the comforter in verse 26. The comforter is left for the believers to teach all things. Here you can see the identity of the comforter is the Holy Ghost. Which is the Holy Ghost. We can also see that the Comforter, who is sent, the Father sent the Comforter in Jesus' name. And the comforter is going to be able to do what? Teach all things, he says. Teach all things. And bring to remembrance all things that he has said. That's what this comforter is going to do. This is extremely important, folks. The Spirit will enable them to understand all things. The Father sent the Spirit in Jesus' name with the same goal towards God's will as Jesus had. Okay? The things that the Spirit brings to them are things that they have already heard. It isn't some special revelation, as we have mentioned earlier in verse 17. Just as we have the complete Word of God, the Bible, the Holy Spirit works through his scriptures for us to see more of who he is. We won't get some special revelation that has not been already or is not in his word. We see Jesus as so merciful to us, giving us his blessing of understanding, his words, and leaving us this great teacher, the great teacher. We can know how to love God biblically because of the comforter that he has left behind, giving us strength and teaching us through his word. He now goes into the peace that he leaves. He leaves this peace who or for who? Specifically for the believer Leading me to my third point is that the believer's peace is explained here. And we look at 27 through 31. The peace that is left for the believers is much different than what the world leaves. Jesus' peace is left here. The word peace is actually a Jewish customary saying kind of hello, agreed, a farewell kind of an idea. He just isn't saying goodbye here though with these words. But he's leaving them something as he goes. This peace that he leaves is one that passed all understanding in Philippians four six through nine be careful for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. Why? And the peace of God, which passes all understanding, shall keep your hearts We learned about the heart today with uh Enrique's message, right? Your whole body will keep you in your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just Whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. Why? These things which ye have both what? Learned And received and heard and seen in who? Me, he says. Do, and the God of peace shall be with you. In Colossians 3. 15, let the peace of God rule in your hearts to the which ye also are called in one body and be thankful. The world's peace has no benefits, folks. There is no way the world will ever give peace. It might claim that it wants to give peace, but it will never happen. Never happen. D. A. Carson says, the world is powerless to give peace. There is sufficient hatred, selfishness bitterness, malice, anxiety, and fear, that every attempt at peace is rapidly swamped. The world promises peace. It waves the flag of peace But he can't give it. What a blessing for us. True peace only comes from the Prince of Peace in Isaiah 9, 6 through 7. For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulders, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor Mighty God, the everlasting Father, and the Prince of Peace. This is the blessing that we have here, folks. This is who Christ is. He made peace possible. How? By the work on the cross. Jesus doesn't just again leave them helplessly here. He gives them instruction on what this piece is not. If we look at the verse, it says that in verse 27 Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. He tells them to not allow their hearts to be troubled or afraid. Jesus has told them already this in John 14. 1. If you want to flip back, you can see he says Let not your heart be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. He's not to let them to be troubled. He doesn't. Why does he tell them this? He explains why he tells them this actually in verse 2. In my father's house are many mansions. He's explaining to them that this is not our home. This is not our home. And we see him going into the fact that this is not our home more in verse 28 to come. But we have peace knowing the end, folks. The complete Word of God. We know the end. Jesus had peace as he went to the cross, as he came to do the will of the Father. John 12, 27-28. Now is my soul troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour, but for this cause Came I unto this hour. And John twelve twenty-eight says, Father, glorify thy name Then came there a voice from heaven saying, I have both glorified it and will glorify it again. Believers, do we say, Father, glorify your name in me? Do we desire to actually glorify God in our life? Or do we skirt by? With no care for the world but our own agendas. Do we take God's word seriously? Those that know God Can be confident in his word in the promises that he leaves with us. In Romans 5:1. Therefore, being justified by faith We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. This peace experience to those believers knowing his return. And if you look at 28 through 29, he says, We have heard how I said unto you, I go away and come again unto you If ye loved me, you would rejoice because I said I go unto the Father, for the Father is greater than I. The disciples have actually heard That he had to go away and that he was coming back. They've heard this. They just didn't fully understand and they actually were fearful They hear him say this in verses 2 through 4, 12, 18 through 19, 21, and 23. The reality is that the disciples just need to trust him. They need to trust him. Don't we do the same thing? We don't trust him. Love of him will not only be seen by obeying his commandments, but they, we, the disciples us, will trust him and what he is saying. Believers, do we allow our peace? Do we allow peace to rule our hearts? The disciples seem to honestly have the same issues that we do in not allowing peace to rule our heart our hearts. They were anxious. He says, If you love me, you would rejoice. Peace for those that love him and have full confidence in him. If they truly loved him, they would be glad that he was going to his father. Why? He goes to the Father that is greater than him. He isn't saying that he is less than God in this verse. He is talking about how he had to set aside his heavenly glory to do the earthly ministry. In Philippians 2, 6 through 11, but I'm only going to read 6 for time, it says, Who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God? In John ten thirty, I and my father are one, he says. The disciples should have understood that he had to go And honestly, they should have been excited at the fact that he had to go. Why? Knowing what was to come, because he told them what was to come. Just as we should be excited, knowing the Father is coming again, we have the same blessing. And John 17, 5. And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self, with the glory which I had with thee. What did he say? Which with the glory that I had with thee when? Before the world was. This meant he was going back to where he was before the world began, in his glory and joy with his heavenly father. Instead, the disciples had a more selfish mindset, not wanting to believe, no, please, please, please, right? Think of this, Laura. Think of this for a second. Think of the those maybe who loved ones you may have lost that are believers. We don't need to say, stay, stay, please, please. This is where they want to go. He here had to set aside his heavenly glory to come down on earth to be crucified. for us to have eternal life. And now he's going back to his father. For us believers to experience the peace that God gives, we need to trust what He says We need to keep his commandments while being strengthened by the Holy Spirit. This isn't something that we ourselves can muster up. We need to allow the Holy Spirit to work in us, to do this within ourselves. And we need to know more of this in order for us to apply it. In verse 29, we see this, and now I have told you, before it come to pass that when it is come to pass ye might believe. He has told them all this before He wanted to actually increase their strength within their faith. He told them that uh He he told them that this before it was going to happen to give them the special piece of the things that are going to come. He wanted their faith to grow after the resurrection. This is for their assurance and so that they would believe. He wanted them to have the information so when he does, when it does come to pass, they would actually believe. This was for the believers to have more peace. The peace that he sends with us, we can see here in verses 30 through 31. He isn't going to be with them much longer. He says, hereafter, I will not talk much with you. Why isn't he going to be with that much longer? Well, Jesus has to leave. His time on earth is short. Well, why? The prince of the world is coming. But folks, we don't have to worry about that. To the believer, we don't have to worry about that. He says here, the prince of this world cometh and have nothing. In me. First John four four. Yeah of God, little children, and have overcome them, because greater is He that is in you than He that is in the world. First John 5, 19 through 20 says, And we know that we are of God, and the whole world lieth in wickedness, and we know that the Son of God has come, and hath given us an understanding that we may know him that is true. And we are in him that is true, even in the Son Jesus Christ, this is the true God and eternal life. This next statement I absolutely love. The prince of the world has no hold on Jesus. I absolutely love this statement. The prince has nothing on him. Why? He is not of this world, and he has no sin. John 8 23 says, And he said unto them, Ye are from beneath, I am from above, ye are of this world, and I am of this world. I am not of this world. The only way for the devil to have a hold on Jesus is if he was guilty of sin, and he wasn't and can't, and never will be guilty of sin. This is great. The prince of this world has nothing on Jesus. 1 Peter 1 9, and I'm going to read quite a few verses here because this is good stuff. But with the precious blood of Christ, as a lamb without blemish and without spot. 1 Peter 2. 22. Who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth. 1 John 3, 5. And we know that he was manifested to take away our sins. And in him is no sin. 2 Corinthians 5. 21, for he hath made himself to be sin for us, who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Hebrews 4. 15 For we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was at all points tempted like we are, yet without sin, and I have more. But he is without sin. That is why nothing can hold him. In verse 31, it says, But that the world may know that I love the Father. Why is he doing this? Jesus wants the world to know that he did this out of love for his father, that he loves his father. He obeys his father's commands, as we see in verse 31. And as the Father gave me commandments, even so I do. Jesus did this. He did this out of love for the Father. He died on the cross out of love for the Father to obey the will of the Father. And believers in Christ, do we not have a responsibility to obey the will of the Father in our own lives? We sure do. He obeys the commands. True love is shown in full obedience, Philippians 2. 8. And being found in the fashion as man, he humbled himself. And became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. The last part he says, Arise, let us go hence. In the New King James it says, let us go from here. At this point he could have got up from the table and knowing what was to come said, let's go. John 13, 31, therefore when he has gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him. Do we have that same kind of concept or idea in our minds? Like when we are going out into this world, it's kind of like, hey, let's go. We know what's to come. Right? He knows he's gonna die. He knows he's leaving there and he's going to die. He's trying to give them instruction, to give them comfort, to give them an understanding, and he knows what's coming up. In conclusion, Jesus hasn't asked his disciples honestly to do anything more than what he would do and actually has done himself. In verse 15, as we said, it says, If you love me, keep my commandments. And Jesus is proof of the love of the Father. He died in obedience because that was the will of the Father. This is the son that didn't leave them or us as orphans, but left the Holy Spirit for us. The Spirit wasn't just left, it dwells in us. And we have complete the complete word of God, knowing the end. We as believers have a specific benefit that are honestly just for us. We have the blessing he gives us as he has left us, the great teacher, and can have peace as we live in this life in Christ. We can love biblically as Christ is about to demonstrate while being strengthened by the Holy Spirit. We need the Holy Spirit to work in our lives so that we can have the strength to live as Christ. Believers, our application tonight would be: believers, don't despair. Obey his commands, knowing the end. Don't despair. Don't think, oh goodness, what am I going to do? I'm such a failure. We have the Holy Spirit to help us along our journey. Remember, number one, remember the believer's blessing. The comforter is left to abide with us. Remember that blessing that he left us with that comforter. Remember the believer's blessing. Number two, remember the believer as the great teacher. The comforter that was left for us was left to teach all things to us. We have that great teacher. We have no excuse. Number three, remember the believer's peace. Even though the comforter was left for us, he, the great prince of peace, is coming again. Let us joy in the fact that we have a risen Savior and He is coming again. Let's pray. Father, we thank you so much for your goodness. Lord, we need you desperately. I need you. Father, I need you desperately in my life. I pray, Lord, that you would use your word in our hearts Into action, that it won't be something that we would just hear and say, wow, that was interesting. But Father, that we would really apply your word in our lives, that it would transform us. More into your image. Lord, may we surrender our wills to you and allow the Spirit to work in our lives. We thank you so much, so much for being a merciful, great God, one who is patient and desires an intimate, personal relationship with us. And we thank you in your name, in Jesus' name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.