Go to the word in prayer together. Father, we praise you, as we have just sung, of many incredible truths about who you are, about your son, about your love for us About how you acted upon that love to save us from our sins, to rescue us from a destiny of destruction, of Of separation from you for all eternity. And Lord, we praise you for these truths. We thank you that they are an actual reality. That they are not something that mankind has fabricated. They are not something that we lean on as just a a crutch of some sort. But no, it's so much more. We rest in it, we lean on it, we we you we see it as our foundation for all life. For Lord, without these truths, we would be hopeless and miserable and without hope in this world. We praise you, Lord, for the deep, deep love of Jesus that caused him to willingly go to the cross And offer himself as a sacrifice for us, to be our substitute, to take our place, to take all the punishment that we should have served, and place it on himself. What a marvelous, incredible love. What love that is. Lord, as we think of the message to come and The the text that we'll be reading from, I ask Lord, that you would work in such a way to use these truths to impact us for your glory. To increase our faith and commitment to you, for you are worthy. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Reading from Romans thirteen today, Romans chapter thirteen, verses eight through fourteen. Go ahead and turn there if you will, read along with me, Romans thirteen, eight through fourteen. It says Owe no one anything except to love one another, for he who loves another has fulfilled the law. For the commandments, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not murder, you shall not steal, you shall not bear false witness, you shall not covet. And if there is any other commandment, they are all summed up in this saying, namely, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Love does no harm to a neighbor, therefore love is the fulfillment of the law. And do this, knowing the time that now it is high time to awake out of sleep, for our salvation is nearer than when we first believed. The night is far spent, the day is at hand. Therefore, let us cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armor of light. Let us walk properly as in the day, not in revelry and drunkenness, not in lewdness and lust, not in strife and envy. But put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill its lusts It was Uncle Ben of Spider-Man fame who said, with great power comes great responsibility. And every single version of Spider-Man, and there are a lot of them, it seems like that phrase is mentioned I was told today actually that it was never said in the comic books. I don't know, I'm I've never read the comic books. But anyway, um but what the Bible actually teaches is that with great freedom comes great responsibility. And we see that in life, don't we? Think of when you first got your driver's license, the great freedom that you had to drive anywhere. I remember as a teenager Getting my driver's license and thinking I can stop by McDonald's anytime I want By myself and get a whatever. I don't do it very often, but I I liked the sense of freedom. But I also remember my mother telling me that you are driving a lethal weapon. That's really true, isn't it? With great freedom comes great responsibility. How about uh the freedom to be able to consume food? With great freedom comes great responsibility, doesn't it? How how about how about finances? I remember uh I remember Um sometimes my my kids when they're younger they'll say something like, uh, um, I can't wait to get a job. I can't wait to get a job. But some of my older kids are now realizing once you have a job, there's all of these expenses that are coming. Caitlin said the other day, she pro I didn't ask her permission for this, but anyway She said the other day, man, there's like she realized how much many things we have to pay for as parents. And it's like, I'm not looking forward to having to pay for all of that. Yes, you have the freedom to work and Yeah, and the freedom to get money, but the more it seems like the more money you have, the more you've got more bills you have. Have you found that to be the case? In fact, I think actually the people that have the most freedom are the kids with a little bit of money. Or the teenagers, where they don't they got the money but not the bills. So enjoy it, teenagers, that's all I could say You might make more money as an adult, but you also have way more responsibility. Because freedom does demand responsibility. And that is true also as we think about the scriptures. We have learned in the book of Romans already that we have truly been freed from the demands of the law. We, Romans 6, 7 says, but now we have been delivered from the law. It's great deliverance, great freedom, delivered from the law, having died to what we were held by, so that we should serve in newness of the Spirit and not in the oldness of the letter. We're free from the demands of all of those laws in the Old Testament. 611 oppressive commands. It's like a freedom from enslavement. And truly being enslaved by the law with no ability to be able to fulfill the law is truly bondage And Paul, in the first part of his book, really expresses this idea that we, because of what Christ has done for us, we have been freed from the demands of the law. But he also reminds us in Romans chapter 6, for example. You remember way back a while when we looked at Romans chapter 6? And it says in verse 15, What then shall we sin because we are not under the law but under grace? Certainly not. Do you not know that to whom you present yourselves slaves to obey You are that one's slaves whom you obey. Whether sin leading to death or of obedience leading to righteousness. Romans 6 reminds us that we're actually and always enslaved to something. Whoever we obey, that's who we're enslaved to. We're going to be enslaved either to self and sin and death and the law, or we're going to be enslaved, or we're going to be obedient to righteousness. In Romans 8, 4 it says this, that the righteous, and we have this word requirement. Well, wait a minute. I thought we were freed from the demands of the law. We were freed from the requirements of the law. that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. You know, there's a great controversy about this, isn't there? There are people that that they say, well, I don't want to be legalistic, and I'm with them. I don't want to be legalistic either. And th there are times in the in in our in our recent history among Christians where legalism was a very serious problem because the motive of legalism is self-righteousness. And self-righteousness has no place in a Christian's life. But there's another side of this, and the other side is lawlessness. You've got legalism on one hand, but you have this old term called antinomianism, or a lot easier, lawlessness. See, on one hand, we don't want to be legalism, be in legalism and self-righteousness, but folks, that does not mean that there are no responsibilities. With the freedom from the demands of the law comes responsibility. So the question is, what is the Christian's responsibility? What are, okay, we're freed from the law, we're New Testament Christians, we have the abundant grace of God, we have been saved by Christ. Now what is our do we have any responsibilities And the answer is yes. And it actually can all be summed up in just one thing, just one. You say, well, it's got to be more than one. I mean, we're supposed to serve the church, and we're supposed to do different ministries, and we're supposed to be good parents, and we're supposed to be good parents. This gotta be more than one But do you realize that according to Scripture, it's only one obligation, one Especially when we think of our earthly. Now, obviously we love God and we we give our lives to Him because He has given our lives to us. We've seen that in Romans chapter twelve, verse one. But outside of that, or as the actually as an extension of that, there is only one One responsibility. And folks, if we get this one right, we will stand before the Lord one day and he will say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. But if we get this one wrong We will not. We will stand before the Lord and we will not hear God's God's um affirmation of our faithfulness on earth. It all boils down to this one, this one responsibility. The text is interesting. In Romans chapter 13 verse 8 it says this. Owe no one anything except to love one another. This first phrase, owe no one anything. It's an interesting phrase. Don't owe anybody anything There are some that have taken this out of context, frankly, and said, you know what, no Christians should have no debt whatsoever. That's what it says. Oh no one anything. You shouldn't have any kind of debt. Don't have a house payment. Don't have any kind of debt whatsoever Now, the truth is if you look at Proverbs, debt is often discouraged. It is often something that is considered something that's foolish, but it's certainly not always, and this text actually has nothing to do with that. Is the context of this text, is it finances? When you read this text, do you see all kinds of things about finances before and after this phrase, owe no one anything? You don't Finances are not in a text. That's not what the point of passage is. He's drawing, he is using this for a very important purpose, though He is saying, owe no one anything. He is he is really referencing the fact that I have released you from the obligations of the law. Owe no one anything. Don't Don't subsume yourself under the obligations of something. Christ has freed you from this. Don't obligate yourself. I mean who wants to obligate themselves and then come in the you ever promise something and then you realize, man, I should not have promised that I had no business promising that. I have no way of of of coming good on my promise. I there are many, many times I told my kids, I'm not promising. I don't promise. There are literally no promises in our house. We don't promise. Maybe. Everything's maybe. Always maybe. Possibly. Okay. This text says, don't obligate yourself, but you always have one obligation. There is always one. Notice the obligation in the text. Owe no one anything except, except you will always owe this, always. You will always owe love one another. That is something that the Christian The New Testament Christian, freed from the demands of the law, the New Testament Christian always is obligated to do always. I want us to really think about this. Christ has freed us from the obligations of the 611 commandments, and now he has said, you've got one Thing one obligation at least horizontally. I mean you love me, but in addition to loving me, as an extension of loving me, love one another. Love your neighbor. Love people That's it. Just love people. That's now the obligation of this text. That is the responsibility of the Christian to love people. The word ide the idea of O here means to be obliged to perform. And we see that this text the reason why that is our obligation Look at the text it says, for he who loves another has fulfilled the law Now you might say, well, wait a minute, I thought we were freed from the demands of the law. I mean we've learned we learned in Romans 7 that actually the end of the law has come. Now this is where we have to understand that the word law can be used different ways in the scriptures. It can be used to reference the Mosaic Law. And in that context, when we are in Romans 7, that's what it's talking about, the Mosaic Law But the overall law, the rule of God, the law of God, the character, the holy character of God, his moral law, that is what it's talking about here. And it says in the passage that in order to fulfill the moral law, we must love one another. Jesus taught this. He said in Romans chapter 5, verses 17 through 20, he said, do not think that I came to destroy the law and the prophets. I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill. For assuredly I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one tittle will by no means pass from the law till all is fulfilled Whoever therefore breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches men so shall be called least in the command in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does then teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven For I say to you, unless, and here's the key, unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. The New Testament begins to then flesh out this new obligation, this singular obligation And it calls it, it says constantly to fulfill the law. Galatians 5, 14 says, For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even this, you love your neighbor as yourself. John 1331, a new commandment I give you that you love one another. James 2. 8. If you really fulfill the royal law according to the scripture, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Throughout the New Testament, we now have a mandate that is singular, it is focused, it is that we must love others. 1 Peter 1 22, since you have purified your souls, obeying the truth through the Spirit and sincere love of the brethren. Love one another. fervently with a pure heart. Now you might be saying to yourself, really that's it? Like that's just one command, just one thing. How could that possibly be? Well, he actually gives us some examples of commands in the Old Testament here in verse 9. Notice what it says in the text. He says, you shall not commit adultery. You shall not murder, you shall not steal, you shall not bear false witness, you shall not covet. Each one of these that are part of the Mosaic Law and part of the Ten Commandments He actually reiterates here and he says, you can't do them. You should not commit adultery. You should not murder. You should not steal. You should not lie, and you should not covet. And you say, well, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait a minute. I thought you just said one. One commandment. I thought you said just one obligation, one thing. Everything is fulfilled in one thing. And the answer is yes See, what God does here is he gives us examples of what reflects true love And they come from the Old Testament law. So he gives these five things. Let me ask you a question. Can you truly love others and commit adultery There is no way. You cannot do that. Can you truly love others and murder? Can you truly love others and steal? Can you truly love others and lie? Bear false witness. Can you truly love others and covet? And the answer is no, you can't See, you have a singular command, a singular responsibility that that actually it sums up all of what we are supposed to do as Christians. That's why it says verse 9 If there is any other commandments, all are summed up in this saying, namely, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. So it tells us that all of these things, it's all summed up that way. Galatians 46, 1 through 3 says it this way, brethren. Actually, verse 2 of that passage says, bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. See, it's kind of like this. You have keys on the piano, right? There's eight keys in an octave, right? That has to be right. Octa 8, right? Am I right? 8 keys on an octave? Am I right? Please t tell me I'm right. Jan, am I eight keys, right? Okay. Jan's like, you're so dumb. You don't know that? Come on now. Anyway, you should know that just from listening to my piano blanketing of your kids. Anyway, uh so you got eight keys. How much how much music can come from just eight keys? You've got you've got you know huge musical when all kinds of scores written. You've got I mean you've got Handel and Beethoven and Bach writing hu huge amounts of music from eight notes. Or you know, sixteen notes on both whatever, that kind of thing. It's amazing. That's the way love works, though. See, yes, love is one singular. But you've got multiple, you've got multiple applications to the one singular responsibility. How many ways are there to love people? It's innumerable, right? That's why you're always going to be in debt when it comes to loving others. Why you're always going to owe something. You always m are required to love others because there is innumerable ways to love others God wants us to be sing, but there are, look, the reality is this, as ma much many uh As true as it is that there are many ways to love others, there are a lot of ways to do things to and for others without loving them. Does that make sense? I mean you can do things for people and not love them. You can say things to people and not love them. You can sometimes do the exact same thing And one person does it out of love and the other person doesn't love at all and does the same thing. And that's actually what it says in 1 Corinthians 13. Would you turn there for a minute? 1 Corinthians 13 It's a very familiar text. I want us to see what this says though, and I want us to really contemplate this idea of love And the singular importance of responsibility that we have to love others. If you get this right, Christian, you got the Christian life right. If you get this wrong, Christian, you got it wrong It's that pivotal. So Paul talking to the church at Corinth, he's talking to a church of Christians, first of all, chapter 1. And they're saints, he says to them. They are highly gifted people. He says, you've got all kinds of talents. You got all kinds of gifts. Highly knowledgeable people. Highly uh uh educated people. And there were lots of debates and all kinds of problems because some people said the gift of tongues are the best gift, prophecy is the best gift, healing's the best gift, miracles the best gift, all these different But I've got the better gift, and you don't have the better gift, and there are all kinds of things going on. And do you know what Paul says? It doesn't matter a hill of beans. Not doesn't usually work use the word hill up the phrase hill of brick beans. But he ba notice what he says in the text, 1 Corinthians 13 And though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and if I don't have love, I have become a sounding brass or a clanging cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith that I should remove mountains and have not love, I am nothing. And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, but have not love, it profits me nothing. You can give your body to be burned and have not love. And if you do, it profits you. Nothing. Is it possible as a Christian to live the entire Christian life doing good things and serving well? And doing your best, so to speak, and miss loving God and loving others. And come to the end of your life up before Christ, and he says, you are not faithful. Is that possible? I think it is. The singular responsibility of the Christian is to love. One um one missionary, he he was on the mission field and recognized the importance of this. And he said it this way, this is found in in John McCarthy's commentary. He said it this way. He said If I know the language perfectly and speak like a native and have not God's love for them, I am nothing If I have diplomas and degrees and know all the update methods, and yet have not his touch of understanding love, I am nothing. If I can argue successfully against the religions of the people and make fools of them and have no willing note, I am nothing If I have all faith and great ideas and magnificent plans and not his love that sweats and bleeds and weeps and prays and pleads, I am nothing. If I give my clothes and money to them and have not his love for them, I am nothing. That's why Paul says, for example, Romans chapter 12, verse 10, we just learned about it recently, be kindly, affectionate one to another with brotherly love and honor, giving preference one to another. Even back in the Old Testament, Leviticus 19, 18, you shall not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the children of your people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. Paul is very clear then here about this obligation of love, this singular requirement, the law, the moral law summed up in loving God and loving others. Now he moves and he wants us to understand the perspective of the Christian. The perspective of the Christian. And you'll notice it says in verses 11 through 12, it says, and do this, knowing the time, that now it is high time to awake out of sleep. For now our salvation is nearer than when we first believed. The night is far spent, the day is at hand, therefore let us cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armor of light You know what he says the text next? The perspective of the Christian is being awake. He says, wake up. Ephesians chapter 5 verse 13 says it this way, but all things that are exposed are made manifest by the light. For whatever makes manifest is light. Therefore, he says, awake you who sleep, arise from the dead, and Christ will give you light. All things are exposed by the light. Awake from asleep. What does he mean when he says awake, you who are asleep? Well, think about what sleep is. Merriam Webster points this out about sleep. He says the natural, easily reversible periodic stake of many state of many living things that is marked by the absence of wakefulness and by the loss of consciousness of one's surroundings. That's helpful. Are we conscious of our surroundings? Are we aware? Are we constantly aware? Are we looking around? Are we paying attention? The Bible puts it this way. Are we watching? Are we sober? 1 Thessalonians 5, 6 through 7. Therefore, let us not sleep as others do, but let us watch and be sober. For those who sleep sleep at night, and those who get drunk are drunk at night. He says, watch, be aware, be sober. In First Corinthians 15 it says it this way. Awaken to righteousness. Awake to righteousness, verse 34, and do not sin, for some do not the knowledge of God. And I speak this to your shame. He says, awake to righteousness. Be aware. So I've been working this part time job and I'm getting up ridiculously early. I don't think humans are supposed to get up at three thirty in the morning, I've decided. And when you're waking up, you ever been like awake but not awake? You know, you're kinda going through the motions, you're doing the next thing and doing the next thing, and you're just kinda going around doing it. And you get to work I get to work and I still, you know, by the time I'm actually starting work, it's about 4. 45. We have a m uh a meeting. There's like a bunch of us and they have this meeting before we get started. And we're all kind of a little groggy and he says, how we're doing today and everybody goes, uh How are we doing today? Yes, what he starts off every day, the the leader. We all go, uh we're here. We're still waking up. And he goes for the meeting and then we get outside and you know it by that point it's like 5 15 in the morning and and the airplane we have two airplanes and they're coming in. We have an app usu we most of us have an app on our phone and we can actually see if okay I got 34 minutes till the plane comes in or 45 minutes till the plane this plane comes in or that plane comes in and we're we're we're waiting for the plane to come in. And the truth of the matter is Um you could you can walk around groggy and you begin to prepare, you got you begin to you begin to to put the the cones out. You gotta have the cones out, you gotta set up a perimeter and you put that put the chalks where they're supposed to be and you're setting everything up because you're trying to prepare for these airplanes that are going to be there. They're gonna come. But recently I got a new part uh a new responsibility, and that was marshalling. Suddenly I'm awake. Um I you know it's funny, I've been to many airports, I've watched them do this stuff a little bit here and there, but when you have When you have an $80 million plane facing you, headed toward you, and you have to turn it at the right time, suddenly it's a little s you're awake. I mean you're very, very awake. No more groggy, no more you're you're you're really awake. And what they teach us when you're when you're doing mar we're doing marshalling, uh this is This past week I had to turn the plane four times. It was coming at you, coming straight at you, and at the right time you have to watch the plane and you have to watch the other marshaler and you have to do it together and you are at and you're and you have to turn the entire plane the other direction. The first time I did that, they had somebody right with me, like right there. And that thing came so fast, I thought I had time. And that thing came so fast and the marshal is waiting and I'm like I'm looking at the I'm going, whoa, the thing is huge I was very, very awake. And and actually na all the mar those who are actually assigned to marshalling We're awake. We're putting chalks up. We're putting cones up. We're getting cans ready to go on the plane. But the whole time we keep watching our phone. We keep seeing. Okay, okay, it's coming in thirty-four minutes. Oh, what time when's the airbus coming in? Oh, it's coming up coming in before the oh they're gonna come at the same time. Oh that happened on Thursday. Like they came like exactly the same time. And you gotta turn one plane and turn the other plane. I mean like it is It's a little and you know what? The marshallers, they are on they are attentive. They are not droggy. They are paying attention. They are preparing. They're making sure everything is done correctly. They're watching their phones. They're making sure. They're awake. That's what it's talking about here. We're told you've got to have your head on a swivel. You ever heard that before on the job site? Those of you that work on job sites? You've got to keep your head on a swivel You've got to watch around, you've got to pay attention. And when you're marshaling, you're a wingman, you've got to watch and make sure there's no vehicles passing in front of the plane. You pass in front of an $80 million plane and you hit the plane, you know, 50 people lose their jobs. What's the point? Are we groggy as Christians Are we like I was before I was marshalling? I'm getting out there and I'm kinda groggy and I'm moving chalks around and I'm putting cones around and I'm I'm putting cans on the dollies, but I'm like half awake. I'm not really paying that much of attention. Or are we ready? So the Bible tells us there are two reasons why we've got to be awake, we've got to be alert, we've got to be paying attention. Number one, time is limited. There's what it says in the text. And do this knowing the time. You've got to know the time, it says. You've got to watch the time. Know the time. The time is limited. Revelation chapter 1, verse 3, the time is near. Ephesians 1 8 10 says it this way, verses and 11, that in the dispensation of the fullness of times he might gather together to one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are in earth in him in whom also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. There is going to be a day where Christ is going to come, and all things are going to be submitted to his authority. And we ought to be looking to that day. We ought to constantly be watching, be aware, be understanding. We're preparing. But we've got the coming of Jesus in our minds, our thinking. He's coming. We know it. We gotta keep our mind. We gotta keep thinking about it. We gotta be awake. We've got to be aware. We can't be groggy Romans 8. 23, back a couple of chapters, says it this way. Not only that, but we also have the first fruits of the Spirit, even our ourselves grown within ourselves, eagerly waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our body. Titus 2. 113 says, looking for the blessed hope and the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. The Christian needs to be awake because time is limited and Christ is coming and we need to be aware. We can't be asleep. Number two reason in the text. It says the night is far spent, the day is at hand. The fact is the word night there is talking about the culture is influenced by the e by evil. Reason number two, because our culture is influenced by evil. We've got to be aware. We've got to be looking around. See, some Christians, they have this sort of stick your head in a hole way of dealing with things, right? uh sort of a monastic like a monastery kind of um kind of approach where they they they they think well the way is we just isolate ourselves from the world we kind of stick our head we just kind of stay in our own little bubble Well that's actually not what Scripture says to do. It says to awaken to the reality of what is around you. Be aware And the night is far spent, and the day is at hand. In Job chapter twenty-four. We actually have a text there that explains that night is equivalent to evil and scripture uses night and evil together a lot because that's when the evil do their job They do it at night. Robbers stake out places in the day and then come back at night under the cover of darkness. Prostitutes, they do their work at night. Galatians calls this time In our between the first coming of Christ and the second coming of Christ, the present evil age. And folks, are we not living in that? We certainly are And we need to be aware. We need to be aware that we are living in the present evil age. Time is limited, and we're living in the present evil age. Second Timothy three says it this way. For men will be lovers of themselves, lovers of money, boasters proud blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, unloving, unforgiving, slanders, without self-control, brutal, despisers of good, traitors, headstrong, haughty, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God. That's the world we live in. And we need to be aware. We need to anticipate the coming of Christ. We need to be awake and aware. See, by application, we need to really be thinking about our lives and how limited it is. Perhaps you've heard the phrase, maybe even the poem, how will you spend your dash? Life is very short. Life is extremely limited. And frankly, it might be more limited than we even realize. What are we going to do with our lives? We've got one mandate. What is it? Love. We love our neighbor as ourself. We do it with an urgency. For the Christian, it's not tired grogginess. There is an urgency and a responsibility to fulfill the summation of the law which is to love our neighbor, to love others. Ephesians 5. 15 See then you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time, because the days are evil. That's the perspective of the Christian. And then finally, we have the Christian's constant practice. The call is to love. That's the responsibility The perspective is one of being aware and awake, of understanding what is going on, of realizing that we have a limited time in this life to be faithful and to love others. But then we have we have our practice, which is has to do with clothing. And the Bible actually uses this illustration a lot. It mentions clothing quite a bit in the New Testament. The idea is to put off and to put on. And Paul uses the illustration of clothing because it would have been a very familiar illustration of the first century. Clothing was really everything to them. It demonstrated the kind of status. In the Roman day, which is where Paul were the day where Paul was ministering and and teaching and preaching. They had two two layers. They had the tunic, which was the inner layer, and the cloak, which was the outer layer And the level of coloring you had in the cloak determined how rich you are because coloring dye was very expensive. Actually, even that was the case even up to the during the revolutionary time period How many have you ever been to Williamsburg and you've gone into some of those um some of those places where they make cloth and they'll explain to you that like the green cloth was the most expensive and so if you had if you actually wore green it was a status symbol. Well if you go way way back that was still the case in the first century except it was purple which was a status symbol. So so so clothing What you wore was extremely important during that day. It it showed who you were, what your status was, and it and your function. And if you're walking through a crowd of people and you have a plain tunic on, you're probably just a commoner and you're doing you know fishing or or farming or whatever. But if you come in and you have a tunic and over top of that tunic you have armor, you're doing something different. You're ready for battle. You're ready for for uh warfare. And the description that we have here in the text is actually one of armor. We are to put off And then we are to put on for our own protection. Notice first of all what we're supposed to put off. It says, let us cast off the works of night or the works of darkness. Let's cast those off. And we see throughout the New Testament, this is constant, Colossians 3. 5, therefore put to death your members which are the earth, fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desires, and covetousness Uh Colossians 3. 8, put off all these anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy language out of your mouth. 1 Timothy 6, 4 through 5. From such withdraw yourself. Ephesians 4. 22, put off concerning your former conduct the old man which gr which grows corrupt according to deceitful lusts. Hebrews 12, 1, lay aside every weight and the sin which easily ensnares us. James 1. 21, lay aside all filthiness and overflow of wickedness. and re- receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls. We are to put off. See, look, on one hand, yes, we are freed from the demands of the law, but on the other hand, we have to put off evil. Notice how Paul starts from the inside, we need to love, and works its way out. We need to be urgent and we need to be aware. And by the way, what you clothe yourself with, what is on the outside, what in other words, what you be what your behavior is. I'm not really talking about clothing here, what your behavior is. Put off the wrong behavior and put on the right behavior. Notice verse 14. It says, and let us put on armor of light. Now, why does it say armor of light? Why are we supposed to put that on? First of all, we need to understand what light is. Light is righteousness. We see that, for example, in 1 John Where God is light and in him is no darkness at all. God is righteous and in him is no sin or evil at all. What God says to do is that we are to put off darkness, put off evil, and put on righteousness. We are to clothe ourselves from righteousness, but don't, but catch this. There's a reason why. So that we can act all righteous So that we can be real feel really good about ourselves, that we're putting on righteousness so we can really Is that why? No. That's self-righteousness. If I am doing right and putting on righteousness so I can feel good about my own righteousness, that's self-righteousness. That's not the reason in the text. He says, put on the armor of righteousness. Do you know what he's saying? Protect yourself with righteousness. It's a very different thing. How do we protect ourselves in this evil day? We put on off the right things. We put off the darkness and the sin and the evil. And we put on, we protect ourselves, we put on the armor of righteousness. Therefore, Ephesians says, take up the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand in the evil day and having done all Ephesians 4 says, which was created in God in righteousness and true holiness. We're supposed to put that on. And notice verse 13, notice what it says. There's the picture we get. Verse 13 says, let us walk properly as in the what? As in the what? As in the day. Here's what it's saying. Is he saying, how is he describing the text? Are we right now in the night or in the day? We're in the night. We're in darkness. We are surrounded by the evil culture. Here's what he's saying to do. He is saying you, even though you are living in a dark, evil culture That's influenced by evil, you need to walk as though you are in the day. As though what is around you is actually righteous and holiness. Because that's what what's going to happen someday, right? When Christ comes, he will be in charge. Righteousness will be prevailed. And God wants us to live as though we are in the day, even though we are in the night. How do we do that? Exactly what it says. We love, we're aware And we protect ourselves with righteousness. So that we are living, we are walking as in the day And there are certain qualities that he says that he seems to think are so important that he's going to reiterate. In other words, he's going to say there are certain things that you can't do If you're living as though you're in the day, there are things in heaven that you'll will never be there. Notice what he says. Number one, not in revelry and drunkenness. He says, not you know what he's talking about there? Being unrestrained in behavior. I get to do whatever I want to do. I can be free to do. I am unrestrained. I am totally liberated. I can do whatever I want. That is he says that's living like you're in a night. Or evil desires, not in lewdness and lust. Or an evil behavior, not in strife and envy, not in quarreling and jealousy. Those who live in the night are are tr are constantly pursuing a sort of free, uninhibited, do whatever I want, revelry And and li and fulfilling every constant possible desire possible. And constantly because you got All these people are trying to pursue their own desires as much as they possibly can when they come into conflict with other people, which is bound to happen, there is quarreling and strife and ending and jealousy and problems All of those kinds of things, he says, Christian, you should not be walking that way. Walk not in the darkness. Instead, he says, walk as in the day. And the summary is this. If you do all this, he says, put on the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what you're doing. In other words, Christ has clothed us with his righteousness by faith. We are positionally righteous by God. We have learned that from the book of Romans. He is now saying, put on Christ. Put on the righteousness of Christ. How you do that? Notice what it says, and don't make any provision for the flesh to fulfill its lusts. Don't make provision. You know what I mean? Don't make provision for the flesh. He's saying don't feed your sin nature Don't feed the desires of the flesh. See, see, this still matters. Yes, we're free from the bondage of the law. We're freed from the s from from the demands of the law. We're freed from the enslavement of the law, but we are freed to serve Christ. And in order to do that, we can't make provision for the desires of the flesh. We can't feed our own desires. Do you ever notice that about something? The more you focus on something, the more you you think about it, the more you want it. If you have any want for it whatsoever in the beginning, the more you want it, the more you want it. The more you think about it, the more you want it. And what he's saying here is when it comes to the desires of the flesh, you can't feed them. You can't provide for them. You can't give them any any room. You can't give them any ground. Don't feed the flesh. Why? Why? Remember why? Christ is coming. We need to be prepared for the coming of Christ, watching and waiting for the coming of Christ, loving others as we do so. So we have three takeaways here in this text. Number one, as we summarize all this, very simple. Number one, we need to cultivate genuine love. not just outward actions. If you know Christ is your Savior this morning, the singular focus that we ought to have as Christians is to cultivate genuine love. The way to be faithful to God is not just do this, do that, do this, do that, do this, do that. God really cares about our motivation of why we do what we do. So he says, cultivate genuine love. But he says secondly, we need to live with awareness of time's brevity and cultural evil. We need to live with the awareness of the brevity of time and the cultural evil. We need to live aware. And number three, we need to reject evil and pursue righteousness. How are we going to live in such a way? That is a genuine a genuine natural result of all we have been learning about the work of the gospel in our lives. It is as we reje as we reject and pr uh evil and we pursue righteousness So you might be here today, and you say, well that's all fine and good. I understand that that's what the what the Christian is supposed to do, but I don't really know if I am a Christian. I I would imagine that there is somebody here like that. And if that is the case this this morning, let me just encourage you. I don't know, yes, I'm we're supposed to do these things as a Christian, but I want you to understand this. The key is that we are to love God and love others, but did you realize we cannot do that until we first understand the love of God? We can never be the source of true love. We can only reflect what we received. God is the one who loves us. And he has shown his love and demonstrated his love through Christ and what he has done on the cross for us. God demonstrated his Christ demonstrated his love and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. If you're here this morning and you say, well, I don't this sounds like a lie. I don't know, I can't do this myself. I can't I can't love people. I don't I don't love people like I should, and I am selfish, and I am doing the answer is not, well I gotta just keep working harder, because you can't do it on your own. You can't do it. The answer is you need to receive God's love through his Son Jesus Christ so that you can have your sins forgiven. So that you could have a relationship with God. So the Bible then says we love him. Why? Because he first loved us. And if you're not sure where you stand with God, if you don't know where you are in your relationship with God, I'd love to talk with you after the service. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure you'll spend eternity with the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we thank you for your word this morning. We thank you for its truth. We thank you for its clarity of responsibility that we have to love To love you, to love our neighbor. We thank you for the awareness that we are supposed to be awake and aware because time is short and you are coming. Help us to know that, to be aware of that, Lord. Help us not to be asleep and just sort of moving from one step to the next and not really know why we're doing what we're doing or where we're going or anything. Lord, may we be purposeful about living and serving you as we love you and love others. And then Lord, would you help us to be careful about putting off the right kinds of behavior and putting on the right kinds of behavior? And Lord, if there's somebody here that doesn't know you as their Savior, I pray today they would understand their sin and their need of a Savior and that they would be saved today. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.