Let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you. For your glorious grace, as we have just sung. We praise you for your sovereign will that has And your plans that were that occurred before time began. And we thank you for those of us who know you as Savior. They include us in a personal and intimate way. We praise you, Father, this morning for Christ. We thank you that He holds us fast. Father, we're grateful this morning to be able to sit under your word in a few moments, to be reminded of the importance of worship. To have the kind of attitude and heart and reflections and result and responses that the psalmist did as he reflected on your character, on your sovereignty, on your your glory, your righteousness. And I pray this morning that your spirit would work in our hearts As the preaching of your word goes forward, that we would, you would stir us to worship you. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We're again in fact in fact I invite you to turn there to Psalm 33. We'll read verses 8 through 15 before Brother Micah comes up and preaches to us. Psalm 33 8 through 15 Let all the earth fear the Lord, let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. For he spoke, and it was done. He commanded, and it stood fast. The Lord brings the counsel of the nations to nothing. He makes the plans of the people to no effect. The counsel of the Lord stands forever, the plans of his heart to all generations. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. The people he has chosen as his own inheritance. The Lord looks from heaven and sees all the sons of men From the place of his dwelling, he looks on all the inhabitants of the earth. He fashions their hearts individually. He considers all their works. Thank you, Pastor Jim. It's a joy to be with you this morning. We are in Psalm 33. Before we begin, would you join with me in a word of prayer this morning? Father, we thank you that we have a song to sing. Thank you, Lord, that you are great and greatly to be praised. Father, as your word goes forward, I pray that you would just minister to our hearts, that you would encourage those who are down That you would strengthen those who are weak, that our affections for Christ would be stirred afresh as we consider who you are and all that you have done for us through your Son. So bless as the word goes forward this morning, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Psalm 33 this morning. Productivity. As a culture, we are obsessed with being productive. We make plans. We track our progress. We have all kinds of apps and podcasts and technology to help us become more efficient. More effective to do more stuff better. We love productivity. And while the desire to be productive is not intrinsically wrong, it's important to remember that the life of the Christian is not about becoming more efficient or productive like a machine. It's about becoming more fruitful, bearing the character and conduct of Christ as we become more like Him And I think the Psalms help us to reorient our attention away from all that we are doing and all that we are to all that God is and all that He is doing. This morning we're in Psalm 33, one of my favorite Psalms And it's a psalm that calls us to ponder afresh the goodness and the power of God's words. the greatness of God's works and God's will in order to teach us as God's people to live a life of worship. And waiting. And so as we open up the psalm this morning, here's the big idea. God calls his people to worship and wait. Because he is worthy. The emphasis on worship is found in the first part of the Psalm, the emphasis on waiting on the second. So let's begin in verses 1 through 3, a call to worship. Psalm 33 reads, Shout for joy in the Lord, O you righteous! Praise befits the upright. Give thanks to the Lord with the lyre. Make melody to him with the harp of ten strings. Sing to him a new song. Play skillfully on the strings with loud shouts. And so this section here begins and ends with joy. God's people coming together to sing God's praises is a joyous occasion. Now, David uses several expressions here to exhort the righteous, the believing community to whole-hearted worship Now the context is clearly communal, but obviously it's not limited to our Sunday But when we come together, we are called to shout for joy, to give a resounding cry. The idea here is not to be timid or bashful. Self-conscious or self-concerned. But rather worship is self forgetful. Because in worship We get lost in the wonder and the joy of who God is and what God has done for us Shout for joy in the Lord, O you righteous, because this is the proper response of the upright to the character and glory of God You see, worship is always about the unchanging worthiness of God. That's why regardless of how we feel, which is constantly changing, We can offer God praise that is fitting for who He is. Now I recognize as we come together on the Lord's Day that not all of us feel joyful. In fact, many, as you came this morning, feel quite discouraged, downcast Maybe wrestling with doubts or worries or overcome by burdens. If you have a pulse this morning, you have cares and concerns that you brought into this gathering. And oftentimes when we come into the gathering of God's people, we may not feel like singing because we're overwhelmed by the pressures and burdens of life. And friend, if that is you this morning, then this invitation and command to worship is especially pertinent. And not irrelevance. Because in worship, our focus is redirected from all of these cares and concerns that we all have. Onto that which is eternal, that which is heavenly, that which is real. You see, worship shifts our gaze away from who we are. to who God is. And it breaks through the fog of doubt by pointing us to the light of the Lord. Think about just as we sang these songs a few moments ago. Pondering the glory of God's grace. That God before the world began knew you and chose you, and you are here because of his grace. That gives perspective on all the stuff that's going on in life. That's what worship does. And that's why it's cause for great joy. Give thanks to the Lord with the lyre. Make melody to him with the harp of ten strings This thanksgiving is not limited merely to our personal communion with God, as massively important as that is. But rather, as we come together, we give thanks to the Lord through song. That's why songs that your church sings are not simply focused on how you feel. but on what God has done, and that's why we give thanks to Him. You see, Christ honoring music Christ honorable songs focus on the worth and works and words of our Lord. And as we come together as a church, we can be thankful. That we're a part of a church that sings and celebrates the greatness of God and focuses our attention not on how we feel, but on who he is. And so as we sing, verse 3, we sing to him a new song, playing skillfully on the strings with loud Shouts. When we think about news song, there's really two aspects here. The first is that this song that we sing is qualitatively different than the songs of the world. And the songs of those who are seeking to make sense of life apart from Christ. Our songs are fundamentally different. When we think about songs, really it's an expression of what we celebrate. What does the world celebrate? Personal achievement, so-called love, and ultimately sinful pleasures That's all they can celebrate. But we have a song to sing. We have something to truly celebrate. When we think of the counsel of worldly songs, what kind of counsel can they really offer? To the sin-sick soul, to the one who's overwhelmed and burdened by the pressures of life. Think, for example, of a song, Don't Worry. Be happy. The words say, ain't got no place to lay your head. Somebody came and took your bed. Don't worry. Be happy. The landlord said your rent is late. He might have to litigate. But don't worry. Be happy. Ain't got no cash, ain't got no style, ain't got no gal to make you smile? Don't worry. Be happy. Because when you worry, your face will frown. And that'll bring somebody down. So don't worry. Be happy. Now, granted, the tune of that song is fantastic. But the words are utterly empty. There's nothing there. But think about what we just say That is substance. That is life. That's what we can take hold of when we walk through this Life. We celebrate, we sing, we exhort with something far greater So the songs we sing are qualitatively different, number one. But secondly, this new song that David speaks of celebrates new acts. of God's redeeming, transforming work in the world and in our own lives as well. This idea of a new song comes up throughout the Psalms, Psalm 40, 96, 98. And each time when David speaks of this new song that the Lord has put in his mouth, he is celebrating some new or fresh act of redemption that God is accomplishing in his life. We see the same thing in Isaiah 42, when the prophet celebrates God's plan and acts of redemption that will unfold. We think of when we come together as God's people in Revelation chapter 5, we sing a new song, celebrating the worthiness of Christ as he unfolds God's plan for the final days. So this new song, qualitatively different, celebrating fresh acts of God's redeeming, transforming work. Now granted, this new song may be and often is. An old hymn that we sing with a fervent freshness because we've once again tasted and seen that our God is Good. So sing to the Lord a new song. Play skillfully on the strings with loud shouts There are those who are blessed with musical abilities. And the psalmist calls God's people to cultivate those gifts to the max as an expression of worship. Now there are those of us who are not particularly musically skilled. I am not receiving any invitations from Nashville to travel with a music team. But here's the good news. The Creator God invites people like us to join with the saints and worship So we have a greater uh invitation from our Creator to sing with joy to worship him with loud shouts. Why? Because in verses 4 through 9, his word and works are righteous. Verse 4. Why do we sing? Why do we celebrate? For the word of the Lord is upright, and all his work is done in faithfulness. He loves righteousness and justice. The earth is full of the steadfast love of the Lord. By the word of the Lord, the heavens were made. By the breath of his mouth, all their hosts. He gathers the waters of the sea as a heap. He puts the deep in storehouses. Let all the inhabitants of the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him For he spoke, and it came to be. He commanded, and it stood firm. The cause for Christian celebration is the righteousness and goodness of God's word and God's. When we think about the word and works of God, ultimately they reveal the nature and attributes and purposes of God. Everything God says and everything that God does ultimately flows from who he is. And so as we see his revelation unfolding in the scriptures, we have cause to hope and joy. The reality is maybe our lack of joyful celebration stems from our failure to see and really embrace what God has revealed about Himself. and his works in his word. We rejoice because his word is upright, and his work is done in faithfulness. In verses four through nine, you see this Connection between the word of the Lord and the works of the Lord. His word is active. It accomplishes His goal and purposes. And his goal and purposes, his word and works, they are righteous because he loves righteousness and justice. The earth is filled. with his steadfast love. I can't help but think of Deuteronomy where Moses says the rock, his work is perfect. All his ways are justice. A God of faithfulness and without iniquity, just and upright is He. The earth is indeed full of His steadfast love. In both God's common graces and his special ones, we see a God of love who is continually, constantly pouring himself out for the well-being of his people. In verses six and seven we see that his word is not only righteous, but his word is active. By the word of the Lord the heavens were made, and by the breath of his mouth all their hosts. He gathers the waters of the sea as a heap. He puts the deep in storehouses. God's word is not static. We do not simply read an ancient book, but rather it is active and alive. When God speaks, things happen By his word, the stars were born. Galaxies in all of their complexities came into being. That's how powerful God's word is. When we come together as God's people, we celebrate the power, the accomplishment of God's word God's word is not only active in creation, it's active in the new creation as he gives life to those who are dead in sin. 2 Corinthians says, For God who said, Let there be light, let light shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge. Of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. This is our God. We are born again, not through our efforts, not through our labors, but by the living, powerful, and active word of the Lord. Through his word, he creates. He recreates. He gathers the waters of the sea of the heat, verse 7, he puts the deeps in storehouses. He not only made it all through his word, but he has power over it all. And he takes these things that are too overwhelming for us, things that we cannot possibly contain, the waters of the sea. And he handles it. He just puts it in a little heap into the storehouse. This is our God. And so what should our response be to the power of God's word and works? Verses 8 through 9, let all the earth fear the Lord Lord. But all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him, for he spoke, and it came to be, he commanded, and it stood firm. We saw at the beginning of the Psalm that our response to the character and goodness of God is joyful worship. But here in verses 8 and 9, we see this reverence, fear. And these two things, incidentally, are not opposites, but in a right response to the character and glory of God, they beautifully go together. Joy with fear As we consider the power of God's word and words. The idea here of fearing or standing in awe of here is to be inspired by something that is great. or terrific, a fear that leaves us silent. Now sadly, the word awesome or awe may be one of the most overuse and misunderstood words in our everyday vocabulary. Very few things in our world today leave us speaking. I think we become so busy and so distracted And so perpetually connected. And we just kind of so quickly move on from one thing to the next that we never actually stop and ponder and consider much of anything. How much the greatness. of God. When we consider His Word and His works, there is joy, there is fear. And this is the proper response. Friend, don't let life be so busy. That you never stand in awe of him, and that you lose sense of your joy when you come together. As a body of believers, to worship our great God. What we're doing now is a great cause of joy. Consider and worship because he's worthy. And especially as we live on this side of the cross. Because when we come to the Lord, Coming through Christ, we can approach him as Father. Something the Old Testament saint would not have known much about. And so when we come to this great God as Father, there can and should be this familial love and affection. But to be clear, there's nothing casual, as we see from the Psalms here, about entering into the presence of a holy, all-powerful God who speaks. simply speaks and things come into being. In verses 10 and 11 we see that the Lord not only accomplishes his purposes through his word But in doing so, he brings the council of the nations to nothing. Verse 10 and 11: The Lord brings the council of the nations to nothing. He frustrates the plans of the peoples. The counsel of the Lord, the word of the Lord, if you will, stands forever. The plans of his heart to all generations. Now notice here the clear contrast that's being set up between the counsel or word of the nations and the counsel or word of the Lord. The mighty nations who do not fear God, they make their plans, they make their declarations independently of God, as if they have power to control their own fate. They boast of their might. But the Lord brings their counsel to nothing. He frustrates their plans. Because only his plans and his purposes will be accomplished. They cannot be forwarded. Proverbs 1921, many are the plans in the mind of a man, but it is the purpose of the Lord that will stand. Job after being confronted with the greatness and glory of God, says, I know that you can do all things and that no purpose of yours Can be thwarted. The Lord's counsel is what stands. His plans cannot and will not go awry. No one or nothing can stop his will from being accomplished. And so we have cause to worship because the word and the will of the Lord are powerful But then in the second part of the Psalm, we see that we have cause to wait. Because even though this God is far above us, he draws near to those who fear him. In verse 12, it says, Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, the people whom he has chosen as his heritage. The Lord looks down from heaven, he sees all the children of man. From where he sits enthroned, he looks out on all the inhabitants of the earth. He who fashions the hearts of them all and observes all their deeds. The king is not saved by his great army. A warrior is not delivered by his great strength. The war horse is a false hope for salvation And by its great might it cannot rescue. Behold, the eye of the Lord is on those who fear him, on those who hope in his steadfast love. That he may deliver their soul from death and keep them alive in famine. Our soul waits for the Lord. He is our help and our shield. For our heart is glad in him because we trust In his holy name. Let your steadfast love, O Lord, be upon us, even as we hope in you. In the second part of the psalm, we find this theme of hope or trust or waiting emerging. As we consider that our God draws near to those in steadfast love who fear him. In verse 12, we read, Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, the people whom he has chosen as his heritage. Think of the comfort that comes from knowing that the God whose word and will reigns supreme Is our God. And therefore we are blessed to belong to Him. Now the context here is clearly the nation of Israel as God's inheritance. But in thinking of the big idea, here's what we see. Those who belong to God, the God whose will and word reign supreme, are blessed. We bless him and we are blessed because this God is for us. He sees, he knows, he cares, and he acts in steadfast love. On our behalf. That's why we worship. That's why we wait. So beginning in verses 13 through 17, we see another contrast that is offered This time, not between the counsel of man and God, but rather between God's distance from creation and his nearness to those who fear and hope in him. In verse 13, we see the Lord looking down from heaven, seeing the children of men, those whom he knows. For where he sits enthroned, he looks out on all the inhabitants of the earth. He who fashions the hearts of them all, observing all their deeds, he knows that the king is not saved by his great army. The warrior is not delivered by his great strength. These things are a false hope, a false sense of security. As we read this, we see this Distance between God and man. He is infinitely higher than his creation. When we see ourselves in the light of the vastness of God's bigness, if you will, we realize how foolish it is. For us to rely or find our sense of hope in the plans and power that we have But rather, as the people of God, our hope, we wait on the God who acts in steadfast love towards his people. Behold the eye of the Lord. His attention, his affection is on those who fear him, on those who hope in his steadfast love. That he may deliver their soul from death and keep them alive in time of famine. In 13 through 17, we see God's distance, and here in verses 18 and 19. We see God's nearness. The eye of the Lord is an expression that emphasizes his favor, his closeness, his intimacy with his people. And it is on those who fear him. Earlier we saw this emphasis of fearing God as awe, the sense of being overwhelmed by the greatness of God. But here we find this fear as an expression of hope in his steadfast love. A love that, as we saw in verse 5, characterizes all of his words and all of his Works. So the Psalm concludes with this exhortation of waiting. Our soul waits For the Lord. He is our help and our shield. For our heart is glad in him because we trust in his holy name. Let your steadfast love, O Lord, be upon us, even as we hope in you. As God's people, we do not need to rely upon our own power, upon our own resources. Upon our own plans or dreams or hopes, but rather we set our hope. We wait upon the steadfast love of the Lord because He is our defense. And therefore we can be glad, regardless of what is going on, because we trust in his holy name We place our hope, we place our trust, we place our sense of security and identity upon the God who acts in love toward his people. Isn't that good news? In a world where there are so many um false hopes and uh people and in or groups that set themselves up to be as permanent or ultimate, we have a God that we can wait upon. This idea of waiting or hoping or trusting is relinquishing control, setting our faith in the promises and power and purposes of God. So that regardless of what is going on, we can have a sense of rest. We can have a sense of gladness or joy. Because we can trust in the holy name of the Lord, whose word and works are good. So when we think of trust and hope and waiting, these are acts of prayerful dependence. And submission to God, a willingness to relinquish control and submit to God as God. And so God calls his people to worship and to wait, because he and he alone is worthy. Let's pray. Father, thank you that we could come together as your people to once again sing your praises. To celebrate your mighty acts of redemption, creation, and new creation. Father, we thank you that we can set our hope in your steadfast, faithful character Knowing that your word and your will reign supreme. Father, I pray that where we seek to find our sense of security and satisfaction and hope In the things of this life, that you would redirect our hope towards you. Father, may we know you more. And as we know you more, may we trust in you. As we learn to worship and wait, because you as God are worthy. We pray this through your Son Jesus. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.