All right. Good evening everybody. Um we're gonna be in First Thessalonians chapter one. So if you want to turn there Um that'd be great. And let's go ahead and start with prayer. Our Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this week that we can serve you and thank you for your great love for us as we've been able to sing about here tonight. We thank you for the blessing of just being able to sing together. And we ask as we open your word that you would please uh make it effective and help us to uh listen to what you uh have said in it and I just ask that you'd encourage us and strengthen us and help us to have a good time going out into the neighborhood afterward. And in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Alright. Well, we are picking up our series in uh 1 Thessalonians again, and if the the theme of this book is basically Christ's second coming or his not second coming but his um his rapture of the church. He's going to come back and take us all to him. But before that time There are some things that we need to know. So this book is full of counsel and encouragement or comfort that'll prepare us for that time so that when he comes we can be more blameless and holy and ready for that. So Paul's idea here in writing this was to help these people understand what that coming was going to be like, what his rapture was going to be like and help them to prepare themselves for that. And he has a lot of directions toward the end side of the book. But at the beginning of the book, there's a whole lot of review of the past of what's happened to this church and a lot of the nature of it is to encourage them. The portion that we're going to be looking at today is a a portion that's meant to encourage them. So we're going to go ahead and just read that right now. And that's going to start in verse four and go down through verse 10. So let's just read that. Right now, knowing beloved brethren, your election by God. For our gospel did not come to you in word only, but also in power. and in the Holy Spirit, and in much assurance, as you know what kind of men we were among you for your sake. And you became followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction, with the joy of the Holy Spirit. So that you became examples to all in Macedonia and Achaia who believe, for from you the word of the Lord has sounded forth Not only in Macedonia and Achaea, but also in every place, your faith toward God has gone out, so that we do not need to say anything. For they themselves declare concerning us what manner of entry we had to you, and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. And to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. Now this portion here, uh the the topic of it is basically that this church was chosen by God. If you look at verse 4 it says knowing brethren, God's election of you, which basically means God's choice of you. And it's kind of a basic need or or desire that we all have to be chosen by somebody. Um I remember when I was a teenager and teenagers were really vicious when I was growing up. I don't know if they still are, but I'll assume that they're not for the sake of those in this room. But um Teenagers were kind of really vicious when I was growing up and uh there was all these rules you had to know uh in order to be accepted and to be uh to to fit in with these teenagers. And so I remember just being the the homeschooler who's very self-conscious, so basically had a a hard time going in with that. But Trying to learn all these rules and get this acceptance from people that I wanted so much. Um I remember that I would spend so much time on the internet looking up, okay, how do you even text someone? Oh, if you double text them, that's a big no no, they'll never like you again. So you gotta wait for them to text you first every once in a while to keep the relationship going so that it's not one sided and you're like awkward stalker or something. So there's all these rules that I had to learn in order to get what I wanted, this acceptance here. Okay? And it's crazy what we'll do sometimes to get that. Uh but really what we're craving there we already have in the Lord Jesus Christ. We already have in God. And this passage is uh meant to encourage us and to to give us evidences of God's choice of us. But what is what is what does it mean to be chosen by God? Well, to be chosen by God, it's summed up in this word election. And that word election basically means just God's work of choosing his children. Okay, so that happened, it says in Ephesians 1 verse 4, before the foundation of the world. So before anything was created, you were on God's mind if you're his child and he chose you. It's revealed though at conversion. So the moment that you repent of your sins, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and you're born again, that's the moment that you're able to tell. Uh it's a great act of faith for parents to be raising a child because they don't know um whether the Lord is is going to save that child for sure or not. You can't know until it has already happened that that child is chosen of God. But once that has happened, there's obvious proof that we're going to look at tonight. So it's it's revealed at conversion. And the reason God did it, the reason that God chose you, uh is not because of anything about you. It's because of nothing at all about you. It's all because of God's love and his mercy. Titus 3. 5 says that pretty clearly that it wasn't for works of righteousness that we have done, but because according to his mercy he saved us. It was God's compassion and love for us that was was his total reason for doing this. And then in Deuteronomy 7, 7 through 9 It says when God's speaking to Israel about why he chose them, but this applies to us too, that he did not set his love on them or choose them because they were more in number than any of the people. For they were the fewest actually of all peoples. But what's his reason? If that's not the reason, it wasn't because they had a lot of numbers. Then then then what was his reason? Well he says, uh but because the Lord loved you and kept the covenant uh which he swore to your forefathers The only reason was because he loved them. Uh and that's the reason why he chooses us too. He chose us because he loves us. And it doesn't really get deeper in that woot We can't we can't know anything more than he he was pleased to choose us. That's the answer he gives us. And that's actually very stabilizing. It's stabilizing because if it did have to do with anything in us, we'd be so eager to protect that thing because it would be really up to us to maintain that choice. But it's not. It's it's all in him. Um it's almost like It's almost like the story of Mephibosheth when David and wa was friends with Jonathan and they loved each other, they their souls were knit together. And He he made a covenant with Jonathan that any of his descendants he would take care of them. Well the only one who was left for him to do that with was Mephibeth and he was crippled. There was nothing about him that was attractive, nothing about him that was good that somebody would choose you to to take you into my home But because of that covenant of love, he brought the Phibish in and he was able to eat at his table and fellowship with him. And that's what we have with God. It's not because of anything in us, but because of his covenant and his love to us. Now we are in fellowship with God if we're believers. It's a beautiful, beautiful thing. So it's election is it's very comforting truth and it relates to our lives every day. We we're all like we talked about looking for that kind of love. And if a person tells you they love you because you're funny or something like that then all of a sudden you you have like this this desire whenever you're around them you're almost watching yourself Am I going to be funny or my joke's going to fall flat? Or you're maybe a little puffed up and think, oh wow, I earned this person's love because I really am so funny. Ha ha. But With God's election, it's humbling because it wasn't about us, and it's stabilizing because we can't earn it or lose it. Now, God's election of us is confirmed by certain evidence. That's what this whole passage is really talking about. If you look um at verse Oh sorry, I'm getting ahead of myself. Um it's God's election is confirmed by evidence because when he chooses you He doesn't just leave you as you were in the state that he found you, so to speak. Whenever whenever we're all born, we're born in sin. And we're born fulfilling the lust of the flesh in the eyes, and all that we do really is is for ourselves. But when God saves us He changes us. Everyone whom God chooses, he changes. It says in 2 Corinthians 5. 17, therefore if anyone is in Christ, He is a new creation. Old things have passed away. Behold, all things have become new. You can't be a Christian. and still be the same person that you were since you were born. You can't retain that old nature of sin. If there hasn't been a real change in your life since you got saved, it might not be genuine. And then also at conversion, every child of God, this change that happens is because at conversion, every child of God is born again. That is, God actually takes that old nature of yours that made you do all of those terrible things. You were a slave to sin. God renders that powerless over you and gives you a new nature. And it says in Ezekiel 36 that when God's giving his new covenant to to his people, I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you. I will take the heart of stone out of your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. The heart that we're all born with is a heart that doesn't respond to God. It's like a rock. When he when he when we learn of God, we learn about his glory. We don't respond to that But as soon as He takes that heart out of us and gives us that heart of flesh, our heart can actually be touched by God. We can be molded by Him. We're actually sensitive to God now. That was something that we didn't have before. And once you do have that sensitivity to God, once your heart is really warm to the Lord in in that work that he does when you're born again, uh you're just going to start living a certain way. He's he's going to start parenting you. And his Holy Spirit is going to start working in you so that there will be certain results. Now, Paul in this passage is looking back At his time with the Thessalonians. When he got there and preached the gospel to them, many of them were converted out of all sorts of idolatry. And once that happened, we've gone through this before, but once that happened, their friends were not happy about it. Because all of a sudden all these people are leaving their religions. So you've got Jews especially who are really mad that their fellow Jews are converting to Christ And they start riots in the city, they literally attack one of the Thessalonians' house who was housing Paul And they they just do everything that they can to try to get these missionaries out of this city because of what they've done. And it's in that context actually that God's choice of these people shone the brightest And we're going to see that as we go through here. Looking at verse 4, it says, knowing beloved brethren, your election by God. All right. Paul just to to tell them how sure he is about their election says he knows that it's true. He doesn't just say, all right. Uh I'm pretty sure, you know, God's a judge, but I can't really make a decision on that. I can't, I'm just gonna give my two cents. No, he says knowing. Knowing, beloved brethren, your election by God And then to to emphasize that, if you look at the end of verse five, it says, as you know what kind of men we more we were among you for your sake. So the at the beginning of verse 4 when it says knowing, and then the end of verse 5 when it says as you know, that's Paul actually making a comparison. He's saying I know your election by God just as well as you know how I behaved among you. Um it's that That kind of a comparison. That strong. That's how much I know. And these people n really knew Paul well because he lived with them for a while, at least with Jason. Uh he lived in his house and h his house was the one that was attacked. Uh my family and I were in R V for a little while and you really come to know people's strengths and weaknesses when you're in close proximity with them. And they had this kind of up close and personal life with Paul for a while. And they saw what came out of his heart. And if you look at chapter two, if you just glance there, we're not going to read any of it But there's a whole lot of stuff that really would have had an impact on them, uh how much love that he had compared to what they would have known from worldly people that they were friends with before So he appeals to that and says, just as you know what kind of men we were, we know you are chosen by God. And that's meant to encourage them. And then he goes through and he says in verse 5 and the rest of the passage is all just the reasons how he knows. So you've got in verse 5, for our gospel did not come to you in word only But in the Holy Spirit and in sorry, but in power and in the Holy Spirit and in much assurance. So the first reason that he was sure uh that God chose them was because God was active in bringing the gospel to them Says three different things that were proof of that in the verse. First, power, which basically means that God's word was effective in their hearts. and possibly accompanied by miracles. In their case, though in our times, miracles would not accompany any of our gospel message, probably. Um then it says in in the Holy Spirit, which means that the Holy Spirit was the source of the power and the assurance. He was the one who drove home the message to their hearts. And in much assurance, which basically means full convincing or conviction. They weren't waffling back and forth like, I don't, maybe this this gospel thing is okay. No, they were very convinced, fully convinced And it's possible to preach the gospel and to hear the gospel and to listen to all sorts of things, read books, and it kind of just wash over you in such a way that it doesn't Do all that much work, or or maybe isn't worthwhile. God Himself is the necessary ingredient for His Word to do any spiritual work. If you look at um well we won't turn there, but John 16, 7 through 8 is talking of Jesus is talking to his disciples about what the Holy Spirit is going to do, why he's actually necessary. And it says, Nevertheless I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you. But if I depart, I will send him to you. And when he has come, he will convict the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment, of sin because they do not believe in me, of righteousness because I go to my Father and you see me no more. of judgment because the ruler of this world is judged. So the Holy Spirit came so that we could understand uh our sin. We could understand even though Jesus is not here that he's the standard of righteousness, so that we would be convinced that he is going to come and judge. And it later says in that chapter that he will glorify Christ because he will take of his and disclose it to us. So while Christ is not here, the Holy Spirit is the one who gives us the full conviction that He is who He says he is. And when he does this to you, it's not just so that these you become convinced that these things are true. But so that you actually become very aware of the fact that you personally are a sinner and you cannot reconcile yourself to God and that you need his sacrifice to forgive your sins and make peace with God Uh and and we've all probably had a a moment like that, um maybe before we were saved or even in our Christian life going on, and hopefully this happens from time to time with some frequency that You're in a service or you're in your devotions or you're reading something, listening to something, maybe even a song, and the Holy Spirit really just drives home that truth is for you. Maybe it's something to convict you, maybe it's something that you really need to be encouraged by. But when that happens to you, As a Christian, take that as an encouragement that you really are God's child. He doesn't just do that with everyone. If you aren't a Christian and you haven't had that moment, then that's something to to think about, to ask God, you know, is that am I missing that? Am I missing that direct communication with you that I need for assurance? But I do want to kind of give a disclaimer. Not everybody in their conversion moment Not everybody can actually even remember their conversion moment, I'll put it like that. Especially in when you've grown up in a Christian home. Um and so if if you're wondering, you know I can't really point to a time like that. The question to ask yourself is, are you trusting Christ right now? And Do you have that kind of communication with him at all? Have you seen that in your life? Even if it you can't point to a moment where you first were saved and it felt like that. And and just let that be the same kind of encouragement that this would be for these believers. Now the second reason that we have for Paul's confidence that these people were chosen by God. After verse 5 there is in verse 6 it says, You became followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction. with the joy of the Holy Spirit, so that you became examples to all in Macedonia and Achaea who believe. The Thessalonians, as we mentioned, were under a lot of pressure. Okay, so Jason Taos got attacked. Paul was staying there And if the Thessalonian letters provide us any indicator of how things went after he left, uh it was still pretty rough. There was probably a whole lot of things like that, maybe some more rides, we don't know. But They are going through some hard stuff. And it's because of their dis their decision to follow Christ, and it's because of their commitment to him. And They actually aren't leaving. When things got harder, they're they're not leaving. And and beyond that, they're not just sticking with with it and sucking it up and saying This is really hard, but I'm gonna get through it. Somehow this too shall pass, and I'll just wait it out. They're actually doing it with the joy of the Holy Spirit, it says in verse 6. You see the Thessalonians had an example from Paul. Actually when he was giving the gospel message to them. In Acts 17, it says that he was specifically teaching them that Christ had to suffer. So he's teaching them about Christ's example of suffering. And then right before he came here was the story that we all know about the Philippian jailer. So he got falsely accused, beaten, thrown in prison, and in the middle of the night he and Silas are singing praise to God. The Lord is able to enable his children, even in very dark suffering, to rejoice in him. He commands us to do that, and so he enables it. Even in even in prison in midnight And the Thessalonians saw that example, but they didn't just acknowledge it was true, they followed it, and that became a reality in their lives. Instead of complaining, they became people who are known for their joy in the Holy Spirit in the middle of suffering. And this became a proof of their cho their election by God. I'm gonna read a portion from Matthew thirteen. You can turn there if you want, Matthew thirteen, eighteen through twenty-three. But the Lord talked about people's different responses to the Word of God and then to their lives after they heard the Word of God. And in this parable of the sowers, he said that some people receive God's word, don't understand it, and it's like a bird comes and pecks it away. Uh there are some people, okay, who hear the word of God and uh it's almost like they're rocky soil, so soil that has a plant sprout up but it's instantly withered. There's some soil that chokes out with thorns, uh the plants that try to grow there, and then there's some that actually bears fruit. So we're gonna look at his explanation of what all that means in Verse 18 through 23. It says, Therefore, hear the pal the parable of the sower. When anyone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it Then the wicked one comes and snatches away what was sown in his heart. This is he who receives the seed by the wayside But he who received the seed on stony places, this is he who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy Yet he has no root in himself, but endures only for a while. For when tribulation and persecution arises because of the word, immediately he stumbles So that phenomenon in verse 21 is something that happens commonly. People hear the gospel and get very happy about it and seem to be just on fire for God, but then as soon as the persecution comes or the trials, they say, Hold on, this isn't what I signed up for Um I thought that God was gonna have a wonderful plan for my life and I was gonna have my best life now and all that kind of stuff. And this isn't what hap what's happening, so I'm gonna leave Uh and when they do that, they're proving that they were not genuine. They were not genuinely chosen by God and changed at at the heart level by him. But the Thessalonians were not that. They're what verse 23 of Matthew 18 is talking about. They're people who received seed on good ground who heard the word, understand it, and bear fruit and produces. Because this joy of the Holy Spirit is a fruit of the Spirit in Galatians 5. This is them bearing fruit. No matter what was coming up against them, that was what they were they knew was their goal to glorify God. And that is a powerful work of the Holy Spirit. If someone's genuinely converted, um They are they're going to they're going to bear fruit and they're going to be pruned so that they can bear more fruit over time, John 15 says. As we've been learning about in 1 Peter, God enables us to rejoice in the midst of our trials when we have genuine faith in Him. It says in 1 Peter 1:8, though you do not see him, yet believing, you rejoice with joy inexpressible and full of glory. And lest you think that, you know, maybe this is something that God did way back in the New Testament, but not really now, there's a story of a man called Richard Wormbrand, and he was In Romania. He was a missionary there during World War II. And he was captured by the communist government there. He actually memorized a Bible verse for every day of the year. on the topic of fear because of the kind of persecution that he was expecting. And so when he was captured on the street, put into a car, driven to a prison somewhere, He was prepared to trust the Lord through that, and that's what he did. And he made it a habit to rejoice in the Lord. And when he was in that prison with other Christians there Um they would with their chains make music and keep the beat and sing hymns together in the middle of that cell. And he said that was some of the best worship that he had uh in his life was right there. Because the Lord was his presence was there in that. He was empowering that. And that's something that He'll do for any one of us in our trials And if we can look back at those times in our lives where he has maybe we've had a disappointment, um maybe we've had some some sort of persecution or some betrayal in our lives. And We obeyed God and we rejoiced in him in that moment, and he gave us that kind of sweetness of his presence sometime in our past. We need to treasure those things and we need to remember that those are those are proof that we're God's children as well. That He doesn't uh He dis He doesn't even leave us in those times And the last reason that we can be sure that God has chosen us is because He gives us repentance. And that comes from verses 9 through 10, which says, For they themselves declare concerning us what manner of entry we had to you And how you turn to God from idols to serve the living and true God and to wait for His Son from heaven, whom He raised from the dead, even Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come Now the church here was made up of Gentiles who were probably bowing down to people like, or idols like Zeus, and things like that, statues. But as we go over here a lot, today we probably don't bow down to a statue, but before we were saved, and even it's something that we have to battle every day after Um we did worship idols, and they were idols of our hearts. The New Testament comes to us and tells us in Colossians 3. 5, or sorry, Colossians 3. 5. Therefore put to death your members which are on earth, fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. Um so this concept of idolatry worshiping something other than God, getting your fulfillment from that, getting your sense of who you are from that, like I was with those teenagers. Um that's something that we all know because we all know what covetousness is. We all know what it is to look at somebody else's situation and say, I want that. Um or to feel unfulfilled because we don't have something going on in our life that we want. And lest you think that you know I couldn't possibly have any idols in my life, well James chapter 4, verses 1 and 2 comes to us and says, Why is it that there are quarrels and conflicts among you? Um is it is not the source your pleasures which wage war in your members? You having any conflict in your life with other people? Maybe that's coming out of you. You're getting really frustrated with another person. Um the reason why we can't be patient with people and why we blow up in anger at them is because we are worshiping something other than God and they are getting in the way of that, whether that's acceptance or um recognition. uh comfort, ease, any of those things, popularity. Um when that's what we're worshiping, somebody gets in the way of it, conflict arises, and it's proof that we are worshiping something other than God. But when we are converted, when we are chosen and changed by God, He gives us the freedom from that. In Matthew 6, 24 it says that no one can serve two masters, for either he will hate one and love the other, or else he will be loyal to one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. So before we were saved, we only had really the ability to serve that mammon. We didn't serve God. We didn't have the ability to do that. And we couldn't serve what we used to serve, our our idols and God, so we're stuck serving them. Um but then God comes and he gives us that new heart that we mentioned in Ezekiel 36. He said that he would take out that heart of stone, he would give us a heart of flesh, and he would purify us from all of our idols, it says And so he gives us the ability to turn from those things and to actually worship him. And Again, when when when you were converted, you can probably think of some of those things that you used to live for. When you got saved, there what you probably start to to feel was what um the book of Revelation talks about is your first love. You know, you had that warmth toward the Lord that you'd never had before Um you turned to serving him and that became what you lived for. And it eventually you realized how much of a battle that was gonna be. But everybody does have that moment uh who saved it where they where where they go from living for themselves and their idols to living for God. And we have all those moments throughout our lives as well As Christians, where the Lord puts his finger on something else that we've been protecting. Uh and it's almost like Abraham uh and Isaac and how the Lord to um to mercifully protect uh Abraham from his heart. Um in uh A. W. Tozer's book, The Pursuit of God, there's a whole chapter about how God did that for Abraham. Um he rescued him from his own heart of idolatry for his overmuch love for his son by putting him through that place where he had to sacrifice that And as believers, we have those moments in our lives sometimes where the Lord brings us to kind of a a point of conflict where we've got to make a decision. It's a crisis. And when when you go through one of those and the Lord enables you to say, Lord, I'm going to follow you, um those are other things that we can attribute to God in our our proofs that it's Him who's chosen us. So my time's up. Those are three things to remember and maybe take some time with the Lord in your prayer this week. And think through just those three things. God's power in in bringing the gospel to you is um is turning you from idols and giving you that ability to rejoice in affliction. Think back on those times that he did that for you and just thank him for for choosing you and for giving you that acceptance you can never deserve. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.