Let's pray together. Father, as we come before you, we are grateful for the many truths that we have been reminded of, what we have been able to sing about. the the fact of your great salvation, the fact of our now right relationship with you through the work of your Son, not through any work that we have done. Or any favor that we have gained because of some performance or good works that we have accomplished, but because of the finished work of Christ. And Lord, as I consider, if you consider the the song, the instrumental, the nearer still nearer And how many things there are that draw our attention, that draw our focus, things that say, come close to me, be with me, Lord. We consider the fact that you seek for us to be near to you, and that our heart's prayer should be to be nearer, still nearer to you. As the one line of the song says, Sin with its follies, I gladly resign, all of its pleasures, pomp and its prize. Give me but Jesus, my Lord, crucified. I pray, Lord, that our hearts would be open and ready to receive your word. May we seek to be near you this morning. And to covet and seek that nearness throughout our days and our lives to come. We pray all this in Christ's name. Amen. Reading from Romans 14 today will be the text. The pastor preaches from Romans 14. It will be in verses 1 through 12. I encourage you to read along with me. Romans fourteen verses verse one says Receive one who is weak in the faith, but do not dispute over doubtful things. For one believes he may eat all things, but one who is weak eats only vegetables. Let not him who eats despise him who does not eat, and let not him who does not eat judge him who eats For God has received him. Who are you to judge another servant? To his own master he stands or false. Indeed, he will be made to stand, for God is able to make him stand. One person esteems one day above another, another esteems every day alike. Let each be fully convinced in his own mind. He who observes the day observes it to the Lord. He who does not observe the day to the Lord, he does not observe it. He who eats eats to the Lord, for he gives thanks, gives God thanks. And he who does not eat to the Lord, he does not eat, and gives God thanks. For none of us lives to himself, and no one dies to himself For if we live, we live to the Lord. And if we die, we die to the Lord. Therefore, whether we live or die, we are the Lord's. For to this end, Christ died and rose and lived again, that he might be both of both the dead and the living. But why do you judge your brother? Or why do you show contempt for your brother? For we shall all stand before the judgment seat. For it is written, As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. So then, each of us shall give account of himself to God. It is indisputable that we as human beings have a need for acceptance. You can see this from a child all the way through adulthood. When we are accepted, we are often fairly happy, and when we feel rejected, we are not happy. And God, of course, that when we come to Christ, we are accepted by the Creator of the universe, by the one who died for us. Who saved our souls. We are accepted, as Ephesians 1 says, accepted in the beloved. But oftentimes We are we don't sometimes we don't feel accepted in the body of Christ. Sometimes we don't accept others in the body of Christ As Christians, sometimes we struggle with whether or not we should accept other Christians. The issue in the passage is not one of a doctrinal problem, a gospel central, primary gospel problem. It's not a dispute of a matter of clear sin or morality. This has to do, the issues in the passage have to do with accepting someone or not accepting someone based upon disagreements with them The tragedy is that in our world and in our churches, it is very easy, and frankly, Satan wants us to get off on tangents and get occupied with things that are not primary and we become, we have a spirit, we can have a spirit that we don't truly love each other. This is a tragedy Because it is God's intention, as we learned in Sunday school and were reminded of in Sunday school, it is God's intention for us as Christians to show our love to each other and and as a result, it is a display of who Jesus is to the world. In John chapter 13, verses 34-35, it says, A new commandment I give to you that you love one another, which we have seen in Romans fourteen Romans 13 rather as well. As I have loved you, that you also love one another. By this all will know that you are my disciples if you love one another. Ephesians chapter 4 says that we need to endeavor to keep the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace because our unity is based upon the very character of God. He is a unity. Therefore, we must be unified in order to display God in the right way. But sometimes Christians get caught up in disagreements that cause us to not accept each other. That's what the passage is talking about. Now we could get into the we we will get into some of the issues that the passage deals with, but the emphasis in the passage is not on the specific issues and Paul addressing the issues. The Paul is addressing the issue of receiving or accepting. In fact, the very first word of Romans 14, 1 is receive. Or accept. That's the issue in the passage. The issue is whether or not we are going to accept and receive brothers and sisters in Christ that disagree with us or not, that is the issue. And there are all kinds of issues, issues that Scripture is not clear on Issues that they're not a matter of gospel salvation issues, and they're not a matter of clear moral issues. They're beyond that. A Christian grows up in a highly liturgical kind of a religious uh church, but does not that church doesn't preach the gospel And so they reject any kind of formality in a church, while another Christian just really likes organization and structure. And so there's clashing over formality versus informality in the church. Or maybe one person can't understand why another one Christian can't understand why another Christian would dress the way he or she does. How could a Christian dress like that? You ever noticed on uh what what displays all is social media? And you know we come to church and we dress a certain way and then we see on social media how do they ha and people get all caught up like can that person even be a Christian they're dressed that way or Those kind of things. There's all kinds of issues. Maybe a Christian grew up uh a non Christian and was caught was struggled in sin and in a drug culture and they listened to rock music and that association as they become a Christian that association of the rock music in that culture, they can't listen to any kind of Christian music with any kind of beat whatsoever because they struggle with whether or not that would really please the Lord. And yet others go, I didn't grow up in that culture, sir. I got no problem with that song. See, there are all of these issues, all of these issues are things that we might be very well concerned about, but they're issues That don't have clarity when it comes to Scripture. Are we willing to accept one another? That's the issue in the passage. And we're going to see that very clearly in the passage. The issues that we're dealing with in the passage specifically, you've got two groups of people. You've got one group of people, and they are Christians, and they are Jewish Christians. They have been saved out of Judaism. They have been used to following all of the ceremonies of the Jewish law. And as a result, they're what what Paul calls weak Christians in this passage, and as a result, they're struggling with with pulling away from the the laws and the ceremonies and the issues, the things that they have been doing their entire lives. They realize what Scripture says in Romans 10, verse 4, what Paul has already explained. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. These people realize that. They realize in Romans chapter 7, verse 6 it says, But now we have been delivered from the law, having died to what we were held by, so that we should serve in newness of spirit, not in the oldness of the letter. But they're still struggling. They're struggling with the problem of Uh things that they grew up with, things that they think really struggle with doing because they've they're they're concerned it won't really please the Lord, or things that they're withholding from because they don't want to displease the Lord And there are others, Gentile Christians in the church, and they don't have that upbringing, they don't have those issues, and so they're perfectly fine with certain things, and they don't really hold any uh other things The issue in the passage is diets and days. You can summarize it that way. There were certain dietary laws in the Old Testament and also rabbinical writings that actually weren't part of the law. that Jewish people learn to do, kosher things, those kinds of things. And the Gentile Christians were like, that doesn't matter. We're in Christ. And there were certain days that were holy days that Jewish people grew up with and sort of said, this is important. And the Gentiles said, well, that doesn't matter. We're in Christ. Christ is the fulfillment of those things. And I want you to notice the guidance that Paul gives. He speaks first to the stronger Gentile Christians. About those who are weak, and he says this verse one, receive one who is weak in the faith. but not to dispute over doubtful things. He addresses first the strong, and he says to those who are Gentiles, who are those who who are not their consciences aren't binded by some of the things that the Jewish Christians are struggling with. And he says to them, you need to accept them. And don't accept them just so you can argue with them Don't accept them just so you can you can dispute them and deal and try to get them on your side of the issue. Accept them That's the passage, what the passage is dealing with through all. In fact, he's going to also say to the weak, you need to accept the strong. The strong needs to accept the weak, the weak needs to accept accept the strong because we are all in Christ. Now, we need to learn to do this in our society, in our churches. How do we do this? Well, we're going to see four things in this passage. We're going to see in verses 1 through 3 that we need to refrain from mistreating one another. Number two, we're going to see that we need to realize we answer to our master, that we're not each other's masters, that we answer to Christ as our master. Number three, we need, everyone needs to resolve to satisfy Christ, to please Christ. And number four, we'll see in the passage, we need to remember that Christ is the ultimate judge. So let's look first here at What the passage the text explains that we need to refrain from mistreating one another. And we see in the text that it says receive one another. The word receive means to accept, to welcome. In Acts 28, verse 2, Paul is shipwrecked. He's on the island of Malta. And the natives there, he describes them as welcoming. He says And the natives showed us unusual kindness, for they kindled a fire and made us all welcome because of the rain that was falling and because of the cold. They were welcoming. That's this word here. They're welcoming, to be accepting, to welcome, to receive. Romans 15, 7 is going to say it this way, next chapter. Therefore, receive one another just as Christ also received us. So this is talking here about Christians, fellow believers, fellow Christians that disagree with each other, he says we need to accept each other. And then he says, though, he specifically says, receive those or accept those who are weak in the faith. A passage that's going to help us is actually Romans chapter 4. All the way back in Romans chapter 4, Paul is describing Abraham, and he describes Abraham as someone who is not weak in the faith. In that passage, verse 19, it says this, and not being weak in the faith, he did not consider his own body already dead, since he was about a hundred years old. And the deadness of Sarah's womb, he did not waver at the promises of God through unbelief, but was strengthened in faith giving glory to God and being fully convinced that he had prom that uh he had promised he was also able to perform and therefore it was accounted to him for righteousness. Now What Romans 4 is talking about is a matter of salvation, faith versus works. And this passage is not dealing with the matter of salvation. But the thing I want us to see from the passage are these phrases like weaken the faith. not being weak in the faith and what it looks like to not be weak in the faith. It's not wavering. It's strengthened in the faith. It's giving glory to God. It's being fully convinced of your position. That's what it means. So you have these Jewish Christians who understand in their mind that they're freed from the law But they're really struggling with some of the practices that that they're just weak when it comes to these things. They're struggling with these He says this, receive them, but not, but don't dispute over doubtful things. See what the passage says? Don't dispute over them. It's interesting. The word dispute means it can mean to separate. It means to Philippians 2. 14 reminds us, do all things without complaining and disputing. These are doubtful things. These are questionable things. These are things that are not clearly defined in Scripture. Titus 3 verses 9 through 11 says it this way, avoid foolish disputes, genealogies, contentions, and strivings about the law, for they are unprofitable and useless Reject a divisive man. If somebody takes these things and they make them something that's actually primary, make them and start dividing people, reject the divisive man after the first and second admonition, knowing that such a person is warped and sinning, being self-condemned. Now I want to be clear about this. When it comes to accepting and receiving, what we are not talking about are heretics or people that are are having are are actually um that they're they're perverting the gospel Or they are practicing immoral behavior unfettered. We're not talking about those two things. You see, we know that because when the Apostle Paul deals with that kind of a person, that person who is actually compromising the gospel. He deals with them very differently, like in the book of Galatians. In the book of Galatians, for example, in Galatians chapter 1, verses 8 through 9, in that passage, the issue is that they're actually believing that circumcision and obeying the law will actually Help you gain favor with God. And in that passage, we have a very, very different approach that the Apostle Paul gives. He says, and even if we are an angel from heaven preach any other gospel to you then that which we preach to you, let him be accursed. As we have said before, so now also we say again, if anyone preaches any other gospel to you, then what you have received, let him be accursed. Very, very different attitude. If someone is going to pervert the gospel, if someone is going to be a false teacher, if there is going to, if there are we're not holding to the same gospel anymore, then that is a very, very different approach. Also, a matter of morality. In 2 Corinthians 6, verses 14 through 17, it says in verse 17, Therefore come out from among them and be separate, says the Lord. Do not touch what is unclean, and I will receive you. It calls Christians to separation. But separation from what? You've got to read the rest of the passage. The rest of the passage says this. And what communion has light with darkness? That's in verse 14 And what accord has Christ with Belial? And what part has a believer from an unbeliever? And what agreement has a temple of God with idols For you are the temple of the living God, and God has said, I will dwell in them and walk among them, and I will be their people God, and they shall be their people. This is clear, morally defined things that are clear in Scripture. Those kinds of things look, you've got to separate from. If you can't agree on those kinds of things, that's something very different And if we know that Christians are clearly trespassing against us, that there is a s they are sinning and they're and they are not Then we actually have a responsibility in Matthew 18, 5, verse 15, it says, For over if your brother sins against you, go and tell him this fall between you and him alone. In another passage in Galatians 6. 1, it says that the spiritual should restore those who are falling into sin. That's not what this passage is talking about. This passage is talking about those things that are disputable. Those things that are not clear in Scripture. Those things that really don't have to do with the primary doctrines of Scripture and the gospel. And frankly, there are a lot of them. There always has been in Christianity. From the very beginning of the first century, dealing with some of the diets and days and the s and all those kinds of things till now that we deal with the various externals and different things that we're concerned about. The Bible says that when it comes to those kinds of things, we need to be accepting. It's very clear in this passage. And that brings us verse 2 to a particular issue. Notice verse 2. I've already mentioned this, but it says, For one believes he may eat all things. But he who is weak eats only vegetables. Of course, I want you to notice something about this passage. It doesn't flesh out the issue. It only mentions a little bit about each of these issues The point of the passage, remember, is that Paul is not trying to come down on one side or the other side of the issue. He's mentioning the issues and the issue of the day with the context that we understand Is that there are some that just couldn't bring themselves to eating certain kinds of meat? It's possible it's meat offered with idols We know that in 2 Corinthians chapter 8 and 9, that's what it's talking about. Here it's less less we're less sure what it's talking about there. But we know at least that there were Christians who were struggling with whether or not they should eat certain kinds of meats because of their conscience for whatever reason. And there are other Christians saying, look, it doesn't matter what you eat, you can eat what you want Now did they were were these Christians who were struggling? Did they have a valid concern? I mean, I want you to think of the apostles of Christ, of God, actually. When he came to Peter, do you remember in the in the trance in Acts chapter 10, verses 10 through 16? That he was dealing with Peter and Peter was about to deal with Cornelius and he needed to prepare Peter for this. Cornelius being a Gentile Christian. And in that passage you have one who it says in Acts ten, verse ten, then he became a very hungry and wanted to eat, as is Peter, but when they made him ready he fell into a trance. and saw heaven opened up an object like a gr a great sheet bound at four corners, descending to him, and let down to the earth In it were all kinds of four-footed animals of earth, wild beasts, creeping things, and birds of the air. And the voice came to him, Rise, Peter, kill and eat. And Peter said, Not so, Lord, for I have never eaten anything common or unclean. Peter doesn't want to have anything to do with this. God is telling him, kill and eat, and Peter is struggling with it. It's a kind of struggle that we, I would imagine, is going on in this passage as well. There is just a struggle And there and verse 3 then gives us very clear guidance for both parties. This is just such wisdom. Of course it comes from God's word, so of course it is. He exhorts the strong a certain way, and he exhorts the weak a certain way. He says, Exhorting the strong, he says, let not him who eats despise him who does not eat. Do you know do you know what the what the tendency of someone who feels a freedom to be able to do certain things? Do you know what the tendency of that person is toward those who struggle in their conscience with doing the same thing? You know what the tendency is to do? Despise. You ever been there before? Somebody's like really conservative about something and you're like, what's the big deal? I've been there before. I remember growing up some people struggling with going to an Orioles game because there was rock music and drinking in the Orioles game. And and they couldn't go to an Orioles game. And I remember think or or not I don't think they couldn't, but they struggled with the idea. And I I remember thinking to myself, get a grip. So ridiculous. Like what in the world? You don't go into any store that has rock music? You don't go to like you're not going to go anywhere that does you what what's you I mean you don't have to drink the stuff. I mean what And think it was totally ridiculous. And I would be rather vocal about my my view The truth of the matter is I was wrong. I should not have despised that. If there is somebody that struggles in their in their conscience with something, I shouldn't think it's ridiculous. Well, I mean I might think a little bit it's ridiculous, but but I should I shouldn't despise them. We need to be careful about that. We shouldn't despise someone who is struggling with whether an activity that's not clearly in Scripture really pleases the Lord. But we also have more guidance for the ones who are weak. It says this, for those whose conscience struggles with certain activities, he says, let not him who does not eat judge him who eats. Do you catch that? To the person who says, well, I have this conviction about this particular area, and the other Christian says, Well, I have no conviction about that. The Bible doesn't say anything about that, or or it's certainly not clear. Do you know the tendency is when you have a conviction about something and someone else doesn't, the tendency is to judge them. How could they do that and call themselves a Christian? What kind of activity is that? A Christian shouldn't be doing that. How could they get away with wearing that and call themselves a Christian? Judging someone else. How could they think that's okay? You ever find yourself saying? I gotta be honest with you, I've been a Christian a long time, and I find myself found myself doing both of these in the past, if I'm really honest. Either I look at somebody who's all in my mind ultra-conservative, they probably think I'm ultra-liberal, but but in my mind ultra-conservative, and I look at them and go, get a grip. And I look to people that are that are looser than me and I go, man, don't you have a conscience about anything? And you know what God says? Don't do either one of those Accept them. Accept them. That's what it says. You can't. This is what the scripture says. This is what I'm saying. You say, well, you're sounding a little you're sounding a little man, you know, kind of pansy here. I just accept them. I'm telling you what the scripture say here. And anybody that knows me knows I'm not a pansy. But anyway, I've been accused of a lot of things, but not a pansy. And notice what it says in the passage. There's a reason that we need to accept them. The basis for our acceptance of them is actually Because God has. Notice what the text says: God has already received them. How dare you don't accept someone that God has already accepted? That's the basis. How dare you don't receive someone that God has already received? If they truly are Christians, then God calls us to accept them. And we find an argument in verses 4 through 9 why we should avoid despising and judging. But particularly, he now is going to talk about the issue of judging. And here's what he says in the passage. Who are you to judge another's servant? That's an interesting question. You ever view it that way? We're brothers and sisters in Christ, but we're also equally servants of who else? The Master. And he says here, who are you to judge the servant, another person, another servant? Romans, if you were back to Romans chapter 8 verse 33, it says this, who shall bring a charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies Who is he who condemns? It is Christ who died and furthermore is also risen, who is even at the right hand of God, who also makes intercession for us. We have a master. We each answer to the master. The master is Christ. He is the judge. It says, to his own master, he stands or falls. Indeed, he will be made to stand, for God is able to make him stand. Oh no, that person, you know, he's gonna fall because he doesn't, he's not doing what I think he ought to be doing, so he's gonna fall. God says if he's God's, if he's a child of God, he will not fall ultimately He who has begun a good work will complete it in the day of Christ. Now I'm not saying that there's not matters of wisdom that we can help each other with and give advice to each other. But when it comes to judging others, we ought not judge, the text says it, we ought not judge another serpent. In 1 Corinthians chapter 4, it says it this way, verse 3, but with meat is a very small thing that I should be judged by you or by a human court. In fact, I do not even judge myself, for I know nothing against myself, yet I am not justified by this. But he who judges me is the Lord. Therefore judge nothing before the time until the Lord comes, who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness and reveal the counsels of the hearts. Then each one's praise will come from God. It is God who is our master, and we answer to Him. And then we have in verse 5 another example. He says, verse 5. One person esteems one day above another, another esteems every day alike. The issue was, again, these different kinds of days and we won't delve deep into this at all because the passage actually doesn't, so we're not going to either. I'll just mention that that Paul's guidance in Colossians chapter 2 verse 16 is this So let no one judge you in food or in drink, or regarding a festival or a new moon, or a Sabbath, and probably some of that is involved here. which are a shadow of things to come, but the substance is of Christ. Galatians 4 says it this way, verse 9. But now after you have known God, or rather are known by God, how is it that you turn again to the weak and beggarly elements to which you desire again to be in bondage? You observe days and months and seasons and years. And that passage of Galatians, he pretty much, Paul is pretty much coming down on the issue of you do not need to to to put one day above another. Don't continue down the road to following all of these days in the law. Christ has fulfilled the law. But in this passage, he doesn't do that. Here's what he does instead Verse 5, 5, second part of verse 5. He says, let each be fully convinced in his own mind. This is really interesting how he deals with this. See, what he's going to say in chapter 5, verse 5b through 9, is that we all, all Christians, need to resolve to ultimately satisfy Christ. Well how do you do that? He says in these issues that are disputable, these issues that are not clear in Scripture, these issues that don't have anything to do with primary doctrine, and these issues that do not have anything to do with clear morale Clear morality in scripture. He said, indeed when it comes to these kinds of issues, he says, let each person be conv fully convinced in his own mind. That is, folks, that it is a right and appropriate that individuals can have have convictions of conscience that they may come to the conclusion, I can't go there. Others may, but I can't. Or others can others can't participate, and maybe I'm okay with participating The point he's saying is let everybody be convinced in their own minds of this. That we have a we answer to a master. And when it comes to issues of conscience, I've got to have a clear conscience before my master. In fact, later on it's going to say, and I'll just mention this, we'll come back to it later But in Romans chapter 14, verse 12, 22 through 23, it says, Do you have faith? Have it to yourself before God. Happy is he who does not condemn himself in whom he in what he approves But he who doubts is condemned if he eats, because he does not eat from faith, for whatever is not of faith is sin. If you can't in full faith and confidence knowing that if you do this You can get to please God, then don't do it. Do you know that it is entirely possible that someone it bothers someone conscious so much they struggle with whether it really pleases God that for them it actually would be sin to partake Then we need to respect that. All of us need to be fully convinced in our own mind as to whether or not what we are doing pleases God or not. Notice what it says in the text, verse 6. He says, he who observes the day observes it to the Lord. And he who does not observe the day to the Lord, he does not observe it. He who eats, eats to the Lord, for he gives God thanks. And he who does not eat to the Lord, he does not eat, give, and gives God thanks. Now, it's interesting how he puts this in this passage. The commandment is be fully convinced in your own mind. And then he gives the criteria, and there's basically two criteria. One is, does this please God? And number two, can you thank God for the activity? And what he says in the passage is interesting. He is essentially asserting that both groups are doing both. Both of these groups that are disputing with one another are both able to say with confidence that they're pleasing that they please God either by not partaking or partaking or not practicing the special days or practicing them That they're pleasing God, and they can thank God for the position that they are in. That becomes the criteria. And folks, I will just say it this way. That actually has got to be the criteria. Because if it's a matter of pleasing self, we're out of the picture here. If the issue is I just want to really please myself, Well that's not that's really what we're not talking about in the context. Paul would say, don't please yourself, please God. If that's the issue, please God rather than pleasing self. That's not the issue here. You have two parties that both believe they are pleasing God. And so he says in the passage, this is the case, and notice what he says as a basis of this. He says Verse 7, for none of us, he's talking about Christians here. And he makes it kind of the way he writes it, he makes the assumption that this is the case. For none of us live to himself And no one dies to himself. He's basically saying, as a Christian, we're not living for ourselves. We're not dying to ourselves. This is not about us. Verse 8, for if we live, we live to the Lord. And if we die, we die to the Lord. Therefore, whether we live or die, notice what he says again, we are the Lord's. The basis of all of this is that we are owned by Christ. We are his master. He is our master. And our goal is to be fully convinced that what we are doing is pleasing God. So look, if you've got two Christians and one is saying, I'm fully convinced I could I could please God with this and another is saying well I just want to please myself I don't care about pleasing God then that's that's a different issue And folks, I would just say it this way. Some of the disputes that we have, some of the problems we have, is actually because of that. Because there's people that simply want to please self rather than pleasing God. Or maybe both parties do. Maybe you have both, maybe you on the one side the real conservatives are saying, well, I want to feel good about myself. And it's self-righteousness, and I'm actually the real issue is I want to feel good about myself and so I'm being conservative in this area. Or the liberal is saying, well I want to do what I want to do, so I'm being conserv, so I'm doing what I want to do. Both could be actually Focused on self. But folks, what is key what the passage is teaching, is it possible that you have two Christians that one of them is participating in something and fully convinced that they are pleasing God and another per Christian is fully convinced that they could not do that? and please God. Is that possible? The passage teaches it is. And we have to accept that. That's what the text is telling us. That we ought not, when we run into a situation like that, we ought not despise and we ought not judge in those situations. Verse 9 says, Therefore let us all all the house of the I'm sorry, verse 9 says, For to this end Christ died and rose and lived again, that he might be Lord of both the dead and the living. Now that's interesting. Here's the implication of that. The implication is look, you can't be the Lord in somebody else's life. You can't be the master in somebody else's life. Christ died to be our master. Don't take the place of Christ in somebody else's life when it comes to these matters of conscience. Now, we finally then he ends this way. He says, finally we need to remember that Christ is the ultimate judge. Some of us, we like things right. Some of us are kind of black and white people. I grew up I I was kind of that way as a teenager. I grew up grew up a little bit, realized It's but it's I I gotta make a judgment call on everything. Right? It's gotta be right or wrong, it's gotta be true or not, it's gotta be clear and And some of us are that way. And when we see that w some of the when we come to a clear clear conclusion conclusion about something, uh a clear opinion about something, well that other person, they gotta be wrong. Or sometimes if we're not careful, this is dangerous, we conclude that because the other person does not take the position I think I take, that they have wrong motives. They don't want to please God. Because obviously I want to please God and that's why I have the convictions I have So therefore, the person that doesn't have the convictions that I have, they must not want to please God, and we judge motives. Folks, that is not biblical as well. Notice what it says here, verse 10. But why do you judge your brother? Why do you do this? Or why do you show contempt for your brother? For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. He reminds us that Christ is the one who will ultimately judge, who has the ability to judge. He bought the right to judge us with his life. Don't take that. We have no right to do that. First Corinthians three, thirteen through fifteen reminds us this. Each one's work will become clear. For the day will declare it, because it will be revealed by fire, and the fire will test each one's work, of what sort it is. If anyone's work which is which he has built on endure endures, he will receive a reward. If anyone's work is burned, he will suffer loss. But he himself will be saved yet yet so as through fire And then 1 Corinthians, which I mentioned earlier, reminds us of this. It says, God will bring to light the hidden things of darkness and reveal the counsels of the heart. God says, don't judge the motives of others. God, in his time, in his way, will bring to light the counsels of the heart. Why can we just trust, why can we rest in that? Because we know what Scripture says. Scripture says, as I live, yes the Lord, every knee shall bow, and every tongue shall confess. to God. There will be a day of reckoning. There will be a judge who judges. You do not have to be the person that makes everything right. God will ultimately do that in the end. And we can trust him to do his work. Philippians 2 reminds us of this. That's from Isaiah 45, 23. It's a quote from there. Philippians 2 reminds us of this. Therefore God also has highly exalted him as Jesus and given him a name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, those in heaven and those in earth And those under the earth, and every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord of the glory of God the Father. He will judge all things in the end. We can trust him to do his work, and folks, we should not take his job. There was a a man who uh walked onto a construction site and he saw a pile of bricks stacked up. beside the foundation. He saw that there were no workers pre- present. He was brand new. It was like his second or third day, and he looked at the time and realized things needed to happen. There was nobody else around, and so he began to take piles of bricks and stack them up different places and try to make sense of what was there and try to put it in a in a some sort of pattern that would be helpful. Well, the the uh the foreman arrived on the scene, looked at the mess that he had made, and said, why did you not just wait for me? Why did you you have actually made more work for me than if you would have just left everything alone. This is not your place. You cannot you do not have the ability to do this. And that illustrates for us to some regard what happens when we try to judge things that we have no ability to judge. When we despise in areas that we have no reason to despise, we make a mess because we are not qualified to do what only Christ can do So I think it would be helpful for us just as Christians. The mandate here is accept each other, love each other. That was the past passage. But we need to ask, I think, three questions when it comes to these areas that are disputable. Before I don't accept another Christian because of something that That we're disagreeing on, I think I should ask three questions. Number one, do I seek to please the Lord and assume my fellow believer does too, even when we disagree? Now these are these are kind of long, but they're written in your back of your bulletin, so don't feel like you're gonna drop them down. If you've got a bulletin, you'll be fine. Do I seek to please the Lord and assume my fellow believer does too, even when we disagree? Is that your position? Number one, do you please the Lord? And do you actually assume that your fellow believer does too? Number two Can I thank the Lord for my choice and assume my fellow believer can too? I mean, sometimes we may be discussing an issue with a fellow believer and we realize, hmm, uh Uh boy, actually that brings in the question. Maybe I shouldn't be doing that. Maybe that isn't something that I shouldn't be participating in. Well, I might need to think about that. Maybe I can't really thank God for that. That is the litmus test, by the way. Can I thank the Lord for being able to go to an Orioles game? Personally? Yeah. My kids, no. I I I they sit through an Orioles game to make me happy. I learned that last time we went to Norriel's game. They were like all excited about it. At the end they were they were less than excited about it. But they were happy to be with me. I've got great kids that way. And um I suggested another Orioles game and they're like they were like If you like Orioles games, come and talk to me, we'll go. Anyway. But can I thank the Lord for the choice? Number three. Am I judging or despising a fellow believer over a disputable matter? I mean sometimes our our convictions of conscience are stro are so strong that we don't think it's disputable. This is the criteria. Is it clear in here or not? If it's not clear in here, it's disputable. If it's clear in here, then it's not disputable. It's really that simple. Am I judging or despising a fellow brother over a disputable matter? I think these are very helpful questions to ask ourselves. when it comes to these issues. And if we will ask ourselves these issues, these things, then it will free us, I think, to be able to accept brothers and sisters in Christ that we disagree with. Because ultimately, folks, let's remember what unifies us as believers. We talked about this a little bit in our adult Bible study earlier. Christ unifies us. We agree in the person and work of Christ. We agree in the in the uh We agree in the in the inspiration of Scripture. We agree in the virgin birth, and we agree in the substitutionary determining of Christ. These are the things that we agree with. This is what binds us together. This is what unifies us And we need to have proper priority. Whatever the priority becomes, what's clear in Scripture, my priority should be the clarity of Scripture. If it's clear in Scripture, it's high priority. If it's not clear in Scripture, it's lower priority. And if I do that, then I'm going to find, I'm going to be able to put myself in a place where I might not agree But I can still love and accept my brothers and sisters in Christ. And I I can tell you from personal experience, there are times where I'll I'll take music for an example where I have people in this room probably that would listen to things that that um I don't get it. Like I don't so I I realized what scripture says about this one time, so I turned on the radio and tried to listen to something just to kind of see what I Uh yeah, I don't know, I just kind of see and and it was a quote Christian I shouldn't say quote it was a Christian radio station that's judgmental. So um and I'm listening to it and I'm going I don't get it. Like it's just I I am I just I was I just this does not sound good anyway. But that doesn't mean I am going to judge somebody else or despise somebody else. And I learned that over time. And I think it's something that's very important for all of us to remember For those of you who don't, but you're listening to all this and you're going, well, who cares what kind of music? I mean, that's not important. You're kind of right in some in some regards But maybe you're you're hearing you're hearing all of this and you actually don't you don't know the Lord. That's the most important thing. Do you know Christ? Do you know, do you, and that's actually the focus. Even us as Christians, we can get off on the wrong focus. But the most important question you could ask yourself this morning if you don't know Christ, if you don't know where you would spend eternity, is where am I with God? The Bible says, this is what the Bible says, these things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. And if you're not sure where you stand with the Lord, let me encourage you. You can know today. Come and talk with me after the service, and I can help you with your relationship with Christ. by seeing what the Bible says. And I really encourage you to do that. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for your word. We thank you for the truth. We thank you for its wisdom. We thank you for how it helps us and allows us to be able to reflect your character and your love. And I pray, even for our church, that you would keep us unified, that even though there may be disagreements on various things that are not clear in your word, I pray, Lord, that you would help us to learn to accept each other, to love each other, to be fully persuaded in our own minds, to not violate our conscience when we Have a conscience about something, but on the other hand, I pray, Lord, that you'd help us to love and accept each other as well. Lord, we desire that others would see that we are truly your disciples, your followers, because we love one another. That is such a key component of what a healthy church is. I pray, Lord, that we would not allow anything to get in the way of our loving one another. Because you loved us. And that's how we describe, and that's how we share our love with you by loving one another. And Lord, may that be a proper display to the world. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.