Well good evening. I hope you got a handout. I have uh I have homework today that will not be graded and will not be rewards either. But there's a handout I hope is helpful as you follow along. So if you don't have a handout, please feel free to grab one or uh Joe has some in the back as well. We're going to be reading most of our passage will be out of Luke. Well, I'm sorry, out of John 13, and then we'll end in Luke. So if you could turn to John 13 now. In seventeen seventy-five, America declared independence from Great Britain, and America's war for independence began. At the beginning of this war, a young sea captain by the name of Arnold joined America's army and began to fight against the British. Arnold quickly distinguished himself with acts of intelligence and bravery. He led a successful attack against a key British fort, and he used brilliant defensive tactics that delayed British troops as they sought to attack and capture a poorly defended New York City. Arnold's highest accomplishment came during the Battle of Saratoga, where after being wounded, he continued to fight and lead his men to a victory that began to turn the tide against the Britons. To this day, there's a monument at the Saratoga National Park dedicated to Arnold. It reads, In memory of the most brilliant soldier of the Continental Army. who was desperately wounded on this spot, winning for his countrymen the decisive battle of the American Revolution, and for himself the rank of Major General. After Arnold recovered from his injury, he returned to his army at Valley Forge to the cheers of the men who had served under him. There he participated in the first recorded oath of allegiance as a sign of loyalty. to the United States. In 1778, George Washington, who by this time had expressed very high opinion of Arnold, appointed Arnold to be the to the military commander of the city of Philadelphia. Arnold quickly transitioned from a life of combat to a life of luxury in Philadelphia, and being placed in a position of great power, he began to abuse his authority in underhanded dealings that lined his pockets and paid for his lavish lifestyle. Despite his notoriety and success and power, with one year after being promoted to being in charge of an entire city of Philadelphia, Arnold began to feel overlooked and overscrutinized. He complained that his fellow officers were receiving promotions that he deserved. He also found himself being investigated for misusing his position of authority to suit his own ends. These accusations and investigations eventually earned Arnold a public written rebuke from George Washington. But no serious consequences followed. Soon after this embarrassing rebuke, and mounting financial and legal troubles, Arnold began secret communications with the enemy British Army. In exchange for money and using a secret courier, he sent the British commanders information about American troop movements, American troop strengths, and even supply locations. In 1780, Arnold was once again promoted, and with this time he was given command of West Point and the entire American-controlled Hudson River. Arnold quickly turned and offered to assist the Britain British Army in the capture of West Point, which was a key fort in the region. Arnold gave Britain the plans for West Point. He showed its layout and possible weaknesses. And then Arnold began to weaken the very fort he had been placed over. Arnold neglected to make any needed repairs within the fort, and he began to drain West Point of supply reserve and military strength. Soon after, Arnold heard back through his secret communications with Britain that they had accepted his offer, they had accepted his help, and they began to make plans to capture West Point. Fortunately, before this attack could be carried out, one of Arnold's couriers was detained at an American checkpoint, and one of his letters was discovered. This letter was written to Britain and detailed Arnold's intentions to betray his country and give up West Point. Hearing news of his discovery, Arnold immediately fled to the closest British controlled era area He narrowly missed the capture by George Washington himself, who was traveling that very day to arrest Arnold. The British gladly accepted Arnold into their army, and they gave him the rank of Brigadier General. Shortly after joining the British Arnold Army, Arnold led an army himself into Virgin Virginia, and he attacked American forces. He captured Richmond by surprise. He then went on a rampage throughout Virginia. He destroyed supply houses, foundries, and mills. Later, he attacked a significant port in Connecticut and nearly burned the entire city to the ground. Arnold carried out many of these attacks on America just a few miles away from where he was born. and where he was raised as a boy. In fact, Arnold literally led British forces against the very same men he had fought alongside with only a year earlier. After America won the war against Britain, despite Arnold's multiple attempts to return to America, he was permanently exiled away from his home country. And to Arnold's great sorrow, he was forced to remain in Britain The monument I spoke of earlier that's written to Arnold, it remains this day in the city of Saratoga, but his name has been removed. There are plaques on the grounds of the United States Military Academy at West Point. These plaques commemorate every general who served in the Revolution. One plaque belonging to Arnold bears only a rank and a date, but no name. It reads simply, Major General, born 1740. To this day, the name Benedict Arnold still represents the terrible act of complete betrayal in American history. Today we're going to be discussing betrayal. And Benedict Arnold represents complete betrayal of his country. He's well known, and his name has lived on. Today we're going to look at Scripture and we're going to see what is arguably the most terrible example of betrayal in Scripture. We're going to be talking about Judas. We're going to look at Judas who was chosen by Jesus. He was allowed a special place close to Jesus Jesus spent years with Judas and Jesus built a relationship with him. And yet Judas ultimately decided to betray Jesus in exchange for money. As I say the name Judas, most of us will have instantly strong and negative thoughts come to our mind. We're familiar with the story. But as we discuss this passage today, rather than seeing what we automatically see when we look at Judas, I want us to see what Jesus sees when he looks at Jesus. I want us to see through Jesus' eyes. Have you been betrayed by someone? Perhaps you've experienced an absolute betrayal. Perhaps someone you trusted turned on you, hurt you deeply, maybe even tried to destroy you in some way. It is probable that most of us in this room have not experienced this level of betrayal in our lives, but I'm certain that anyone who has lived a length of time has experienced some level of betrayal, hurt, or disappointment. We may feel betrayed by by co-workers, by a family member, by a close classmate, by a friend or a relationship with someone that ended poorly. We can even be betrayed or feel betrayed by a church member, by even a fellow Christian. We need to be careful as we study this. We need to be careful that we do not view all those who we hurt uh who hurt us as a Judas offender. Not every offense is Judas worthy, if you will. But every offender should be looked at through the eyes of Jesus. So today as we read this passage, and these passages, we're going to ask ourselves two questions. First, we're going to ask us, what did Jesus see when he looked at Judas? When Jesus looked at Judas and talked to Judas, when Jesus was around Judas, Jesus lived with him for years, what did he see? In Judas. That's the primary question. And this and the answer to this question will reveal God. It will reveal how Jesus thought. It will reveal why Jesus did what he did and how we handled people. and it will reflect the Father in Jesus' life. Our second question would be, do we see the same things that Jesus sees when we look at the Judas? in our life. When we look at those in our lives who may have hurt us or bothered us or caused us serious grief or pain, do we see what Jesus sees when we look at them? Or do we see what we naturally want to see? Let's begin in John 13. In John 13, verse 1, we see the first thing that Jesus saw in Judas John 13, 1. Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was come that he should depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them unto the end. We're beginning a new chapter here in John 13. And John wants to start the chapter out, bring our attention to one one simple sentence. Having loved his own, which were in the world, he loved them unto the end. John wants us to know, when Jesus saw Judas, Jesus saw someone he loved. Jesus saw Judas as someone he loved. Jesus treated Judas with the same love that he treated the other apostles. I can prove this very easily. When the apostles were told, one of you will betray me, one of you will will sell me, one of you will betray me and give me up. And do you know what their response was? Is it me? Is it I? They all went around the room and said, is it me? Is it I? Do you see? Jesus treated Judas with so much love, the disciples didn't even know Judas was going to betray him. There was no tell. There was no action that Jesus gave to Judas that showed Jesus knew Judas's attent. He lived with Judas for a He abided he he spent time with him, he shared with him, he talked with him, and nobody would have said, Oh yeah, Judas is going to betray Jesus, because Jesus never showed it. He treated him with complete love. Matthew 26, 22. It says, They were exceedingly sorrowful, and each of them began to say to him, Lord, is it I? Is it I? They didn't even know it was Judas. We see Jesus was not selective with his love. He didn't choose who to love and who not to love. Now there are different degrees of closeness in a loving relationship. But Jesus did not withhold his love from anyone. He didn't choose to withhold his love from certain people. We can look at John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave. Jesus saw someone that Father loved. Jesus loved Judas, not just because Jesus loved him, because the Father loved him. This was second-hand love in a way. This was love from the Father, and Jesus acknowledged it. Now, of course, Jesus loved Judas. But this love wasn't just Judas's, it was the Father's love as well. When Jesus saw Judas, he saw someone he loved. Now we have to ask ourselves why, how. Now God knows all things, but there are things about God, there are things about Jesus that show us why he saw Judas in this light. Jesus saw this in Judas. Jesus saw that Judas needed love because Jesus had the position of love toward all. It was his default. It was who he was. As a nature, Jesus had the position of love toward all. 1 Corinthians 13 says, if you have not love, you are nothing. We see Jesus time and time again dealing with love, and sometimes hard love, but always love when he dealt with people. Do you live with a position of love toward all? Do we live with a position of love? Is that our default? Or are we choosing who to love and who not to love? To what degree to love, perhaps? Or maybe they have to earn it? Or do we see everyone, including those who are hurting us, including those who are opposed to us, as needing love? Do you see difficult people as those who are in need of God's love? Do you share God's love, the love of the Father with these people? It can be difficult with some family members, with some coworkers, with some with some people we know. Love isn't always easy and it doesn't always come naturally, but it's not your love. You don't have to love people just because you feel like loving them. You love them because God the Father loves them. And when Jesus looked at Judas, his first thing he saw constantly was someone he loved. If you do not have the position of love toward all, you will have difficulty seeing your Judas as someone you love. If you live selectively loving, when you're offended, you are not going to respond in love. It's not going to be who you select to love. When someone treats you wrong, when someone offends you, you are not going to put them in your love box. No, your list of people that you love, they will not make that list. If you do not have the position position of love toward all The second thing that Jesus sees when he looks at Judas, we see in verses 2 through 4, of John 13. And supper being ended, the devil having now put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, some and son, to betray him, Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he was come from God, and went to God He riseth from supper, and laid aside his garments, and took a towel, and girded himself. Let's pay particular attention to verse 3. Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he was come from God and went to God. We see here When Jesus saw Judas, he saw someone who had no real authority or power. Jesus looked at Judas and saw someone who had no real authority, no real power. Let's look at John nineteen eleven. John nineteen eleven, Jesus Jesus is being a questioned by Pilate. He's being interrogated, he's being quizzed, he's being accused by Pilate, and Pilate is reviling him, trying to get a response from Jesus. And he finally says, Why aren't you responding me? Don't you see I am in charge here? Don't you see I am I am the man who decides whether you live, Pilate says. And in John 19, 11, Jesus answered, You could have no power at all against me unless it had been given to you from above. Jesus recognized Pilate, you feel like you're in charge. You are not in charge. You are not the man in charge here. And here, Jesus knew the Father had given all things into his hands. He knew that he was come from God and he would went to he would go back to God. Jesus knew that God the Father was in control of this. So when he looked at Judas, who was going to betray him, who was going to lie to him, to hurt him, and give him up, he did not look at a man who was in control. He did not look at a man who had power over him. He did not look to a man who had complete authority. He recognized this man was under God the Father. Proverbs 21 says, The king's heart is in the hand of the Lord as the rivers of water. He turneth it whithersoever he wills. It's terribly difficult to look at a man, a woman, a person who's in charge, a person who could make a decision that would affect her life greatly. It's terribly hard to look at them. And not feel afraid. And not feel some anxiety. Not feel some stress. Hoping that they they choose what you want. It's terribly hard. But here we see Jesus recognized Judas wasn't in charge. And we need to strive to do this. As we look at those who may be hurting us, may intentionally be against us and opposed to us throughout our lives, we need to ask ourselves, do we see them as having no real authority? Do we see that God has authority over them? God could change their mind in an instant. God could change their heart and change their path in an instant. John 8. 31 says, if God is for us, who can be against us? This is a fearless verse, John 8. 31. If God is for us, who can be against us? This is a verse that says, I know God has complete authority and complete power. And Jesus, when he looked at Judas, He saw someone he loved, but he also saw someone who had no real authority. Judas had no real power. If you do not know the Father's authority, We you will have difficulty seeing your Judas as someone without true authority. If I don't realize that God is in charge of my life and God is ruling in my life, when my life is is Intervened in a negative way. When my world gets turned upside down, when hardships come to me and people oppose me, I will not naturally think, oh well God's in charge. That will not be my instinct. We need to make sure we see people who are who are in in control as not truly having real authority or power. In Jesus' dealing with Judas, we see uh the third the third thing we see is in verse 5. Verse 5, John 13, 5. After that, he poureth water into a basin. And begin to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the tau wherewith he was girded. We're going to jump to verse twelve So after he, after Jesus had washed their feet, and had taken his garments and was set down again, he said unto them, Know you what I have done to you? Ye call me Master and Lord, and ye say well, for so I am. If I then your Lord and Master have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet For I have given you an example that you should do as I have done to you. Verily, verily I say unto you, the servant is not greater than his Lord, neither is he that is sent greater than he that sent him. If you know these things, happy are you Here we see a very well-known passage, a very powerful passage. And we look at this passage and we correctly correctly say this is God setting an example to the disciples of servant leadership. God kneels down and he washes all of their feet. That's powerful. This was not a task that people view. that people wanted. This is not a chore that people lined up for. This was a dirty, filthy task, an embarrassing task. Something that was left for people who who weren't important, weren't viewed as leaders. Yet Jesus chose to do this. And by far it was absolutely for the disciples, for them to see servant leadership. But let me remind you, Judas was still here in this room. This was not just a bonus interaction with Jesus that Jesus didn't mean for Judas. No, this had significance to Judas. I dare say Judas remembered this Just a few days before Judas betrays Jesus, Jesus kneels down and washes his feet. And then Judas betrays him. This was significant. See, Jesus chose to wash Judas's feet. feet. It was a choice. He deliberately said, I see Judas and I will wash his feet. When Jesus saw Judas, he saw someone who needed an example of selflessness. Jesus saw Judas, and the third thing we see that Jesus recognized in Judas is that Judas needed an example of selflessness. We know that Judas struggled with selfishness. We know that he was greedy. He valued money. He actually stole from the monies that were given to the disciples. He thought highly of himself. By nature, Judas struggled with this. And Jesus recognized not only do the other disciples need this example, but Judas needs it. Judas needs to see God leaning down and being selfless. Jesus saw this in Judas because Jesus had the posture of selflessness. Because Jesus lived selflessly, he saw this in Judas. He recognized this in Judas. Let's turn to Philippians two. Philippians two five through eight. In Philippians chapter 2, verses 5 through 8, we see that Jesus, we see his position. We see an inside look at who Jesus was and how he thought. In Philippians 2, verse 5, it says, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant. and was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Jesus lived in self-denial. He lived selflessly for the Father. I said earlier that these things that Jesus recognized in Judas point is to God. And we see that Jesus loved Judas because of the Father. We see Jesus saw Judas as having no real authority because of the Father's authority. And here Jesus saw Judas in need of an example, an example of selflessness. Because Jesus lived an example of selflessness for the Father. Do you see difficult people in your life, those who are who are hard to put up with, those who are maybe even are harming you, do you see them as those who are in need of an example? We don't usually well at least in kind terms, we don't usually think of what someone needs when they're hurting us. We don't usually generally sit down and say, well, th that that person was terribly rude to me on the road today. I wonder if they're having a bad day We don't have those thoughts. We have selfish thoughts. But here Jesus recognized that Judas needs an example. Proverbs 15 says, a soft answer turns away wrath. In Matthew 5, it says, But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. Do you live seeking your own, or are you living in selflessness for God's sake? I guess, in other words, how hard would it be for you to wash the feet of somebody who is your enemy? How difficult would you even have the thought? I wouldn't. How hard would it be for you to say a kind word to somebody who is saying kind unkind words to you daily? How hard would it be to be polite and kind to somebody who is adamantly opposed to you and vengeful towards you or even hurting you in significant ways? If you are not living with a posture of selflessness, you are going to have difficulty seeing the example that you need to be when you deal with your Judas. If you live listing in your mind what you deserve, what you've earned, what you've worked hard at, what you value, what's good for you, and if that's your focus and you're not living selflessly for the Father. It's going to be incredibly hard for you to look at somebody who's harming you and try to help them and try to be an example for them and try to take the high road, if you will. Yet we see Jesus doing this with Judas time and time again. The fourth thing that we see Jesus observing in Judas, we see in verse 18. John 13, verse 18. When Jesus looked at Judas, he saw someone whose heart had refused to submit to God. Jesus saw that Judas had refused to submit to God. John 13, 18. I speak not of you all. I know whom I have chosen. But that the scripture may be fulfilled. He that eateth bread with me hath lifted up a seal against me. Now I tell you before it come, that when it is come to pass you may believe that I am He. Verily, verily I say unto you, He that receiveth whomsoever I send receiveth me, and he that receiveth me receiveth him that sent me. When Jesus had thus said, he was troubled in spirit, and testified, and said, Verily, verily I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me. And of verse twenty-two. Then the disciples looked to one another, doubting of whom he spake. Now there was leaning on Jesus' bosom, Jesus' chest, one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved. Simon Peter therefore beckoned to him that he should ask, who it should be of him who spake. He then, lying on Jesus' breast, saith unto him, Lord, who is it? Jesus answered, He it is to whom I shall give a sop, give a piece of bread, when I have dipped it. And when he had dipped the sop, he gave it to Judas Iscaria, the son of Simon And after the stop, Satan entered into him. Then said Jesus unto him, That thou doest do quickly. Now no man at the table knew for what intent he spake this unto him. When Jesus looked at Judas, he saw someone whose heart had refused to submit to God. And you say, well, where are you seeing that? Do you realize After years of being exposed to God, after years of being right next to Jesus and seeing Jesus' miracles, hearing Jesus preach and teach Watching him wake up in the morning, spend an entire day and go to bed the next day and wake up the next morning and live every day with Jesus, Judas still had to surrender his heart to God. It wasn't enough. His heart still refused God. His heart still had refused to submit to God. At this point, his heart was still open. It was still corruptible. It was still reachable by Satan He had refused God. And Jesus sees this in Judas's life. Jesus saw this in Judas because Jesus lived with the attitude of submission to the Father. Submission was very important to Jesus. This is a key part of Jesus' life was submission to the Father. He constantly referenced the Father. I do this because of the Father. I pray this because of the because of the Father. He he he constantly talked about the Father Because that was the reason he was there. Let's look at Luke twenty-two. Luke twenty-two, verse forty-two, and we're going to spend the rest of the evening, the next couple minutes, in Luke 22. Or in Luke. Luke twenty two, verse forty two. Luke twenty-two, forty-two says, Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but thine be done. Here we see a perfect example of Christ submitting to God the Father. He lived in complete submission to the Father. Do you see the true heart problem of difficult people in your life? By this what I mean is when someone offends you, when someone harms you, when someone opposes you and hurts you and they are clearly in the wrong, do you only see that or do you see that they have a significant heart problem? Do you see that their heart has refused Christ? Do you see that they are living in a position of refusing to submit to God? Refusing to submit to the truth of the Bible. Is that what you see first, or do you just see everything that bothers you personally? Is what you're doing, is what they're doing just bothersome because it hurts you? Or is it bothersome because it's the fruit of someone who doesn't know God? It's the fruit of someone whose heart is refusing God. They've been exposed to God. They've been around God. They've been in the scripture. Maybe they know the truth, but they say no. Not enough. Not enough What about us? Do we live with a heart that is in submission to God? Are we submitted to God in our life? Do we recognize I'm here because God the Father wills it I'm in this position, in this job, in this state, in in this whatever situation, because God the Father wills it If you are not submitted to God, you will have a difficult time seeing your Judas as someone who needs to submit to God. If you're not living Submitted to God the Father. When someone harms you, when someone bothers you, when someone hurts you, you are not going to encourage them to submit to God either. It's not going to be what you see. You're not going to value it because you're not living in Yet we see Jesus saw this in Judas. He saw someone whose heart had refused to submit to God. So much so that this heart was still open to Satan. This heart was still usable by Satan after after all this exposure to Christ, after all this knowledge. The fifth and final thing that we see Jesus observing in Judas is in Luke 22, verse 1. In Luke 22, verse 1, it says, Now the feast of unleavened bread drew nigh, which is called the Passover. And the chief priests and scribes sought how they might kill him, for they feared the people. Then entered Satan into Judah's surname Iscariot, being of the number of the twelfth, and he went his way and communed with the chief priests and captains, how he might betray him unto the And they were glad and covenanted or promised to give him money. So here we have Judas going and promising to give up Jesus. In Luke 22, 39. This is talking about Jesus. And he, and Jesus came out and went, and as he wants, or as he was used to, he went to the Mount of Olives. And his disciples also followed him. And when he was at the place, he said unto them, Pray you that you enter not into temptation. Luke twenty-two verse forty-five. And when Jesus rose up from prayer and was come to his disciples, he found them sleeping for sorrow, and said unto them, Why sleep ye? Rise and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. And while he yet spake, behold, a multitude, and he that was called Judas, one of the twelve, went before them, and drew near unto Jesus to kiss him. But Jesus said unto him, Judas, betrayest thou the Son of Man with a kiss And here we see the fifth thing Jesus saw in Judas. Jesus saw someone who was in desperate need of truth. Jesus saw someone who was in desperate need of truth. This parting sentence that Jesus gave Judas was deliberate. It was essential. What was it not first? Often when when we are offended, when we are attacked, when someone is a Judas toward us, when someone hurts us, We want to give them a peace of our mind. We want to tell them how it is. Especially when it's over. And here it's over. There's no more stealth. There's no more deliberation. There's no more cleverness. Judas is all out in the open with an army behind him. He walks up to Jesus and clearly leads the army and captures Judas. Jesus. Captures Jesus. His intentions are no longer hidden. They're no longer masked. What do we do? What kind of truth do we want to tell that person when it's over? We're on the phone and we're gonna, this is the last, and I'm gonna and then I'm goodbye to you in another life, and that's it. What truth do we share with them? When you're walking out of that job and you know you're never going to see them again, when you're leaving that college, when you're leaving that occupation, that relationship, when you're leaving the country and you're out of there, this is your last sentence. But what did Jesus say Jesus says, betrayest thou the Son of Man with a kiss. There's definitely some irony there. There's some satire. Jesus says, Do you betray me by kissing me? What he's saying is, Judas, don't you see how lost you are? Don't you see how ignorant you are? You desperately need some truth from me. You, I offered you eternal life, an eternal love, an eternal relationship, eternal closeness, Jesus says. I offered you redemption. I offered you something so valuable. and you don't see it. Instead, you're you're betraying me with a fake replica of what I'm offering you. You're walking up to me and you're giving me a kiss. You're embracing me. You're acting like you are so close to me while being so far from me. You are completely lost. You don't see any reality here. You are in desperate need of truth. Jesus is saying, Jesus is saying, Judas, wake up. Don't you see this? Jesus recognized that Judas was completely deceived. Jesus saw the certain end of Judas' life without God. In this moment, in this moment, Jesus is not thinking of himself. And a couple of verses from now, he stops his disciples from defending him. He says, Leave, you know, let them take me. He he stops them from defending his honor. On the cross, Jesus didn't think of himself at the end. He saw Judas right here, right after he was betrayed, the pinnacle of hate, the pinnacle of disgust, and Jesus saw love. Jesus saw that Judas was going to die one day, and if he died without God, he would be forever lost. Jesus saw this in Judas because Jesus still wanted to reach Judas. Judas with the truth of the Father. Jesus hadn't given up on Judas. Jesus had an open heart even here Do you see the certain end of the lost in your life? Do you see the certain end of those who oppose you, of those who hurt you, and those who harm you? Do you see how they will end if they oppose God as well? Do you desire to share the Father's truth with those who are lost? Is it a desire? Is it prevailing? Or does it come and does it go? Is it who you are? If you don't desire to share truth with those who need it, you will likely not see those who need it If you don't have a desire to share God, you probably will live your day and very rarely see that someone needs to hear about God. It won't be on your mind. It won't be a priority to you. And yet Jesus saw Judas here at the end as someone who was in desperate need of truth. Is it possible? That we could be a Judist? Do we ever spend so much time with God, so close to God, yet we don't yield ourselves to God. We don't submit to God's authority and power. We don't love God. We don't have a selfless way about us. We don't live selflessly. Could it be That even us Christians in America who grow up in church and spend day in and day out close to God could be a Judas And that God still looks at us and say and says, Don't don't you need to wake up? Don't you see I'm offering you love? I'm offering you salvation from your sin It's incredible to look at God, to look at Jesus and seeing see his perspective as he looks at Judas and be encouraged. That same God, he looks at us that way. He looks at us with the same heart and the same and the same love and the same passion and the same desire. Let us be a people that sees what God sees and let us embrace what God sees. Value what God sees. Thank you Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon