Taken care of. Thank you so much, Kristen. We can go ahead and turn to First Thessalonians. Chapter two, that's what we're going to be looking at tonight. First Thessalonians chapter two And um we'll just wait on a problem. Green light, yep. Okay. Alright, we all set? Pray and uh we'll we'll read this passage and we'll get started. Our Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word. Um thank you for how it just meets us where we are and um thank you for all of the glorious truths we've just sang about, um the preciousness of your son and um how we've been saved by him. We pray that you'd help us to be uh more conformed to him from what we learn in your word tonight. Um please help me to be accurate, to be clear, and that your spirit would work. We pray that you'd help all of us to take what we hear from your word and apply it to our lives. And in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. All right. I think all of us have probably been in a position, and I won't have you know raise your hands or anything, but where you've had maybe a spiritual leader who actually uh because of the way that they maybe behaved um or uh the the way that they treated other people uh actually caused you to have to do spiritual warfare whenever you were around them. And that's really not ideal. It's not what we want, but sometimes in the Lord's providence we end up in that situation for a time. And it it it's always very difficult. We don't want to be that kind of person. And thankfully the Lord has given us examples in Scripture of how we can actually not be that type of person. Um I think of the uh time that David had to go through uh in in order to become a leader and how long he had to endure under Saul And sometimes the Lord will put us in that position where the person who's in charge uh maybe isn't doing things in such a great way and it does cause a lot of pain. So if we've been given any situation where we're a leader, we want to be doing it in a way that pleases God. And so that's where this passage kind of meets us tonight. And um hopefully we'll we'll see that right away. So let's start in chapter two, verse one. We're gonna read verses one through twelve. For you yourselves know, brethren, that our coming to you was not in vain. But even after we had suffered before and were spitefully treated at Philippi, as you know We were bold in our God to speak to you the gospel of God in much conflict. For our exhortation did not come from error or uncleanness, nor was it in deceit. But as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, even so we speak not as pleasing men, but God who tests our hearts. For neither at any time did we use flattering words, as you know, nor a cloak for covetousness, God is witness. Nor did we seek glory from men, either from you or from others, when we might have made demands as apostles of Christ. But we were gentle among you, just as a nursing mother cherishes her own children. So affectionately longing for you, we were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God, but also our own lives, because you had become dear to us. For you remember, brethren, our labor and toil, for laboring night and day that we might not be a burden to any one of you, or to any of you, we preach to you the gospel of God. And your witnesses and God also how devoutly and justly and blamelessly we behaved ourselves among you who believe. As you know how we exhorted And comforted and charged every one of you as a father does his own children, that you would walk worthy of God who calls you into his own kingdom and glory. So Paul's writing this letter to the Thessalonian church after he left them for a while, uh after some persecution broke out, he had to leave. So he's writing them this letter much later after he's heard a report of how they're doing. And apparently they're going through some struggles, and it's actually a possibility that one of those struggles was people were even slandering Paul. Um a lot of the commentators on this passage say that that's probably why he took, you know, twelve verses to explain what his leadership was like was because Most likely once he left and didn't come back for a while, people were probably saying, Hey, does this guy really care about you if he hasn't come back? Um, why did he leave so quickly when persecution just started Doesn't something seem up, why don't you come back and join your old religion again? Because this man was the problem. Um he's not legitimate. So Paul had good reason um to go ahead and write down to bring back to their minds uh what kind of a leader he really was. And so we have this inspired account of an exemplary leader, a leader that pleases God. And the fact that Paul was pleasing to God really is the heart of what made him a good leader. If you look at verse 4, where it says Even so we speak not as pleasing men, but God who tests our hearts. The passage really builds up to that. It's the reason for his boldness in verse uh in verse 2. And then all of the rest of the passage below that funnels down from it. It's all explaining, okay, if he's pleasing God This is how he practically did that. So what we have here is an expired inspired example. Hopefully it's not expired. Inspired example of a leader that is pleasing to God. And so that's what we're going to take this as. We're going to try to learn all the lessons we can about how do we take our positions of spiritual leadership. and please God with them. But even if we're not in a position of spiritual leadership, uh Paul in First Thessalonians three, eleven through thirteen mentions that he wants this church, he's praying for this church to abound in love to one another, uh, to the point that they'll be blameless. And he he says that he wants the Lord to make them increase and abound in love to one another and to all just as we do to you. So in whatever the same way he loves them, which we'll look at tonight, he wants all those believers, whether leader or not, to get to this point. So this is an example for all of us. But it kind of brings up the point, all right, if if we want to be people who please God, leaders who please God, alright, uh why do we please God? So first off we want to start with why why we don't uh why sorry um reasons Bad reasons to please God. We don't please God to gain his favor. Alright? It's not that God has a certain standard that we have to meet before he'll actually love us. And He wants us to do a bunch of righteous works and earn that favor. That is what every other religion in the world says with their God, that they're trying to earn favor with that God. But The true gospel of Scripture says in Ephesians 2, 8, and 9, that by grace you have been saved through faith. It's not of yourselves, it's the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. All the favor of God that you're ever going to get, you already have that in Christ. You can't earn any bit any more, not even an an ounce of it. So it's definitely we don't please God to gain his favor. We also don't please God in order to compete with other people. And there's passages like 1 Corinthians 12 that talks about how we're a body, we have many members. We're not trying to compete with one another, we're just trying to serve in whatever place that we're supposed to be Also in Matthew chapter 25 we have the parable of the talents, and different people were given different talents, different amounts of service based on what they what their abilities were. It wasn't based um it wasn't based on how much God loved them or anything. Just how much their abilities were. And then what they did with that Okay, what they did with their individual amount was what God judged them on. He didn't judge them on how much the other guy with ten talents did when you only had two. He judged you, all right, what did you do with what I gave you? Faithfulness. Um so it's not about competition. We're not trying to compete with other people and prove God we're we're better than them. Um so what why do we want to please God Um well first of all, uh God is our master, our shepherd, our father. Um Christ is our bridegroom. Um Um all these different relationships that scripture tells us about that we we have with God, um all of them only really work if we are living to please our shepherd or our master or our bridegroom or our father. God has given us these relationships as a picture of how our relationship with Him is supposed to work. If a child is just disobeying his father, they're not going to be very close. There's not going to be much joy in that home. And all down the list. Also, uh we we want to please God because He loves His children unconditionally. When you are loved unconditionally, all you really can do is say thank you and enjoy that and give Uh praise to the one who loves you that way. And in in Romans eight, thirty-eight and thirty-nine it says, For I'm persuaded that neither death nor life nor angels nor principalities nor powers nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other created thing, shall be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. So nothing can separate us from this love. That's another reason to please him. Um it's not because we're trying to earn it, it's because we already have it. And also, last but not least, we want to please God because we only experience the pleasures of his unconditional love. when we're on the path of obedience. So experiencing the pleasures of God's unconditional love can only happen on the path of obedience. Even though God does love us, that's not going to mean as much to us if we're disobeying Him. And that's how just kind of how God has set it up. If you'll look at, you can turn there or I'll just read it, John 15, 9 through 11. It says, Jesus is speaking to his disciples and he says, As the Father loved me, I also have loved you. Alright, so there's that unconditional love. As the Father loved me, I've loved you. That's a great statement to meditate on. Um, but we can't really go that deep into it right now. Um As the Father loved me, I also have loved you. Abide in my love. So there's a responsibility that we have. to stay in that place where we're experiencing his love, to exist in his love, abide in his love. Then he explains that if you keep my commandments, You will abide in my love, just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. God's love is experienced when we're in obedience to him. And then in in verse eleven there's a r emotional result of that. These things I have spoken to you, that my joy may remain in you and that your joy may be full. We can't have our joy in God full unless we are keeping Keeping his commandments, walking with him and abiding in that love of his. When we step outside of his commandments, it's it's saying that we don't really believe that he loves us all that much or his love is really worth enjoying all that much. But when we are abiding in that, we do experience that, and we do have our joy made full by the Lord. So those are a few reasons, definitely not exhaustive, of why we want to please God. But what does pleasing God look like as a spiritual leader? Okay. Well, that's what we've got this passage for tonight. And we're going to start with verses one through four. I'll just read those again, get us into the into the track of this passage. So it says, For you yourselves know, brethren, that our coming to you was not in vain But after we had suffered before and were spitefully treated at Philippi, as you know, we were bold in our God to speak to you the gospel of God in much conflict. For our exhortation did not come from error or uncleanness, nor was it in deceit. But as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, even so we speak. Not as pleasing men, but God who tests our hearts. A God-pleasing spiritual leader must be motivated by God's opinion. If you look at verse 4, it says that we're not speaking as pleasing men, but as God who tests our hearts. It's not likely that you'll be able to endure any kind of hardships. With boldness, like Paul explains he does as a leader, if you're out to please yourself. In verses 1 and 2, we have this explanation that Paul came to them and his coming to them was not in vain. It wasn't empty, it wasn't purposeless. When he came to them, it was effective. And why? Well it was because even after he had been stripped and whipped and put in jail in Philippi. For the gospel. He still came and still is preaching that very same gospel. There was a rhythm to what Paul did. He always was preaching the gospel It says in that chapter Acts 17 when he got to Thessalonica that what does he do? He does what his custom was, and he goes To the very place that's gonna hate him most, the synagogue. And he starts preaching the gospel right there. And he just does what's what's his routine, preaches the gospel to these people with boldness, even though He had just been whipped and beaten, treated horribly. Okay. He was able to do that. Because he wasn't trying he wasn't out there for himself. He's explaining that in verse um in verse three. For our exhortation didn't come from error or uncleanness, nor was it in deceit. Okay, so he's saying we had an authoritative message from God. This wasn't something we were lacking confidence about, wasn't something we made up or or didn't study. Um it wasn't from a selfish motive and it wasn't something that we were trying to deliberately spread, uh some kind of lie we were trying to deliberately spread. If it was, then like so many other uh what the commentary is called um Street corner philosophers, uh, we would have just faded away when it got rough. But we kept going. And this bears a lot of application on our life. We all are going to face opposition for the gospel. especially as a spiritual leader. Anybody who desires to live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. We have that promise, 2 Timothy 3. 12 In John 15, 20 it says, Remember the word that I said to you. A servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will keep yours also. So persecution, it's not a desirable thing, alright? None of us go out there just asking for it. Alright, but if we're doing, if we're actually being a witness. Um think about going out there tonight and and every week on Wednesday, you're going out there or actually being a witness. Um most likely that doesn't mean that everybody smiles and walks away and thinks, oh, those were perfectly nice people Actually, if we're sharing the gospel with people, some people unfortunately are going to walk away, maybe even angry. And that's not because we're being unpleasant people. But it's because the the message of the cross it's foolishness to some people. It actually offends some people, uh, depending on just where their heart's at. Um so we need to be ready to go out there uh and and and face that kind of opposition if it comes. Um and and it is it is real right now. As as many of you know from your personal experience, I was listening just the other day to this uh um this preacher in um Manchester, Manchester, England, talking about how he's going out and witnessing in in the streets with his church. And uh this you know, this woman who's LGBTQ, she's standing up and and yelling at them, cursing them out, uh, because they the gospel is is contrary to that lifestyle. And then literally calling them on the phone the next day because she's so mad and can't put it down. Um that's the kind of a offense that our message has to people and we need to be aware of that. The only way that we'll be able to really love people who who treat us like that and continue to share the gospel is if we're trying to please God with it. If it's not about what that person's face says, but if it's about what God um what God thinks of us. Um now look at verse four. Uh true boldness comes from a heart that is committed to pleasing God. As we've been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, Even so we speak not pleasing men, but God who tests our hearts. Paul recognized That this opportunity to share the gospel was a stewardship. It was something that God actually entrusted him with. Um and what he did with it mattered. God was actually going to uh bring him to an account on that. See, it's something that he's examining and testing his heart about And we need to realize that all the positions that we have, whether that's being a father, whether that's being an older brother, whether that's um just being uh the tallest in your class, as Lucy Pevensey said. Um I don't know where that came from. But uh whenever you're in some sort of prominent place, uh That is a stewardship from God. And whenever people are looking to you, we need to realize, okay, I'm actually going to be You know, put in a position where I I'm gonna have to answer to God for for how I did this. Am I did I do it to please him? Um and with that in mind Paul Paul endeavored to please God in what he was doing. And when it if you look at how it says, even so we speak not as pleasing men, but God who tests our hearts. Um, that can almost sound to us maybe a little bit detached, like wait, we're not pleasing people, like I thought we were supposed to love people. Uh how d how does that work? Am I supposed to just think about only what God wants and um people don't really matter that much, so I don't have to spend time with people or anything? Um how does this whole thing work? Well uh The first commandment is to love God with all our heart, soul, and mind. But the second one is to love our neighbor as ourself. All of our actions toward other people have to flow from our love for God. It has to be that we're trying to please Him in that relationship with that other person And it's almost like if you've ever been um maybe working a job and maybe it's like a fast food job or something like that, and you've it's your first week, okay, you're at the register, and there's a person coming up to you That customer is the one that you're supposed to care about right now. But since it's your first week, you've got somebody training you, maybe even your boss right next to you. Who's more important in your mind in that moment? Well, you're caring for the customer, okay, but your boss is more important in your mind at the moment. So even if the customer makes a demand that you know you can't really meet You're kind of thinking to yourself, alright, I'm balancing two relationships at once. What do I do? We know how to do this. The problem is, are we doing that with God? Um and really this comes down to are we living our lives with an awareness of the presence of God? Are we living our lives with the fear of the Lord? Um this is something that we all have to actually Ask ourselves and discipline ourselves to do. Um we isn't it true that we can't we can kind of go through the day And it can be something so fast as you get up from your devotional time, you go to the bathroom, you start making breakfast, and uh you you forget about uh you you're not thinking about God, you're not factoring him into what you're doing almost And it almost just becomes back of mind and and and not taking into consideration, is the next thing I do going to be pleasing to him? But David said this in Psalm 16, 8, I have set the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved. We need to get in the habit of setting the Lord just before us all the time. Coming up with those ways that we can remind ourselves, all right, I'm what I do, I'm doing in the presence of God. God is here. and pleasing him is what matters the most. So disciplining our minds, maybe putting sticky notes on I've seen people put them on their car dashboard so that when they they just get a reminder, all right, I'm driving but I'm a child of God right now. um on the bathroom mirror, anywhere. Um anything that you can do to just help you like uh like it says in Deuteronomy, I mean you're you're tying them to your wrist on the on the on your forehead, all those kind of things. Anything that helps to just help yourself live in the fear of God. So if you have that, if you have God in mind, you're really living to please Him. When somebody else crosses you, it's a lot easier to obey because you're remembering, all right, whose will am I really doing here? Am I trying to obey that person please them? Or am I trying to please God? And when you make that decision in your mind, you remember his love for you, and that motivates you, you're able to, and he will give you the help to to overcome all those things that that would tempt you the other way. Alright. Now, we've talked about what does motivate a good spiritual leader. And we're going to talk next about what doesn't motivate a good spiritual leader. Probably just gonna cover uh motivations tonight and then um next week we'll be able to cover um the different ways that that plays out practically. But if you look at verse four and five, a God-pleasing spiritual leader must not be motivated By gain. That comes from verses 4 through 6. And the first kind of gain that a godly spiritual leader should not be motivated by is approval, gain of people's approval. And this we've talked about plenty already, so just leave that kind of where it is. But then in verse um in verse sorry, verse five We have Paul saying that neither at any time did we use flattering words, as you know, nor a cloak for covetousness. God is witness. And what he's saying there is, when we did this, there was no other agenda that we had at all in our mind. other than pleasing God. It we weren't trying to get a sense of acceptance from anybody. We weren't trying to get money. We weren't trying to get pleasure. We weren't trying to have the easy life or anything like that Um this week pastor uh recommended to me, um he's trying to help me figure out, you know, all right, how do I prepare? What's God's calling on my life? kind of things. And so he's having me listen to some series about call to the ministry and stuff like that. And in the series he gave me there's this entire section. all about wrong motives. And there was about twelve of them um that of that are common to the ministry. Someone aspiring to the ministry Because maybe for example, um they just really never had somewhere where they felt like they were the center of attention and all of a sudden They realize, oh, I can kind of talk, and now I'm gonna go and do that. There are so many different things that we can idolize and seek from other people But a s a good God-pleasing spiritual leader isn't looking at any of those things. Um not entering a single relationship for what he's getting from it, but what uh what he can do there to serve and to please God. That's that's his motivation. And then if you look at um verse six, it says, nor did we seek glory from men either from you or from others, when we might have made demands as apostles of Christ. So a God-pleasing spiritual leader must not be motivated by gain of power The words in this passage, when it says, seek glory from men, that phrase kind of carries the idea of insisting. That another person give you honor. Okay? So it's almost like somebody crosses your will and all of a sudden because You are the tallest in your class. You say, hold on, do you realize who I am? I'm the tallest here. You need to give me your honor and obedience right now. Okay, demanding that from somebody just because of who you are. And that is not what Paul did. Even though Paul was an apostle of Jesus Christ. He would there's only twelve of these. Okay And they're all gone now. None of us are any of them. But yet we still do this kind of stuff. Okay? Um i I was I was in a counseling class um this past year and we were talking about how The Bible assumes that people who aren't in leadership sometimes will have to have a corrective conversation with people who are in leadership. First Timothy chapter five talks about not rebuking an elder man sharply, but it assumes that you will maybe sometimes have to say something corrective. So we're talking about, okay, how do you do that? And somebody asked the question, all right, what if what if the leader comes out and says to you, I'm the pastor of this church and you need to fall in line and you don't get to say that stuff to me What do you do then? And the professor said, uh you leave the church. Because that's not what a spiritual leader is supposed to do. Um a spiritual leader is supposed to show humility and want to change And if if this is the kind of attitude that we bring to our relationships that because I am in this position, I kind of deserve some sort of special treatment, some kind of honor. Okay, um we're we're viewing this totally wrong. Our positions don't earn us honor from people. That's not what they're meant to do. Even though, you know, we are supposed to honor our elders, that's not the reason why they get into that because they want that. Okay, the reason why we're supposed to be motivated is to serve. Um Jesus said that the greatest among you is the one who's what is serving That's what ought to motivate us, being Christ-like and serving like Him to please Him. Alright. Well, that is just about all that we have time for tonight. And I guess I'll I'll just close with uh with kind of an exhortation from this passage. Just look down at it, if you will, real quick, and notice all of the different times. Okay, all the different times when Paul says the words, you know, or as you know. It's just a reminder that everybody that we're influencing, whether we're a spiritual leader or not, Especially if we're naming the name of Christ, maybe we're the only person in the workplace who is openly, you know, practicing their faith as a Christian. The eyes are on you. These people know what your life is. Alright. And if any of these things from tonight are are a tendency in your heart um any of these uh wrong things are a tendency in your heart, it's probably something that the people under you will notice. Um But also, on the positive side, if you are getting this right, if you are living in a way that pleases God. People also notice. And that motivates them to change. And that that draws out an an affection and an honor from them. uh that you can't produce yourself, uh but that is a gift from God. So let's this week think about these things and think about, you know, am I really living for God's eye in this position? Um or am I living for myself. Alright, I'll go ahead and pray and then we'll um go out for the pray and go. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your word, and we thank you for the glorious opportunities that you give us to speak of you to others. We pray that you'd please help us to desire to please you and to know you and to experience the fellowship with you that comes from that. We pray that you please help us as we go out tonight to have true boldness that comes from knowing that you are with us. That you will never leave us or forsake us. And we pray that you please give us opportunities to talk with people. We pray that you give us um wisdom and how to speak of you. And we pray that you'd help us to be a good witness to our community tonight. And we ask that through the rest of the week you'd give us endurance and love in all of the possessions you've given us and help us to uh truly bring glory to you in those. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.