Amen. All right, you can be seated. And tonight what I want to do is, I'm not really preaching a message, a sermon. It's not in a sermon format. Really, what it is, is more of a challenge or a talk It really is directed to our those who have graduated, those who are really in that time of life. And I am going to be looking a lot at you guys. Don't feel conspicuous, but I will be. Uh so let me actually figure out where you all are. If you're in that five group, can you stand up if you're one of those five? In the front? Should we put them in the front? I like it. Let's put you in the front. Everybody come on up here. I'm actually serious. Come on. Come on. Come on up front. That's a great idea. And that way I can actually come down here and I can have a talk right with you guys just like this. How about that? Does that work? And you guys can just listen in This is old Pastor Jim. I'm forty years old and I've seen most of you grow growing up n growing up from a little kid all the way up and now I can talk. Well, uh I don't know why I'm What's that? Oh right. So uh I do want to uh I I have some things that I have actually been thinking about this all week and praying about what to talk with you all about and thinking through some things. And I really, I I I just have some things in my heart, some things that I am burdened about. They all come from everything I'm talking to does come from Scripture. It's just not one point from one particular text. It's from a group of texts that you'll see in a few moments. You all are all in a crossroads in your lives of one kind or another. Some of you have graduated from high school and you're in that crossroads. Some of you are graduated from college, you're in that crossroad, or you've it's been a year like in Zach's case, but since you're But you're still in that sort of crossroad stage of life in one in one way or another. And that's these crossroads, these times of transitions. are exciting times. They're times of celebration. There are times of I know you guys are looking at the moving parts on the screen. I can see. You can go ahead and flip to the next slide They're all like m mesmerized by the see w I can see everything right now guys. You can't anyways. They're all like, whoa. Anyway. It moves, yeah. Anyway. These are really, really crucial times, great times of celebration. But honestly, am I not right about this? They can be a little a little unsettling, too. They can make you a little nervous Do you guys realize, not to make you more nervous, but I'm going to, um Do you guys realize that the course of your life within the next five years is going to be look really radically different? At least within the next ten years, it's going to look very, very different. The truth is, if I look ten years ago, From my life ten years ago, there have been some things that are different. My kids are older, there's there's differences. But but not to the level of change that will happen from now until five to ten years from now in your lives. It will be massively massive changes. Serious and serious changes. And the decisions that you make now, the patterns of behavior, the the thinking, all of that that you have now are are the the decisions that you make are going to have serious ramifications and consequences into the future. And so I want to help you. I mean, that's really my title of my little talk tonight is Help for Graduates Because I really want to provide as much help as I can for you. And what I want us to do is to think about two particular forks in the road. The most important fork in the road that anyone will ever experience is that fork in the road where they will follow Jesus or not. And the first, I don't want to make any assumptions tonight about any of you or anybody else here. The first fork in the road comes with a question, are you a follower of Jesus? Now, I I said it that way on purpose. There are so many times where we use the word saved. Yeah, I'm saved. But are you a follower of Jesus? Did you know they mean the same thing? And I don't want to pass by that road to ask you, do you are you a follower of Jesus? But let's now, and I'm not assuming that you are, but let's go one further and let's go down the road of following Jesus. And there's a, I'm going to suggest that there's another road. There's another fork in the road. You've got the one fork where you are following Jesus or not following Jesus, following self. That's one fork. That's salvation. The next fork in the road, while you're going down the fork of following Jesus, is this. Are you going to consistently follow Jesus or inconsistently follow Jesus? Now, here's why this is important. Once you are a follower of Jesus, you're on that path. Your father, you have a heavenly father who loves you and cares about you and will keep you and will guide you and will Keep and you'll follow and occasionally you'll veer off the path of following Jesus and God will put you back on. And you'll go off the path of following Jesus and God will put you back on. And you'll go off the path of following Jesus again, and God will put you back on. That's the Bible actually calls that discipline. It talks about that in Scripture. And there are Christians that are followers of Jesus. They've gone, they've taken that fork in the road, but truthfully, there are Christians that spend most of their lives Following Jesus for a path, getting back off. The Father is a gracious, loving Father, and you've got to put them back on. And then if they do it again, they they're on the path for a little while and they come off the pass and they gotta put big be put be put back on the pass. And there are some people, some Christians, and the Father is gracious. Our our Heavenly Father will always, once we get off the path, if we're a follower of Jesus, he'll put us back on the path. We'll come off and we'll put something in the back. But there are there are many people, many Christians, that live their whole lives that way. Now here's what will happen to them. They're spending so much time Coming off the path and following and on the path and off the path and on the path, what they're really not doing much of is being very useful for God The New Testament doesn't put endurance in terms of you may lose your salvation or not once you are on the path of following Jesus and genuinely on that path. And that's the first question. That's the first fork in the road. Once you are on the path of following Jesus, the New Testament indicates that you have two options. You are either either useful. for the kingdom of God, or you are not. Matthew chapter 5 says this. That you can be salt that loses its savor. You're still salt, but you've lost its savor, and the Bible says you're good for nothing. And the Bible says that this is really for all of us, isn't it? This is not just for them. It's for all of us to understand this. Are we going to live lives once we're on that first fork on the road? The next fork is: are we going to live lives that are useful for God? And here is what I'm going to tell you next. It isn't going to depend on you. That's the good news. You may hear graduation pre is speeches and things that says it's up to you and it's all up to you and you you gotta you gotta commit yourself and you gotta drive hard and you gotta work hard and you gotta do all these things And I'm going to tell you, yeah, you need to be diligent. The Bible talks about that. Yeah, you need to work hard, and yes, you need to make right choices, but it's not all up to you. In fact, the people, the Christians that stay on that consistent path of following Christ and usefulness for God The main difference is they they know how to receive God's help. And there are four things that we're going to go over tonight. Four things we're going to look through the Bible, we're going to see these, that will help you to know how to receive God's help. Those who do not receive God's help They're on the path and on on the path. And the Father keeps having to bring them on. Those who those who it and I'll put it this way, the Bible says in Psalms That that over and over again he says, David says that speaking to God, you are my help and my salvation. Over and over again he says that. God, for those who follow Jesus, stand as a help. He is there to help. But there is a way of truly experiencing his help or not. You can have a helper standing right by you. But you can neglect to experience the help of the helper. And so what I want to talk tonight is experiencing God's help. How can you, and me, frankly Throughout our lives, experience God's help so that we can be useful for God, so that we can come to the end of our lives and say, that was a life worth living. That was a life that was useful for God. And I'm going to give you four things. Number one, realize how desperately you need God's help. Just realize how desperately you need it. A major transition for Israel was when they'd moved from becoming a family. to becoming a nation. And God said, you're going to go into Canaan land, you're going to conquer the land, you're going to be victorious over the land. And he called Moses to do that. And Moses realized how desperately needed he needed God's help. It says in Exodus chapter 33, verse 13, Now therefore I pray, if I have found grace in your sight, show me now your way that I may know you And then I might find grace in your sight and consider that this your nation is your people. And he said, My presence will go with you. God says this, and I will give you rest. And Moses says this: if your presence does not go with us Do not bring us up from here. Moses said, I can't do it without you. The Bible tells us that we need to come to a place of neediness and helplessness where we realize we can't do it without God's help. And as you look at this transition, that you're you're in forks, all kinds of forks in the roads right now. You've got to realize, and I say this from some experience now, you've got to realize how much you need God's help. The times in my life. Where I have depended on myself have been the times that I have made the worst decisions of my life. The times in my life where I have depended upon God are the times that I've made the best decisions of my life. So realize how desperately you need God's help. The mantle was passed to Joshua. You remember Moses and then Joshua after that? And God promised Joshua the same kind of presence of help that He promised uh He promised Moses. And it says in Joshua verse six of Joshua chapter one, you know the verse probably, be strong and of a good courage For to this people you shall divide as an inheritance the land which I swore to your fathers to give them, only be strong and very courageous that you may observe to do according to all the law which Moses my servant commanded you. Do not turn from it, don't turn from the right or turn from the left, that you prosper wherever you go This book of the law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate in it day and night, that you may observe to do according to all that is written in it, for then you will make your way prosperous, and then you will have good success. Have I not commanded you, be strong and of good courage, do not be afraid nor dismayed, for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go. And if you are a follower of Christ, that's true of you. The Lord God is with you wherever you go. Number two. Choose to please God rather than self. How do we experience the help of God in this thing called life? Choose to please God rather than self. The next, well, there's a couple other transitions, but one of the next major transitions in Israel's history as we go through the Old Testament is when we come to a time where Babylon is going to take over Israel. This is going to be a very serious time of punishment for Israel. Nebuchadnezzar, remember him, comes in, he wipes out And Isaiah prophesies of this. He knows this is gonna God knows it's gonna happen, and he wants to give you a Israel instruction for the time where this fork in the road happens. And he wants Israel to know that despite this fork in the road, despite this transition, you are still going to have my help, God says. And so he says this in Isaiah 40, 28, verses 31 Have you not known? Have you not heard the everlasting God, the Lord, the Creator of the ends of the earth? Faints not, nor is weary. His understanding is unsearchable. He gives power to the weak And to those who have no might, he increases strength. Look, they're going to be telling people this is probably the time in your life where you're the strongest. And yet you're the weak you're weak. And the quicker you understand that, that even though you may feel strong, And there's a sense in which at your age, I remember being your age, believe it or not, I do remember it. Um I I remember being your age and it and and and I you know you feel kind of invincible. You feel like you could pretty much do anything. And people are telling you you can do anything all all the time. And I'm going to tell you something else. I'm going to tell you something. You can't. You can be successful in all kinds of ways based upon the gifts and talents, and you can be a total failure without God. The worst possible thing that can happen is for you to be successful in the wrong thing. You can't be successful in the right thing without God. And so he says he's going to be with Israel. He gives power to the weak and to those who have no might. He increases strength. Even the youths shall faint, he says, even the youths. That's you guys. Even the youths shall faint and be weary. The young men. And young women, shall utterly fall. But they listen to this, but they who those who wait on the Lord Shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. The truth of the matter is, I look at life, I look at this world, I look at ahead, I don't even know the challenges that you all are going to face. I know the challenges that I'm facing. There's a 40-year-old man trying to raise a family in a world where there is there are tons of tons of temptations on every side. that are public and just right there, accessible at your fingertips on every level, in every way, it's challenging. I don't know the challenges you'll face, but they'll probably be as hard as mine or harder. But I know this, that if you'll wait on the Lord, He'll renew your strength. You'll mount up as wings as eagle as wings of eagles, you'll run and not be weary, you'll walk and not faint, not lose heart. Well, what does it mean to wait on the Lord? It means To find to e to find your hope and your expectation in God alone To not find my hope in my expectation in my talent. To not find my hope in my expectation in my abilities. To not find my hope and my expectation even in what I want or my desires, but to find my hope and my expectation in the Lord. God says it's here for you. It's available. I am your strength. I'm there. And I don't faint. And it's always there. It's constant. Never in our lives can we ever come to the place where we say, God's just not there for me. He's always there. But there is something that will keep us from experiencing God's help The help is always there, but there is something that will keep us from experiencing it. And what will keep us from experiencing it is idolatry. In Isaiah 41, same passage, in Isaiah 41, it warns about the molded images and all those different kinds of things that it says is worthless. It warns us about idolatry. You say, well, I don't have any I don't have any idols in my house. Anybody got any little little figurinis that you're bowing down and worshiping every every morning? Hopefully not. That would be really weird. But in Colossians chapter 3 it says this. If you're a follower of Christ, it says, For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, appears, then you will also appear with him in glory. Therefore Put to death your members that are on the earth, fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry It it equates covetousness to idolatry. Do you know what covetousness is? Very simply, covetousness is wanting what you want instead of what God wants. Wanting what you want instead of what God has already provided for you. And the surest way to stopping To stopping God from ex helping me. He's there to help. But the surest way for me to experience, for the surest way for me not to experience The help of God is to just choose to want what I want instead of really wanting what God wants. The next crossroads in the New Testament we come to is in John chapter, we're going to use John chapter 14 for this, as Christ, this is actually the same passage that Josh spoke on a couple of weeks ago. And this is a passage that's just incredible. In fact, I'd encourage you to take your Bibles and turn there, John chapter 14, and we're just going to look at a couple of things there in John chapter 14. We're going to look at verses 14 through 19 for a few moments. Jesus is about to go to the cross. He's about to die. Before he does, he's giving some instructions to his disciples. These are instructions are in anticipation that Jesus is going to die, rise from the grave, ascend to his father, and he's not going to be with them anymore. Not bodily, not in the same way. And there are certain things he wants them to do, and there are certain helps he's going to provide. And in verse 15 of John chapter 14, it says this. If you love me, keep my commandments. And I will pray the Father, and He will give you another helper, that He may abide with you forever. The Spirit of Truth, whom the world cannot receive because it kn neither sees him nor knows him, but you know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. I will not leave you, orphans. I will come to you a little while longer, and the world will see me no more, but you will see me because I live, and you will live also. Jesus said to his disciples, and really this applies to all of us who know Christ our Savior, who are a follower of Christ, Jesus says to his disciples, I'm going to leave you the Holy Spirit, and he uses a word. It's parakletos or paraclete. Now I'm not trying to teach you Greek tonight, but here's the reason I'm using that word. That Greek word is, if you look at different translations, it's translated a bunch of different ways. It's translated comforter It's translated counselor. It's translated advocate. And it's translated helper. Now, do those all sound the same to you? Does comforter sound like advocate to you? They don't sound the same, do they? Does counselor sound like helper? Well, a little bit. The problem is that this word is so full that that all the translators are having a little hard time really come up with an English equivalent because all of these things are true about this parakletos He is a comforter. He's a comforter. But he's not just this wishy-washy comforter that just says they're there every time you're sad. He loves you and he will show you his love for you. And in fact, the Bible actually says his spirit bears witness to our spirit that we are the children of God. There is an experience of the comfort of the Holy Spirit. That's true, but it's not only that, but it is that. He's our counselor, but counselor is not the idea of, okay, come in and do a counseling session and then leave. No, he's always there. And Jesus actually promises he's always there. Advocate, advocate is somebody that goes to bat for you. Advocate is somebody that goes before the Father and says, He is forgiven. Advocate is somebody that actually goes to you and says to you, hey, by the way, there's this conviction called sin, righteousness, and judgment. That's in the passage too. An advocate says, whoa, whoa. Uh be careful there. You're going down the wrong path. You're it's called the conviction of the Holy Spirit. The advocate does that. He's a comforter, he's a counselor, he's an advocate, and he's a helper. He's just a general helper. He helps in all these different ways. And I think there's a word that summarizes all of this. I heard this. I did not get this on myself. I heard this from listening to another message about this. It's friend Is that not exactly what the best kind of friend you ever can have is? A comforter, a counselor, an advocate, and a helper. The Holy Spirit is the best friend you'll ever have. Ever. There will never be another friend that is better than the Holy Spirit He will help you and comfort you and counsel you and go to bat for you and help you. That's the Spirit of God. Embrace Christ number three. Embrace Christ and His Spirit as your closest friend. You are at an age, I suspect, where friends are really important to you And some and that's one that's great. There's nothing wrong. And and there are some of the friends, especially in college, you'll go to college and you'll have some friends and a few of them, not many. But a few of them will stick with you, perhaps, throughout your whole life. If you are, if that happens, and it's happened to me, if that happens, consider yourself extremely blessed. Because there's a lot of people that are going to come into your life and a lot of friends that are going to come into your life and they're going to say, I'll always be there for you. You ever heard that before? You ever said that before? Do you know the truth of the matter is? Nobody can always be there for you. Nobody can I might want to always be there for somebody, but the truth of the matter is I can't really completely fulfill that always, all the time, every moment of every day for all of the rest of your life and my life. The closest thing we have to that is marriage, but even that falls short of friendship with the Spirit of God. Because the Spirit of God is totally capable. He's always there all the time. Let me encourage you, don't put any friend above the Spirit of God in Christ. Because if you will, he is the helper that you you and I desperately need. Now, there is there is something in this passage in order to be able to experience his health, but we need to understand. And it's in the passage, it says this to love and obey God. Starts off this way, if you love me, keep my commandments. That's a tall order, actually, to love God and keep his commandments. That's why we need a helper. But it's also true to love God and to keep his commandments is going to help us to experience the Spirit of God's help in our lives. In other words, in any relationship, a father and a child, let's take that for an for example. I've got three kids. All three of them will always be my kids as long as we're on this earth. They'll always be my kids. But they may not experience the closeness of being my kid if they're always disobeying me. If they don't really love me, they'll still be my kid. I'll still always love them. But I don't think they're really going to experience my love. I'll still have it, it's still there. But I don't think they're really going to experience my love if they're always going against me And it's the same way with the Holy Spirit. If we're always going against him, there's going to be a time where we go, you know, Lord, I don't feel like you love me. The problem is that we've got to love him and obey him. And it's interesting if you're saying at this point, I don't really care about that, with any of us, if we're saying I don't really care about loving God and obeying him. Well look at John 14, 23. It says, Jesus answered and said, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word. And my Father will love him, and he will come to him and make our home with him. He who does not love me does not keep my words. And the word which you hear is m is not mine, but the Father's who has sent me. If we love God, we'll obey him. And if we obey him, and if we don't obey him, we ought not say we love him. And if we ought not to say we love him, we ought not say We're really a follower of him. Now this is not perfect obedience or perfect love. We know we fall short. We need a helper But the more that we have the help of the Spirit of God in our lives, the more we're able to stay on that path. And be a consistent follower of Christ. The next transition that the New Testament points out is a tr is a time where the church be c ta the church is established at Pentecost and you've got all of this uh the the the Just churches are popping up everywhere, and the apostles are planting churches everywhere, and all this is going on. But per persecution comes. We talked about a little bit about this this morning. And God's people begin to experience persecution, and there's even anticipation of a serious event that's going to come in the future. They're not really sure what it is, I don't think, that the people that receive this. What we know now it is is it's the destruction of the temple. But they know things are heating up and things are getting worse, and the and the writer of the book of Hebrews wants wants them to understand some things. And we find, number four, well, let's just look at this. Take your Bibles and turn to Hebrews chapter 3 Hebrews chapter three. Hebrews chapter three, it says this And again, we're going to see another way for us to make sure we're staying on that right path. Beware, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief. He says, these are brothers. These are genuine Christians, and he's saying, beware lest there be an evil heart of unbelief. Well, how does an evil heart of unbelief happen in the believer? How does that occur? Passage is actually going to tell us. In departing from the living God, but exhort one another daily while it is today. Lest any of you by be what's the next word, guys? Be hardened. Be hardened through what? The deceitfulness of sin. Here's what's really dangerous about our hearts. If we're by ourselves doing our own thing, Going our own way, it's really easy for our the deceitfulness of sin to harden our hearts. And there is a remedy for that. Actually, it's not a remedy, it's a prevention. How do we prevent that from happening? Look at what it says. Exhort one another daily. Number four, commit yourself to local New Testament church. Commit yourself to the local New Testament church. God says in the book of Hebrews that one of the reasons we need each other in the body of Christ It's because of the heart that is deceitful and hardens our heart. The deceitfulness of sin hardens hardens us and we need the body of Christ, we need other people to notice that and hold us accountable. And to say, hey, you know, I see in your life that there is a deceitful sin going on that's hardening your heart. We're not it's anything, but I can do it myself To receive the help of God and all that God has provided, we need to commit ourselves to the local New Testament church so that we can exhort ourselves. This says daily But as often as we possibly can. Knowing that the world and our hearts and Satan and everything is is wants to harden our heart through the deceitfulness of sin, and we don't even realize it. We've got to have people around us. That are going to hold us accountable and to point out, hey, you're going down a path that is a path that is very deceitful and is hardening hardening you. We all need that. And that's why later on in the same pat in the same book The writer of the book of Hebrews in chapter 10 is going to say this Therefore, brethren, having boldness, enter in the holiness of the blood of Jesus by new and living way which he consecrated to us through the e through the veil that is the flesh. Later on it says in verse 23, actually verse 22 it says, let us draw near with a true heart and full assurance, having our heart sprinkled of an evil from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water, let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who is promised is faithful. And let us consider one another in order to stir up love and good works. Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is. But exhorting, that word exhorting is the same word, it's a cognate of paracletops. It's next to the same idea to come alongside of. But exhort one another And so much the more as you see the day approaching. Do not forsake the assembling. Now, listen. I'm mentioning this for for a couple of different reasons, but one of the reasons I'm mentioning this is that you all are at crossroads in your lives. Where your parents throughout your hit throughout have made the decision on how often you go to church And how often you are, and how committed you are to the local church. How vital is the local church to you? But you will be making those decisions in the next few years. And the pattern of behavior that you have when it comes to local church will determine whether or not you're going to be encouraged and helped by other Christians who love you and care about you and will exhort you to love others, to love God and to love others, which is what the passage says we all need help with. And unfortunately, honestly, I have seen this too many times and frankly Many of my pastor friends have have mentioned the same kind of things. I've seen too many times where people where kids go to college. I'm sorry, young adults go to college. I was a kid when I went to college, I was seventeen. So I was a kid. Then I became a adult my first semester in college. But anyway. Um where they go to college and they just end up saying, you know, I can miss a service here and miss a service there and I don't you know, I I I'll go a few times and and they develop a pattern in their lives that really is very harmful. And I'm warning you, I'm cautioning you out of love. This is not like you get you guys need to be in church. That's not what I'm saying. Because what I'm seeing oftentimes is that, well, okay, well I've got this class, or I've got this test, or I've got this thing, or one thing, another, and before it, almost anything becomes an excuse. How when is when is assembling how how much do we have to assemble to be in this passage and we're assembling and how much Do we not assemble and it's not forsaking assembling? Like, what does it mean to assemble and when does that start and when does that begin? Well, that's a hard question to answer. Does it mean you can never miss a service ever? I'm not sure it means that But let me just suggest to you this. In Ephesians chapter 2, verses 19 through 22, we actually have a description of the church there. And here is what it says the church is there. It says, verse 19. Your fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God. He calls this a household. He calls the local church a household. Then he's going to call it a whole a building that is fitted together and grows together. Well, what's a household? A household's a family, right? That's what a household is. How well do you guys know your brothers and sisters? If I came up to you, some of you are brothers and sisters, a lot of you are brothers and sisters. If I came up to you and I said, can you tell me all of the all of the the you know the negative things about your brother or sister Do you guys think you could come up with a list for me? I think every one of you could come up with a list for me. And maybe happily. Like, oh man, I've been wanting to get this off my chest. Finally you're good for something, Pastor. I can do it. And frankly, if you were honest and loving enough, if I came up with some good things, you'd be like able to to I mean if I said, hey, come up with some good things, you might be able to squeak a few of those out as well, right? See the thing about siblings is you know each other. You can't get away from it. Why? Because you live with each other. Watch what happens when you get roommates. Same thing happens, sort of. And yet with siblings, the idea is that you know each other's faults, you know each other's problems, you know each other's difficulties, and you overlook them and you still love each other. At least that's the goal. Hopefully. Now here is what it's saying when it says we're a household. We're as a church to be together enough? And I'm really talking to all of us, that we know each other. We know our neg our faults. We know our downsides. We know our upsides. We know our negatives. We know our positives. If we're only coming to church enough that we can put on a face and everybody just sort of sees a certain kind of thing, but we're not really knowing each other, then we are not assembling together. It's every description in the New Testament of this is more than coming to church three times a month. That is not assembling. You can't really know somebody. That's you can know somebody better on Facebook than you can coming to church three times a month. And that's not knowing somebody well because we all know and I know if I'm old Facebook, what do you guys use? You all use Facebook, you use what do you guys use for social media? Emma, what do you use for social media? Instagram, okay, Instagram. So so the thing about Instagram is you put exactly what you want everybody to see, right? Okay. That's not to be the local church. We're supposed to know each other and know each other's faults and know each other's like brothers and sisters in Christ. And we're supposed to love each other in spite of all the things that we're seeing that's wrong with everybody. But we gotta be that close. We gotta be that committed. And when we're that committed, see, uh my kids have no problem telling each other their problems, like their faults, like they'll You yell at me, stop yelling at me. They have no problem. Like they have a little hard time seeing their own fault, but they have no problem noticing everybody else's We're we're all like that. And they're no pro they have no problem saying it. Now, we all need to learn to do it in love. But the reality is assembling together as a household means that we live life together. We do things together. We know each other. And frankly, all of us as a church, this is important for all of us, isn't it? Let me encourage you. In the next twenty years you're gonna need that. In this country, you're gonna need that. Please. I I'm just gonna say this. And I'm not saying this to lift myself up. The truth of the matter is the first two years of my college career, I was required to go to church every service, Sunday Sunday school, Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. I had no choice. I would get twenty-five demerits, but then go. 150 demerits, you're kicked out. And I used to think that was pretty harsh. And I used to think, well, you know, that's awful legalistic, that's awful uh uh you know, pretty that that's pretty rough and all of that, and I don't know about, you know, you know, I want to go because I want to go, not because I'm gonna get the merits if I don't. And yeah, there is all of that concern with that kind of a system. But I gotta tell you this, I'll tell you this. I don't know if I really agree with that system But I'm really glad that I understood that under that I learned how, even when I had a Greek test the next day Even when I had a full load of eighteen plus credit hours, even when I was in seminary, Even later on in my life when I was I was working on my doctorate, working a part-time job, working a full-time job, teaching and doing and being involved in church, that I went to every service all the time. It was just the way it was. If you can learn that, it will help you in your life. Because that's you need God's help. This is part of God's provision for you. So all of these things, all of these things, guys, I I am I I am excited for you. I am looking forward to seeing what God does with each of you. But I really want you to receive a full measure of God's help in your life. And that's why I've taken 49 minutes or, well, 45 minutes. to try to cover as much this is like my chance to try to cover as much as I possibly can because I really do want to I love you guys And I want to help you. And the best help I can give you is to show you how to experience a full measure of God's help together. Let me let's pray. Father, I pray for these graduates. I thank you for their hard work in getting to the place where they are. I thank you for their diligence. And Lord, I pray that you would help each one of them to experience a full measure of your help. so that they can not only be followers of you, but consistently follow you. And they can come to the end of their life and say, Yeah, there are times I got off and times that God had to chase me back on, but they can stand before you and say, well done, and you'll say to them, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. You've been useful. Truthfully, that should be the prayer of all of our hearts. That we would be useful for your service, and how desperately we all need your help. We pray that you'd help us in this, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon