Let's go to the Lord in prayer together. Father, we come to you today, and our hearts are full with much of the truth that we have been able to sing. and the truth that we have read from your word already. We praise you, Lord, for being an incredible, great God, worthy of our worship, worthy of our praise. Worthy of our service and commitment to youth. And as we think of the focus of all of the worship service so far, Lord. We thank you, Lord, that we can love you because you have first loved us. The love that you have poured upon us is unfathomable, unmeasurable We cannot fully comprehend it. And yet, your word is so clear about how we are to love one another. And we can do it, not in our own strength, but through your spirit. And through your might and your strength. And so, Lord, I pray that you would show us from your word today how we can better serve you. By how we love one another. May you challenge us and impact our hearts from your word today. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Reading the text today is Romans 14 verses 13 through 23. Turn and encourage you to turn there with me. Romans 14 Thirteen through twenty-three Therefore, let us not judge one another anymore, but rather resolve this, not to put a stumbling block or a cause to fall in our brother's way. I know and am convinced by the Lord Jesus that there is nothing unclean of itself, but to him who considers anything to be unclean, to him it is unclean. But if your brother is grieved because of your food, you are no longer walking in love. Do not destroy with your food the one for whom Christ died. Therefore, do not let your good be spoken of as evil. For the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. For he who serves Christ in these things is acceptable to God and approved by men. Therefore, let us pursue the things which make for peace, and the things which one may edify another. Do not destroy the work of God for the sake of food. All things indeed are pure, but it is evil for the man who eats with offense. It is good neither to eat meat, nor drink wine, nor do anything by which your stump brother stumbles, or is offended, or is made weak. Do you have faith? Have it to yourself before God. Happy is he who does not condemn himself in what he approves. But he who doubts is condemned if he eats Because he does not eat it from faith. For whatever is not from faith is sin. Well as we've been getting into Romans chapter 13 and now chapter 14, we are learning some very practical ways that we are able to love one another. The beginning of Romans really expresses God's love for us and salvation and how we are Our salvation is secured through Christ and faith alone, not of works. And now we turn to these practical lessons of and we have already learned that The obligation that we have as Christians is not to the Old Testament law, which Christ has fulfilled, but now it is to the law of love. And we are learning very practical ways as we go through this book, as we go through these chapters, about how to love one another. There isn't that we've learned already from chapter 14, the verse 12 verses, that there was an issue in the church that was brewing. And the issue had to do with diets and days. The issue had to do with the what they what is described as weak Christians who believed that they still need to follow certain holy days and they need to withhold from eating certain things. And there were what is described as strong Christians who believed that those things were entirely unnecessary even to please the Lord because all of that was fulfilled in Christ and traditions that uh were associated with those things in the law are also done away with and unnecessary at this point. And we see that the major emphasis in the first 12 verses of Romans chapter 14 is that the strong must be very careful about not despising the weak. And that the weak should be very careful about not judging the weak the strong. Don't despise and don't judge, because if you do, you are not loving one another. Now Paul's attention really turns to the strong and how they should treat those who are weak, those who are struggling in their consciences with certain activities. Now the new the old the the the beginning passages in the book of Romans Express the fact that we are freed. Because of Christ, we're freed from sin And because of Christ, we are freed from the law. Romans 6. 18. We have been set free from sin. Romans 6. 22. But now, having been set free from sin. Romans 7, 6. But now we have been delivered from the law, having died to what we were held by, so that we should serve in the newness of the Spirit and not in the oldness of the letter. Romans 8, 1 through 2. There is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus, who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. The law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus Has made me free from the law of sin and death. But now Paul is going to emphasize the fact that although we have these freedoms, Freedoms should be limited by love. In 1 Corinthians 9, verse 19, he says this: For though I am free from all men I have made myself a servant to all. Why? That I might win the more. First Peter 2. 16 likewise says, as free, yet not using liberty as a cloak for vice, but as bondservants of God And Paul later says, 1 Corinthians 6. 12, all things are lawful for me, but not all things are helpful. So even though we are freed in Christ, God calls us because of our love for Christ and our love for others to limit our freedom. Now, this should not be totally foreign to us. There are things in our lives in this world that we are free to do, but we shouldn't necessarily exercise the full range of that freedom For example, we have freedom of speech in this country. But that doesn't mean in a crowded room we should yell fire. We have the freedom to go toward to the speed limit. We have the freedom to, you know, if you get on a highway around here, you're going to get 65-70 miles an hour We have the freedom to go that fast. But in a rainstorm or in a snowstorm, it doesn't mean that we should go that fast, even though we have the freedom. In other words, the things around us, the circumstances around us, the that what's going on around us affects how we use our freedom. And it's the same thing when it comes to freedom. To the Christian life. Vertically, we are free before God. We're freed from the law. We're freed from sin. We have this extreme amount of freedom in Christ, and yet horizontally we need to consider other brothers and sisters in Christ one another's, if you will. We need to consider Consider those, and we need to be willing to limit our freedoms for the cause of Christ and for his kingdom. So that we can show love to others. And there is a general word that we'll use for that today, and that is the word deference. God desires for us as Christians even though we have the freedom to do certain things, to show deference to our brothers and sisters in Christ so that we truly can love them. And that's what we're going to learn how to do today. Now this passage is an interesting passage. We've mentioned this before, but the passage starting in thir chapter uh verse 13 the second part of 13 through 21 comprises what we call a chiasm. I've called it a phrase sandwich before. You guys remember that from the from the past? Well, we've got another one here. And we'll and uh and and what you see you what what we see here is because if you notice as Enrique read the passage, there are things that kind of repeat. For example, there's a warning about stumbling blocks in verse 13b, and then we see the same kind of thing in verse 21. Do not do anything to cause a believer to stumble. And then we see in verse 14, the first part of it, nothing is really unclean. And then we see the same thing in verse 20b, all things are clean. But the the meat of the sandwich, the thing that Paul's really getting at, the emphasis of the passage, is what's in the middle of this chiasm. Just like in a sandwich, the important part's the middle of the kiasm. You ever ordered something and just took the bread off and ate the middle because that's the important part? Well, all of this is important. I'm not saying that, but don't take the bread off. bread off but but the the center the center point points are this verse fifteen don't destroy one uh don't destroy one for whom Christ died Don't express your liberty at the expense of destroying someone or devastating someone for whom Christ died. And don't tear down the work of God. Don't for the sake of the liberty of eating something that you know you had the liberty to eat, don't do that to the ex at the expense of tearing down God's work. That's the emphasis of the passage. We have a matter of priority. Yes, I have the freedom in Christ to do certain things, but I don't want to destroy my brother or sister in the process. I don't want to devastate them in the process. Yes, I have the freedom to do certain things, but I do not want to tear down the work of God. God. The work of God and the kingdom of God is too important for me to try to express my freedom to the to the limits of it. at the expense of God's kingdom work. And so we're going to see five five things in this passage that are going to We're going to see what why we need to defer and what deference does as we go through the passage. Christians are called by God. to defer to one another in matters, and remember we're talking about here in matters of conscience. We're not talking here about things that are clear in Scripture, just like last week The things that are clear in Scripture really shouldn't be debatable. You don't do it if the Bible says don't do it, and if you do it and the Bible says to do it, you need to do it. And there really shouldn't be debate in the things that are clear. These are things that are unclear or not mentioned at all, so that they are matters of conscience. Things that we that some may feel they can participate in. And things that others feel they cannot participate in. And so we come and we first realize this. That deference, showing deference, prevents stumbling. We see this in 14, 13 through 15, the first part of verse 15. It says, Therefore, let us not judge one another any more. But rather resolve this, not to put a stumbling block or a cause to fall in our brother's way. Now, this isn't Interesting verse that says, Don't, first of all, let me set this straight, don't judge others anymore. When it comes to the things that are not clear in Scripture, don't judge others anymore. And he makes that clear. And he is speaking primarily to those who who for them it would be sinful to do something because it would violate their conscience. He again is clear, don't judge others in these matters. But he says, rather resolve this. The word resolve is an interesting word. It's actually a similar word to the word judge. You can't see that in the English, but you definitely It's actually a play on the work play on words. He's basically saying, don't pronounce judgment on your brother. Don't make it a determination. about your brother or sister in matters that are debatable, don't make a determination. Make a determination to do this. Don't be a stumbling block. Determine that you will not be a stumbling block to someone who is who uh who would otherwise stumble if you participate. And you expressed your liberty. Show deference. So deference prevents stumbling. Now, what is it then that we're talking about here when we're talking about being a stumbling block? We see the same kind of wording in 1 Corinthians 8 verse 9. We're going to refer to 1 Corinthians 8 quite a bit. It says in that passage, but beware lest somehow this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to those who are weak. Now the issue in 1 Corinthians seems to be slightly different than the issue in Romans. Some think that's the same, but I think probably there is a little bit of a difference. In Romans chapter in 1 Corinthians 8. you have probably primarily all Gentile people in that passage. And in that in that context, the issue is eating meat offered to idols. And some were saved out of out of pagan idolatry And they couldn't feel they could they didn't feel in their conscience that they could eat meat offered to idols because of the association that they just felt that it really didn't please God. And so they would withhold. And there were others that said, hey, meat is meat. Doesn't matter. I'm going to go ahead and partake. And there was that was the issue in 1 Corinthians. But the the the real issue is the same the real issue is the same for both of these passages that God calls us as Christians to limit our freedom, to show deference for those who Who struggle in their conscience with a particular activity? And so we see this idea of a stumbling block. What is a stumbling block? It's interesting that in Isaiah 8. 13, it actually refers to Christ himself as a stumbling block. And that's not what we're talking about here, of course. But the word stumbling block must have gone a long way back into the Old Testament, this idea of a stumbling block. And in that passage, it's also referred to as a trap. or a snare. The same thing is is in Romans chapter 11, verse 9 as well. A snare or a trap. And you understand the picture. of a snare or a trap. Something that trips you up. Something that traps you. An animal's coming along and you're trying to hunt an animal and you set a trap for the animal. So that it maybe grabs the paw of the animal and lifts the paw lift lifts the animal up into the air for you to come o come by and do what you're going to do today. the animal. It's a trap, it's a snare, it's a it's a it's a stumbling block. That's what he's saying. Don't be a stumbling block or a cause to fall, a cause to sin. in your brother's way. Don't put something in their way. And it's saying that when you express certain liberties, certain ways, you have the possibility of causing your brother or sister to Now, Paul then decides to give his perspective on the issue. Remember, the issues at hand had to do with Withholding uh in fact in the previous passage we found that it was eating vegetables, not meat, and there are probably certain dietary laws that they were that that that it that the Jewish Christians were were were referring to that caused them to struggle with this. It wasn't an area of salvation even for those people. They understood you were saved by grace through faith alone. But they felt that they couldn't really please God by eating some of the things that others, other Christians were eating. And also the days. But we notice in the passage, Paul narrows in on the issue of uncleanness. eating certain things. And we see in verse 14 it says, I know and I'm convinced by the Lord Jesus that there is nothing unclean of itself. Paul's position on this is that what you eat is it's not a matter of uncleanness versus cleanness. cleanliness anymore. It's not a matter of defilement versus undef not something that's not defiled anymore. That is not an issue. What you eat is what you eat. And it's not, doesn't have bearing on a s on spiritual matters. This is Christ to some degree dealt with this when he was on earth with his disciples. Do you remember when the Pharisees came to Christ and said the disciples were not washing their hands appropriately? This is in Mark chapter 7. It says, now when they saw some of the disciples eat bread and with uh bread with defiled, that is, with unwashed hands, they found fault. Jesus' answer to them. Listen to Jesus' answer. He says, verse 15 of that passage, Mark 7, there is nothing that enters a man from the outside which can defile him. But the things which come out of him, those are the things that defile a man. Christ says in very clear terms, What you eat, what you imbibe, what you take in, that's not what defiles you. It's actually the the heart issues that come out uh that are actually the defiling thing in a person's life that causes them And you could think of all the hard issues of bitterness and resentment that come out from our tongue. Those are the things that truly defile someone. Christ said the same thing to Peter. You remember in Acts 10, verse 15. What God has cleansed, you must not call common. And Paul tells Timothy, for every creature of God is good, and nothing is to be refused if it is received So Paul, in his mind, eating any of the things that they were concerned about were not a concern for Paul. It's just food. It doesn't defile you. All of the Old Testament laws on that are have been fulfilled. It's settled. But look at verse fourteen it says, but to him who considers anything to be unclean To him it is unclean. Did you catch that? Now he just got finished saying it's not unclean. And now he's saying to him that considers it to be unclean. It is unclean. He says something similar in Titus chapter 1, verse 15. To the pure all things are pure, but to those who are defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure, but even their mind and conscience are defiled. We see something similar in 1 Corinthians chapter 8, verses 4 through 7. Talk about the eat mouth eating meat offered with idols. Verse 7 of that passage says, However, there is not everyone that has knowledge for some With the not with consciousness of the idol until now, eat as a thing offered to an idol, and their conscience, being weak, is defiled. Do you know what Paul is saying here? Paul is saying that although categorically and biblically there are certain things that there is no issues here when it comes to the issue of eating certain things. If it bothers your conscience, it is sin for you. Did you realize that? Now Paul is not saying everything is right. Relative. He is not saying you you know every all sin is relative, and if it's sin for you, it might not be sin for somebody else. No. If the Bible is clear on this, the objective truth of God's word, there's no relativity there. The Bible tells us that disobedience to him and adultery and lying and cheating and stealing and all those things, those are all things that are very clear in Scripture But areas that are debatable, areas where someone says, you know, I I just in my conscience don't believe that that would really please God. God, for you to violate your conscience, God says that's sin for you. There are certain activities that are sin for some Christians and are not sin for other Christians because for you to violate your conscience is sin. Ultimately that's what Paul's going to say. He's going to say, whatsoever is not from faith If you can't in confidence and faith do it, it is sin. And so he recognizes this. This is he is not saying to a a a person that's struggling in areas of conscience, in a particular area, oh well you just need to get over it. He's saying for you to try to to to violate your conscience actually it it it becomes sin for you. So how does the person who doesn't have the problem in his conscience with participating Participating in certain things, how does he deal with that? Notice what it says in verse 15. If your brother is grieved because of your food, you are no longer walking in love. If your brother is grieved because of food, you're no longer walking in love. The word grieved means to sorrow. And uh or uh uh uh you think of um uh Peter. You remember the story of Peter in John 21 Christ is resurrected. They're waiting for Christ to appear. He does appear. And Jesus says to Peter, Do you love me? Remember that? And he says it three times. And that causes Peter to remember that he had denied Jesus three times. And as a response to that, it says, Peter was grieved. His conscience bothered him. He was guilty. He felt guilty for denying Christ. There was a grief, a guilt. And that's what we're talking about here. We're talking about someone someone who because someone else convinces them to do so or a mature Christian is doing something that they have no problem with, we're talking about somebody that that actually participates in something that grieves them, that violates their conscience, that causes them to feel guilty for what they're doing. And as a result, we are causing them to stumble. We're no longer, you're no longer, he says, walking in love. Do you know what the root problem is when there's When there's someone who says, I'm free to do this, and it doesn't matter what you think. I'm free to do this, and it doesn't matter how it's going to affect you. When a Christian says, I am going to do what I want to do because I have the freedom to do it, and it doesn't matter how it affects my brother or sister in Christ. Do you know what he what the problem is? Well, the Bible actually tells us the problem, 1 Corinthians 8. In 1 Corinthians 8, we're dealing with a very similar issue, and here's what Paul says there, 1 Corinthians 8, verse 2. 1. Now concerning things offered to idols, you know that we all have knowledge. Here's what he says. Knowledge puffs up, but love edifies. A person that says, I'm going to do what I want to do, and it doesn't matter what other people think, what other Christians think, has a problem with pride. That's the problem. Pride and not love. Pride and love do not go together. Do you remember 1 Corinthians 13? Love is not puffed up. It doesn't vaunt himself vaunt itself. It doesn't brag. It doesn't. Pride and love are real are opposites of each other. You cannot truly love someone if there is pride. And if you're there is pride, you're not really loving someone. And so what we find that the real issue is when there is someone who says, okay, I have knowledge, I have the knowledge to know that there is no problem eating that thing. But I don't care what you think, that's pride. That's not loving our brothers and sisters in Christ when we have that kind of a spirit about us. And I think probably at some time or another all of us have been guilty of that. We just don't see the problem. We don't see the issue. And we think if you would just know something, if you would just learn a few things. If you would just know a few things, if you would just grasp a few things, then you wouldn't have a problem with this. And we have to be very careful about the problem. Because the truth of the matter is when we're dealing with these kinds of issues, they can be very, very embedded. Even even Even if there's not uh even if the knowledge they have the knowledge that everything is fine and they're free to do it, it's not all about knowledge. It's part of partly that. There's a story about a family who when they when they uh bake or they cooked a um a ham they would cut off an inch or so of one side of the ham every single time they did it. And uh somebody else saw them doing this every single time they cut off a side of the ham and they put it in to cook. And they asked, Why are you doing that? The person asked, Why are you doing that? And the the the there was a a lady responded, um, well, because my my mom did that. And um and her mom did that So they they were all they just it was a traditional thing. They would cut off the side of the ham before they put it in the oven. And they just thought that's what you do when you cook ham, you have to cut off the side of the ham. So they finally got to the grand they talked to the great grandmother who and she said, Oh, the reason we did that was because we had a s oven that was too small and we had to cut off the side of it, and that's what we've always done it from. Well, the knowledge of that should free you up to not cut off the side of the ham when you put it in the oven, if you have a large enough oven. But you know, sometimes knowledge is not the only thing that matters to somebody. For example, you have a young child who is scared during a thunderstorm. And it's you hear loud cracking and loud booming. And you might go in and explain to your child that there's no need to fear for that because the thunderstorm is not going to hurt you. You're in a safe house, our house is is is properly grounded and this is not something that you need to be worried about at all. Just the knowledge alone, does that child necessarily say, okay, well I don't I'm not scared anymore? It doesn't always work that way. But knowledge might help. But they have to grow and they have to mature. They have to realize experientially that what they know to be true is actually true as an experience in their life and it takes And it's the same way with a Christian. A Christian may come from a certain background and they know certain things to be be true, but they still are bothered. And it causes them uh it causes them to stumble to try to participate in And those are the kinds of things that we need to be very show deference about. What can ultimately happen to a Christian who violates his conscience? Well we look we see number two 2 verse 15, deference prevents spiritual devastation. It says, do not, scripture says that we should not look at verse 15b here, the second part of verse 15. It says, yet if your brother is grieved because of your food, you are no longer walking in love. Do not destroy with your food the one Don't devastate the person that that Christ died for for. Apparently this can really cause problems. Now there are some, this word destroy has been It's used very frequently in the New Testament to uh it's translated very frequently perish actually. And what we know it can't be saying here is that this could cause a true Christian to lose his salvation. We know from other clear texts that that can't be what it's saying here. So what it's probably talking about is simply to fall into sin. and to be in a place where they are no longer growing spiritually. It's a devastating effect on their usefulness for God. It's a devastating effect on their growth in Christ. Christ said it this way, talking about the little ones, the young ones, the young in Christ, if you will. Matthew 18, verses 1 through 6. Verse 6 says this: Whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck and he were drowned in the depths of the sea. So God takes this very seriously. Number three, deference preserves testimony. Deference preserves testimony. We see this in verses 16. It says, Therefore, do not let your good be spoken of as evil. For the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace. Peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. For he who serves Christ in these things is accessible to God and approved by men. Therefore, let us pursue the things which make for peace What's going on here? Well, he's saying don't let what you believe to be good actually be perceived as evil. Well, who's going to perceive it that way? Well, we could think, well, it's the non- it's the it's It's the Christian who's weak, and that could be part of what it's saying here. But there seems to be an indication that it's actually going beyond that, where a non-Christian is looking at someone who's participating in a matter of uh in something that's a matter of conscience and it actually causes problems for them to perceive that that strong Christian is actually an evil. We see this actually played out in 1 Corinthians chapter 10. In that passage in verse 23, You could turn there or it'll be up on the screen for you as well, hopefully. In 1 Corinthians 10, verse 23, it says this. All things are lawful for me. but not all things are helpful. All things are lawful for me, but not all things edify. Now what's the context of that? Notice what it says. Let no one seek his own, but each one the other's well being. Each whatever sold in the meat market, asking no questions for conscience' sake, for the earth is the Lord's and all the fullness. He gives to them about this whole idea of meat offered to idols is when you go in the market, don't ask where it came from. If it's meat, it's meat. Just don't don't bind your conscience by asking questions about where the meat comes from And he says this, if you're invited, he gives a scenario, verse 27. If any of those uh who do not believe believe invite you to dinner. So non-Christian invites you to dinner. And you desire to go, eat whatever is set before you, asking no questions for consciousness. Again, don't bind your conscience. Don't make this an issue. Don't ask questions about whether the meat was offered to idols before you got it or not. Don't do that. Just eat the meat. Verse 28 says this, but if anyone says to you, this was offered to idols, Then he says to them, do not eat it. Not because it's bad or it's unclean. Why? For the sake of the one who told you And for the conscience, and for conscience' sake, for the earth is the Lord's in all the fullness. Conscience I say not your own, but that of your that of the other. For why is my liberty judged by another man's conscience? But if part if I partake with thanks, why am I evil spoken of for the food over which I give thanks? Therefore, whether you eat or drink, whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. Give no offense either to the Jews or to the Greeks or to the Church of God. He is saying this. He's saying, when it comes to issues of conscience, sometimes the best thing to do is to withhold when it's in a situation where it's going to cause someone to stumble. And also there is an issue of appearance of evil where you could actually cause a non-Christian to question what's going on. And the issue seems to be in 1 Corinthians and also here that there is disunity. between the two brothers, the one who is weak and the one who is strong, the one who is willing to participate and the one who isn't. And there is this unity that often that that then goes on to affect the non-Christian perceive the entire thing as something that is detrimental to him coming to Christ. This is of high priority to God. That we would not do anything that would prevent someone from coming to Christ. And when there is this unity in the body of Christ, when there is this unity among the brethren, that can easily cause someone to stumble, a Christian to stumble, it can also cause a non-Christian to question the gospel. So Paul says, rather, verse 17, notice the priority. He gives us the priority. He says For the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. What is he saying here? He's saying this. That the priority of Christians, the priority even of the local church. Our priorities, it's not about eating and drinking. That should be completely submissive to the to the larger issue of things like righteousness. Peace, joy, and the Holy Spirit. He said, these are the things that matter. Pursuing righteousness. I think this is ethical righteousness. doing what is right, and then pursuing that which is peaceful, that results in joy. I think he's talking here about a culture of a church that is both righteous and peaceful and joyful, that gives a good testimony to the cause of Christ, to the unbeliever, he says, don't risk that. Don't thwart God's work. By just choosing to fulfill your own liberties, show deference in these areas. Notice what verse 19 says. Therefore, let us pursue the things which make for peace, and the things by which one may edify another. 2 Corinthians 13 11 says it this way. Finally, brethren, farewell, be complete, be of good comfort, be one of one mind, live in peace. Ephesians 4. 3, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. God says we need to withhold from things Limit ourselves on those things that do not matter in the kingdom of God for the sake of those things that do matter in the kingdom of God. So it really becomes a matter of priorities. What is your priorities and what is my priorities? Isn't it sad, folks? Isn't it when you agree that it is sad when there are brothers and sisters in Christ that are striving and struggling and fighting over things that really do not matter. Isn't it a sad thing when God's people wrestle and strive and don't show love over things That that really can cause a non-Christian to look in and really question the gospel. Do you think that happens? Do you think that non-Christians, even in our country, certainly in our world, but in our country, are turned off by disunity in the body of Christ? are turned off because we're not willing to show deference in areas that really don't matter. Unfortunately, I think it happens all the time. And and it is hard because some things that seem so important to one Seems so unimportant to another. This is a problem in our world. Yesterday I was working at the airport. And um we we uh had a plane that that was supposed to come in but it had a mechanical problem so it had to be returned to Louisville from where it was coming. And um we had to wait a long time for the for it. They had to return it had to return to Louisville, everything had to be transferred from that plane onto another airplane, and then it had to make the flight over. So we were waiting for hours. It t felt like really long, actually. Felt like longer than just a couple hours, but it it was just a two or three hours. We watched some really boring training video. We're all in this this um unair conditioned uh looks like an oversized garage. Metal uh you know cement walls, uh dilapidated chairs. I mean that this place is not if it's not very nice. And usually we just meet for like a few minutes and then we go out onto the ramp and do our thing. But anyway, we were so we're sitting there, we're watching this screen, watching these ridiculously boring training videos on things that we do every day and everybody's sort of like kind of zoned out and then finally the training videos end and then we really have nothing to do and that's where the problems start. Idle hands are kind of a bad thing for a bunch of workers, right? So so there there was inter funny situation. So there was this this guy, he is from he's from Asia. He's from a country in Asia. And another guy, another employee was sitting next to him and a senior supervisor, been there thirty-seven years, was sitting next to him that employee. The senior supervisor was just trying to play around. And what he did was he took his foot and he just tapped the guy that was from Asia with his foot Now some of you are already going, whoa, that was a bad idea. The senior supervisor had no idea what he did. He didn't realize it was a problem. at all. And he was actually j just kind of playing around trust trying to keep everybody light and and and and this guy was livid. He was extremely upset. And he accused the employee next to him of doing it, and the employee hadn't done anything and didn't know why he was upset, and he is reacting back hard. And they're going and I I finally saw what's happening and none of them understood what was going on. Like they didn't understand what the problem was. And so I literally walked over. I st I'm still a new guy on the on the scene. But I walked over and I said, guys, what's going on here is a cultural issue. I said, he is highly offended. But I had to tell senior supervisor this basically. Um he is highly offended because you put your the soul your foot on him. And that is a uh in for us it meant doesn't mean a hill of beans. I mean no big deal for us in in the Western world. But in certain certain societies, certain places, that is extremely, extremely offensive. And to the credit of the of the senior supervisor, he immediately said, oh, I am I didn't know that. I am so sorry. I did not mean to be disrespectful. He he uh he was extremely apologetic and everything was just dissolved. Well why did all that happen? It all happened because you have one person who thinks Who believes this is extremely sacredly important. And another is like, no big deal, I just tapped you with my foot. I mean, this is the kind of thing that is, this is the way we are as people. I mean, we we we really strongly feel certain things that to one person is not a high priority, it's no big deal, and somebody else it's a very, very high priority. And unfortunately, that kind of thing can happen in the church with things. And what is God's answer? God's answer is that we must learn to show love to one another, show deference to one another, so that we can remember remain unified so that we can have what is the right priority. The right prior priorities are always what is best for the purposes of God's kingdom. That's what we always have to get out of the way. get r rely on. And God's desire is righteousness, peace, and joy to be in the culture of his people, so that it is a wonderful testimony to And in order for that to happen, we must learn to show deference. Finally we see in the text, verses 22 through 23. that we that deference uh tempers liberty. Deference deference tempers liberty. Actually, uh I'm sorry, look at first verse 20. We see this idea of priority. Verses 20 and 21. Deference protects God's priorities. That's the fourth one. We we see that what does it say? Do not destroy the work of God, do not tear it down for the sake of food. All things are pure, but it is evil for a man who eats with offense. It is good neither to eat meat, nor drink wine, nor anything, but which uh by which your brother stumbles or is offended or is made weak. Don't do anything that's going to cause your brother or uh your brother to stumble, your brother or sister to stumble. Protect God's priorities. And then number five, deference temperature. Liberty. So how this is the final conclusion. How is it that we are supposed to function with all this? How is this all supposed to have happen? Look at verse 22. Do you have faith? Those of you who are have confidence that it's fine to eat certain things. to do certain things. Have it to yourself before God. Did you catch what it says? Do you have faith? Have it to yourself before God. Happy is he who does not condemn himself in what he approves. He said, There are some of you that what you need to understand that is before it between you and God you're fine, and leave it there. Leave it as a matter between you and God that this is something that you are you are know that you are liberated to do. But leave it there. When you know that another brother or sister in Christ would be highly offended and caused to stumble by this. He says this, verse twenty-three, but he who doubts, the other side, he who doubts is condemned if he eats. Because he does not eat of faith. For whoever is not from faith is sin. In other words, for whatever is not of faith is sin. In other words, what it's saying here is that if you have an area in your in There's a per an activity, there is something that we in our conscience we are uncomfortable with Doing, we don't believe it would really please God. And when we come into those kinds of activities where it bothers our conscience, we need to withdraw We don't judge our brothers, sister, for doing it, but we just simply say, I'm I can't I can't in good conscience do this. So that deference neither flaunts liberty nor tries to take liberty when the conscience is bothered by it. Now all that to say, let's put this into four principles that we can we can grasp, hopefully easily grasp. All of what is going on here, all of what is said here, let's try to sort of summarize all of this. Four principles. Number one, prioritize the kingdom work over personal freedom. Always. We must always prioritize kingdom work over personal freedom freedom. Boy, be willing to sacrifice your personal preferences, your personal freedom for the sake of God's kingdom. And his work. Number two, abstain from questionable activities that cause guilt. If you feel guilty about something, even if the Bible is unclear about it. Now, if the Bible is clear about it, abstain from it. Period. It's not questionable Questionable activity is some is I'm defining as something that is not clear in Scripture. But even if it's questionable and it bothers you, it bothers your conscience, don't participate. Don't participate in something that causes guilt. Number three, limit liberty to love other believers. Limit your liberty in order to love other believers. God says love takes precedence over liberty. Limit your liberty to love others. And number four, pursue edification and peace with God's people. Pursue edification. and peace with God's people. And if you are here today, I just want to mention as well that if you are here today and you don't No. And by the way, all of these are on the back of your bulletin. So if you didn't get them all, it's all on the back of your bulletin. You can you can grasp and get them from there. Maybe you're here this morning and you're saying, well, you talked a lot about Christians. I don't know if I am one. I always want to express this to you, to those who might be here that don't know I just want to tell you, uh if you're not sure where you stand with the Lord, come and talk with me afterwards. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure. that you are rightly related to God. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for your word. Word. We thank you that because you have truly loved us, it frees us to love others. We confess, Father, that oftentimes we do let pride get in the way. It seeps into our mind and in our heart and our soul and causes us to want to take liberties that we should limit for the sake of loving brothers and sisters in Christ. Father, I pray this morning That you would renew our hearts and cause us to desire to love others, to love one another, to show deference to one another for the sake of of peace and righteousness and edification and unity in the body of Christ. Lord, I pray for our church. I thank you for the unity of the That we do have. I thank you for the many expressions of love that I see all the time from our folks. But Father, I pray, Lord, that you would protect that. And I pray, Lord, that if there is anybody here that is struggling with this, I pray that you would help us to see how much you love us. The key, that is the key, to know your love for us so well that it frees us to limit ourselves. so that we can truly love others. I pray, Lord, that you'd help us, your Spirit would apply these things in our lives. And if there is somebody here today that doesn't know you as their Savior, I pray today they would understand their sin, their need of a savior, and that they would be saved. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.