Good morning. Whoa, that was good. Good to be in the house of the Lord, isn't it? We're going to be in uh Romans chapter 15 this morning. Before we go there, might we bow our heads together and go to the Lord. Father, we are so grateful and thankful for your goodness and And your kindness, your blessings that you bestow upon us, and the great mercy that you show us, and the great love wherewith you've loved us. us. We are thankful. We are thankful and grateful this morning for so great a salvation, provided through your only begotten Son, Jesus Christ. and what he has done on our behalf. Father, we're grateful this morning to be able to come and worship you together this morning. And I think of all the cares and concerns Concerns that rest on our minds as we go through our weeks and as we come here in the morning. I pray that you would remove all of that from us this morning. As we come to the time that we sit under your word, I pray, Father, that you would give us ears to hear, eyes to see, and a heart. That is pliable, Lord. And that we would take what we learn from your word, Lord, and apply it in our lives, and that in all things you are glorified and lifted up. We ask in Jesus' name Jesus' name. Amen. Romans chapter 15, we're going to be looking at verses 1 through 6. We then who are strong ought to bear with the scruples of the weak, and not to please ourselves. Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, leading to edification. For even Christ did not please himself But it is written, the reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me. For whatever things were written before, were written for our learning, that we, through the patience and comfort of the scriptures, might have hope. Now may the Lord, may the God of patience and comfort grant you to be like-minded toward one another, according to Christ Jesus That you may with one mind, one mouth, glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Embedded In God's redemptive plan is not just the saving of individual souls, but of building a unified people For his glory. I think we don't always realize that. That what God has in mind is building a unified people. We see that in In the beginning, in the very beginning, and we see that in the book of from all the way through the book of Revelation. And what we find in the passage that we're looking at today is that it is because it is the the unified people of God that bring true glory to God. In the passage, verse six, I'll just Let's read it again. It says that you may be one with one mind and one mouth glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus. Christ. That is God's desire for us. How many of you all enjoy orchestral music? I I I just see your hand I that is one of my favorite genres of music is orchestral music. I used to drive down to Pensacola many, many many, many times and back many, many, many times. And I would listen to orchestral music. You'd say, What a nerd. Well maybe. But I I would listen to um Gettysburg soundtrack. How many of you ever letting Or heard that soundtrack. It's a great movie soundtrack. Um uh Last of Mohicans, which I don't recommend to watch, but listening to the soundtrack is perfectly fine. Um th they're it's just how many of you all have been to a symphony or I mean it's just a beautiful. It's it's just amazing the harmonizing of all of these different instruments together. To create a masterpiece of music. It just just that fills the room and fills your ears and it's just glorious. John Williams is one of the best orchestral composers I think, at least in modern history. It's just it he just does beautiful work. But one of the most Hard sounds to listen to. One of the most difficult sounds to listen to is uh junior high orchestra. Sorry, junior hires Especially if like three or four of their instruments are out of tune. Have you ever heard that before? And you're trying to enjoy it and you're like Those instruments are out of tune. Now I have never played an orchestra before because I don't play an instrument that works in an orchestra. And um and I don't know what it's like. But I would imagine that if you're sitting in an orchestra Orchestra and you know how to play and you have a good ear. I do have a reasonably good ear when it comes to c something being out of tune. Caitlin was playing at w practicing at our house and she was playing great, but the piano is out of tune right now. Certainly two or three instruments in an entire orchestra that are out of tune, out of tune, I would imagine that if you're sitting in the orchestra playing, you would say that's a problem. You would s you wouldn't say, okay, well that's his that's just his problem. That's just her problem. I've got mine in tune. I'm playing just fine. I think I'm guessing that when you have three or four instruments, maybe even one instrument out of tune in In a symphony orchestra, it becomes everyone's problem. And it's the same way, it's the same way when it comes to what Paul is going to say about the church. When there is differences, when there are weaknesses that are not counted for, when there are things, when there are problems in the church, because of the interconnectedness, the interdependency of a local church, it really became I I don't think this is it is this way necessarily if you're working for a corporation, right? If you're working for a company and you have internal problems in the company Some of the best things sometimes the best thing you can do is basically get your keep your head down and do your job. You ever been in a company like that? There's stuff going around, maybe there's gossip, maybe there's problems or dissension or is Issues, some of the best advice you probably could receive in an organization like that, in a situation like that, is just do your job, do it well, and keep your head down. There's been times I've had to do that before in different jobs. Situations. But it's not quite that way in a church because God designed the church to be unified in a way where there is actual interdependence. Now, we don't like that word. I don't like that word. I like independency. That's what I like. I like to be, I like to think, I like the idea of being independent. independent, not having to rely on anybody else, figuring out myself. That's kind of the way my personality lens it lens is. But that's not the church. That is not the way God intended it to be. God desires and loves when his people are unified together. Psalm 133 one Behold how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. Zephaniah three nine says for then I will restore to my peoples a pure language that they may call on the name of the Lord to serve him with one accord, one head, and they shall come out of the land In the Gospels, it says this, John chapter 10, verse 16, and other sheep I have, Jesus is speaking. Other sheep I have, which are not of this fold, them also I must bring, and they will hear my voice, and there will be one flock and one shepherd. In Christ's high priestly prayer with his father in John chapter 17, verse 11, he's praying. And he says this. Now I am no longer in the world, but these in are in the world, and I come to you. Jesus praying to his father, Holy Father, keep them through your name, those who you have given. Given me that they may be one. Notice what it says there, as we are. Now every time I read that it blows my mind. That the unity The unity that Christ has with the Father, and that the Holy Spirit has with Christ, and the Holy Spirit has with the Father, the tri-unity Christ is praying that his people would have that kind of unity, that they may be one as we are. Why? Because remember, as the body of Christ, we are to reflect the character of God. We are to be collectively An accurate mirror for the character of God. And God is a tri-unity. That means when God's people are not unified. It is an inaccurate reflection of the character of God. Now, the question then becomes: how do we stay unified? Especially when there are differences of opinion And the fact is that the amount of people you have in any church, it's that many opinions that you have. And there are all kinds of differences. And what we're going to learn from this passage is that God is glorified when our unity wins over our differences. When we realize the differences that we have are secondary to the primary need for unity. Now, I want to say very much up front. We are not talking about agreement on the gospel. If you do not have agreement on the gospel, you do not have unity. Okay, and I want to be very clear about that. We cannot unify with people who do not believe the gospel. The very core of our unity, the very heart of our unity. What brings us together and unifies us is who Jesus is and what he did. And if we don't agree on that, we have no unity. Folks, if we do agree on that, then that becomes the very focal point of our unity. And yet, there are things that are very, that are very difficult. There are divisions that are 1 Corinthians 1 says it this way. Paul pleads with the church of Corinth. Now I plead that you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing. And that there be no divisions among you, but that you be perfect, joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment. How do we achieve And maintain the kind of unity that we see in this passage that Paul talks about in many other of his epistles. He mentions unity in Romans. He mentions it in Epist. Ephesians, in Colossians, in Galatians, he constantly is actually mentioning unity in his epistles to the churches. How is it that we maintain And that unity transcends our differences so that we do not have divisions. We're going to see three things at the time. In this passage. Number one, pleasing others rather than ourselves. How do we stay unified? We remember that we need to please others rather than ourselves. Number two, that we receive encouragement of godly examples. Receive encouragement from godly examples. And number two Number three, that we unify around a singular purpose. We need to unify around a singular purpose. This is it. How do we do this? In six verses, we're going to unpack how we stay unified despite the differences, the secondary differences. that we might have. And we pick up here, first of all, by understanding that we need to please others rather than ourselves. Notice what it says in chapter 15, verse 1, he says, we then who are strong ought to bear with the scruple Scruples of the weak and not please ourselves. The word scruples there could be translated as weakness. It literally could say with the weaknesses of the weakness. weak. Or it could say, with the infirmities and weaknesses of those who are who have inability, who do not have ability. The the issue uh has to do with the the lack of freedom or the lack of ability to do something. Or the lack of freedom or lack of ability to withhold from doing something. There's we we've talked about this before, the various weaknesses. I want to point out that Paul says in this passage, we who are strong. He identifies himself as one who in the areas that we're talking about in this passage, which are, if you recall from previous passage weeks are the diets and the days, the withholding from certain things from our diet. The Jewish people wanted to withhold from eating certain kinds of things. of meat and they want to celebrate certain days as holy. And there were others that said, no, it doesn't matter. The law is fulfilled. We're moving on. That doesn't have anything to do with anything. And Paul says, look, those of us who are strong, we need to bear those who bear up those who are weak. But I want us to realize something. That actually Paul in other places says that he's weak. So for example, 2 Corinthians chapter 2 twelve verse ten. Therefore I take pleasure in my infirmities, in reproaches, and needs, in persecutions, and distress distresses for Christ's sake, for when I am weak, then I am strong. And second Corinthians chapter thirteen verse nine says, For we are glad that when we are weak and you are strong, and this also we pray, that you may be complete. So he recognizes that there is the fact is all of us have different weaknesses. In this passage, the Jewish Christians, as you'll recall, they're struggling with certain weaknesses that they have based upon the fact that they grew up in Judaism, they grew up with the Old Testament law, and tons of teaching that they I their very identity was was caught up in the various practices and rules and regulations that they followed, the diets and the days that they followed, their very identity, their very makeup was caught up in this And so when they converted to Christianity, they understood it was by salvation by grace through faith. They got that. But they still had struggles with letting go of certain practices. and doing other things that they really didn't need to do. And the truth of the matter is we all have those kinds of weaknesses. I want us to remember this about these weaknesses that we're talking about. That if you go back to Romans chapter 14, verse 1, we need to remember that he says in that passage, we are talking here about disputes. We're not talking about practices that are clear in Scripture, things that are clear that we should or should not be doing in the New Testament. Testament. If it's clear in Scripture, folks, there should be no debate on it. If it's clear in what we should be doing as New Test New Testament Christians, then it it shouldn't be something that we're disputing over or debating over. We should trust what the Word of God says. But the fact is, there are many things that are not that way. Let me ask you a question this morning. Do you have convictions? Or practices that you say, okay, the Bible is not clear on this, but I really I really feel like it's prop it's wrong. Even though the Bible doesn't say it's wrong, it's not clear, I think it's wrong. Now I'm not going to ask for a raised hand, but I would suspect that maybe all of us, if we're honest with ourselves, have those kinds of Things. Certainly, as we learned last week, there are certain things in our lives that we can't do in confidence, we can't do in faith. And so whatsoever is not of faith, the Bible says, is sin. The fact is, these things that are outside of the clarity of Scripture that we feel are wrong, it might be that it is wrong for you. Or it is wrong for me, and it's not wrong for somebody else. What I wanted to do is I want to mention what I believe are three reasons For extra-biblical convictions. One of these is a wrong reason. One is a good reason. The other is you'll see you'll see what I mean in a minute. One reason for an extra-biblical conviction, so we're talking about outside of the clarity of Scripture, one reason is a wrong reason, and that is self-righteousness. I don't know if you have that up on the screen. If you guys have it up on the screen there, it should should be there. Um self-righteousness or Phariseeism. We went through the entire book of Matthew a couple of years ago. Ago. And in that book, we found over and over Jesus condemning self-righteousness. What was the problem? The problem was that the Pharisees, they added the scripture They would take the rabbinical writings and they would say, if you don't follow the rabbinical writings, which are in addition to the 613 commandments of the Old Testament, if you don't follow those, you are going, you are sinning. You are going against the law. And Christ had to come and send him straight and say, it is not lawful, and it is lawful, and you say, you say it's lawful, but I say it unto you, he had to correct all of that. They were adding to what Scripture said. And as a result, it was really a matter of self-righteousness or Pharisees. And frankly, folks, we need to make sure that our extra-biblical convictions are not a matter of self-righteousness. It's funny, sometimes they can slide into self-righteousness because of our own heart. We can have good reasons, and if we're not careful, they slide into a matter of self-righteousness or fariocism, and you'll see how that happens in a minute. Number two Wisdom. Are there things in Scripture that are not clear? But wisdom says, at least in my mind, wisdom says, yeah, that's not probably a wise thing to do. It's not a matter of morality. It's not a matter of clear violation of Scripture. It's just a matter of what's wise. And I think that if you if this is a this is an issue, this is something that that there would be a good w good reason as a matter of wisdom to say, okay, it wouldn't be wise for me to participate in that. Or it's fine to participate in that, but it's a matter of wisdom. Number three free is is really gets down to the issue that we're talking about, and that is a matter of conscience. You're struggling with it, you're doubting whether or not you should do it or not, you just aren't sure Now I'm going to name some things. I'm going to meddle. Ready? This is going to be interesting. These are all in this category. Association Fear of influences that are could gonna contaminate us. Um uh appearances, uh dress code, things that you shouldn't wear things that you shouldn't wear. Is the Bible clear on what you should wear and what you shouldn't wear when it comes to the New Testament New Testament as a Christian? It's not clear. How about uh alcohol? Oh boy, now you're male. What in the world? How about drinking alcohol? Is the Bible clear about that? Now I'll be is the Bible clear about getting drunk? It's very clear about that. You cannot get drunk biblically. Okay, that is a that is a violation. Um but actually imbibing alcohol? It's not clear about that. Most of us have had NyQuil before. Okay. Um so s uh uh unhealthy dependencies. Using a phone. Those daggone phones Those smartphones. Man I man, I I some people like everybody should throw out the smartphones. The whole world would be better. Probably true. Uh would be b if we didn't have a smartphone a smartphone. Other people's like, I love my smartphone. I use it for all kinds of Good things. Take pictures of my kids and grandkids. I mean, what's wrong with a smartphone? See, these are all things that could be matter of self-righteousness, and if they are, they're wrong Could be a matter of wisdom. Like, you know, if you never take a drink, then you're never going to get drunk. Could be a matter of wisdom. Or it could be a matter of conscience. I'm going to pick the one that I'd talk about so far as drinking. I'll just tell you, this is personal for me. I've never had I've never deliberately had a drink of alcohol outside of NyQuil in my life. I'm not saying I never will, but I haven't so far. I I think it's wise for me, I don't see any good reason for me to drink alcohol. I'm being person just personal here. I I think it's wise probably for me to withhold I so far is actually a matter of a weakness for me too. It's a struggle. I would I would just really I I could not I grew up with my family being very strong strong teetotalers, very not drinking anything no matter what and all that. And my my and I just I could not bring myself to drink something that had alcohol in it. I I I think it's a matter of conscience for me as well. Well. But you know what I've had to do in my life as a Christian? I I'm not going to do it if it's if my conscience if it bothers my conscience, right? Because if I drank alcohol and it bothered my conscience, what would it be called? It's sin. For me, right? Whatsoever is not of faith is sin. But I have to tell you that as I've grown up and rubbed shoulders with other Christians, there are some Christians that have no problem drinking alcohol. In moderation, maybe one drink or something like that. that. I have to resist the urge to think to think that they're wrong. Can I just be honest with you? I have to when I see it or when somebody says I had a beer or I had a glass of wine and they're a Christian I have to resist the urge to say, oh man, you are not right with God. I have to resist that. Because what does the Bible say about those kinds of things? What does it tell the weak person or person in the weak area to do? Don't judge. What does it tell the strong person? Don't despise. That person that has no problem with a glass of wine should not despise me. for having a weakness in that area either. Does that make sense? Now, I think it is. In this case, I think it's a matter of wisdom and weakness There would be some things that it's really not a matter of wisdom, it's just a matter of weakness, like the diets of the days thing. um putting a you know celebrating a holy day. I don't I don't know how it would be a matter of wisdom to stop celebrating a holy or to to celebrate a holy day. Okay, or not. I don't know how that would be wisdom. But for them, it bothered their conscience. They had to do it because it bothered their conscience and And they they had no choice. They struggled and there was weakness there. So there are all kinds of things that we struggle with in the Christian life. I respect the people People in this church that say, you know what, I don't need a smartphone. And I don't think it's wise for me to have one. I res I I don't think spiritual maturity is a matter of not having any weaknesses. I think spiritual maturity is knowing what your weaknesses are. And I think I think we need to be care I think we need to understand that. And when it comes to differences and and those kinds of things, I think we need to make sure that our differences is we don't create divisions in the body of Christ. And I want us to notice what he says here. Because what we can't do, according to the text, is, you know, I'm just going to put my head down and do what I want. Notice what it says in the text. We then who are strong ought to bear with the scruples of the weak, bear with the weaknesses of the weak, and not what? And not please. Please ourselves. Did you catch that? See, if it's a matter of I please myself, or I or I Consider and take care of the weakness of others, if I withhold for the sake of others and their weaknesses Boy, if I choose to please myself instead of caring for someone else, I think I've sinned. Does that make sense? And I think that that's the point of the passage. The attitude has got to be, I've got to put other people first before simply saying, well, I'm just going to do what I want to do. And the text tells us this. It's the word, this word ought, it says, we then who are strong ought to bear the The word means to up we are obligated. We are required. We are we ought to and the Bible says this for For example, first John 4 11, beloved, if God so love us, we ought to love one another. We've already gotten finished. understanding that there are many things that we're not obligated to do because we are free from the law, but we are obligated to love one another and we are obligated here in the passage to bear one another's weaknesses and burdens. Now the word bear is an interesting word. It means to carry. Mark 14, 13, it's used of carrying a pitcher. Galatians 6. 2, you probably know this verse. It says, bear one another's burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ. Paul's perspective on this was excellent. In 1 Corinthians chapter 9, verses 19 through 22, he says this. from all men, I have made myself a servant to all, that I may win the more. So he says, I'm free. He recognizes his freedom to do what he wants to do. But then he says to the Jews, I became as a Jew. That I might win the Jews. To those who are under the law, as under the law, that I might win those who are under the law. To those who are without law, as without law, not That I might win those who are without the law. To the weak I became as a weak, that I might win the weak. I have become all things to all men that I might by all means save some. Paul's perspective, his attitude was that I am going to withhold from my freedoms for the sake of others. I'm going to limit myself for others' sake. And notice the command here. It says, let each of us please his neighbor. For his good. Now, there are actually other times in Scripture in the New Testament where it tells us not to please people, not to be people pleasers. In Galatians, Paul says this, chapter 1, verse 10, do I seek to please men? For if I still please men, I would not be a bondservant of Christ. He says in 1 Thessalonians Chapter two verse four. But as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, even so we speak not as pleasing men, but God who tests our hearts. So clearly we are not to be people pleasers. We are to please God. But in pleasing God, we ought to we ought to accommodate people for their good. And ultimately We see in the test, notice what it says, leading to edification. That means that we need to be actively involved in building each other up. That's what the word means. It means to build up, and you're probably aware of that. Ephesians chapter 4, verse 29 says, Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but what is good and necessary at a mouth That it may impart grace to the key hearers. God wants us to edify and to build up one another as Christians. Now, what's interesting about this passage is there's something that we need to understand. We we've looked at the reality at the very beginning that God's ultimate goal is for Him to bring bring about a unified people for His glory. We're going to see that take place during the Millennial Kingdom. for example, that God is bringing about a people that are devoted to him, that are in unity to him, and that are glorifying him. But there is a reason in this time period that we live in, in the church age, where God specifically and and um and precisely wants us to be unified. He says it is so that we endure. He says, and we're going to see this in the passage, so that we will be able to move forward in growth in the Christian. In other words, what we're going to see in the passage is that we need each other in order to be able to grow spiritually. And we can harm each other when we're not together interestingly. Interdependently growing spiritually, when when there are divisions and when there are weaknesses, weaknesses and when there are struggles. Now that turn that that idea then moves to How do we bear one another's burdens? How do we bear each other's weaknesses? How does that allow us then to endure and to continue? and to move forward in the Christian life. And we have examples here in verses 3 and 4. First, we have the example of Christ. So We need there's encouragement of godly examples here. And the first is is the example of Christ. Notice what it says, for even Christ did not please himself. But as it's written the reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me. When Christ came down to this earth, he did not come to please himself. Matthew 26. six thirty nine says it this way. He went a little farther and fell on his face and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it is possible, let this cup from me nevertheless pass from me nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will God said, over and over we see this, Christ says, I came to do the will of my father. I came to please my father. And we see the example of Christ being moved with compassion as he goes around and he sees the infirmities of people, he sees the sickness of people, he He sees the poor of people, he sees their needs, and he's moved with compassion, and he desires to take on their burdens and fulfill their struggles and help them and heal them and deal with them and care for them We see Christ bearing others' burdens when he's on this earth. And the ultimate burden was when he went to the cross, wasn't it? When he took on the sin of the world, bore our sin on himself. And that's what the passage is quoting. It's quoting Psalm 697 or 699, which says, Because zeal for your house has eaten me up, the reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen on me. That's an interesting passage. In verse 7 it says, Because you have s uh uh for your sake, I have I have borne reproach, shame has covered my face, I have become strict Strangers to my brothers and an alien to my mother's children. What is it talking about here in the passage? The passage is actually referring in Psalm sixty-nine to the fact that Jesus when he came He was consumed with what his father wanted. It says, for zeal for your house, or I was cons uh your house has eaten me up. I am consumed with the temple of God. I am consumed with the plans of God, with what God wants. I'm consumed with what God wants, and as a result, people around me are making fun of me That's actually what you see in the passage. Verse 10 says, when I wept and chastened my soul with fasting, they became my reproach. Or literally, or they made fun of me. Verse 11, I also made sackloth my garment, and I became a byword, it became a byword of them. They joked about me. Those who sit in the gate Speak against me, and I am the song of the junk of the drunkards, but as for me, my prayer is you, O Lord, in the acceptable time, O God, in the multitude of your mercy, hear me What is all this talking about? It's talking about this when Christ came to earth, he was the prime example of someone who was not selfish, who didn't have a Please himself, who came to seek and to save those who were lost, and he did so by bearing our burdens. In his life he be bore our burdens. In his death he bore our sin. This is the example. In Matthew chapter 8, verses 16 through 18, it says, When a when evening had come, they brought to him many who were demon-possessed, and he cast out the demons with a word. and healed all who were sick, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet. He himself took our infirmities and bore our sicknesses. And when Jesus saw great multitudes about him, he gave command to depart to the other side. Saints. Look at what it says verse four. For whatever things were written before were written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. Now, this is interesting. Paul has just finished saying in the book of Romans that you're freed from the law. That the end of the law has come because Christ has fulfilled the law and you no longer are dem that the law is no longer can place place its demands on you But now he points out that whatsoever is written aforetime, he's talking about the Old Testament, is written for our instruction. Now how does that work? How is it that the Old Testament on the one hand, we're not obligated to the commands of the Old Testament for the most part? And on the other hand, we're supposed to learn from the Old Testament. And exactly how are we supposed to learn from the Old Testament? Testament. If I can't pick up Old Test the Old Testament and look at the Book of Leviticus and say that I need to follow every every part of the book of Leviticus, which I don't as a Christian, how is it that the Old Testament Is supposed to help me. I think the answer is found in the book of Hebrews. Would you turn there? Hebrews chapter 11. Hebrews chapter 11. I think we're going to find out exactly how we're supposed to And by the way, this is hotly debated among Christianity, isn't it? It really is actually one of the most the from a from a doctrinal theological perspective, it is actually one of the things that we have to things that are that is most uh most debated as to how much we are supposed to take from the Old Testament and ha and not. Now all of us here would believe that the Old Testament is part of the Word of God. None of us would question that. I think in this room. But how is it that we are supposed to learn and glean from the Old Testament? I'm going to tell you how the Bible does not teach, first of all. I've heard many sermons this way. That we take the Old Testament characters and we lift them up and we make them examples for us on how to live. We think of all the different characters and we teach our kids this way. We we go to we we we do it in junior church and we do it in Sunday school and we say you need to be like David. Do we really want our kids to be like David? You need to be like Solomon. Really? You want our kids to have that many, your kids to have that many wives and concubines? Like any concubine? and one wife only if they're a man. I mean, uh do we really want them to be like Solomon? Oh, you need to be like Joseph, really? Do you want do you want them bragging to their brothers I mean if you really think about all the Old Testament you we need to be like Abraham. Do you really want Abraham I mean really? Do you want everybody people to be like Abraham and lie and tell uh tell half truths like Sarah's don't tell 'em you're my wife and you're you know y you want involved in deceit? Is that what you want for your kids? I mean if you think of all of the different characters in the Old Testament, if you're not and all of the characters in the Old Testament, do you really want them to be like these people? There's I can't I I can't think of hardly any characters in the Old Testament. You say, well, well, well, they're not perfect. You know, obviously they're not perfect. How about like Samson? Nobody wants their kid to be like Samson, hopefully. Right? And yet, God says in his word that in the Old Testament It's there for our instruction. So how? How are we supposed to learn from the Old Testament? I want you to notice in Hebrews chapter 11, just the first Things which are seen are not made of the things which are visible. And then it goes on to list those who were who lived by faith. And if you I want you actually to skip down to Hebrews chapter 11, verse 32, and it starts to just really bullet point them. Notice what it says, what more shall I say? For the time will fail me, but to tell of Gideon. Oh, Gideon, there's a great one. Puts out fleeces, doesn't believe what God says in the beginning. Samson, not such a great guy. Jephthah basically killed off his daughter. David, Samuel, Samuel's kids were not exactly exemplary. I mean um all these people who through faith subdued kingdoms now and then it says this what do they do? Through faith they subdued Dude kingdoms worked righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, quenched the violence of fires, escaped the edge of the sword, out of wickness out of weakness uh were made strong, became a very strong. Look at that real quick there. Out of weakness were made strong. I think that's an important point. Do you understand actually that what we actually see in the Old Testament from all of these different characters is that in their character they're failures? But But they still endured. Do you know the encouragement and the comfort that we should receive from the Old Testament? It's that God, who has saved us, who has begun a good work in us, will complete it to the day of Christ. That despite our character flaws, despite our failings, despite our lack of character, yet God will see to it that we will endure by faith. And this is a great comfort and gives us hope. Do you see that? What a wonderful. You go through the Old Testament. Well, I don't want to go through the Old Testament. I mean Go to the Old Testament and it should encourage you that these people we will see in heaven someday Rahab is mentioned in Hebrews chapter 11. All of these people. So it's not a matter of here, let me give you the best characters I can And you need to you need to be like this person. No, that's not the point of the Old Testament at all. That's not the point of all these characters. The point of is the faithfulness of God despite the character problems of all the people in the Old Testament. Testament. And that we can take, notice what the test it says in the text in Romans. Look at what it says. Whatsoever things were were verse 4, written before, were written for our learning, that we through what? Through patience. So the word is endurance. Endurance and comfort. Encouragement of the scriptures might have hope. All of these people that are mentioned in Hebrews chapter 11, and there's a lot of them, they endured, and the by and the passage actually says it's not all of them. They endured. And when we look at all of that, we look at we say, boy, I am comforted and encouraged, and I have hope that just as God brought them through and brought them to Himself in heaven. So God will do the same for you and for me. That's the encouragement that we have in the Old Testament. That is the encouragement that we have. in the scriptures and what God wants us to get from the Old Testament. Notice what it says there in the passage. It moves now from that, and it says, now may the God of patience and comfort grant you to be like-minded toward one another according to to Christ Jesus, that you may with one mind and one mouth glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus. Christ. Notice before we get there, I actually do want to mention another passage I think that is really key to all this, and dealing with this and this endurance and this hope. In Romans chapter 5, if you could put it up there, Silas. In Romans chapter 5, verses 1 through 5, it says this. We go back to Romans, and you remember that passage? It says, Therefore, having been justified by faith, we are at peace. with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom also we have access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and rejoice in the what? In the hope of the glory of God. And not only that, but we also glory in tribulations, knowing that tribulation does what? Produces perseverance. And perseverance, character, and character hope. Now hope does not disappoint because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts by the Holy Spirit who has given it given to us. Do you know what Romans 5 reminds us? That we as Christians have the hope of the believer And when we go through the tribulations and the struggles and the trials and the problems of life, it produces in us endurance. Can you can you attest to that with by the faithfulness of God? That when you look back on your life and you see the tribulation the failures, the struggles, the problems, can you look back and you could say by the grace of God, I'm still enduring. And that looking back at that, recognizing the endurance in my life causes me to be able to look ahead and hope that God will continue this. Where do the Old Testament characters come in? We can read through the Old Testament characters, illustration after illustration after illustration after illustration in the Old Testament Testament to encourage us and comfort us, to let us to cause us to realize that we have hope in Christ. Now all of that then, Paul wants this to all culminate in unifying around a singular purpose. And we see in the passage that God it says, now may the God of patience. It's not the pe it's not the characters of the Old Testament that we're we're lifting up, it's the God of the characters. May the God of patience And comfort, encouragement. God is the God of patience, of endurance. He is the God of encouragement. Grant you to be like-minded toward one another. The very God who has given us endurance and who has given us patience, given us comfort, the prayer of Paul, this is a prayer, is that he would grant these things. people like-mindedness toward one another. Paul says it this way in Philippians chapter two verse twenty verse two. Fulfill my joy by being like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. God desires it this much that that that we would be unified and the prayer that we should have is the same prayer that Paul has, that we would be like-minded together with one another. And by doing so, the implication is is we will grow in our encouragement, in our endurance, and in our hope. See, what God is saying in this passage is that as we unify together as the in the body of Christ, as we realize our own individual, interdependency of the body of Christ. It is God's that is God's method of in encouraging us. It's God's method of comforting us. It's God's method of causing us to be able to encourage Hebrews says it well. Hebrews 3, verses 12 through 14. Let's listen to what it says. Beware, brethren, lest there be any of you an evil heart of unbelief in But exhort one another daily. Do you catch that? That's important. Exhort one another daily while it is called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of the For we have become partakers of Christ if we hold the beginning of our confidence steadfast to the end. Paul, in well, it might be Paul, the author of Hebrews. Says clearly that we are to exhort one another daily as we are partakers of Christ, so that we are steadfast. God desires to have for us to have that kind of unity, and we should pray for that kind of unity. That's what we saw, that's what we see in the book of Acts in the local church. We see it all the way through the book of Acts. Acts 114 says they continued with one accord in prayer and supplication. Acts 2. 46 says, So continuing daily and with one accord in the temple. Acts 4 5. 12 and through the hands of the apostles many signs and wonders were done among the people. Peoples, and they were all with one accord in Solomon's porch. Acts fifteen, twenty-five, he seemed good to us being assembled with one accord. Why is it so important? Remember this. This is a singular reason because it glorifies God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. The unity of the believers glorifies God. 2 Corinthians 13, 11. Finally, brethren, farewell, become complete, be of good comfort, be of one mind, live in peace, and the God of love and peace will be with you. Now with all this in mind I have four questions for us. Number one, will you accept the invitation to an attorney? Eternal loving community. I wonder if you realize this this morning that when God extends salvation, He extends a community I don't think it's something that we often think about. I don't think it's something we often realize. But it's something that God is very clear about in His Word when it comes to the body of Christ in the assembly and ultimately what he's happening. We think of salvation and To some degree rightly so. We think of salvation as a matter of saving an individual soul, my soul, for eternity so I could be right with God. That's all correct. But God, in addition to that, brings us into a community, a body of believers. A singular body of believers, the church, so that we are part of a community. And then God expresses that through the local church. And one of the things that I would just invite you, if you don't know the Lord is your Savior, understand that you are missing out on a community of believers. There are people that have that really struggled. Rosaria Butterfield is one of them that who was a previous who's pre- she was previously a lesbian. And a tenure professor at Syracuse University. And uh when she was confronted with Christ, the most difficult thing that she had to do is had to do was not reject uh the the the temptation of her sexual orientation. The most difficult thing that she had to do was leave her community She realized that when she when she came to Christ and she chose to come to Christ Christ, that she was then part of a community, and what she needed to do as a result was to foster more of that community. the community of Christ. Because in that community it is actually compelling for the non-Christian to come Number two. This is a good question. Well, I made it I made it so I guess I think it's Whose weaknesses are you bearing? If we are to be an interdependent body of believers, whose weaknesses are bearing I think that this probably expands out beyond uh extra-biblical convictions. I mean, of course, I know we know what Galatians 6. 1 says. That we are to bear one another's burdens. So whose burdens are you bearing in the body of Christ? Number three, are you encouraged by the enduring faith of the saints in history? Do you realize that this that this is supposed to be a source of encouragement? Their enduring faith is to be a source of encouragement. Open your Old Testament sometime and read through the Old Testament. Read through the story. And the characters and what God did in their lives and be encouraged by their enduring faith. Man, we need this. Every single day, many of you go out into the workplace and rudge shoulders with non-Christians and hear all of their filthy language and deal with all of their lack of hope. The hopelessness, I mean the hopelessness in the world is unbelievable. Turn on the news and you see hopelessness Read the Old Testament, read these characters, read what God has done in them, and you will be encouraged, and you will be comforted, and you will have hope. And number four, does our unity of primary purpose outweigh our secondary differences? Do you have that attitude? Where you say, I am, I want to be unified to glorify God so that that outweighs any secondary differences that I have. That must be primary That's what we see in the passage, and it's important questions for us to ask. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you for the truth Of your word. We thank you for its practicality in our lives. We thank you for this thing called the church that you created, that you have made for us to be able to truly Be encouraged and comforted and built up and endure until you come. We're thankful for that, Lord. Lord, and we thank you, Father, that we can and should bear one another's burdens and show deference to one another. Lord, I pray that the things that we're learning from these passages and being reminded of from the end of Romans here would cause us to grow collectively as a church. in our own unity with one another. That it would help us and encourage us. And then may it be a wonderful light to our community. I think of Vacation Bible School coming up. not this coming week, but the following may uh week. May we may our cooperativeness and our unity as we serve together be a wonderful example to to unsaved people. Of the kind of love and community that we have in Christ. I pray, Lord, that you would work in our church in the way that Paul has asked to work. Lord, would you unify us for your glory? I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.