Good evening everybody. Um just want to say thanks again for the um celebration on Sunday. It was really refreshing. Thank you for the um input and counsel that y'all gave and um the uh personal things that you all gave and um just the fellowship that we had it was a real blessing. I'm sure all the rest of us agree. So thank you again for everybody who participated in that. If you'd please turn in your Bibles to 1 Thessalonians and chapter 2 tonight. 1 Thessalonians chapter 2. And we will go ahead and pray, and then we'll um get started with the message tonight. Our Heavenly Father, uh we thank you so much that we are accepted in the beloved and that we don't have to um worry at all about uh the things that we do to try to please you if we know that they are according to your word and that Um we are doing them by faith in your son that you are so delighted in those things. And um Father, we uh come to you tonight um expecting you to bless us in our time of prayer, in our time of looking at your word, because you have said that You would make your word effective, and that it would succeed in what you sent for it to do. And that we go forth with joy and be led forth with peace. And so we pray that you would please work that in our lives tonight, that we would uh hear your word and grow in our faith and that we would be uh challenged to Do the things that please you and to live in the in the presence of God, the fear of God throughout this week. And we pray all of these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay. When I was in community college, I was doing a lot of studying to hopefully be a teacher. I was hoping to be a teacher back then. And in teaching classes, even the first and second ones that I took, which were the only teaching classes I took, um they already started talking to me about look. You need to be aware of this thing called burnout. Okay? And it's gonna come fast. You're not gonna be expecting it. It might even happen, you know, your first week. You're going to be all excited about being a teacher and all that kind of stuff, and then eventually things are going to fall flat and you're going to realize you have to wake up tomorrow morning. And there are sixteen children who are still there and you still have to teach them and you still have to grade everything from them. And that is going to keep on going on for another however many more months. And this isn't everything that you thought it would be. It's not satisfying you. It's not fulfilling your wildest dreams. You're not feeling amazing every day about your every breath. No, this is real life, you have an actual job. Okay, and that's what they were warning me about, this thing called burnout. Um and if you look up on the internet, there's all sorts of different ways Teachers commiserate about it and they write things to each other about it to try to to grope with this uh with this thing, uh grapple with this thing. And A lot of the solutions that they try to give are things like make sure that you're not ashamed to claim some me time or set a goal, try to conquer it. or take some more classes about teaching, uh as if those first two weren't depressing enough. Uh and all of the different things that they try to tell us, it's it's all just the wisdom of the world. So it's not going to satisfy us like God's word is going to. But this passage right here in First Thessalonians does kind of address something like that. Of course it's not necessarily written right to or right about school teaching or anything But it applies to really any position where or or just life relationship where you get to disciple someone, you get to invest in somebody else. How is it that you approach that relationship in a way that really glorifies God and that's going to end up fulfilling in the end? And this passage is going to tell us about that. Just a bit of background. We've been walking through 1 Thessalonians. That's a book that again contains comfort and counsel for blamelessness at the appearing of Christ or at the rapture. That's the big idea of this book. Chapter one was more of comfort, giving assurance of salvation, but chapter two is more on the counsel side, giving these uh people an example of what kind of love Paul envisions for them, where he wants them to grow toward. And we see that in chapter three and verse um eleven. Where it says, oh sorry, verse 12, where it says, and may the Lord make you increase and abound in love to one another and to all just as we do to you. And we've got this whole account of what his love was like. So we know, okay, he says that he wants them to grow toward that kind of love. Well, this is what that looks like. Now We gotta remember a few things just to have the right kind of context before we go in. Paul ministered to these people for about three weeks. Um probably a little bit more. And then because one of his one of the people he was ministering to got put in danger, dragged, the KJV says, by some lewd fellows of the baser sort. um to the authorities of the local area to uh to basically accuse this person, Jason, of treason and of rebelling against Caesar. And so when that happened, Paul had to leave for obvious reasons for their safety. So he only got a little bit of time, but what he did left a huge impact. Paul really loved these people, and in chapter one we got an explanation about his kind of the love that he had from them, how thankful he was for them. And then What happens while Paul is gone is this persecution that started while he was there, it continues. And it it's it's It's in in I believe it's 1 Corinthians, it talks about the Macedonians going through a severe trial. And um Some people believe that this is what that's talking about. They went through something really hard, some kind of persecution. And Paul's writing to these people. So let's look at what it is that he says about his example, his ministry while he was there that he wants them to remember. As it's very likely that those people were bringing accusations against his very name, trying to make these people think he really wasn't such a good guy, he just up and left after three weeks anyway. So let's read starting in verse 6, and we're going to read down through verse 20. So, starting in verse 6 of chapter 2, nor did we seek glory from men, either from you or from others, when we might have made demands as apostles of Christ. But we were gentle among you, just as a nursing mother cherishes her own children, so affectionately longing for you We were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God, but also our own lives, because you had become dear to us. For you remember, brethren. Our labor and toil, for laboring night and day, that we might not be a burden to any one of you, to any of you, we preach to you the gospel of God. You are witnesses, and God also, how devoutly and justly and blamelessly we behaved ourselves among you who believe, as you know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you. as a father does his own children, that you would walk worthy of God who calls you into his own kingdom and glory. For this reason we also thank God without ceasing, because when you received the word of God which you heard from us, You welcomed it, not as the word of men, but as it is in truth, the word of God, which also effectively works in you who believe For you, brethren, became imitators of the churches of God which are in Judea in Christ Jesus. For you also suffered the same things from your own countrymen, just as they did from the Judeans. who killed both the Lord Jesus and their own prophets, and have persecuted us, and they do not please God, and are contrary to all men, forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they may be saved So as always to fill up the measure of their sins. But wrath has come upon them to the uttermost. But we, brethren, having been taken away from you for a short time in presence, not in heart, endeavored more eagerly to see your face with great desire. Therefore, we wanted to come to you, even I, Paul, time and again. But Satan hindered us. For what is our hope, or joy, or crown of rejoicing? Is it not even you in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming? For you are our glory and joy. As we look at this example of leadership that pleases God, we need to review real quickly the foundation of all of it. If you look at verse 4, it says, But as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, even so we speak not as pleasing men, but God who tests our hearts. And last week we talked about how the right motivation for any leadership position you're in, any relationship you're in where you're trying to disciple somebody The goal is not, hey, look at me, I'm gonna make you like myself. No, the goal is that you want to please God in this. God has called us actually all to go and make disciples. And this is something that we do to please him, not to make ourselves great. But what is what is so great about pleasing God? Anyway, what what is it that is motivating about that in itself? Because we I feel like we say that a lot, um, but do we all know why that is actually a motivation? Uh well Think about it like this. You know, the gospel tells us that no matter how sinful and weak and useless we may be, God loved us and sent his son to die on a cross and bear his wrath for us and rise again the third day. So that anyone who will believe in him will have the right to be called the child the child of God, John chapter 1 says. Now when you're a child of God, all of the love and acceptance that God has for his perfect spotless son, he has for you as well. He's infl he's infinite and he can actually actually handle doing that. So now all that you do for the Lord, though it might be the littlest thing, he actually takes delight in that. In 2 Corinthians chapter 2, it says that we are a fragrance of Christ to God. So the things that we do for the Lord are a lot of people like to use this word, perfumed by Christ. They're made acceptable to God through Christ, so that he actually delights in what we do for Now, we all know what it's like to receive something from someone and to delight in it just because we love that person. Right now, my little brothers Luke and Ethan are away at a camp. Um tables have kind of turned because when I was when we were all growing up, it would be the older two that would go to camp and the younger two that were still So now it's it's backwards. But they would my mom would always get them to write little letters to us and to send them. And they really never made any sense at all. And they had pictures in them that I couldn't really figure out what they were and um one of them I forget if if this was sent to me or to Jacob, but one of 'em that was found my mom found it today, uh that Ethan wrote said, I miss you like a lion misses his prey. So when we get those we would get those little letters and they wouldn't make any sense in the middle of camp, but we get our name called to go up there and we open it and it's some scribbles and some kind of sentence like that. And our hearts would just swell because we loved them. We didn't look at that and say, oh, wow, um, I'm gonna get out all of my artistic critique and take this apart and destroy it and and show what what a terrible piece of work this actually is. No. Uh we treasure that because of who it came from. And it's the same thing with God. When we do things for God, it's not that He's like, all right, hurry up and catch up, I'm comparing you to everybody else. No. He loves you personally. And so what you do, he treasures in the same exact way. And so that's what's motivating about pleasing God. And that's what gives us the boldness to have that motivation When somebody else is tempting us to want to please them instead, when the fear of man is at play. If we really have that in our minds, we want to please God because He loves us that much. then that will be the right motivation that'll help us to stay bold we talked about last week. But now that we have that that foundation, all right, why do we want to please God? We have to look at all right what actually does please him. Okay? Because, you know, in a sense, if Luke and Ethan had sent me something like an empty candy bar and wrote, ha ha, I ate this. Um it was in your room and I stole it. Um I wouldn't really be that happy about that. Uh but so we need to think about God is a person and the things that we offer to him do matter. He does actually like certain things and dislike certain things. And so when we look at the rest of this passage, we're seeing, all right, what kind of offering, what kind of ministry does God like to be present? We're going to talk about two main categories of things about this kind of ministry that does please God. First, we're going to talk about the manner of ministry that pleases God and the mindset of ministry that pleases God. And in order to be fulfilled and not have that burnout as a Christian leader, you need to have both of these right. And you needed to be doing it both of these to please God. And we'll see that as as we go through. So, first of all we've got to talk about what is manner. Manner just means how you act, okay? So it's how you behave yourself, how would others describe your character? That kind of thing. Alright, how do you behave? Mindset means how do you think? How do you process what's going on in your life? Okay, when an event happens in your day, how do you explain it? Alright, so manner is how you act. Mindset means how you think. So what does it look like to have a God-pleasing manner and mindset in ministry? Well Starting over in verse 6, we get actually three different pictures from verse 6 all the way down to verse 12. Three different pictures, okay? That show us what this is like. So a God-pleasing manner in ministry is demonstrated by these three images of family relationships. And you might think, oh, there's I only see two. I only see mother in verse uh seven and I see father in verse um eleven, but where's the third one? Well, the third one is actually in verse 6. Sorry, verse 7, the beginning of verse 7. So look at verse 6 and 7 where it says Nor did we seek glory from men, either from you or from others, when we might have made demands as apostles of Christ. Pretend there's no period there. Okay. But we were gentle among you. Pretend there's a period after that, you. Okay, the word gentle there is actually a very disputed word in the Greek and all that. It's one letter off from the word for infants. And some manuscripts have infants while some have gentle. So there's this big debate that uh I've spent a lot of time reading about, about what which one is it. But after that, I think the best choice, and I hope to show you that, the best choice is probably infants because it fits the pattern of contrasting statements that's been going on in this passage. We won't look at that It fits best with the family mixed metaphors that the text launches into, and actually because most of the Greek manuscripts say it. So because of those three reasons, uh we're going to treat this text like it says infants tonight. Even though if uh if you have an NIV it says infants, if you have pretty much anything else um it's going to say gentle uh because translators go one way commentators and people who you know are in charge of Greek manuscripts go a different way. Alright, so w how does this fit though? Okay, why why would an apostle of Jesus Christ say, I'm How does that picture actually work? Okay. Well, in Luke chapter 10, uh verses 17 through 22, which you don't have to turn there, I'll just read that to you. You can turn there if you want. But in Luke chapter 10, verses 17 through 22, the disciples have just gone out on this mission. Okay. The seventy it says the seventy returned with joy, saying, Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name. Okay, they're coming back saying, Hey I I cast out one demon, how many you cast? Three. How many you cast? Five. How many do you cast? Legion. How many is that? I don't know. And they're talking through this kind of thing and Jesus kind of stops them and he says I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven. Behold, I give you the authority to trample on serpents and scorpions. and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall by any means hurt you. Nevertheless, do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to So the apostles were maybe getting a little heady about the fact that they had done some exciting things that looked really good and were really exciting. Okay, and Jesus has to come back and correct them and say, hey, look, the the real thing to rejoice in is that God showed his grace to you. That's all that we can take credit for as people. Um God showed His grace to us. We didn't earn anything. There's nothing special about us and ourselves. It's all that what God has given to us And then he launches into this prayer and he says this In that hour Jesus rejoiced in the Spirit and said, I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and prudent and revealed them to babes. That's the same word infants, babes. Even so, Father, it seemed good in your sight. For so it seemed good in your sight. All things have been delivered to me by my Father, and no one knows who the Son is except the Father, and who the Father is except the Son, and the one to whom the Son wills to reveal him. And so he's going through and saying to these disciples as he sometimes does in his prayers, Jesus will pray to God, but he's also teaching at the same time. And here he's teaching them, look. When you think about how much you know about God and what you've done for God, you need to think about yourself as an infant. What is an infant? Well an infant, especially a human infant, uh, is the most helpless being that there is. cannot even lift up his or her head, can't roll to one side or the other. All an infant can actually do is cry for help. And they're pretty good at it and very loud. And they do so with pretty much no concern about what it looks like or sounds like. They just know, I need help. So if you look at your handout, if you got one of those, uh the the image of infant demonstrates total dependence. Without Christ, we could do absolutely nothing. He points out to them in that passage in Luke 10, He's the one who has the authority. He gave them the power to do all that they did. And also, letter B, the image of an infant demonstrates innocent disinterest in self-glory. If you look at that verse in 1 Thessalonians 2, again, verse 6, where it says, Nor did we seek glory from men, either from you or from others, when we might have made demands as apostles of Christ. But we were infants among you. This concept of being infants is contrasted with the idea of seeking glory. Okay? So because we realize we're an infant and we have nothing on our own, we depend on it all from God, it's it's ludicrous for us to seek glory for ourselves because we know we bring nothing to the table. And so it doesn't even occur to us like an infant crying isn't thinking on a plane about how many people really care about that. They just the infant's just carrying that I get milk or whatever it is. Um these apostles weren't thinking about what men thought because they knew. They brought nothing to the table. What do you have that you did not receive? So ministry that pleases God first in manner is like an infant. Second Ministry that pleases God is like a mother. The image of a mother demonstrates something about our ministry that pleases God. If you look at the end of verse 8, Well actually we'll just look at verses 7 through 9. Here we'll read them all. It says, Just as a nursing mother cherishes her own children, so affectionately longing for you. We were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God, but also our own lives, because you had become dear to us For you remember, brethren, our labor and toil, for laboring night and day that we might not be a burden to any of you, we preach to you the gospel of God. The first thing that this image of a mother demonstrates about what ministry that pleases God is like in this manner is at the end of verse 8, it says, You had become dear to us. That shows us that we're supposed to have a close relationship with the people that we minister to. That word dear, it's the same word as the word beloved that you see a lot in your New Testament. It describes a close relationship. God the Father calls Christ his beloved son in Matthew 3. 17. In Romans 16, Paul goes through this long list of names, of people he wants to be greeted, and he lists a few people next to the name. He says that those people are his beloved, or his beloved in the Lord. And it's not everybody that he says that about. So there are some people that he's singling out and saying, I was closer with them, and so I'm going to call them my beloved. The people that we minister to, though, Paul is saying in this passage, they need to become dear to us. They need to become this beloved to us. We need to get to know them like a mother would. As mothers are getting good at getting to know their kids and relating to them, so Paul showed genuine interest in knowing and loving this church closely. Also in uh at the end of verse 7, if you look there, it says, Just as a nursing mother cherishes her own children, so affectionately longing for you. This picture of a mother also demonstrates uh warm affection. Mothers so cherish their children, especially especially their first uh few children. Um It so that every single milestone, every little thing is rapturously celebrated. Okay? So the first couple of steps that you know little baby took, okay, there's a lot more videos of me than any other child in the Rothhouse because of this phenomenon. Um so, you know, I get to be a movie star in at least one area of life. Um uh not that I care about that. Anyway. Um mothers cherish their children. Okay? It's the stupidest little thing, okay? Eating baby food. Like, wow, opening my mouth and putting goo in. Um and you put it on video because it's the first time. It's the littlest you know, we're we're making progress here. I'm so proud of you. And Even so, Paul surely was encouraging and celebrating every little first step that these believers took in their faith, cherishing them just like a mother would uh her own children. And uh you know a mother has a way of making you feel like you are her treasure. And the very love of God to his people is compared to that kind of love. In Isaiah chapter 66, where God is speaking about how he will make us feel cherished like a mother does when he finally reigns on the earth. In verse 12 of that passage it says, For thus says the Lord, behold, I will extend peace to her like a river. and the glory of the Gentiles like a flowing stream. Then you shall feed, on her sides you shall be carried, and be dandled on her knees, as one whom his mother comforts, so I will comfort you, and you shall be comforted in Jerusalem. Jerusalem. There's also another picture of this in the Old Testament. A nursing mother usually spends so much time around a child that they form a special bond at a young age. Psalm 131 speaks of a child who's weaned, who still comes to recline against his mother. close with her and that's what our relationship with the Lord is like. And that's what our relationship with those that we minister to should be like. We should be forming that kind of bond so that we actually enjoy being around them. Um what a concept, right? Enjoying being around someone. Um but that's we need to be told that. And the last part, the last thing that a mother, this image of a mother demonstrates to us is extravagant service. Look at verses uh eight and nine again, particularly that middle part. It says, so affectionately longing for you, we were well pleased. to impart to you not only the gospel of God, but also our own lives, because you had become very dear to us. You had become dear to us. For you remember, brethren, that our labor, our labor and toil, for laboring night and day That we might not be a burden to any of you, we preached you the gospel of God. Paul was a tent maker, a leather worker, as well as an apostle to this church plant. So he surely spent hours counseling, studying, and serving people, yet he didn't stop there, but it says in 2 Thessalonians that he didn't eat any bread from them without paying for it. He was working enough to keep himself sustained while doing all of these things. Why? So that he wouldn't be a burden to any one of them. He came in as a a traveling preacher and to to claim now you have to support me would have been a big stumbling block prob probably to them, something that they just weren't ready for yet. And so he knew the wise thing to do. It actually says in First Corinthians that chapter nine that he would rather die than not do this for for a church that he's planting here that needed it. Uh he does whatever it takes to make sure that this church has what they need. And he does so he does so he says he was well pleased to do it. It wasn't something he was complaining about, it wasn't something that he was checking his watch about and thinking about and logging the time, how many hours have I spent for these people, when are they gonna start paying back to me? He wasn't thinking anything about that. These people in themselves uh were were were value enough to spend all of that time. It didn't even occur to him that he could be doing too much. Uh there was a uh story that I read the other day about a missionary named Peter Schild, and he was very upset about how much it cost to live where he was ministering. And he was thinking, you know, I I just feel like I'm burdening the people of God. They've got to send all this money this way. it it's it's gotta be just a burden. And so he thought, you know, I need to talk to the ministry board about this. And so he talked to the president of his missionary um society. And he that man asked him a question. And he said, Um, how much would you say a biblical church is worth? And in asking him that question, he showed, we are willing to support you, and the people of God are willing to support you, because we know how much this is worth. Maybe we need to start asking us ourselves that question. How much is a biblical church worth? How much is a biblical family worth? How much would you say the spiritual growth of those whom you influence, whether that's as an older sibling or a friend or a teacher or whatever it is that you are, how much is A disciple who is more like Christ, worth. Can you place a value on that? And so often we do. And it's to our shame. Uh we start thinking that other things are more valuable and that giving up our time really isn't worth it. Um but that's not the perspective that pleases the Lord. And lastly, in this uh family trio, we've got the image of the Father in verses 10 through 12. And that demonstrates to us first this. That we are to have an upright testimony. Verse 10 says, You are witnesses in God also how devoutly and justly and blamelessly we behaved ourselves among you who believe. That word devoutly means holy, pleasing God in all things, fulfilling God's law. Justly means behaving rightly toward man, obeying the laws of the government. And blamelessly basically means that no one could grab onto something about Paul and use it to accuse him. And what this is saying to us is that as uh as influencers, leaders, fathers, we're supposed to live in such an upright and clean way that those who we are ministering to know and are witnesses. um that we are living blamelessly. And Psalm 127, verse 5, when it's talking about Children and what a blessing they are to a father says, Happy is the man whose quiver is full who has his quiver full of them, they shall not be ashamed, but shall speak with their enemies in the gate. And one of the things that that's talking about is you ought to be living in such a way that if an accusation came against you from the outside of where you're influencing. That your disciples or your children or your students would stand up and say, That is not true. I know him. I know her. She does not behave that way. And Dr. Jim Berg had this happen to him. Um he was one of my professors at school and talked about a time where some accusations were coming up against him big time. And And it was just a very hard time for his family, and how many times his daughters would stand up and say, My father does not just teach this stuff, he lives this stuff. And could someone say that about us? Second thing about fathers that the image of the father demonstrates is well-timed wisdom. A father is, sorry, that's in verse 11. It says, as you know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you as a father does his own children. A father is to be attuned to what his children need at the time. If a child's running out in the street, okay, he's probably going to uh do this kind of charge, which means insisting, basically. He's going to insist, you get out of that street. If a child is hurt and is having a hard time obeying because maybe he's just had a really short night's sleep, maybe that in that case he needs to be comforted. Or maybe sometimes you notice that your child is doing a good job and you just need to keep on giving them a push forward, might need an exhortation. But a wise father is attuned to what someone needs in in the moment and is going to use that kind of communication instead of just maybe one all the time. I am very bent toward just uh being the soft and comforting all the time and that's not good. Um sometimes people need something more strong than that. And uh a father is gonna know at what point in time each one of those And the last thing that we learned from this father image is that a father's that we're supposed to have a purposeful vision. If you look at verse 12 it says that you would walk worthy of God who calls you into his own kingdom and glory. Now walking the idea of walking worthy of God. Um when I was studying this and thinking about it, I really came back to something uh something kept on coming to my mind that Mr. Harry said a few weeks ago when when he preached about how perfection really is the standard and the goal. And we cannot we can't abandon that because as soon as we abandon that, then we make ourselves the goal. We start to think that, oh, I'm trying to make these people more like me. No, we're trying to make people more like Christ. And the reality is Christ is the only one who's ever offered worship to God that, you know, intrinsically in itself. was really worship acceptable to God and did that his whole life. We can never measure up to that. No sinful human being on this earth can ever measure up to that. But God is worthy of that. And that is our goal. And the more that we know God, and the more that we know what it who it is that He actually is and what He deserves. We ought to be in our own lives striving toward giving him worship that he is truly worthy of. Even though we'll never get there, that's what we need to strive for because he deserves it. And um We need to be thinking generationally about this. Think about this. Paul Washer one time, one of his sermons I was listening to said something, stuck with me ever since. He was watching this just show on television. It was about sword makers. Like in Asia or something. And they were talking about how the the man was being interviewed, sword maker, and he's saying My entire goal in my life is to make my apprentice better than I am. If I fail at that, Think about what happens. My apprentice is a little less good than me. His apprentice will be a little less than him. His apprentice will be So if I do not bring this person to exceed me Then what becomes of this craft? And the same thing with us. We need to be thinking generationally generationally. I we need to want the worship of those that we minister or two and pray toward this and labor and strive toward this, that their worship of God would surpass ours. Because God is worthy of it. And none of our worship in itself will ever be worthy because of us. Like we mentioned before, what we do for God is because It's accepted and he's pleased with it just because he loves us. And that's always how it's going to be. And on your best day, when you have your best performance, that's always how it is. We always need Christ to watch every single thing that we do. But if we love him, we'll want to love him more and more and more. And since this worthy goal is actually unattainable in this life The possibilities, you can look at it this way, the possibilities are infinite getting there. And so we need to keep on pressing on toward the goal, not being satisfied with yesterday's laurels, but keeping on going. Alright, well that's what I have time for tonight. I keep on biting off a little bit more than I can chew, but that's okay. So I'll end with this. Maybe you're here tonight and um You've never really been a spiritual leader before. Maybe you're a Christian and you haven't taken that step of starting to invest in another Christian. Well, if you look down at verses um 19 and 20, Paul describes how what he's doing here He's doing because these people are his glory and joy. And we're going to talk about that as we when we get there, that when you're trying to please God and you're pouring out your heart, ministering to people Really just looking at his eye. When he works in someone else, that is in a way a foretaste of your well done. And that is we'll we'll see from 2 Corinthians 3. That is a direct message from God saying to you, I am pleased. And what you're doing. And that increases your joy in the Lord. And at the end of your days, when you appear before God You want to be surrounded by people who say, you know, in that room of that church, after that service, when I was distraught, he comforted me. And that was a step for me. And I'm different because of that. Or that person invested with in me over years. And the Lord is gonna have special note of that things, and that's kind of that is in a sense what your multiplying of your talents really And so let's think about what it is that we can do that This week, maybe if if we haven't done that before, to try to aim for that joy of experiencing more of pleasing God this way and getting those affirmations from Him. when when he sees that and and blesses that. And if you are a spiritual leader and feel as if You come short? Well, we all do, and I certainly come short um far more than some people in this room and You know, I need to probably run down and preach to myself in the front row like last time. Um thank you, Josh, you're not here, but um I probably need that for myself again. Um but take this as what you can like this church was told to, what you can grow into. And look at the last, if you look at the last part of this entire book, when Paul's talking about how he's just dreaming. of this church and praying for the church that they'll get to that point. He says, Faithful is he who called you who also will do it. And let's claim that promise. If you want to get there but you're not, that's Alright, so let's go ahead and pray. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your word, and we thank you for how convicting it is and for how inspiring it is. We thank you so much that you love us and that you provide truly all of our needs, not just physically, but our needs for love and our needs for a purpose. And we pray that you'd help us wherever we're all at tonight to be motivated to take the next steps And I pray that for those that this was just a reminder to walk worthy of you, that you'd help us all. To really know you and realize how how worthy you truly are and what you've done for us and be motivated to offer our lives a living sacrifice. for you in a way that pleases you. And we pray all of these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon