Well good morning. We're going to be in Romans chapter 15 today, verses 7 through 13. And before we go there, let's open In a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we are grateful and thankful this morning that we have this hope in Christ in Christ alone. Thank you, Father. Thank you for your great plan of salvation. Thank you for Jesus Christ. And all that He has done on our behalf and what He continues to do today as he intercedes on our behalf. We ask this morning as we come to this time to sit under your word, Lord. May you help us to set aside all the cares and the concerns. Of this day and this week, and help us to concentrate and listen intently. As your word is proclaimed, help us, Father, to remember it as we leave here. Help us to To mull it over and think it through what we're learning. And Father, that it would become part of how we live as we go through this world. Thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. We are going to be again in uh chapter fifteen of Romans, and we are beginning in verse seven Therefore, receive one another, just as Christ also received us, to the glory of God. Now I say that Jesus Christ has become a servant to the circumcision for the truth of God, to confirm the promises made to the fathers. And that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy. As it is written, for this reason I will confess to you Among you, the Gentiles, and sing to your name. And again he says, Rejoice, O Gentiles, with his people And again, praise the Lord, all you Gentiles. Lod him, all you peoples And again, Isaiah says, There shall be a root of Jesse, and he who shall rise to reign over the Gentiles. In him the Gentiles shall have hope. Now may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace. In believing that you may abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit. Let me begin by asking a question. What it what would it be like If the in the world without Christ. Completely without Christ. Christ never came. He never lived the perfect life. He never died to pay the punishment. He never promised to return. What would the world be like? And I think that you can use one word to describe it, and it is hopeless. The entire world would be completely, utterly hopeless. We find this truth in Ephesians 2, verse 12, where it says Speaking of those who were previously non-Christians and Gentiles, it says, and at that time you were without Christ being aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope, and without God in the world. A world without God is a world without hope. A world without Christ is a world without hope. What happens when someone truly becomes Hopeless. What happens when hopelessness happens in the heart and the mind of a person? I think one of the great illustrations in our history is that of the Titanic. Most of you know the story of the Titanic, this huge ship that was that was prophesied never to sink, and yet it did. There were many testimonies as to what occurred when they realized that the Titanic was going to sink and that the situation essentially was hopeless. A crewman, for example, said this. Men tried to jump into lifeboats ahead of women. Officers had to hold them back with revolvers. In fact, it says that one man disguised himself as a woman, because they let the women and children go first, hopeless and stripped away of his dignity. Another witness said, I saw an officer shoot a man who refused to step back. There was no time to reason. It was madness. What happens when people become hopeless? Another person said they locked us below, became people screamed and beat at the gates. Some tried to smash them down. Another witness said this, another survivor said this. It was like people had lost their minds. You saw men trample children, fight over floating debris. It was terror unleashed. And then finally, one person simply said it this way, we didn't act like human beings, we acted like animals. What happens when somebody truly comes to a place of hopelessness? The answer is hopelessness leads ultimately to destruction. When we think of hopelessness and we think of Ephesians, which we're going to look at a little bit later, Ephesians chapter 2, the Bible tells us that our hopelessness outside of God. Our hopelessness outside of Christ not only leads us, not only is caused by our separation from God But a result of being separated from God because of our sin is actually that we are separated from one another as well. There are separations and divisions as a result of sin and hopelessness. Paul writing to the church of Ephesus said this, he points out that there is separation and division. He uses terms like a middle wall of separation. Where there is a community that two communities who can that cannot come together because of the middle wall of separation Disunity and even hostility. What happens? What is the condition of the world without Christ? What is the condition of the world without God? Disunity and separation. And hostility. Enmity, the Bible says. Hostility one toward another. These are the things that occur as a result Of being separated from the life of God, separated from Christ. Hopelessness separation and community, hostility with one another. This is the world that we actually live in, isn't it? Now we know that Christ did come. As Christians, we look ahead to the coming, the glorious coming of Christ. That is our hope. But for people who do not have that hope, There is confusion and struggle. There is misplaced hope. There is misplaced expectations. All kinds of chaos as a result of being outside of Christ, being without hope, without Christ in the world. This text is really a culmination of what Paul has been talking about throughout the book of Romans. God's redemptive plan. That connects us back to God through what Christ did on the cross, but also something we don't often think about is that salvation not only connects us to God, which is most important. But actually, salvation connects us to each other. The work of Christ on the cross, his death, what he did on the cross, our glorying and rejoicing in that. Brings unity together, which ultimately glorifies God. How do we become a unified church That rejoices in Christ's redemptive work together. That's what glorifies God. A church that is unified, rejoicing in what Jesus has done. How do we become that? How do we maintain that? How do we grow in that as a church? There are three things we see in this passage. Number one, we emulate the acceptance of Christ. We emulate the acceptance of Christ. Number two, we rejoice in the salvation of Christ. We rejoice in the salvation of Christ. We'll see that in verses 8 through 12. And then finally, we experience the hope of Christ. The first two leads to the third. We must emulate the acceptance of Christ. We must rejoice continually, focused on the salvation of Christ. And when that happens, then we collectively as a body of believers experience the hope of Christ. Let's first look at the the importance of emulating the acceptance of Christ. It says this, therefore receive or accept one another. The word accept means to receive with special concern. Acts chapter 10 verse 26 says that they took uh someone aside, Priscilla Quill, took someone aside. It's to identify with particular concern, to accept with particular care. This was said of God of us in Romans 14, 3, for God has received him. Matthew 10, 40 says it this way: He who receives you receives me, and he receives me. receives him who sent me. Now notice how we are supposed to accept one another. And this is specifically talking about Christians accepting other Christians. This passage is not really referring, it's not referring to outside the faith. We're talking here, when the word one another is used, the phrase one another is used, we're talking about other Christians I want you to notice in verse 7 how we are to accept other Christians, to receive other Christians. It says this: just as Christ also received us to the glory of God. If we are to receive and to accept other Christians, if we are to accept one another In the way that Jesus accepts us, we need to think about how Jesus accepts us, don't we? Do you realize that in Rome in Ephesians chapter 1, it says that the Christian is accepted in the beloved? There, if you, friend, if you don't receive acceptance anywhere else in your life If you feel like your parents didn't accept you, your friends don't accept you, your coworkers don't accept you, your neighbors don't accept you, no one accepts you, understand that Christ accepts you if you have trusted Him as your Savior. You are accepted in the beloved. And there are, I think, at least, as you go through the Gospels, four, at least four characteristics of Christ's acceptance. These should be a comfort to us. These should be a blessing to us to hear. And they also should be a challenge to us as well. Number one, he accepts us joyously. Joyously accepts us. In Luke chapter 15, verses 3 through 7, Jesus uses a parable to this to help us understand this, where he has a hunt, a shepherd has a hundred sheep. And he loses one of them. One goes off and well goes astray. And the shepherd goes and finds the leaves the 99 and goes for the one. And you remember what it says in that passage when he finds them Verse 6 of that passage says, And when he when he comes home, he calls together his friends and neighbors, saying to them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep which was lost. I say to you that likewise there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over 99 just persons who need no repentance. This is the heart of our Savior who accepts those who really realize their sin, understand that they are undeserving of any grace, undeserving of anything at all Don't think of themselves as just. They think of themselves as sinners. God accepts us and Christ rejoices. And he calls others to rejoice with him. Secondly, he accepts the undeserving. We actually see that in the one sheep, but beyond that, we see this in other places that Christ explains this In Acts and Luke chapter 18, verses 9 through 14, he explains this. He says in that passage, it's a parable, he says, Two men went up into the temple to pray, one Pharisee and another a tax collector. And the Pharisees stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank you, I am not like other men. Extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even this tax collector. I fast twice a week. I give tithes of all that I possess. Then the tax collector, the humble person. He comes, and it says in the passage, standing afar off, would not so much as raise his eyes to heaven. But beat his breasts, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled. But he who who humbles himself will be exalted. Do you know who God accepts? He accepts the undeserving. God accepts us also impartially. He has no partiality, Scripture says, when it comes to his acceptance Acts chapter 10 tells us of this. This is Peter, who says to Cornelius, do you remember that story by the way? We've mentioned it before. Peter, uh he thinks that there are all kinds of dietary laws that he has to obey and he has to follow. And uh Christ has come and he's fulfilled those dietary laws, and uh he is He's completely fulfilled them. And he has this vision. And in the vision there are all kinds of animals. And the animals are of all kinds that he understands that are unlawful for him to eat. And he says, not so, Lord, I'm not going to eat them. And God says, don't you call unclean what I've called clean. But that was actually intended not just to be an illustration of what you can eat. It was intended to be an illustration of people. The fact that God does not show partiality. We find this in Acts 10, verse 34, when he's talking to Cornelius about this vision. He says in that passage, then Peter opened his mouth and said, In Truth, I perceive that God shows no partiality. But in every nation, whoever fears Him and works righteousness is accepted by Him. Now I want to pause so far and ask a question. Is this how you accept other Christians? Remember the passage. The passage tells us that we need to accept others the way Jesus accepts us. Are you accepting other Christians this way? Are you accepting others joyously? Yeah, but that person isn't like me. He's strange. She's odd. They're dumb. Accept them joyously. I don't understand why they do what they do. You ever met another Christian? You didn't understand what they do with to do all the time. Right? I don't understand what I do all the time. And God says we're to accept them joyously. How about how about undeserving? Do we accept those who are undeserving of our acceptance? Well, they don't deserve it. Did we deserve Christ's acceptance? And yet He gave it to us? Or how about impartiality? Are we partial to our acceptance? What we see in the text. Notice what Paul, what Christ actually says to his disciples in the Sermon on the Mount. He says in Matthew chapter 5, verse 46. It sh should be it should be up there. For if you love those who love you, what reward have you? Do not even the tax collectors Do the same. And if you greet your brethren only and do not and and do you do more than others? Do not even the tax collectors do all do so? Therefore you shall be perfect, just as your father in heaven is perfect. He says Do you just treat people the way they treat you? Then you do no better than they said than than the than the heathen, than the non-Christian, than the you don't do any better than they do if you only treat people the way they you they treat you God calls us as Christians to accept one another in impartiality. And then the purpose for which Christ accepted us is actually for the glory of God. We actually see that in our passage. It is for the glory of God that he chose That he chooses to accept us. And ultimately we see that all of this will glorify God. In Philippians chapter 2, verse 9 it says, Therefore God also has highly exalted him And given him a name which is above every name. There's the name of Jesus. Every knee should bow, and those in heaven, and those in earth, and those under the earth, and every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God. the Father. Now I want us to think about all four of these characteristics. And I want us to really ask the question Do we accept other Christians this way? It doesn't matter uh uh you say, well, uh you know, some I just don't I don't agree with or I don't like or impartiality. Well, some just don't treat me right. Undeserving. Well, um I I I you know uh some I just tolerate joyously You say, well, I just don't want to. We do it for God's glory. This is how God has called us to accept other Christians. God desires for us to do this. For his glory. Not for my glory. Not for my agenda, but for his agenda, for the sake of his kingdom. Because it pleases God. Because it unifies the unity of the people. Now let me ask you a question. What causes Christians to fail to accept one another? Does this happen, by the way? Are Christians guilty of this where we don't accept one another as we should? I think every one of us should be able to agree with that, even as Christians, that that happens sometimes. That happens far too often, doesn't it? If that's the case Why? And I'm going to make a suggestion to you. I think it's because I'll give you one reason. I think it's because we really do not appreciate Christ's acceptance of us. See, when you really appreciate that nothing can separate you from the love of God, that you are completely accepted in the beloved, that you God sees you and he sees his son. When you really get a hold of your identity in Christ, when you get a hold of your worth being the worth of Christ, when you get a hold of this Then you're freed to accept others. It frees you to do that. Another reason we don't accept others, others the way that we should, other Christians. It's because of our own agenda. Because we want what we want. This is what James chapter four tells us there were divisions going on in the church at that time. And James chapter four verses one through three says it this way: where do wars and fights come from among you? Do they not come from your desires for pleasure that war in your members? You lust and do not have. You murder and covet and cannot obtain. You uh you fight in war, and I think the word murder there, the idea is hate there, you fight in war, yet you do not have because you do not ask You ask and do not receive, because you ask amiss that you may spend it on your own pleasure. Why? Why? Because sometimes we just want what we want instead of really desiring what glorifies God. See, the reason that we should accept One another is because it puts us in a place of unifying one for one to another. And as we do that, it shows the characteristic Of God. It shows the Trinity, the unity of the Father with the Son, the Son with the Holy Spirit. There is a unity there. And we as a church are to be a picture of the unity. And the key to this, really, the key to this is to keep the main thing, the main thing. to keep what's really important, really important. And that is Christ's work in salvation. That is Christ's redemptive plan. That is what Christ is doing, has done, and will do. I like Orioles games. I like going to them. How many of you all like it? My kids will not raise their hand probably. But anyway, I like it. I like it. There's not that many of you. Okay. Um maybe I should say Ravens. Do I get a little more with Ravens? How many of you all like any game whatsoever that you attend? Okay, I got a little more there. Anyway, okay, I was just making sure you guys don't sit in your houses all day all uh doing doing nothing. Okay, so have you ever been to a game like that? And and Somebody makes a home run, a grand slam, a touchdown. And you may have nothing in common with the person next to you. And most of the time I don't. Sitting next to the person But suddenly when the grand slam happens or the home run happens or when the f when the when the the the touchdown happens suddenly Suddenly we're like talking about it. Wasn't that a great play? Man, that was a that was an awesome hit. Man, that was a great thing, or or the umpire makes a bad call against your team. And man, what was the problem with that umpire? Suddenly you have all these things in common. Why? Because you're focused on the game. And as Christians United in Christ, we are to not be focused on the differences that we have, because there are many. We're focused on Christ. We're focused on what He has done, what He is doing, and what He The text that we have in front of us in verses 8 through 12 give us it gives us all uh uh uh this uh Paul cites several texts throughout the Old Testament. There's texts in Deuteronomy, in Psalms, and Isaiah. And there's a reason for that. Think about the placement of Deuteronomy. Where is that in the Old Testament? It's toward the beginning, right? And think about the placement of Psalms in the Old Testament. Where is that? That's in the middle. And think about the placement of Isaiah. Where is that? Well, that's. A little bit toward the end, toward the end, middle but but toward the end. the this is God's overall plan. As you read through the Old Testament, there is this there is this grand plan of redemption of God's people that we need to understand what Christ is doing. doing and we need to rejoice in that as a people of God. And that is the thing that is intended to unify us. Look at verse 8. It says this. Now I say that Jesus Christ has become a servant. The word servant means minister to the circumcision. Of course we know that Jesus, when he came to earth, he did serve other people, didn't he? And he died as the ultimate servant, paying the punishment for our sin. And it specifically says to the circumcision. Let's talk about to the Jewish people. When he came, when Jesus came, he didn't come to reject the Jewish people. He actually came to present himself to the Jewish people. It says, for the truth of God. And he says this and to confirm the promises made to the fathers. Now remember, the people that were hearing this letter read to them probably for the Or reading the letter for the first time, half of them or more than half were Jewish Christians. And the promises that God made to Abraham and to other patriarchs were extremely And God did make some amazing promises to Abraham. In verse 18 of Genesis chapter 18, it says, Since Abraham shall show Surely be a great and might Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed. And Genesis 22, 18 says, In your seed all of the nations of the earth shall be blessed because you have obeyed my voice. Genesis 26, 4. And I will make you your descendants multiply as the stars of heaven. I will give your descendants all these lands, and in your seed all the nations of the earth will be blessed. And in Genesis twenty eight fourteen. Also your descendants shall be as the dust of the earth, and you shall spread abroad the west, the east, the north, the south, and in you and in you Do you get an idea in the theme of Scripture that what God wanted to do through Abraham was that he would make many people from Abraham, right? Like the sand which is on the seashore according to Hebrews and molten many, many people that would be descendants of Abraham And then everyone would be blessed. Well, how was everybody blessed? How was Genesis 12, 3 fulfilled where it says, I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him who cursed you? Jesus is the answer to that. When Christ came, He came as a descendant of Abraham, presented himself to the Jewish people. Lived a perfect life and died for the sins of everyone, and Jesus isn't done yet. Did you know that? Jesus will come back. Because the reality is, even though we have more peace because of Jesus now than we would if we he weren't here. And certainly internally in our hearts we can have peace with God. There is a sense in which we uh the world is not completely at peace, right? I mean we don't have world peace This does not it i if there are is momentary times of peace in the world, it doesn't last long before something happens, something erupts, and if you look at the last two thousand years, how many how much of time has there been been complain Complete peace in the world, maybe never, in 2,000 years. But when Christ comes back, there will be complete peace Complete, absolute peace. He will establish peace in this world. I want you to notice what it says in verse 9 here. It says, and that the angel Jewish people as his chosen people to bring salvation and the message of the gospel ultimately to the world, including the Gentiles. Jews and the Gentiles in the Old Testament, there's no doubt about it. And so what we actually see from this passage is that God's desire and what we ought to glory in as a as people of God is all of what Christ is doing. Not only in bringing about unification Unification with God through salvation, but unification with one another. I'd like you to take your Bibles for a moment and turn to Ephesians chapter 2. This will really all come together. I think Ephesians chapter 2 is a passage that will help us uh really flesh out what God's intention is. when it comes to the gospel. I mean, of course, there's no question that the goal of the gospel is to reconcile us as individuals. To Christ. But there but we see as a result of that that there is there are other goals that God has. Look at what it says in Ephesians chapter Chapter 2, it says verse 11. Therefore, remember that you, once Gentiles in the flesh, were who are called uncircumcision by the by what is called circumcision. You're called uncircumcision by the circumcision the Jewish people, made in the flesh by hands, that at that time you were without Christ, being alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel. and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope without God in the world. What are the next two words of verse 13? But now, but now in Christ Jesus, you who once were afar off have been brought near. by the blood of Christ. For he himself, he, Jesus, is our peace who hath made both one And has broken down the middle wall of separation, having abolished in his flesh the enmity that is the law of the commandments contained in ordin ordinances. Down to verse 18. It says this for through him we both have access by one spirit to the Father. You see You see, separation from God, which is what we have as a result of sin, brings hostility and division and hopelessness. But in Christ, we have reconciliation, we have unity, and we have hope. And this, folks, is what we are to be praising God about. We are to be glorifying God. That should be our focus. The great wonderful truths of what Christ has done. And Paul goes to the Old Testament. And he cites several Old Testament verses to explain this. For example, we see in the second part of verse nine, God says that we should praise him for his sovereign, victorious, redemptive. plan. Look at uh in in Psalm 18, I have it up there for you. Psalm 18 verses 46 through through 50, it says this. Listen to how positive Listen to the praise, the glory, the positivity, the joy that's here. The Lord lives. Blessed be my rock. Let the God of my salvation be exalted It is God who avenges me and subdues the peoples under me. He delivers me from the enemy from my enemies. He also lifts me up above those who rise against me. You have delivered me from the violent man. Therefore I will give thanks to you, O Lord, among the Gentiles, and sing praises to your dame. Great deliverance he gives to his king, and shows mercy to his anointing. Anointed to David and his descendants forever. This is what Paul cites here and says, Do you remember how David praised God in the congregation? He praised him for what he was doing. And then Paul identifies Deuteronomy 32. Rejoice, O Gentiles, with His people. In Deuteronomy 32, verse 4 43 It says, Rejoice, O Gentiles, with his people, for he will avenge the blood of his servants and render vengeance to his adversaries. He will provide atonement for his land and his people. And then we have praise for God's merciful kindness. Paul cites Psalm 117. In verses 1 through 2, it says, Praise the Lord, all you Gentiles. Laun him all you people. peoples, for his merciful kindness is great toward us, and the tr and the truth of the Lord endures forever. Praise the Lord. And then we turn to Isaiah a little more toward the end of the Old Testament, not quite at the end. But the amazing thing about Isaiah is that you'll know this if you've read Isaiah, there's a ton of prophecy in Isaiah, right? There's prophecies about the first coming of Christ, and there's also prophecies about the second coming of Christ, which is not yet. yet come. In that passage, Paul decides to cite Isaiah 11, and I want you to notice what the text says in verses 10 through 12. It says, and in that day there shall be a root of Jesse, that's Jesus, who shall stand as a banner to the people. What is the banner Does anybody know what a banner is? A banner was a place of meeting that usually is a military term where where they would go out and they would deploy troops in different areas areas as a strategy. And then a banner would be a place they would all gather together. And the passage here tells us that Jesus stands as a unifying banner to the For the Gentiles shall seek him, and his resting place shall be glorious. It shall come to pass in that day that the Lord shall set his hand again and the second time, to recover the remnant of his people who are left, from Assyria and Egypt, from Pathros and Cush, from Elam and Shinai, from Hamath and the islands of sea of the sea. Verse 12 tells us He will set up a banner for the nations. He will assemble the outcast of Israel and gather together the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth. So we see throughout the Old Testament, there is this there is this Worship and praise and joy and singing and looking ahead to the prophecy of what Christ is continuing to do. do. This is what we should be focused on. Focused on who Jesus is and what he has done. This, folks, unifies a church. Rejoicing together over what Christ has done. The question is, what keeps us from being able to do this. Do churches always do this? Or do they get sidetracked on other things? And this is something that any of us are susceptible to. in in the right way. See, what we see in the passages that we've looked at, it's all God's agenda. From the beginning of time or from from you know from the beginning of the Old Testament, all the way through, we have God's agenda of what He has done, what He is doing, and what He will do. And you know what happens? We get off on our agenda and what we want. We get off on what we need instead of seeing what God's agenda is and what he wants. unifies the church we're all we're all glorying in the agenda of God. We're all uh we're all worshiping and praising in the in what Christ is ultimately doing. And when we when this is happening happening when this when the church does this there that there is a sense in which what begins to occur is that you move from an academic understanding of the hope of Christ to an experience of the hope of Christ. Do we understand the difference? Can you know something up here but not experience it? Uh you absolutely can. Those of us who have been been lived a little longer, uh and and there's different varying states But you realize the older you get isn't it true, the older you get, you realize the more there is a difference Between what you know in your head and what you've actually experienced. It's a big difference between the two. And it's the same thing actual experience of the hope. And I think that there is a sense in which you cannot experience the hope of Christ unless you are genuinely experiencing Notice what it says in the text. Now, based upon these things, verse 13. Now may the God of what Hope the God of hope. Separate from God, separate from hope, separate from Christ, hopelessness. May the God of hope fill you And what happens when you have hope? We talked a lot about in the beginning about what happens when you don't have hope. It's chaos and selfishness and all kinds of problems. Titanic that's thinking and everybody's trying to fight to get fight for their lives and all of that, becoming animals instead of human beings. Well, what happens when you have firm, confident hope in Christ? What happens when you're experiencing that? Notice what the text says. You have two things. Number one, you have joy. You have joy. Joy, according to the New Testament, is gladness despite circumstances. It's not that you can have happiness, or you can even say joy, the words can be interchangeable, but you can be happy about the circumstances that you find yourself in. Or you can be very upset at the circumstances that you find yourself in. But that's not the joy that we find in the New Testament. The joy that we find in the New Testament is a gladness regardless of your circumstances. Like Paul when he said, I know how to be abase and I know how to abound. I know how to be rich and I know how to suffer in need. And everywhere in all things I have learned to be content. The kind of joy that we're talking about here is a hope, despite our circumstances, that there is just a genuine joy because we're anchored in the hope of Christ. And number two, peace. Peace, that's freedom from disturbance and hostility. Jesus is the one who sets aside the hostility, the enmity with God. Jesus is the one who brings peace. He is our peace. And because of Christ, according to Romans chapter 5, we studied that a long time ago, we are at peace with God. And if we are truly at peace with God and we are experiencing the joy and peace that we see here as we experience Unity and rejoicing in what Christ has done for us, we're going to experience the hope of Christ. Can I ask you a question this morning? Do you have peace in your soul? The Bible says I desire truth in the inward parts. When you You really take a moment and you think about your soul, when you think about your relationship with God and your relationship with others. Is there peace? Christ says there can be It's when we're it's when we accept the way he does. And when we are unified the way he wants us to be unified. And And when we hope the way He wants us, the way He wants us to hope, when we find our hope in Christ. And I want you to notice though, this is really interesting. I it it feels like when you're reading through this it's almost out of the blue, but I want you to notice maybe you're saying toward the end of here you're going, you know, this is this seems impossible. I mean, does it not? Is there is there not a sense in which I mean for you to accept Christians the way Christ does, does that seem a little impossible? to do. I know for me it does. And all of those things. I want you to notice at the end of this what it says that you may abound. That's really an interesting word. Abound means to be an overabundance, excessive, outflank. That you may abound in hope, but catch what he says here. By whose power? It's not by my power. It's not by your power. I don't think you can accept, and I don't think I can accept. the way Christ does in our own power. I don't think we can do it. I think we have to have the power of the Holy Spirit. And I don't think that you and I, even you and I, can really It's got to be in the power of the Holy Spirit. It's got to be as we depend upon Him. And certainly, we cannot experience the hope of Christ outside of the power of the Holy Spirit. I think for some of us, we need to just simply admit, I can't do this. And simply say, I cannot, but God can, and cry out to God in prayer and ask God to help us. And to live in this when you read these kinds of passages, God desires for us to be dependent on Him. These kind these kind of passages, they actually kinda help us to know why we need to be dependent on him. We kind of forget. We're off doing our own thing, doing things our way, and doing And if we're not careful, we forget about the fact that we need to be constantly dependent on him. These passages that challenge us, the way the text challenges us, brings us to a place where we go, oh I need Christ. I can't do this. I might be able to go through the motions of all the different things I'm supposed to do. I might be able to fulfill all the things I've said I will fulfill. in my life or whatever, or think do what I think I should do. But accept Christians the way that Christ does, there is no way. I need the power of Christ. There are three vital concepts I think that we need to remember from this passage that I think that will help us. Number one, we need to accept one another as Christ has accepted us. We need to accept one another as Christ has accepted us. Number two, we need to rejoice together over God's redemptive work of salvation and unification. This has got to be the focus. By the way, I am thrilled we're having communion today. I didn't put that together. Okay? Like I didn't put this passage with this, okay, well I'll plan it all out. I am not that good a planner. And so when I realize, oh, we're having we're doing the passage on unifying around who Christ is and what he has done, and I realize we're having communion, I'm going, this is cool. Okay. This is wonderful. We will actually when we partake together, this is actually an experience of the union That we have as we rejoice in what Christ has done for us on the cross. When we have done these two things, then we will experience Peace and joy of hope in Christ. We'll experience the peace and joy of hope in Christ We are about to head into our communion time together. And I want to add one passage that I really want to take a moment and focus on. First Corinthians chapter ten verses sixteen through seventeen. seventeen. I really want us to to get a hold of this. I say usually every you know every time I explain that there are three purposes that we do the Hello, my name is Jim Benam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.