Um and just kind of a forewarning disclaimer, um, because this is a uh a passage that um with talking to pastor it's a little bit difficult and maybe above. what I'm able to do. Pastor is going to come up after and just fill in any gaps that I missed, correct anything if it was a little bit off and It's green. Um and clear. Because we're gonna be talking about Israel today. So let's go ahead and pray that the Lord would give us understanding and clarity, and then we'll read and then we'll get into this. So let's go ahead and pray. Our Father in heaven, we thank you so much for your presence with us today and the fellowship that we have in you. And the fact that um we are uh accepted in the beloved in your son and that that is our security every day. Uh and And we thank you for all of the promises that we have in Him. And we thank you for the promises that we have that you will make your word effective and that you will build us up with it. that we will go forth uh in peace and be uh go out with joy and be led forth with peace. We pray that you would do that in us tonight. that uh what we look at would encourage us, would strengthen us, and would help us to live in the fear of God for you. And to be able to do so with your strength. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. So let's go ahead and read verses 13 through 16 here. For this reason, we also thank God without ceasing, because when you received the Word of God, which you heard from us, you welcomed it not as the Word of men, but as it is in truth the Word of God. which also effectively works in you who believe. For you, brethren, became imitators of the churches of God which are in Judea in Christ Jesus. For you also suffered the same things from your own countrymen. just as they did from the Judeans, who killed both the Lord Jesus and their own prophets, and have persecuted us. And they do not please God and are contrary to all men, forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they may be saved, so as always to fill up the measure of their sins. But wrath has come upon them to the uttermost. A few months ago in February, um I listened to a news podcast, Conservative News, and uh there was a story about a man who had been living in, I believe it was Tennessee, for about seventy years, moved here from um Europe, and had been working for a Nazi concentration camp um for a while earlier on in his life and was in hiding in the US for a long, long time, but eventually has since found him out And he was brought to justice just this year, um, after seventy years. Um and uh the funny thing about sin is uh though people we as people think that we can get away with it and that we can hide it and that we can we can advance our own agenda and somehow get that past God. We can never do that. Not even seven year seventy years after the fact uh the the Lord made sure that his sins found him out. Because God the thing is God is a God of justice, he loves righteousness, and he hates sin. And whenever there is sin, God always does act on it. And though it may seem like he's slow to do it, that's because he's patient. And we're going to see in this passage uh an example of God's wrath and his patience and how that actually can be an encouragement to us in the very world we're living in right now, even if it seems like we are losing ground. We've been talking about this book. We've been preaching through this book, 1 Thessalonians, and the theme of this book is Comfort and Counsel. toward blamelessness at the coming of Christ, when Christ appears. And at this point in the book Paul is reviewing his ministry to the Thessalonians during that three-week, uh maybe longer than three-week period that he was there planting this church. And we've talked about how he's really giving them an example of what a godly leader is like, starting in verse 1, and all the way down through verse 17 and even somewhat beyond that into chapter 3 you get this example of what a godly leader is like. And he showed that in the first four verses talking about what a godly leader's motive is, that it's to please God, not to earn his favor, but to please him because God already loves you. And then in verses six of all the way through uh thirteen, or sorry, twelve rather He talks about the manner of ministry that a godly leader has. How uh there's three family metaphors that we walk through. One, that a godly leader thinks of himself as an infant totally dependent on God. Also as a as a mother who's gentle, who actually has affection and self-sacrifice for those he ministers to or she ministers to. So that that leader is willing to lay down their life like Christ did and do whatever the cost in order to help those people grow. And then in verses ten through uh twelve we had how a a godly leader is like a father. He has that vision for those people that he wants to see walking worthy of the Lord. And he's giving them the communication that they need for that, um in the right timing. And he's uh he he's Um he's behaving himself in such a way that those he ministers to know that he's blameless, that there's nothing he can bring to his account. So all all of these things building up Uh and then it's almost like in this passage we have tonight we get this little digression, it seems. Because all of a sudden Paul is just thanking God for them again. Um and it it almost seems like are we going back to this first chapter because the first chapter was all about thanking God for them. Um but actually if we if we look at this passage thirteen through sixteen we'll see Paul's giving them still a window into how she how he's thinking as a leader, even if he's doing it through Thanksgiving. If you look at verses uh thirteen and fourteen Uh for this reason we also thank God without ceasing, because when you received the word of God which you heard from us, you welcomed it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth the word of God which also effectively works in you who believe. In his mindset, in a godly leader's mindset, what guarantees effectiveness in his ministry is not necessarily anything about him. It's the power of the Word of God. And it's whether the Holy Spirit is at work in those people Giving them that faith so that, like it says in Hebrews, they mix what they hear with faith so that it actually does profit them. Um and it says in Galatians that we receive the Spirit. Okay, we we we have our our fill of the Spirit By hearing with faith. So as we believe as we hear the word of God and believe it, not just hear it and gloss over it, but hear it and give in our hearts the amen to that. The Holy Spirit is at work in us and changing us. And then he goes and shows us how he knows that that was effective in verse 14, and that's Where we're going to really uh burrow down in tonight is fourteen through sixteen. And after he establishes that he's dependent on the Word of God, His main point in this passage, what we're going to really look at, is that a godly spiritual leader knows And it looks like somehow this sentence didn't print out, so I'm gonna have to formulate right here. Um he's basically saying that a godly spiritual leader uh knows the end of his opponents. Okay? And because he knows the end of his opponents and what God is doing in the people who are opposing him, he's able to stay encouraged. through the opposition. Alright, so with that in mind, uh what what is it about what God's working and what God's doing in these gospel opponents that can actually be encouraging and can actually comfort these people. Uh well let's start in in verse for fourteen. Uh for you brethren became imitators of the churches of God which are in Judea in Christ Jesus, for you also suffered the same things from your own countrymen. just as they did from the Judeans. And we have to remember, this is coming to us after in at Acts 17, which was basically when this church started. And all the way through Acts to this point um in in the church history, there have been nothing but really persecution since the s the church started from from these Judeans that it's talking about. And when Paul brings up these Judeans, he's not talking about all Jews. He's talking about those who rejected Christ, because obviously Paul is a Jew. And It was in Jerusalem that the Holy Spirit first came and was out for it and and the church started there. So most of the beginning of the church was Jews. So he's not saying all right all Jews uh are are causing all the trouble here. He's saying just the Jews that have rejected Christ. They're the ones that he's talking about when he says um the Judeans But basically he starts out by saying here that the things that that early church, that first church suffered from the Jews. are very similar to what the Thessalonians are going through right now. Now what were those same things that he says in this verse that that they were suffering? He doesn't tell us specifically what those things were, but if you look at the book of Acts and all the different things that the church was going through, it's very possible this church could have been going through one, if not all, of those things. For one, the church, the churches of the Judeans endured persecutions by Saul himself when several of them, even women, were dragged away to prison in Acts 8. 3. And it's also said of Jason the Thessalonian that he was dragged away to the rulers of the city in Acts 17. That could have kept on going after Paul left. Also, the Judean churches saw some of their leaders killed, Stephen and James, and it's possible that some of the Thessalonians could have been even martyred, and that would explain why some of them had fallen asleep in verse 413. When we hear falling asleep, it doesn't really strike us as uh anything but maybe a peaceful death. But if you look at what it says when Stephen died in um in Acts chapter 7, it says after he was stoned, he fell asleep. So that doesn't necessarily mean that it was peaceful. It could have been something very uh violent. We don't know. And also uh something that the churches of in Judea experienced. They were accused of teaching things they did not. Stephen was accused of teaching that Christ was going to destroy Jerusalem and change the law of Moses in Acts 6. 14. And as the Thessalonians were also accused of rebelling against Caesar in favor of the king Jesus in Acts 17. So really what you've got here is accusation, you've got violence, you've got possibly murder. Um persecution tends to very often come in similar packages because people who are opposed to Christ can't do anything to us spiritually. They can't ultimately take away our eternal destiny with the Lord. They can't change our souls and make us unregenerate again. All they can do is hurt the things outside or make up things that try to oppose God's wisdom. It says about them about Stephen that they tried to oppose his wisdom and they couldn't. So they had to resort to accusation. And that's always what's going to happen when people come up with against God's truth and really see it as it is, they're not going to be able to dominate it because God's wisdom is the wisdom of God. No one can conquer that. So persecution is always going to come in these similar types of packages. And we're seeing this kind of things happen today. Christians being accused of all sorts of things. You read articles from uh mainstream media about what Christians think about certain issues that are being pushed today. And a lot of it is you get Christians are haters, they're maybe even racist, all these different kinds of things just thrown out there. Um and that's that's a tactic that's been going on for a long time. And all across the world, I was reading uh the other day about a country called Eritrea, um, where there are currently about 600 Christians that are in a prison right now, if you could call that a prison because it's just storage containers in desert conditions being given small rations of food. Um and this kind of thing is going on to this day to people who are faithful in that and and are willing to take a stand amid opposition. But if we just look at that, it's very discouraging. And so Paul taught Paul uses actually that as an encouragement. He shows them Look at the context in which he's saying this. For you brethren became imitators of the churches of God. Alright, what what is he what is he saying there? He's pointing back to that verse before, saying that the Word of God is effectively at work in them because they became imitators of these churches. When they were suffering the same kinds of things. Now those churches in in Judea had been preaching the word even more and more. When I mentioned Acts uh 8. 3 and how Paul had been dragging those people away to prison. The very next verse says, therefore, those those churches started preaching more and more in the places that they were. And these Thessalonians had the same reaction. They weren't going to stop. It wasn't persecution, therefore we back off. We we are going to keep pressing forward and trusting God with this. And that was that was A badge of their genuine faith that Paul is emphasizing here. When you go through something like that And you keep on trusting the Lord, it's not because of you, it's because the Lord sustained you through it, and it's proof that you are His. So that's the first thing that's encouraging about God's working in this opposition that we see. The second thing that we see has to do with God's treatment of those who are in opposition. How can that be encouraging to us? Well let's go ahead and look again at verse 14. For you also suffered the same things from your own countrymen just as they did. from the Judeans, who killed both the Lord Jesus and their own prophets, and have persecuted us, and they do not please God, and are contrary to all men, forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they may be saved. So it's always to fill up the measure of their sins. But wrath has come upon them to the uttermost. And I'm going to have to be uh pretty much married to my notes at this point because uh This is this is going to be something for us to walk through. But if you'll just look at this first um this first part in in verse 14 where there's a list of the or sorry, fifteen rather, where there's those lists of people that these opponents of the gospel have victimized here. So we've got they killed the Lord Jesus, okay? In Acts 2. 23, uh it says that uh you know Peter talking to the Jews, he says that they crucified him and put him to death. Then we've got their own prophets. That's probably referring to Stephen and how he was stoned. And then also James was slain by the sword by Herod, and it says that the Jews were pleased by that. So you've got these prophets that were sent to the Jews, and they also killed them. And then it says, persecuted us. We're not sure exactly w what that could mean at this point in history, but we do have other accounts where Paul says that he received from the Jews uh forty lashes minus one five times. And that's no small uh no small persecution there. So these Jews are guilty of not only of killing the Lord, Jesus Christ, but also of killing his prophets and persecuting his apostles. And their motives behind that come out next. We see how it says that they do not please God and are contrary to all men. Forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they may be saved. Not only did these people know that they were rejecting the Son of God and refuse forgiveness from him, and refuse to accept the pardon and the cleansing that would come from Christ that would enable them to finally please God with their life. Um they actually wanted to keep others from that. Um the the selfishness of that and the pride of that, the utter arrogance. and and evil that we see there um is i when when you think about it it it truly is just despicable and uh Apart from God, all of us have a heart that is capable of these kinds of things, but these people rejecting Christ just get given over more and more to this kind of mindset. And then we see also after that what their destiny is going to be. In uh in verse 16, it says, as they are forbidding them to speak to the Gentiles that they may be saved. They are always so as always to fill up the measure of their sins. But wrath has come upon them to the uttermost. Now these two phrases, so as always to fill off the measure of their sins, but wrath has come upon them to the uttermost, are probably the most confusing sentences. So we're gonna take a little bit of time. to look through different passages that are going to help us understand this a little better. So first, if you don't mind, I'd like to have you to turn to Leviticus chapter 26. Leviticus 26. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, and Chapter 26, And what you've basically got in that passage is God explaining to this nation Israel What is going to happen to them if they keep his covenant or if they break it And we mentioned before how God is very patient. And you'll notice the first part of this passage, verses three down to about 13 talk about the blessings of keeping the covenant. But then you've got from 14 all the way down through about 46 explaining the process that happens if they don't. And just how much longer that portion is shows us and and the levels of judgment that they go through. There's There's several throughout here. You look at the different paragraph divisions in your Bible, each one of those just about is a different level. Okay, of judgment, as God is showing his patience and not utterly casting them off just yet, giving them more and more chance to repent. So as these people reject God's words, if that's what they choose to do, He's going to bring judgments on them for the purpose of bringing them to repentance. And we see throughout these judgments several levels, and they all kind of culminate in verses 27 through 35. That's what we want to look at primarily here. Leading up to this, we've had all sorts of things like diseases will come, your crops won't grow, all sorts of things like that, and then we get to this judgment. And after all this If you do not obey me, but walk contrary to me, then I also will walk contrary to you in fury, and I, even I, will chastise you seven times for your sins. You shall eat the flesh of your sons, and you shall eat the flesh of your daughters. I will destroy your high places, cut down your incense altars, and cast your carcasses on the lifeless forms of your idols. My soul shall abhor you I will lay your cities waste, and bring your sanctuaries to desolation, and I will not smell the fragrance of your sweet aromas. I will bring the land to desolation, and your enemies who dwell in it shall be astonished at it I will scatter you among the nations and draw out a sword after you. Your land shall be desolate and your cities waste. Then the land shall enjoy its Sabbaths as long as it lies desolate, and you are in your enemy's land. And the land shall rest and enjoy its Sabbaths. As long as it lies desolate, it shall rest, for the time it did not rest on your Sabbaths when you dwelt in it. So God has given these people all these different layers of judgment until he gets to this, when finally he's going to lay their cities waste, cast them out, scatter them. they aren't even going to be recognizable as one unit of people anymore. They're going to be all over the place. And there were very s severe things in there that I'm not going to repeat that are that are are hard to even read. And all of these things historically were fulfilled in God's judgment. The people of Israel went through these cycles of obedience. and disobedience leading to judgment in the Old Testament, where you see these things playing out. And they experienced this often in the Judges period in the book of Judges, but also you see it mostly played out in um in in detail in 1st and 2 Kings and Chronicles. And God always put them through these judgments in order If you look at verses forty and forty-two But if they confess their iniquity and the iniquity of their fathers, with their unfaithfulness in which they were unfaithful to me, and that they have also walked contrary to me, and that I have walked contrary to them, and have brought them into the land of their enemies, and if their uncircumcised hearts are humbled, and they accept their guilt, then I will remember my covenant with Jacob. And my covenant with Isaac and my covenant with Abraham, the unconditional covenant, he'll remember that one. And I will remember the land, and he will bring them back. So they always have that to go back to. God is very, very merciful. But Israel did persist and rebel and found themselves at this final point. Once in the Old Testament. They had committed idolatry and worshiped God incorrectly. And in 2 Chronicles chapter 36, verse 15 through 16, we have this description of what happened to them. And listen to how similar this sounds to the passage in 1 Thessalonians. And the Lord God of their fathers sent warnings to them by his messengers, the prophets, rising up early and sending them because he had compassion on his people. and on his dwelling place. But they mocked the messengers of God, despised his words, and scoffed at his prophets, until the wrath of the Lord arose against his people Till there was no remedy. These Jews had a big sin problem. If you look at that passage in Leviticus verse 43, God boils it all down to, they despised my judgments and their soul abored my statutes. They did not listen to their God or believe their God. Like we talked about in in how how anyone is going to be able to have God work in them. It starts there. And these people did not do that. And their expression of that led to worshiping the idols of other nations and worshiping their own God in addition, but in the incorrect way, in a way that was convenient for them. And over the periods of years it led to this point where it was beyond remedy, and they went into that Babylonian captivity that we hear about in Daniel. But fast forward to after Ezra and Nehemiah and the Lord did bring them back for a time and they built the temple again and the walls and things were blessed again, there was a revival. Fast forward all the way to the time of Christ, and you've got the Jews in this same place of abhorring God's statutes again. But this time they did it by adding all of these extra rules and regulations. It was as if they looked back Saw how their fathers messed up by bowing down to idols and said, We're not going to be like that. We're better than that We're going to be extra careful about keeping the laws, and that's going to make God really impressed with us, and that's going to be what's going to guarantee our salvation. Okay, is that we're gonna set so many strictures in addition to what God has said to make us feel good about ourselves, okay, that God is gonna be impressed. That's the way that they went wrong. Um they had religious systems built on traditions and regulations and they had thought that they had learned from their mistakes of their fathers. They didn't worship statues anymore, now they worship God, but the problem was they worshiped him in a way that they made up still. And the real sin that a people commits is treating God's judgments in His Word as if they're worthless, as we already mentioned. So look at with me Matthew chapter 23. Verses 27 through 37, and we'll see what Jesus said to this nation when they got to that point. Okay, Matthew chapter 23, verses 27 through 37, we have Jesus coming and addressing this very issue with his people again. This time in the flesh in person. And he says to them, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites For you are like whitewashed tombs which indeed appear beautiful outwardly, but inside are full of dead men's bones and all uncleanness. Even so you also outwardly appear righteous to men, but inside you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. Because you build the tombs of the prophets and adorn the monuments of the righteous and say, If we had lived in the days of our fathers, we would not have been partakers with them in the blood of the prophets. You see what's going on here? They're tampering with the graves of the prophets, decorating them, making them look good. trying to signal their own virtue, okay, by setting up monuments for those who had it right, or if you if you w want to say it the way we're hearing it all the time today, who were on the right side of history. So they're building these these monuments to people like Isaiah, probably people like Daniel, people that really stood out as prophets who got it right but were treated wrong. And they're doing this to feel good about themselves, to prove to themselves we really have it right. Because they're able to look back and see the errors that those people committed. But yet they're so blind to their own That they think the answer to their their guilt inside is to identify themselves, is to line themselves up with people who got it right in the past instead of examining their own hearts. Jesus indicts them that they look good on the outside, but on the inside they are full of lawlessness. And we see the exact same thing today. In our culture, we have people tearing down monuments, building monuments, changing names of libraries and schools and all these different kinds of things, of things that went on in the past. But unwilling to look at their own hearts. We have the same exact problem today. So what does Jesus say to them? He says, therefore, in verse 31, you are witnesses against yourselves that you are sons of those who murdered the prophets. He's saying he's turning this on them and saying, look, the real problem you have to grapple with is not Okay, that these prophets don't have big enough monuments. The real problem you have to grapple with is that you're standing at the end of a long line of rebellion. Look at, think back to Leviticus 26 again. All of those layers of judgment don't happen in one generation. They happen in multiple generations, and that's why it said that these people had to confess their sins and the sins of their fathers. Because this happens over a long period of time. God's patience is very, very long. But okay, if you choose to side against God with your forefathers You are going to inherit their progress in God's judgment. Look at verse 32. Fill up then the measure of your father's guilt. Serpents, brood of vipers, how can you escape the condemnation of hell? All of that wrath from Leviticus 26 had been built up and built up and built up again. To the point where Jesus was warning them, once again, you stand near the end here. If you look further down in the passage, verses 37 through 39, Jesus is mourning for Jerusalem. He wanted to gather them, just like God had compassion in the other passage we looked at. But then look if you look in verse or sorry, chapter twenty-four, the beginning of that We have him mentioning how the temple is going to be destroyed and prophesying that. And that happened in AD 70, some about um 40 years after Christ's death and resurrection. And so these warnings are not empty. They do come with real threats and real danger. And this grief that Jesus shows is not empty. God's wrath is guaranteed when a generation persists in sin. But if you look at verse 34 through thirty-six, therefore indeed I send you the prophets, wise men, and scribes, some of them you will kill and crucify, and some of them you will scourge in your synagogues and persecute from city to city. that on you may come all the righteous blood shed on the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah, son of Barekiah, whom you murdered between the temple and the altar. Assuredly I say to you, all these things will come upon this generation. If you do choose to side against God, not only will you inherit the progress in his judgment, you're going to inherit all of the guilt since it began. And it says all the way back to Abel, the Jews inherited. That's in Genesis four, the beginning of your Bible. You inherit that guilt. And that that kind of torment and punishment in hell is terrifying to imagine Nations stand on stand to inherit the guilt of their fathers. We all inherit Adam's guilt. And if you remember back to Genesis, God was not ready to send the Israelites into Canaan yet because the iniquity of the Amorites was not yet complete. They had not reached his point of wrath. They had not worn out his patience yet. And every nation is somewhere in that process process. Sinclair Ferguson illustrates this concept of inheriting guilt that's maybe difficult for us to grapple with because we we understand you are accountable before God for what you do. Um but he puts it like this, we don't complain when we see s w that we've inherited something from our rich uncle, you know, a a house or something like that. We just know that that's how life works. Because of the family you're in, you get certain blessings. And you didn't necessarily earn them yourself. That just comes from the the generation before. Why do we complain about the the negative side? It's just how the Lord has set these things up. But there is always mercy again, and we don't want to we don't want to be fatalistic about this. So if you look back at 1 Thessalonians chapter 2 again, with all this in mind, I think it'll it'll probably make sense to you right away. And we'll just give a few brief comments on on what this means. If you look at verse 16 of chapter 2 again. Forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they may be saved so as always to fill up the measure of their sins, but wrath has come upon them to the uttermost These Jews were filling up and progressing in the judgment of God that they inherited from their forefathers. And because of it, it was already to the point of no return, where wrath came upon them to the uttermost And that to the uttermost basically means it went to the last level. It got to that last point that we looked at in Leviticus 26, where they finally do get to the end. Jerusalem was destroyed in AD seventy and has not been restored to its former glory since. Now that makes sense now for Paul, okay? He's he's facing this opposition, this persecution. And thinking about it in terms of God's work and his wrath and what he's doing. And that is giving him And he intends to give it to his people an encouragement that though things look very bleak right now, God is going to turn things around. And these people who are persecuting and killing God's messengers are going to be given justice. And all that they really are accomplishing by all of this in your face violence that can be so emotionally involved for people who are going through receiving that is all going to be handled by God indisputably forever, once and for all. And that is intended to comfort them and to enable us to endure when we have this kind of opposition and persecution. And this doesn't just apply, okay, to people who are opposed by Jews because God is the judge of all the earth. And just to say it our nation is at a point, if you look at Romans 1, there's a very similar progression of God's wrath. Okay, that is that extends to any nation. And it isn't just taking away food. In fact, it doesn't even really mention taking away prosperity in that passage. It mentions taking away their ability to reason and to understand and to make moral decisions. And if you if you are willing to accept it and you read that passage and you look at where our culture is at today, We are very close to the last phase, which is called the um reprobate mind, in which Mankind loses his ability to really make a moral decision anymore. And so seeing that can be discouraging because we're going to face opposition for that. But but what do we need to remember? By way of application, we need to not be deceived by these movements that are on the prowl to silence Christians and advance more anti-God agendas when they say that they're making progress. All that they can truly accomplish in the eternal scheme of things in all their opposition of the gospel is to heap more judgment on themselves. We need to be reminded constantly who the real winners are in the end and what real victory looks like now, or else we'll be discouraged and defeated when these movements gain ground. And uh I was listening the other day to Corey Tenboom's book, The Hiding Place, and how she was put under arrest and in prison alone, somehow got copies of the Gospels, and was reading through them. And was struck, the Lord really illuminated to her in that moment, that every real victory of God seems to start with a defeat. When Jesus was crucified, things looked hopeless. And that was encouragement to her in that moment that her enemies We're going to see justice. God was going to prevail. And we need those kind of encouragements when we're in that level of suffering ourselves. But also we need to pray for these people who are opposing the gospel because think of the level of suffering in hell that they are going to go through if they do not come to Christ. Right after Jesus gave that warning, he immediately broke out into weeping. For the nation, because of what was going to come upon them. Stephen, when he was being stoned, prayed to the Lord that he would forgive those who were who were doing this to him. And Jesus, when he was being crucified, said, Father, forgive them. They don't know what they're doing. We need to be on our knees for our nation because What they will experience, what those who oppose the gospel will experience if they do not come to Christ is the most terrifying thing there is So um I was supposed to not go quite this long, but uh um that's all I have. So Pastor, if you'll come and fill in those gaps for us. Thanks. Thank you, sir. Appreciate that. Appreciate that. Um I thought overall he did a good job with that. We had talked prior, that's a rather difficult passage in First Thessalonians there, and I said, well just do your best and uh I'll you know if it's why I'm here to to help through that. Um overall I think he I think he handled First Thessalonians just fine there in that passage. A couple of things I'll just point out just to maybe clarify a little bit. I won't take a lot a lot of time with this. We'll get to prayers soon here. Um uh uh couple things. Uh one is when it's This whole the whole thing that Paul is talking about here, he's really referencing the leaders of the nation of Israel, the Pharisees particularly, which uh Zach mentioned. and the leaders of the nation of Israel, but in Acts chapter two as well, when they persecuted everybody, when they persecuted the the apostles particularly, um it's it's They were representing the nation of Israel. This isn't talking about the ethnic group of the Jews. So we want to be careful that we don't read into the idea that, okay, this is a particular ethnic group the Jews that are that are somehow cursed of God as an ethnic group. That's not what we're talking that's that's not what it's saying here. It's saying that as a nation of Israel that is to be used by God as a special people to be a light to the to the gent to the Gentiles like they were in the Old Testament. That was d God's intention. God gave them the opportunity to do that as a nation. They fell into idolatry in the Old Testament. And by the time they get to the New Testament, you've got the Pharisees who their major problem, as Zach said, is self our self-righteousness. Let me put it, I'll put it this way. In the Old Testament, you have the idols, they're worshiping false gods. Who are the Pharisees worshiping themselves. They're still worshiping false gods. Okay? They've just changed their false god. Now they're worshiping themselves. And the big thing to remember, yes, they inherited in on an on an and I also mentioned this that Israel as a nation, how God used them in the Old Testament is different than any other nation. So you can't you can't make Uh Zach made one basic application when it comes to sin in general being corruptive, which is fine. But to make that application as okay well different nations are going to fall into this as Israel did. No Israel was a special nation and the the purpose of Israel to was to be a light to the Gentiles and a light to the world. Who replaces Israel in that purpose? The church does. Now, one more thing to to point out, just to clarify and make sure, and I'm I'm not contradicting anything that I uh um you're saying. I you did a good job But I'm just sort of pointing, kind of getting our bearings on this a little bit, um, trying to help, you know, make sure we're we're clear on this Um the other thing remember is yes it says that they the fulfill the fullness of their sins or the fullness of the judgment as their sin came ap pass. Uh Zach also mentioned this, but I'll just want to reiterate it. What was the single thing that the Pharisees neglected to do? that could have changed the course, theoretically anyway, could have changed the course of Israel when Christ came. Yeah, they rejected Christ. They they re- they re they did not repent. So they were given multiple opportunities. In fact, John chapter 5 says there were five different signs that Christ were that Christ gave them. One after another after another, the Pharisees rejected every single one because why? They were worshiping themselves and wouldn't humble themselves under Christ. And really that is the culminate. That's why God said, okay, my judgment is going to be upon you. You rejected my son. Okay, so I want to make sort of that clear to everybody when it comes to the nation of Israel and why ultimately God said, Okay, I'm done with you. Uh now, doesn't mean done forever, he's going to use them again in the millennial kingdom. But I'm I'm going to set you aside, I'm now going to take the church And I'm going to use it, I'm going to create this thing called the church, which is going to do your job, which was to be a light to the nations in that way. Okay, does that make sense to everybody? Hopefully Uh and make sure we're we're clarifying things as much as possible. Uh so we're not there there are a lot the reason it's important to clarify this is there are a lot of uh weird ideas that people get into their minds when it comes to these kind of passages, things like uh Jewish people can't be reached, or Jewish people or um all kinds of ideas that are not what the what the text is saying and we want to make sure that we're clear on that. Okay, uh let's go ahead then and if you have any other questions about that please feel free to come in Uh talk with me about it and I can kind of clarify anything what you clarify. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.