Just carefully presenting the gospel. Um and Especially when we're looking ahead to Vacation Bible School and all that that is planned for that and the and the possibility of being able to lead kids to Christ there or at least give them the gospel. And we all have uh many of us anyway have children or grandchildren or um children we know, uh and of course opportunities to give to the ad give mm, the gospel of the adults, all of this, it really is important that we give serious consideration to Not just, okay, the message of the gospel, but as I put here, the right motive, the right message, and the right method. And what I want to do is actually, we'll begin with Romans chapter 10 tonight, and I just want us to look at verse 9. We'll come back to this verse, but I'll start off this way, sort of as a launching point into our discussion. And in Romans chapter 10, verse 9, it says, that if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus And believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. And there are several things in that verse that we're going to look at, but it's but what's clear in the verse is it's more than just a head knowledge. It's also not it's also more than just some feeling. There's they're accepting the gospel with saving faith. is something that that is um uh has several several components that have to be included in that. So I want to begin by actually pointing out several common problems from an inaccurate presentation of the gospel. What are common problems? But before I do, let me ask you What would you say might be common problems from an inaccurate presentation of the gospel? Any ideas? Yes, Joe? Problems could be that the person who presented hospital two has more faith in the decision they made without coming to actual safety Okay, so they're actually placing their faith in a point in time decision rather than faith in the the gospel. Good point. Yeah. What else? Yes. Okay, wrong motive. They've got they've there's something there's some other reason they're coming to Christ other than to to follow him. Yeah. Good. Yes? I follow him. Okay. I I went through the list of the instructions. Okay. Any other any other common problems? All right. Improper motivation, Josh hit on that one. Misunderstanding. Just not understanding the gospel, not understanding the what the what the really the focus of the gospel is. False assurance. This is a major problem where people actually think they're saved and they're not saved. What are some ways uh Job pretty much mentioned one of them? What are some ways that people gain false assurance, Carol? Yeah, praying a prayer, I prayed a prayer, and now I'm I have assurance. Does the Bible ever say that we get assurance of our salvation from praying a prayer? No. Never. Doesn't ever say that. Um so yeah. I think it also can come from um not just on her aspect, but The feeling that you have this experience. Okay, yeah. Yeah. In fact somebody w uh sometimes people have some sort of um near death experience or things like that. And not that God God can use that to for the gospel to you know for the gospel to to penetrate a person's heart. But if they're ex if they're depending on some sort of experience they had that really had they don't really have an understand the gospel, they just had an experience that they're trusting in. Yeah. Misplaced faith and placing your faith in a decision or in a prayer or something like that. All of these things are common. in Christianity common in our circles in Christianity, and in some cases they're almost epidemic. And they are particularly problematic among children, Christian children that grow up in the Christian home and one or uh one of these four areas become a real uh th there's something not right in how they have come to Christ. that's really going to cause problems for them spiritually. And um and part of the part of the problem I've seen also in Christian circles is everybody just assumes that oh well they're in a Christian home and they're like you know I don't know around 10, 1112 so they must be saved. Well that is uh not the case should not be assumed uh that that's the case. Even if they understand the gospel, um to to make that assumption is something that is is uh is is unwise and and inaccurate. So what we want to do when we present the gospel is we want to avoid these things. We want now, some of it you can't know a person's heart completely. You can't absolutely say, well, that person has that motivation, that person has that motivation. But You can teach the gospel and present the gospel in such a way that it elicits a wrong motivation. or an improper motivation versus a right one. If you really talk about how much of a wonderful life you're going to have after you come to Christ, Is that going to elicit a wrong motivation? It absolutely is. Okay? And that's actually the problem with the health and wealth movement, is they'll tell you that Jesus will give you a better life. Jesus doesn't actually say that in the sense that they mean it. Look at all the apostles there martyred. They didn't have a better life this side of heaven. Now they do ultimately eternal life is a better life. So all of these different areas are areas that we have to be very careful about. Common problems from an inaccurate presentation. Uh and then there's sometimes people are afraid that they don't have salvation and they actually do. Is that a possibility? It is. It's a possibility on the one hand somebody could have a false assurance and on the other hand somebody could actually uh not have assurance, but they really do know the Lord. So all of these are possibilities. We need to be sensitive to them all to all of them. And we need to learn how to present the gospel in a way that isn't necessarily going to absolutely eliminate the possibility of these going wrong, of something like this going wrong, but reduce the possibility. Alright, if that makes sense. So let's talk first about motive. What is our motivation? Okay? So let me just ask you, what is the biblical motivation for for someone coming to Christ? What's the biblical motivation? Any ideas? Nobody wants to get this wrong, so everybody's quiet. Let's see what Jesus says. John 17, 1. He says, he lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your son, that your son also may glorify you. as you have given given him authority over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as as you have given. And this is life eternal, that you may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. So So what is the what's the motivation in this passage? Verse one, it's to glorify God. Okay. So that's the purpose. Um Uh so how do we flesh that out practically? Um when someone comes to Christ, when someone truly comes to quite Christ, They are moving from dependency on self and glorifying self, which we all are born want we're all born with a flesh that wants to glorify ourselves. Is that not true? We we definitely have that. It's in us to want to glorify ourselves. And when someone comes to Christ, they move from wanting to glorify self to glorifying God. And that happens through a dependency. It's a dependency that shifts from a dependency on self to a dependency wholly on God. But if there are other motivations that can happen, what are some wrong motivations? We've mentioned a couple, but what are some wrong motivations that are not along these lines that people might, yeah. Fire insurance. Okay? Yeah, just just fire insurance. I don't want to go to hell so I'll pray a prayer. Okay. Now if now did Christ preach on hell? He did. In fact, he preached on hell more than heaven. Why? Why do you do that? To scare everybody? No, he did that because hell demonstrates the punishment for sin. Conviction is absolutely necessary in order for us to come to Christ. People must realize not only that they sinned, they've got to realize the severity of their sin. It's a severe thing, and it's going to send you to hell. So he did preach on hell for that reason. Alright, so what is our motivation? 2 Corinthians 2 verses 13 through 15 say, I had no rest in my spirit because I did not find Titus my brother, but taking my leave of them I departed to Macedonia. Now thanks be to God which always leads us to triumph in Christ and through us diffuses the fragrance of the knowledge in every place. For we are we are to God, the fragrance of Christ among those who are being saved, among those who are are perishing. So we're to be Christ's fragrance among those who are saved and those who aren't. Let's let well we're gonna get back to motivation in a minute and and flesh all this out. Uh let's go to the message now. Uh-oh. That was weird. Okay. So what keeps us from having a relationship with God? Well, we know that from Matt so so what I'm going to do with the message? is I'm not going to flesh out every part of this. Let me just tell you, if you want to really clearly understand the message of the gospel, one of the best explanations that I've seen is the exchange material. It goes through uh uh God is holy, God is just, God is loving, and God is merciful. And and walks you through that very carefully. So I'm not going to redo that But if you uh I would really encourage you to go through that, think through that, met that, and you'll have a really clear understanding of the gospel as you go through that. But just practically, what keeps us from having a relationship with God? Well, the problem is sin, right? Um and and the wages of sin is is what? Death. Is death. What kind of death is that? Yeah, we're talking about spiritual death here, which is eternal separation from God. So that's the problem with sin. And the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. This is our message. If you want to go to one place in the gospel, in Scripture, where Where the gospel is stated. Like there's different aspects of the gospel. You can go to Romans 6. 23, you can go to Romans 3. 23 talking about sin. You can go to uh uh you know Romans five eight talking about Christ. You can go all over the place in Scripture uh to to compile the gospel But if you want it all in one place, or at least the central part of the gospel, the central theme of the gospel in one place, you're going to find it here, 1 Corinthians 15 Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preach unto you, which also you have received and wherein you stand, by which also you are saved if you keep in memory what I preached unto you unless you have believed in vain. So he says, I declare unto you the gospel which I which I preach to you, you've received, and wherein you stand. So we're clearly talking about the gospel here. And he says By which you are saved, if you keep in memory what I preach unto you, unless you believe in vain. By the way, does that tell you is there a way to believe in vain? There is a w there is a common faith that is not a saving faith. There is a kind of faith that is believing in vain. And that's the kind of thing we have to be careful of, yeah. Yeah, I think that's part of it probably. And we're gonna actually flesh that out a little bit, but knowing knowing God in uh intellectually versus actually uh exper you know relationally knowing God. I think that's that's part of that. Um it's a bel easy believism. It's sort of a Um there's no there's no commitment aspect of it, there's no repentance, there's no it's just uh uh it's sort of a half-hearted kind of a belief. And that's that's to believe in vain. For I delivered unto you, first of all, that which I also received. What's the gospel? That Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures. And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to scriptures. That's it. So you're talking about the person of Christ, who he is. And that he died, what did he die for? Our sin, and then don't leave him on the cross. He rose from the grave. That is what the gospel is if you're looking at scripture. That's the gospel. Alright, let me ask you this question. I've asked this before many times, but it's been a while. We had COVID last year and it's been a while since I've done this. What is, if you have the gospel, and let's say the gospel is a bullseye You know, like you're you're shooting a arrow or you're shooting a gun. Um and at the in the center of the bullseye, what is the center of the gospel? Does anybody know what this the whole let's say the whole thing is the gospel. You know, you have sin understanding sin is necessary, understanding the death of Christ is ne uh understanding um um uh the the p payment for sin is necessary, understanding the character of God is necessary. All those things are necessary, they're all part of the gospel. Okay. Okay. Alright. He took our place. It's our substitute. The substitutionary atonement is the way is the theological term. That's the that is the bullseye. Our substitute. He is our substitute. What is the heart of the gospel? Greg Gilder says sadly the doctrine of the substitution is probably the w the one part of the Christian gospel that the world hates the most. People are simply disgusted with the idea that Jesus is being punished for someone else's sin. This the core of the gospel is that my sin, uh my sin deserves death And Jesus dies in my place. He died in my place. It's a substitution. That's the very bullseye of the gospel. And if you do not know that and you do not have that, you do not have the gospel. You take the substitutionary atonement of Christ out of it, and you've lost the gospel. And that is really, really important. There have been people But I have listened to them and their understanding of the gospel, and they've left the substitutionary atonement out. They'll say things like, Well, I ask God into my heart. Or ask Jesus into my heart. Or Jesus. They'll say Jesus died for me. That's the substitution too. But they really don't know what that means. Jesus died for me. Well what does that mean? Well he just died for me. Well what does that mean? He died for my sin. Well what does that mean? You have to, it's really important. He died in my place. He died for me Okay? Um so the substitution is the bullseye of the gospel. It's absolutely imperative that we understand that. More than one author uh uh has called it divine child abuse, and yet to toss the substitutionary atonement, Greg Gilbert says aside, is to cut out the heart of the gospel. We have a very good tract out there by Greg Gilbert called the What is the gospel? That's the question. Uh um and he deals with this. This is a book he wrote on as well. You simply cannot leave the substitution out, or even downplay it in favor of other images, or else you litter the landscapes of Scripture with unanswered questions. You can't s you can't, you know, downplay it or any you know some people want to. The idea that that Jesus actually died in my place. For some people, we're so used to it it doesn't bot bother us. But for some people that that bothers them because what does it mean? Well, it does mean they're guilty, but it also means they can do nothing. There's nothing they can do. They have to fully place their faith on Christ. And a lot of people have a hard time with that, particularly adults. He says he will know by no means clear the guilty, Exodus 34, 7. But to him who does not work but believes on him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness. When you're thinking about the bull's eye of the gospel, when you're presenting the gospel, you want the substitutionary atonement in mind You want? Okay, so so if you have the that being the bullseye, that's what they gotta get. They gotta understand that. Well then they're never gonna understand that if they don't understand their sin, right? They'll never get it. You've got to understand your sin in order to get that. You're never going to understand that if you don't understand God's holiness. Why? Because why did you need a substitute? Well, because God must judge sin. So you've got to you and you can actually sort of uh reverse engineer the gospel by taking the substitutionary Christ and then thinking about everything else that's needed in order to make sure that's clear. Okay? And it's usually best to start with God's character, man's condition, and then the substitutionary atonement of Christ. And then the final step is what? Well, our application of that truth. Okay, how does that all apply, which we're going to get to? Here's a great verse on the substitutionary atonement of Christ, 2 Corinthians 5. 21, for he made him Who knew no sin, that's by the way, why he can be a substitute. He lived perfect lived a perfect life, fulfilled the demands of the law, that we might become the righteousness of God in him This is an awesome verse for the substitution. I mean, this is like one of probably the clearest verses on the substitutionary temple of Christ. He was made sin, who knew no sin for us Why? So that we could become the righteousness or to be declared or the righteousness to be declared. He declared us righteous. Okay? And that's what justification is. And by the way, that's also something I was talking uh a few weeks ago. I guess a couple of Saturdays ago out here our picnic we had, remember we had that visitor that came and uh he was talking to me after and and telling me all kinds of different scriptures and saying he said that that we're justified by faith. And something wasn't quite sitting well with me and how he was putting it all together and I just said, Do you know what justification means? And he said, because he used the word justification. And he said, well that's like, you know, if somebody is trying to figure out what they're supposed to do they're going to do something, and when they do something, um they're they they argue this is I should be doing this. That's not biblical justification at all. Not even close. That is our modern term justification. I've come up, I'm doing this action, and I've come up with a justification for that action. That isn't really we would the the word rationalization is actually what what he was talking about. Justification biblically is a totally different idea. is to be declared righteous by God. And and it's bec and Christ can do that. Why? Because he was our substitute. He died in our place. First Peter two twenty four, who himself bore our sins in his own body on the tree, that we, having died the sin, might live for righteousness by whose stripes you are healed. And by the way, in case you're wondering, that is healed from sin. He's not talking about any kind of other healing there. Who himself bore our sins in his own body on the tree, that we have uh that we having died to sins might live for righteousness by whose stripes we are healed. That is the core of the gospel, yes. would agree that there's this potential when someone says you know when it with good motives quickly saying a dot one thing that I think wants to present where the where the challenge is thinking that all he did was to do take the punishment for us and not anything. Miss the fact that he wanted he he really wanted to take away our sin, you know, in the long run. Like the room of God is taking away the sin, and that's like all the version of reading. Yeah. He took he took uh their sin he took our sin on himself. to be able to give us his righteousness. The only uh the only thing you want to be careful of, nothing wrong with that, you can say take away your sin. Um but it is a You don't want them to get the idea that they're not going to sin anymore, so you have to be careful about that. But I agree with you that if you gloss over that too fast and you're just he took your punishment and you're on and you're moving on uh uh then then yes they can definitely get the wrong eye they they're not they not they may not really understand the gospel. That's a good point. Yeah So let's then talk about the method. We talked about the motive. We talked about the message. Now let's talk a little bit about the method. How we're going to ask this question, how does one appropriate the gospel? And we read Romans 10, 9, and 10 And really what you see in that passage are three things. You've got to be able to confess with your mouth. The word is to say the same thing. Confess does not mean in that passage that you need to sort of you know, um bend down on your knees or like have some sort of confessional or rosary or something. It's actually saying, say, confess with your mouth, what are you supposed to confess in that passage? What are you what are you supposed to suppose to confess? The Lord Jesus is what it says, right? Confess what it's homologo is the word. Say the same thing, the Lord Jesus. The point is what it's uh what it's saying is You're supposed to be able you you need to have enough understanding to articulate the gospel. You don't have to articulate it perfectly. There is I'm still learning things about the gospel. Okay, so it's not like you no longer are learning things about the gospel But you had there is what is necessary is an understanding of certain things. Okay? Secondly, believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. Believe in your heart includes both agreement and acceptance, and acceptance includes repentance. What is repentance? A change of mind that results in a change of action is to turn from your sin. So understanding, agreement, and acceptance. All three of these things are necessary. All three of these things are necessary in order to truly have saving faith. And the acceptance is actually the big one, but we'll get that to that in a minute. Now, let me ask you this question. Out of these three things, and I I say this like I've I've taught this a lot, right? Most of you have heard this before. But out of these three things What is the which one is most difficult for the adult to do? You're giving the gospel to them, and which one of these three things is most difficult for the adult to do? Okay, acceptance. Or agreement maybe, but acceptance. That's the hardest one for the adult to do. Understanding is not hard. The gospel is not that hard to understand. Particularly for a full-grown adult. Understanding is not hard. Agreement and acceptance, those are hard for the adult. But let's ask the same l let me ask you that question for the child. For the child, what is which one is the hardest? Understanding. Understanding. Understanding is the hardest for the child. They'll accept anything you tell them. In fact, the easiest is acceptance, the next easiest is agreement, and the hardest is understanding So when you're teaching children, what don't you want to do? You don't want to gloss over the understanding and move to the acceptance and have a you look you uh you can get a lot of kids saved, quote unquote, really fast. Okay? I'm a six foot four guy, and if I tell them you need to pray a prayer, they're gonna do it. Okay? But that doesn't mean they're saved. All right? And so and so you our role really, our focus is to really try to help them Line by line, precept upon precept, really understand the gospel over time. It's really only the Spirit of God that can help them accept it. And but understanding is the thing that a child most has a hard time with. So that's the thing we want to emphasize. How about a teenager, by the way? Which one is the hardest for a teenager? What's that? Probably agreement. Probably. Because teenagers don't want to agree with anything. I'm I I'm halfway joking and halfway not. I have there's an element of truth there. But but um but agreement is uh i they're now that's the the for a for a teenager that's when they're testing things and that's right actually there's nothing wrong with that I tell my kids all the time, I want you to question things. You just have to do it in the right way. So so the in adolescents and teenagers, that's when you're now thinking through what you really agree about. What you really what okay, mom and dad taught me this all the time. Now I'm so you get into this agreement phase where you finally say, okay, yeah, I really agree with this for my very own. Okay So what you don't want to do is have a child if a child quote unquote agrees and accepts without understanding, what is that potentially going to produce down the road? What problem? False assurance. False assurance. Exactly. That's the problem. And you don't want, what is the problem with a child having false assurance? I'll tell you the pro the biggest problem with a child having false assurance. They don't interact with the gospel anymore. They they say it's done. Been there, done that, bought the shirt, okay, I can live my life. That's the worst thing. You want your kids to be interacting with the gospel. Just to continually be interacting with the gospel, to really come to full understanding, agreement, and acceptance. And so we want to be really careful about that, that we really emphasize understanding and let God in His time do the agreement and the acceptance and help them understand all three of those things thoroughly. Suggestions on giving the gospel to kids. Okay, so if we're going to emphasize understanding, rather than trying to emphasize agreement and acceptance. If that's the goal, here are some suggestions. The emphasis of the gospel of gospel teaching for the child should be on understanding rather than making a decision. So we're trying to teach the gospel, help them understand the gospel, rather than you need to make a decision. Do they need to make a decision? They do It's not wrong to say they need to make a decision, but to press them for a decision, to require to without them understanding, is really a it's an epidemic problem in our in our in our culture, our Christian culture. In fact, I will I will go one step further. One of the things that we try to do, and I'm just saying this as a repeated thing in our church, If their parents, as you're teaching kids for BBS and other places, if their parent knows the Lord, I would ask you not to not to bring them to a place of decision without involving their parents. Okay, involve their parents first, bring them into it. I am really thankful that uh per the person that brought me to Christ did that, called my mom, had my mom come over. I was only I was four years old And I did understand, honestly. I can remember the whole thing. I understood everything. But she was still wise to call my mom and and help and she went through everything thoroughly with me. So the the emph so the emphasis of the gospel of teaching the the children, don't emphasize understanding, not decision. When giving the gospel to children, we should err on the side of caution when bringing them to a decision. Err on the side of caution. If the Spirit of God works in a person's life to bring them to the gospel, are you going to be able to stop it? I don't think so. They could stop it. They have a choice. But I don't think I can stop it, to be honest with you. So understand that. Can I try uh oh and I'll say something else about that. Is it possible for someone to come to Christ and not be able to look back and point to a specific time? Yes. And just uh well along those lines, this is not in my notes, but along those lines, what is the biblical way assurance comes? What does the Bible say? How does Bible assurance come? It's not writing your date in a date of your salvation in the Bible. It's not praying a prayer. What's the biblical way assurance comes? Okay, that's how we test and others, but not spin but there's another way. Uh Lisa. Okay. How does the how does biblical assurance come scripturally? Yes. The Spirit bears witness that with our Spirit that we are the children of God. Biblical assurance comes by the Spirit of God working in us that gives us that assurance. Now How does that come? How does the Spirit of God work? We know this. John chapter 3, Romans chapter 10. It's through the Word of God, right? So the Spirit of God works through the Word of God to bring assurance. So if somebody comes, if a child or adult or anybody comes to me and says, I'm not sure if I'm saved My response is, let me teach you the word. Let me help you to understand the gospel. Let's go through the gospel. Let me ask you questions to help you understand better. Let me just continue to help you saturate your mind with the gospel because I know that the Spirit of God is going to help you. Now, it doesn't mean they don't come to a decision Where they say, I want to follow Jesus. That is going to happen at some point. But my my emphasis, but that can happen, frankly, without me trying to press it on them Okay. Um can a child who fully understands the gospel come to saving faith uh on their dis uh That's word of weird. Come to saving faith on their own? And the answer is yes. Okay, so what we want to do when we're interacting with kids, we want to ask good, thought-provoking, comprehension kind of questions. Okay, what makes a good question to see if someone really comprehends something? What makes a good question? Does anybody have any ideas on that? Okay, it the answer can't be yes or no. It can't be a 50-50 chance. Okay? All right, good. Can you explain this to me? Why? Ask a why question. Okay. Good. Any other ideas? Yes. What does something mean? Good. Okay. All of those are questions that may that I'm asking to see if they really understand, and that needs to be the focus So here are some ones that you might want to consider. What is the problem with your sin? Okay? What is the problem with sin? Alright, right. It separates us from God. It's not have uh um I mean you could say have you sinned, I mean then you admit that, that's fine. But what's the problem with your sin is uh is not a yes or no answer. What did Jesus die uh why did Jesus die? Why did Jesus die and rise from the grave? Why? Why did that happen? That is an excellent question to ask. What is necessary in order to accept Jesus' gift? Do you want to know God, have a personal relationship with God? Now that could be a yes or no. That's going to be a yes or no. Okay, but I think that's one that you I mean, you're not asking do you want to go to heaven is actually my point with asking that question. Okay, because everybody wants to go to heaven. Okay, no, do you want to know God? Do you want to have a personal escape? Do you want to follow God? If yes, what do you think you should do? That's the second part of that question. So those are the kinds of I'll I'll put it up there again. So those are the some of the questions and not all the questions that you should be asking. Frankly, parents, you should probably ask A hundred questions to your kids over time in their development spiritually to help them to really understand the gospel. There's uh uh over time. Um it should be a constant thing that's just discussing the gospel and as you're just doing things and your devotions and your and your you know uh just asking qu questions to pro provoke thinking and to under and to help people to underst help kids to understand. Now, I think there is probably a point I'll get to this one. I I I think there is probably a point, especially in the teenage years where you need to say, look, are you going to follow Christ or not? I don't think there's anything wrong with that. When they're when understanding, when they clearly understand what that's not an issue anymore, when you've gone through all the questions, I still don't think you press a five-year-old. Okay? I think it needs to be entirely voluntary. Um and I and but but if they get into teenage years, older teenage years particularly and they still haven't come to a place where they really want to follow where they have have made a decision for Christ. I don't think at that point there's probably anything wrong with saying, are you are you going to follow Christ? Are you going to are you going to trust Christ as you are going to receive Him or not? But I would caution you about doing that too early. There's really no good reason since they're going to come to Christ if they understand and agree and accept because of the work of the Holy Spirit in their lives. Any questions about any of this? Yes. Do you think that um sorry Do you think that a law needs comprehension? questions. I think I think personally a really important one is what are you going to depend on for for the salvation that you say. Sure, good. Yeah. Because the in the idea of They thrust those can be very neb nebulous, so you have a child. Yeah. But you know, to talk about the tendons and what you're doing Depending on I think really helps matter we know. Yeah, what are you relying on, what are you trusting in? Yeah. And using those different kinds of words to to to help them understand. It's all the same thing. Faith, trust, depend. But uh it it's not easy believism that we're talking about here. There is a kind of belief, it's vain belief, that we want to be careful about. Yeah. in general not for the children specifically. Yeah, I agree. Actually thinking more along the lines of a lot of people I know. Yeah. Um when one would suggest it's say they are a leader, but really th they're just you know that uh um you know the idea you gotta get a boss before you um what would you say would be a good thing Yeah. Yeah, I mean I uh in a situation like that I would It all depends on the situation, the context and everything and what I think they understand. But for an adult that thinks they're saved and they're not, I think a great question is, so why uh uh m maybe something like so why do you think Um maybe maybe you would ask what is absolutely necessary What is necessary in order to have a relationship with God? That would open up more of a conversation if you ask something like that. You know, what is what is that what is necessary? Maybe what's not necessary, what you know, I probably that is going to open things up more than something that's going to be more of a pre precise uh answer. Um, so that might be might be something. But uh it depends on the situation a lot of times. I mean like with a guy I was talking to, he said justification by faith, he used the term and I was like, well what does that mean? And what do you think that means? And that opened up our conversation. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call, so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273 or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.