It'll be in Luke chapter 9, verse 23-26. Right before we go to gospel. Dear Heavenly Father, we just thank you. For another day in your house to fellowship with other believers. We thank you for um these reminders and song of your sacrifice on the cross. Uh we just Pray that you would help us today as we hear from your word to be open and receptive to the message. Pray all these things in your name. Amen. Then he said to them all, If anyone desires to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. For whoever desires to save his life will lose it But whoever loses his life for my sake will save it. For what profit is it to a man if he gains the whole world and is himself destroyed or lost? For whoever is ashamed of me in my words, of him the Son of Man will be ashamed when he comes in his own glory, and in his fathers, and of the holy angels. Well, good morning. I want to take a moment just to give my thanks to God for all the blessings that we have in this church and how he has blessed us and I wanted to thank in particular this morning Miss Joy for such a professionally done video of the BBS and I am so grateful and thankful Thankful. We are so blessed of how blessed we are to have you and your family here. And I'm so thankful for the uh beautiful uh video that you've done. And I'm also thankful for all of those who served in BBS this past week. It was a busy week. And uh so this morning I just want us to th About all the songs that we have just sung is the reason that we are here today and together. But are there not times in our lives When we go through deep waters, struggles, loss of family members maybe, or Going through marital problems, maybe having illnesses and struggles. And sometimes these struggles that we have seem to be overwhelming. And we sometimes kind of wonder It seems like it just keeps piling up one thing on top of another. And we kind of wonder, is it worth it all? What am I going to do? How am I going to handle this? And it just seems like it is overburdening to us. But we're going to learn this morning. That Jesus, when he was calling his disciples and was giving them instruction of his death He also brings out to them that the cost of following Jesus Christ. There is a cost. There is a price that we pay in following Jesus Christ And this morning I have a little uh story that I heard from another pastor, and I thought it was kind of uh appropriate for this morning. morning. But there was a young man and he had all of this stuff coming down on him and he was overburdened and it just seemed like one thing after another. And so he was carrying his cross This is a story about carrying his cross. And he came and it was so burdened to him that he finally had to fall down on the ground and cry out to God. He says, Father, he says, I am just too weak. I cannot carry this anymore. Is it possible that I could exchange my cross for a smaller cross? So God the Father looks down and he says, son, he says, pick up your cross and go to that door and put your cross inside that room. And then I want you to come over to this door, and I want you to go in there, and you can pick up any cross that you want. So he takes his cross, puts it in the room, and he comes back out, goes to the other door, and he opens it up and he's so overwhelmed. There are crosses in there. Of every size. There were some crosses that were so tall that you couldn't see the top. There were some that were so wide you couldn't see around them. There was all sizes of crosses in this room. And over on the side was a little two-foot cross. And he said, Lord, I want to take that cross. Is it okay if I take that cross? And the Lord looked down and he says, that little cross there? He says, yeah, that little cross there. He says, well my son, that's the cross you brought in. And if sometimes we think about our our our burdens and the cross that we bear, and sometimes it seems like it's overwhelming, but we are not alone. Each one of us in here has a cross that we are to bear. And I hope that when we learn this morning, the passage that we are going to be in this morning is a popular passage. It's been preached on here before. We're most of us are familiar with it. So it is given this morning because I was convicted when I was reading these passages in my own life. And I was thinking about my own life and when I read this It kind of convicted my heart. So that's why I'm bringing it this morning. And I think that in this passage is a great reminder for each. We're all familiar with the passage. We're all familiar with what we got to do and this and that. But God here brings it out so clearly. So as we turn to Luke chapter 9, verse 23 through 26, I want to give you And this passage is also in The same passage is also in Mark and it's also in Matthew. Matthew gives just a little bit more detail, and I want to go there. Matthew chapter 16. And look at verse 21. This is what's taking place here. In Matthew 16, 21, it says, From that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go up and suffer many things from the elders and the chief priests and the scribes and be killed and be raised on the third day. Then Peter takes Jesus aside and begins to rebuke him. And he says, Far be it from you, Lord, this shall not happen to you. And he turned and said to Peter, Get thee behind me, Satan. You are an offense to me, for you are not mindful of the things of God, but the things And so this brings us now here to this passage in Luke. And I just wanted to give that foretaste because it There's a couple things I want to point out here. Let's turn to Matthew 16, 21 to 23. For a little more, I'm sorry, we just did that one. Jesus here now is beginning to show his disciples that he must go up to Jerusalem and suffer many things. He's telling them this here. And he's saying to them from the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, he's going to be killed, and then he will be raised on the third day. Now this pronouncement here signifies something here special. This signifies that there is a great turning point. In Jesus' focus from his public ministry. Not that he's given it up altogether, but he is going to concentrate more and more on the private instruction of his disciples. And it becomes a more somber tone. And the disciples already had confessed, if you remember when uh we we mentioned it in uh I think it was in Sunday school this morning, where Jesus says, Who do they say I am? Who do the people say I am? And then who do you say we are? And Peter says, You are the Christ, you are the Messiah. So they have this confessed faith that he is the Messiah. And Jesus is now going to prepare them for his death. And you can only imagine the disciples' surprising shock by Peter's response Peter rebukes Jesus, far be it from you, Lord, that you this should not happen to you. And of course, Jesus rebukes Peter and tells him To get behind him because he's only thinking worldly. And this now brings us into Luke nine, twenty three through twenty six Where Jesus is revealed to the disciples and he's teaching them that there is going to be a true cost to being his disciples and preparing them. There is a price to pay in order to follow Jesus Christ. And it comes with a cost following Jesus. And every one of us understands Now I want to make a clarification right here. Yes, our salvation is a free gift. Given to us by God. But I want us to keep in mind that it costs our Savior, Jesus Christ the suffering and rejection and the death on the cross. And in Ephesians 2, I want to go a little further here. Ephesians 2, 8 and 9 tells us. For by grace you have been saved through faith that not of yourselves, that it is the gift of God, and not by works. Now when I read the first part That our salvation is by God's grace. So it's unmerited favor. There is nothing we bring in to being saved. It is God's work. God is the one by his grace who is chosen to save us, and he also gives us that saving faith. I think that faith and grace in that particular passage goes together. These are the gifts that God gives us. Saving grace and saving faith is a gift from God. And I know there's a lot of the uh people who don't always agree with that, but I think Pastor and I both agree on it. We've talked about about it before. But when you're thinking about it here, then he goes on to say, for we are God's workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand. That we should walk in them. And then I want to take you to Philippians 2. 12, which also helps us here. I want us to see that when it talks about a cost for following Christ, it's not that we are trying to earn our salvation or earn God's approval. And so in Philippians 2. 12 he says, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God who works in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. What is this passage teaching us here? We have a responsibility to work out our own salvation. With fear and trembling, we're talking about having a reverence for the preeminence of Jesus Christ, having a reverence for God in our salvation. So how is it that we are working it out when it says that it is God who is working in you? What does that mean? Well, every Sunday normally we come here and we listen to Pastor Jim preaching the word. Or we're in Sunday school, we receive God's word. And when we do our devotion and stuff. we're receiving God's word. God is working in us this word. And our responsibility in this is to take what we're hearing. Meditate upon it, think it through, and then allow it to live out in our lives. This is how we work out our salvation. There's nothing that we're trying to do in and of the flesh, but as God is teaching us, we have His Holy Spirit. And it's his Holy Spirit that is giving us the understanding and teaching as Pastor Jim is presenting the word. If it says, Thou shalt not steal, we're going to think about this and we're going to go through meditation on it and what does that mean and what does stealing mean? Am I stealing money? Am I stealing time? Am I stealing this? And we think of this through. And through that we apply it in our lives that we don't want to steal. We don't want to be stealing things. God says not to, and we're learning. So this is how we are working out our salvation. It is by our uh receiving the word and allowing the spirit to work in us and then applying it in our lives. And so it's important that we understand here that I was not referring to the fact that we can earn our salvation in anything And not just hearers. What happens if you are just a hearer of God's word and you're not applying it? You are deceiving yourself. To think now there are many people in this world that will profess that they are a Christian. And yeah, I go to church, yes, I do this, I do that. But they are not actually Being the example in their life. They're still living and doing the things that the world are doing. There's no change in them. They have deceived themselves just because they go to church. And just because they have a little thing on the wall that says they're a Christian doesn't mean they are a Christian. So this is what this passage is talking about. about uh with James there. But Jesus reminds us of the cost in Luke chapter 14. I want to touch on this one real quick. I want us to understand it. Luke 14, 26, 30 says, If anyone comes to me and does not hate his father and his mother, his wife, his children, his brothers, sisters, even his own life. He cannot be my disciple. Whoever does not bear his cross and come to me, come after me, cannot be my disciple. So, we've been in this passage before. Does God really mean that we hate our parents. I have a friend, I think a lot of you know that I get together with five other men on Wednesdays for Bible study and we have breakfast at Double T. Anybody Welcome to come, by the way. Uh it's in Annapolis. But we're studying the book of Jeremiah. But we have a gentleman in there who's been a close friend with me probably 30, 40 years. close to. His name is Roger, and Roger's mother is 101 years old. And so his prayer is always, he has this burden for his mom because she was brought up in Catholicism and she really does not know Christ. And what Roger wants to speak to her about, she calls him for different things. She's having a problem with neighbors taking something from her away Whatever and all this. And he's always praying for her and he goes over. But when he wants to talk to her about the Lord and her relationship, she wants nothing to do with the conversation. She is okay. I don't need to hear that. I don't need that and he's so concerned because she's a hundred and one years old. She's getting ready. Her time's Limited here. But one of the things that I want us to see here, Roger will not give up Christ and try to appease and work with his mother. He doesn't hate his mother, he loves his mother. But he's not going to bow to what she's saying and what she's believing and and try to take that as his. He's keeping in focus with Jesus Jesus Christ. He is loves his mother, but he loves Christ preeminently. And this is, I think, very important for us to understand because it is hard, is it not, to follow Christ? It is hard. It is hard. But here, we're seeing here now that uh as I think about my friend Roger and how much he loves his mom, but yet Christ has the preeminence. So Jesus now goes on to explain in uh this other passage about building a tower. If you want to build a tower, you have to keep Count the cost. You have to count them. Make sure you have the money. Make sure you have the material. Make sure you have the time. It's like if you want to build a house. And so he's warning that if you get in the middle of building that tower and you cannot complete it What happens to the people around you? They start mocking you and saying, huh, they started up, now you can't finish. And that's why we are getting to this point right here. in Luke. It's something we never want to lay down our cross. We don't ever want to think that it's not worth it. We don't ever want to there are times when we feel like giving up, right? There are times. That we feel like giving up because we just can't seem to have that peace that passes all understanding going through something. But here I think he's really telling us to count the cost. Can you do this? your life. And so now as we come here to this passage, there are going to be times that things will we'll have to forsake. to let go of and let down. And so here now, Jesus gives us three prices that present a cost of following heaven. And I want to read them or in verse uh nine twenty-three, he says, He said to them all, if anyone desires to come after me, let him Deny himself. The first price of following Christ is denying the price of self-denial. The price of self-denial. And I like the way Jesus has everything in order here. It begins here, the price of self-denial. Then he says that to take up his cross daily, so now we have this price of lifelong responsibility to take up our cross daily. So we don't ever want to When we come up on things and come into things that are hard in our life, we don't want to just shove it aside or lay it down and move on to go to something else or go somewhere else. We have to bear that. We have to go through that, trusting Jesus Christ. As he brings us through it and it's hard. But the third thing he says is, and follow me. So we are to deny ourselves, pick up our cross, take up our cross. cross daily and the price of identifying with Christ when it says follow me we are identifying with Christ. Jesus Christ is our example So let's take a look at denying self. What does it mean to deny oneself? What do you think, or what do you consider to deny yourself means? It's kind of very self-explanatory here. But some people People don't always catch it. Self-denial is not self-improvement, it's not self-punishment, it's not that what you're letting go and putting off. It is about recognizing That our own will, our own desire, our own selfish desire, can be a barrier to true discipleship with Christ. And therefore, we make this decision to actively and purposely choose to align our will with God's will. In plain English, it's this, giving up my self-desire for God's desire. I have prayed this prayer many times. But I think I've heard some others in here pray it sometimes. But God make your desire, put your desire in me that I may live the way you live and have the desires you have. It is a it it's a struggle in life, but talking about from salvation all the way to end of life. And so here when he talks about denying self, this is not a one-time decision that we're gonna make. It is a choice that we have to To make daily. And Jesus clarifies this in verses 24 and 25. Look what he says in 24, 25. For whoever desires to save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake will save it. Hmm. Does that not sound funny? Odd? If you desire to save your life What's he mean by that? Whoever desires to save his life will lose it. And what he's talking about, if those who are des trying to desire to save their life here and now, they are unwilling to choose to deny oneself over the pleasures of the desires of this world, of the flesh. The here and now. We're talking about the here and now And he says, if we want to live for now, and we want to live at our ways, and we're trying to save our life so we can do that, only to, at the end, lose everything and even our own soul. And so here, uh in living uh, how does this look for someone who's trying to save their life and trying to do it now? This is living for self-gratification. That things, what things make me happy? What things do satisfy my fleshy lust? Things that satisfy my pridefulness. You know we all like to be loved, don't we? We all like to be loved. We don't like them when people hate us. But here, in this person's particular, it's It is a focus of his that he wants people to like him and envy him and approve him. This is the world's standard. It's the world's way. You've got to have a big house, you've got to have nice car, truck, motorcycle, both, all those things. You think of Hollywood And you think of musicians today, and I I'll tell you what gets me is you hear it on the news all the time. Well, this guy ha is worth $150 million In my day growing up, we were lucky if we had $150,000. What are they doing with it? They are buying more houses and building up. They want people to look up to them. We look up at movie stars sometimes, don't we? We sometimes look up to musicians, pick ones that we like and some that we don't like and so on and so forth. And there's nothing wrong to have favorites. I'm a I'm okay with that. But what I want us to see here is they are trying to live their best life now. They don't want to wait to get The choice comes in the next passage, uh the next part of that where it says, but whoever loses his life for my sake What does it mean to lose his life that it will save it? Loses his life here is what self-denial is It's completely surrendered to Christ. Without any reservation, Christ-like character will come out in us. Humility is important. Love for others. Unselfishness. Have a character that desires to see others come to Christ and loves his neighbor. We were just talking about that this morning, weren't we? It's hard to love our neighbors sometimes. They can do things that will aggravate us and make us angry. But we are told and if if we love our neighbor, what we're actually doing is we are denying our own self and our own hopes and what we think is we should have. So when we uh our denying self, this is going to come out in the way we treat and love our neighbors. And I think also Christ like character, like humility and all these things, and uh wanting others to come to Christ. And I think here too that having done this and are trusting in Christ, it guards our heart. It guards our eyes. It guards our ears what we hear. and what we lust after, the temptations and the lust of the world. We live for the future gain with Christ in heaven, not for the here and now. And to please the pleasures of this world. And when he talks about those who are uh willing to give up their life now, we're setting aside all of our desires here. And this is har hard to do. We can't do it without, first of all, Christ. We can't do it without the Holy Spirit. We can't do it without brothers and sisters in Christ. We're not put here as an island. We're put here as to encourage one another. And so when you're thinking about this, I like it that um it makes me think. This is why I started thinking. There was things in my life that I had time to think about I'm retired now so and uh I've been busy getting surgeries and whatnot so I've been home most of the time. I'm not I haven't been out much except uh couple of guys I went to visit. But it's funny how God started making me think and I'm thinking about this. What are the desires I have? I'm sitting here at home. What are the desires I have? What are the things that are going through my mind that I know are of the world and not of Christ. And there are things here now it makes me think and know that there are some things I'm going to have to put off here. I'm going to have to get rid of these things if I want to follow Christ. I don't do it in my own strength. I don't do it because I want to be somebody. I do it because Christ And I think here the reasoning we find in verse 25 is this What profit is it to a man if he gains the whole world and in himself is to be a very good thing? destroyed and lost. What is the profit? If you gain, if you get all these houses and and stuff you have in Hollywood and all that, what what do you gain? Because at the end of your life, nothing there that you put everything into It's going to be of any value. It's not going to do anything for you. You're going to die. Then you're going to face hell Which they don't understand, they don't know that, because they don't love God, they d they hate God, and we're gonna learn about that in a moment. But I wanna show you something here, and I there are many scriptures that tell us That instruct us how we are to deny ourselves. But I like Paul's instruction. It made it simple for me. I learned this years ago when I was a young Christian. But he says here in Colossians, turn to Colossians chapter 3. real quick. And we are going to look at verses um uh chapter three of Colossians. Look at verse eight. We'll begin there. I like the terminology that Paul uses. This is what it means to He says, but now you yourselves are to put off these things anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy language, out of your mouth Do not lie to your neighbor, since you have put off the old man and his deeds. So if I'm denying myself and I want to follow Christ, why would I continue in the ways of this world in my life? Am I not willing? That's the cost I have to pay. I had to put those things off in my life. And he says also as he goes on, who is re and I like this, he says, and have put on the new man, who is renewed how? In knowledge, according to the image of him who created you. And look down at verse 12. It says, Therefore, as the elect, I am and you are, elected by God, holy and beloved because of Christ's righteousness. He says, put on tender mercies. Is that not hard? Do you have someone that just rubs you the wrong way? Maybe somebody works. Somebody in your family family maybe. They're always rubbing you the wrong way. It's hard to put on tender mercy towards someone. But we have to do that. And he also says kindness. I think of my wife Joey years ago when she was working at the school, they had a lady working there who was very not very nice at all, very mean, didn't have and nobody liked her in the school And Joey one day, I remember you telling me this. She said, I'm just going to show her kindness. She said, I can't do anything to to satisfy her. I'm gonna just show her kindness no matter what. And I'm sure that was hard. But and when that lady finally left that school, the thing she said that the only one who was kinder her in that school was Miss Joey. We don't it's it's hard to do that, but to me it's a great example of being kind. When people are not kind to you. And we are to be humble, we are to be meek, we are to be long suffering. We are to bear with one another, forgiving one another. If anyone has a complaint against another, even as Christ forgave you We need to forgive them. Forgiveness is hard to do sometimes. And a lot of times the hardest part about forgiveness is the pride we have to put down to come in, maybe admit that we We have done something wrong or need their forgiveness. But I like in verse 14, this kind of brings it all together for me. But above all, these things put on This is what's going to take place as we're going through these changes. And I think here in verse uh sixteen kind of some of the It up, which was what we were talking about. Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly. In all wisdom, teaching and admiring When we are learning God's word through our quiet time, through our Sunday school, through our teaching here that God is giving us through Pastor Jim, all these things, we are to let it dwell in us richly. And that changes our thoughts and our desires and attitudes as we trust God through this. And he says, whatever you do, do all in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ giving thanks to God and the Father through him. Now what happens if we are one who is denying self and we see a brother or a sister? struggling with carrying their cross or going through something. What is our responsibility? We are to reach out and come along that side, that person And encourage them. We want them to know that they are still God's child. They are still loved by God. And you can't gain any more approval from Him Obedience brings blessing. But I think here when we're talking about denying self, I guess the question I would have this morning, am I living For selfish pleasure for this world here and now. Do I want to do everything I want to do now? I have a motorcycle, a lot of you know. I haven't been on that motorcycle since I've had service And I will tell you there are times when I wanted to pull it out and jump on it and go for a little short ride, but I have to set it aside. It's not the focus of my life. I love riding a motorcycle, but it's not the focus God is the focus of my life. And I need to be ready and willing to set those things aside, those selfish pleasures of this world and especially for now. We want everything now, but we are to deny ourselves and follow Christ. Am I denying myself? Selfish pleasures? This world for the future will I have in Christ in heaven? Am I denying now what I know I'm going to gain better? in heaven when that day comes. 923, the second thing he says is that we are to pick take up our cross daily. This price of the life of long responsibility. This is a lifelong responsibility. So the price of lifelong responsibility is when we take up our cross daily. This is a thing we do every day. And a lot of times our crosses are not actually, some burdens and stuff we have are not actually the cross. that we're burdening here. We kind of use it sometimes, but the reasoning behind is Jesus tells us in Matthew 6, 24 This is the reason for this passage. No one can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will be loyal to one and despise the other. You cannot serve two masters. We cannot serve this world And Christ at the same time. We are in it, but we are not of it. Now, he says to take up our cross daily. What does the cross represent in life What does the cross represent? May I just give you a few things that I've uh found here. I think, first of all, the cross reveals love. It truly reveals Reveals love. Jesus Christ, who is our example, loved the Father even to the point of death. He was willing to take that cross and suffer and die. to please the Father, to do the will of the Father. And the second thing is that love that he had for the Father, he had for each one of us, you and I, that he was willing to take. Now here's Here's the thing that gets me. Christ was sinless. Yet he came and he suffered. He went through. He was rejected by the people he came to suffer. Save and so on, and yet he's willing to go to that cross and bear our sin. Not his. He bore our sin There's no greater love than that. And I think about when he bears our sin, he's actually bearing the wrath of God upon himself that belonged to us for that sin. And he died there on that cross And he was buried in the tomb, and on the third day he arose. When he went to that cross, died, and rose again, he conquered sin, all of it, for all time. He also conquered death. And he conquered Satan. He did all of these things. And when I think about him being my example, what does it mean? here and I think here that first of all it is that represents love the love that we have for Christ that's why we bear our cross we love Christ and we want him to have the preeminence. And the second thing I believe here that the cross represents persecution, it represents rejection, it represents hardship, suffering, even death, because we're following Christ. And this is what Christ was trying to get across to the disciples. Okay, I'm going to go through this, but you, if you want to follow me, you're going to have to do the same thing. Now, I think a lot of times we misinterpret what we're carrying as far as the cross is. But one of the things about the cross is carrying the cross was never private. When someone was sentenced to death in Rome, they had to carry the top bar of their cross all the way to where they were going to be nailed to the cross. Jesus did the same thing. And what it shows everybody, the reason they're carrying that cross, comes out as to why they're being nailed on the cross. Jesus was carrying that cross and going to that cross because of us, so that we could have salvation. So we can he He suffered that shame. He took it all upon Himself And don't think it wasn't hard. I don't think we've ever come to the point that we've had nails driven. I've had one shot through my foot one time by mistake, but that nothing compared to what we see see here in Christ and then having people spit upon you and all those things. But here we see there is hardship going to be in our life. And this is what I think that it is hard to carry our cross. But knowing that it is publicly showing when we are aligning ourselves with Christ and we are staying true to Christ, We're going to burden these these burdens that we have, these things that we have coming. Even when people which we're going to find more and more today, people if you ever watch the news, we have a lot of people in our country very mean and very hateful and they hate Christians. And Jesus is telling us here we're gonna see in a moment. Hey, they hated me first. They'll hate you too. But I think here when I think about This and in Philippians 1:29. Sometimes I view the cross in a wrong manner. But in Philippians 1:29, he says, For to you it has been granted. What's been granted Granted to you and I by God. On behalf of Christ, what's granted to us? Not only to believe in Him, we have this saving faith, but also that we also suffer for His I think about Peter and what happened when Jesus told him that he was going to die and that it was the religious leaders that were gonna kill him. Jesus was think, I mean uh Peter was thinking worldly, was he not? He wanted, as we were talking in Sunday school this morning, he wanted to have Jesus be king now. He wanted him to get us out of room and rule and all this and that. He wasn't thinking. And especially when Jesus just told him that I'm going to rise again. He missed that part. He didn't want Jesus to die at all. And I think sometimes when we think about life and suffering, uh the here and now, in order to take up our cross daily, there are things that we're going to have to let go go. And those things that we let go, and we talked about this is also in Sunday school this morning, one of the biggest things to let go in carrying a cross or to um Oh, deny ourselves. One of the things that causes people not to do that is fear. Fear is the problem a lot of times. Fear of man, fear of what it might cost me. Fear that what if Jesus is not true and I'm living my life all this life and I get there at the end and there's no fear Satan puts that fear in us. And a lot of times we are afraid. I think of Peter when he was in the uh in this courtyard when Jesus was being uh in court being tried and the people kept coming up to him. Oh you're you're the one of them that follow him. You're the Christian. No, no, no. I never know I wonder if when we're out in the world and we're doing things, maybe at a gathering, and someone points out, hey, I gather there's a Christian. And they don't like that. They don't like you. And so what do we do? Do we say, yes, I am a Christian. I am a Christian. believer. Or do we say, well, you know, I go to church and stuff, but I like playing around, do I like doing things in the world? You see, here it talks about that we are privileged and granted to suffer. And it doesn't, it's not fun to suffer. It's not easy to suffer. But a lot of times when suffering comes, there are things that we need to let go of, and I think fear is number one. And I think also pride is another one. We are too proud to give up our life now, the things that we want people to love us and see us. Jesus gives a clear picture Of the one carrying his cross. In ver uh John 15, 18 to 20. If the world hates you, you know that it hated me before it Hated you. If you were of the world, then the world would love you because they love their own. Yet because you are not of the world, and I chose you, I'll catch that, I chose you out of the world, that the world hates you. And he tells us to remember this. He says, a servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will persecute you And so Jesus is our example. So taking up one's cross daily is to bear the persecution, the hatred of others who don't love God. Those of the world who hate God and Jesus Christ. And one of the things that I learned here is that we need to be prepared, not surprised. Peter was surprised. surprised that the religious leaders were going to kill him. He didn't catch that. He was surprised by it. We should not be surprised. We should be prepared. And that's I think that's why Jesus has given these things to us. And I think of Charles Spurgeon. Charles Spurgeon Spurgeon once said that there are no crown bearers in heaven. That were not first crossbearers on the earth. Charles Spurgeon. So as we come to the last part, it says to follow him The price of identifying with Christ, when we follow Him, it is not easy to follow Christ. It is hard because the majority of the world hates Christ and they're going to hate you and I. So we need to be prepared and not surprised when these things come. So many things are crying out for us in our time in this world, but to follow Christ is to identify with Him. And I think of baptism as an example here. When people get baptized, they are identifying that they uh believe that Jesus died on the cross and was risen again. And when we do the baptism, we are identifying with his death, burial, and resurrection, and that we have faith in him To follow Christ is a lifelong commitment. Every day we must choose to follow. And this is not hard when it gets to a rhythm for you. yourself. But if we're doing it one day, maybe two, oh I gotta get up and do this and and we leave it out and we just go nilly willy, then does Christ have a preemption minutes? Are there times do we make the time? Do we deny ourselves that we would start our day with Christ? And so why do people make why do people not want to make a commitment? I have three things here and there are several reasons. They don't believe in God, first of all. They're not going to make a commitment. God, because they don't even believe it exists. Then you have those who don't think it's worth it. Count the cost Jesus says. And so we're counting the cost here. Is it worth it? Or do I want to live for now and have my fun and all that and then lose it up there? Or do I want to lose it here and have the glory with God in heaven? It's kind of the point here. What they sometimes see also, another reason people won't make commitment is because they don't trust God. They don't trust His Word. And I think sometimes we struggle with that sometimes. God says this, well why is that not working in me? But you know we don't give up. We don't give up. We keep trusting him. And what they sometimes see Which I think is very popular today, is uncommitted so-called Christians wanting to have the title of Christian, but want to love the world, and they want the world to love them. And sometimes they want to live their best and both worlds. And they see this and the people who are looking at Christians see this as hypocrisy. How many times have you heard people say, I don't want to be a Christian because they're nothing but a A bunch of hypocrites. We say one thing and we do another. It's important that we deny self, that we take up our cross, and that we follow Christ. There are three takeaways to uh this morning. And uh there are just three questions I want us to think about. Am I willing to lose my life now to gain it in the future? with Christ? Am I willing to deny myself of all my selfish, sinful pleasures so that I can live for Christ? Now I want to say this too, that we are saved by God God's grace and His mercy. And life is not promised to be easy, but we need to stay faithful and true to God. Am I willing to bear my cross now to gain that crown in heaven? later. Am I willing to identify with Christ no matter what the cost is? I have one last thing and I'll be As I thought about this and I was reading, I wanted to do this at the beginning, but it's a lot of reading. stuff so I decided not to do it. But I want to take us also to uh uh Colossians chapter one just to give us the reason that we are Doing what we're doing and giving Christ the preeminence and not thinking that we are trying to be somebody we're not. It says here in verse nine of First Corinthians I mean first uh Colossians, Colossians nine. It says, For this reason we also, since the day we heard it, Paul's talking about the church there at Colossians. He says, We do not cease to pray for you. And to ask God. Now, if you want to know what to pray for, for each other, for ourselves, here's an awesome prayer. That you may be filled With the knowledge of His will, with all wisdom and spiritual understanding, that you may walk worthy of the Lord. Joy, giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified us to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light. He has delivered us. Listen to this. Delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us into the kingdom of His Son. We are part of His kingdom. Christ has preeminence, in whom we have redemption through His blood. forgiveness of our sins. Don't ever complain. Don't ever complain about the cost of following Christ. Don't ever complain about it unless you have first counted The cost of your salvation. There is a cost to following Christ. But don't complain in your following until you count the cost of what it costs our salvation. Savior to save us. Let's close in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you, Father, for your grace and your mercy. And Father, we all struggle in this area. Lord, and we know that you are a God of grace, mercy, patience, kindness, and love. We know you love us. And yet we struggle, Lord, sometimes with our decisions and our choices. And our desire, Lord, to take and deny our own desire and desire your will. Father, we struggle with that. We all do. And we're thankful for your grace and your Your mercy, but we're also thankful for how you encourage us and remind us through your word. And Lord, I pray this morning if there's any here that might be struggling, any that might not even know you, Lord, might not have that relationship with you. That Father, you would by your spirit work in their hearts this morning. Encourage them. Convict where conviction is necessary. Encourage where encouragement is needed. Help us, Lord, to be faithful. And Lord, that we have counted the cost And may we, as your followers, deny ourselves and continue to take up our cross daily and follow you. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.