Good morning. Oh, that was good. That was good. We are going to be in Romans this morning, chapter 15, verses 14 through 22. And before we go there, let's have a word of prayer together. Heavenly Father, we praise you this morning. You certainly and truly are worthy of all praise and honor and glory. Father, we are grateful and thankful for your mercy and for your kindness. We are thankful that you are never changing and that in your great love for us you sent your only begotten Son, to come and take the sin of the world upon himself, and die there and take the punishment for our sin on our behalf. And was taken down and buried in the tomb and on the third day. He was resurrected up, and he is now seated at your right hand, interceding on our behalf. And we are gathered here this morning because of what you have done. And we are grateful and thankful for the salvation That you have provided. And Father, we want to praise you and thank you. As we come to your word this morning, we ask that you would help us to set aside all the cares and the concerns of the week. And help us to concentrate poorly upon your word. And I pray that your Holy Spirit would work mightily in our hearts and our minds, transforming us more and more into your image. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Romans chapter fifteen, verse fourteen Now I myself am confident concerning you, my brethren, that you also are full of goodness. Filled with all knowledge, able also to abolish or admonish one another. Nevertheless, brethren, I have written more boldly to you on the some points as reminding you because of the grace given me by God that I might be a minister of Jesus Jesus Christ to the Gentiles, ministering the gospel of God, that the offering of the Gentiles might be acceptable, sanctified by the Holy Spirit. Therefore, I have reason to glory in Christ Jesus, in the things which pertain to God. For I will not dare to speak of any of those things which Christ has not accomplished through me in word or deed, to make the Gentiles obedient In mighty signs and wonders by the power of the Holy Spirit of God, so that from Jerusalem and around about to Illyricum, I have fully pre the gospel of Christ. And so I have made it my aim to preach the gospel not where Christ was named. Lest I should build on another man's foundation. But as it is written, to whom he was not announced, they shall See, and those who have not heard shall understand. And for this reason, I also have been much hindered from coming to you Have you ever been so passionate about something and you go to tell a friend And you're so excited about what you're telling them that they sort of step they're sort of taken aback and they sort of, whoa, and almost offended when you talk to them. You're so forceful, you're so clear, you're so passionate that they almost feel as though they're they're being targeted. Well that's the what Paul is dealing with in this passage when he is talking to the church at Rome, and he has been so far extreme. Passionate. He is passionate about some things that we all should be passionate about, actually. Paul is passionate about the gospel He is passionate that people get the gospel right. He's passionate about the unity of the body of Christ. And he's passionate about how the gospel unites both the Gentiles and the Jews together in Christ into one body. And he's been very passionate about these things. He has admonished these people that they should be different to one another That they should unify together, that they should not allow small things to get in the way of big things. And he's been very clear about these things. But in so doing, he doesn't want them to think that this is a reaction from them. He wants them to realize that he is proactive in his teaching. He he doesn't want them to think, well, I am I am upset at you and that's why I'm saying these things. I've been clear, I've been bold, I've been I have not apologized for these things. He doesn't want them to think that. He wants them to realize, no, it is because I am so passionate, I am so confident in what I am saying, I am so bold because of the calling that God has given me to say the things that He He's given me to say. throughout this book of Romans, as we come to the end of it, has been proactive in helping them to understand not only the clarity of the gospel But to understand how that gospel should unite both the Gentile believers in Rome and the Jewish believers in Rome as well. And in so doing, the Apostle Paul is also going to express in detail the nature of why he does what he does in the ministry. the nature of his confidence and his passion in the ministry. And I think that is what we're really going to glean from this text. The reason he did it was to make sure that they weren't offended by what he was had been saying. He is going to in fact he plans to go to them. He plans to go to Rome on his way to Spain. In fact, I have a map up there for you. You can take a look at that. You could see that he is right now as he writes to the Roman Christians in Rome. You see Romans about right in the middle of the screen. To the right of that, you're going to see You see Corinth, that's where he's writing from. He's in Corinth, writing to Rome, if you'll remember from the very beginning of the book of Romans, which was quite a bit ago. This is I think this is message 44 in the book of Romans. So about a year ago we were at the beginning of Romans. And uh and if you'll see as you head westward you end up in Spain. So he's in Corinth He plans to head toward to Spain. He has started in in Jerusalem, basically, and uh the Christianity in general has moved that direction toward the west. And and Paul desires to go towards Spain, which is really sort of the ends of the earth when it comes to civil the civilized world in the Roman Empire. And he wants to go that direction. And he is saying to Rome, I'm going to come to you. We see that actually in Romans chapter 15. Verse 24 later on it says and to be helped on my way there by you, if first I may enjoy your company He has never met the people that he has been writing to, but he looks forward to the day that he can do this on his way to Spain. And in so doing, he wants them to understand that This, the things that I've said to you are because I have a calling from God to say what I'm saying. I am proactive in what I'm saying, not reactive because of something that I that I'm upset at you about What we see are going to see in this passage, though, is the confidence that he has in the ministry that God has given him. And I think that there is application for us as Christians Christians as well, that we can actually see from his example the kind of confidence that we can have as well in the ministry that God has given us. We're first going to see in verse 14 that he has confidence in partnership. Confidence in partnership. Then we're going to see that he has confidence as a priest. And priests will see what he means by that in verse 15, verse 15 and 16 actually. And then we're going to see confidence in his purpose and finally confidence as a purpose. planet. First let's look at confidence and partnership. We see this in verse 14. The passage says, verse says, now I myself am confident. I'm confident. Concerning you, my brethren, that you also, and he says three things about the church at Rome. Notice the three things he says, three things he says. He says that you are full of goodness. You are filled with all knowledge, and you are able also to admonish one another. The Apostle Paul never met these people before, but the reputation that they have The things that Paul knows from others that are associates of his is that these three things are clearly apparent in the church at Rome. And I want to pause and ask us the question. What is really important when it comes to the kind of qualities that we should have in ministering, in serving the Lord? If the apostle Paul were to write to us, of course that's not possible for a lot of reasons, but but if if the Apostle Paul were to write to Bethel Baptist Church and he were to say of us certain things, could he say of us what he said about the church at Rome? In other words What criteria do we see in this passage that could help us as we grow in our own ministries at Bethel Baptist Church? church and our own divid as divid individuals, and I see three things here. Number one, motivational goodness. Motivational goodness. It says in the passage, filled that you are full of goodness. The word filled means to be Romans 129, the beginning of the chapter, is to be being filled with all. To be filled up with goodness. He says about these people that you are to be filled up with goodness. You are this way. I know this to be the case with you. In 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, verse 11, it says, I f uh that in that passage, therefore we also pray always for the This is This is a quality that is true of God. He is a good God. There is goodness in him. He desires to do good to his people. And the same quality of goodness that is in God as we as we are in relationship with Him, God desires for it to be In fact, Ephesians 2 says this we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God has prepared before that, that we should walk in them. In other words, what Paul is saying is there is God's goodness in you that you desire to To share with others. You desire to love others. You desire to do good things to others. And I think really in the body of Christ is what he is referring to. to in the passage. Colossians 1 is a really helpful verse. I was talking about this. He says that there is love for all the saints in verses 3 through 6. And then he says, because of the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, of which you heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel. uh which has come to you and is bringing forth fruit and as and it is also among you since the day we heard it And knew of the grace of God in you. That the gospel is in you, the goodness of the gospel is in you, and it's bring forth fruit. The second is knowledge. Knowledge. And the word knowledge is just knowledge is what the word means. Of course, we're talking here about knowledge of the truth of the Word of God. He said to them, You are full of goodness, but you are also full of knowledge. Knowledge of the truth. And this is not knowledge, worldly knowledge, or just facts. This is talking about knowledge of the truth First Timothy one five says this now the purpose of the commandment of love with a pure heart, from a good conscience, from the from sincere faith. There is a full, Colossians 2 says, a full assurance of understanding to the knowledge of the mystery. These people were full of the knowledge of the truth. And then it's interesting what he says next. He says, these people are able also to admonish one another. Now that word admonish is an interesting word. It's actually a very, very general term. It can mean a lot of things. It can mean to instruct and And to warn. It's used that way in Scripture. It can mean to comfort and to encourage. It has a very wide range of me. It is the word from which we get the idea of newetic counseling for a reason. It's that that word that we get, it's the idea to put to mind, to instruct, to warn, to admonish. You really could say you're able to counsel each other. You're able to admonish each other. You're able to counsel each other, one another, in the truth that you know, because of the goodness that is in you, because of who God is. This is his commendation of this church. 1 Thessalonians 5, verse 14 says it this way. Now we exhort you, brethren, warn those who are unruly. Comfort the faint-hearted, uphold the weak, and be patient with all. Now notice it doesn't just say, well, I know your pastor, and your pastor can do this. Or I know the elders and the elders can do this. Or your church leadership can do this. No, he says about this church at Rome to the church at Rome, you have this as a church. There is the implication that all of us, in a sense, should desire and have the ability to grow in our knowledge of the truth so that we can counsel one another. We can warn one another. We can encourage one another. We can instruct one another. We can correct one another. We can hold each other accountable. That is the kind of thing that the Apostle Paul is talking about It's also specifically mentioned in regard to church leadership here in 1 Thessalonians 5. 12. It says And we urge you, brethren, to recognize those who labor among you. When it talks about laboring among you, it's talking about uh church leadership who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you. There's your word, admonish you. So it really is something that a a pastor and elder should be able to do. They should be able to warn and encourage and instruct and all those kinds of things. But it's not just leadership. It really is something that God's people should be able to do and should be growing in. Now, I want us just to think about this for just a minute. minute. These three qualities that we have. Would you put them back there up on the screen? These three qualities that we have here. Goodness, knowledge of the truth, and ability to counsel. Those are the kinds of things that really comprise what it is to disciple each other. What does discipleship occur? See, if we're not careful, we can get so caught up in doing the things. And we ought to be faithful in the things that we're doing and the commitments that we have, that we don't think in terms of the ministry, the discipleship ministry that God has given to all of us. And the question that we should always ask ourselves is, am I growing in these things? Am I motivated to do do good to others more today than I was yesterday, or more today than I was last year. Am I growing in the knowledge of the truth of the Word of God. Do I know more of the truth of the Word of God today than I did a year from now or six months from now? Or the ability to counsel. Am I able to, with wisdom, take the word of God and use it to help others in warning and encouraging and admonishing. Can I do that better today than I could ten uh si uh six months ago or a year ago or so Certainly ten years ago. Would Paul be able to say to us, I have confidence in the partnership that you are as a church? He moves on then, and now he is going to say, I have confidence in you, but I also have confidence in my own calling. In verses 15 through 16 we see this. He says that there is he has he's bold in he says uh verse verse fifteen nevertheless brethren I have written more boldly to you on some points as reminding you because of the grace given to me by God. He says, I have written very boldly to you. There's two things we see here. He's talking really about his calling. And we're going to see this throughout the text. He's talking about the calling of God on his life and what God has called him to do. And we're going to see, there's two qualities here at the beginning, he says, one is boldness. This is something that characterized Paul's ministry. Paul was bold. Paul was courageous. This is over and over again the case in the book of Acts. In Acts 14, 3 it says, Therefore they stayed there a long time, speaking boldly in the Lord, who was hearing witness to the word of his grace, granting signs and wonders to be done. by their hands. And that's just one of many places in the book of Acts that describes Paul as one who is courageous. and bold. This is something that needs to be true of us. You see, when you really believe something, when you're really passionate about something, when you're really convicted about something, there is a kind of a focus that it brings. A kind of an urgency that occurs in our lives. And then he says, I'm bold about reminding you It's kind of interesting. He you think of bold, you think of some you uh information that somebody hasn't heard before, but apparently the things that Paul has mentioned to them in the book of Romans They have heard on some level before, they knew these things. They need to be reminded of them. And such is the nature of the ministry. Such is the nature of the teaching that we do in this church. Whether it's in Sunday school, whether it's I wana, whether it's on Wednesday nights, whether it's on Sunday mornings, a lot of what we do is a matter of reminding. It's reminding. Uh how many times have you heard a message and you've heard the same thing before? How many times have you heard me say the same thing over and over and over again throughout the years some of you have been here for many years? It's because actually in the Bible, how many times have you read through the New Testament and you've seen repeated themes over and over and over and over again in the Bible and Rome and in New Testament. Do you know why God does that? Because we are have really good forgetters. We we forget really easily Like we know it, but we don't think about it. We're not aware of it. We're not cognizant of it. Frankly, there is a sense in which we come here on Sunday mornings, every Sunday morning, not just to learn new information, hopefully you do sometimes But to be reminded. You go throughout the week, day after day, in the world, uh having to interact with the world. having to hear the information from the world, having to deal with all of that thing, all those things. And God says that there is a day where you need to come in and you need to be right reminded of who you are and what God has done and the truths of Scripture. And hopefully every Sunday you come here and you feel as you go out that you have been reminded of truth. That's the nature, a nature of ministry. Boldness, and he's reminding them. The truth is It's really true that if you don't use it, you lose it. There are some things in life that if you don't use it, you still got it. Like riding a bike. Nobody forgets how to ride a bike. usually, right? I mean if if you're uh if you don't uh if you're on a bike for t for a decade and you get back on a bike you can do that right because it's like in fact we know that's like a cliche. Oh it's just like riding a bike. You could jump back on even though even though you haven't done it for a while. No, it's more like a language. Ministry and serving the Lord is more like a language. If you don't use a language, you will lose it. Did you know that? I'm sure you realize that. Some of you took Spanish in high school. How many of you all took two or three years in Spanish in high school can speak it fluently to me today? Probably okay. Yes, thank you, Juan. All right, we got one person. But most of you and yeah, yes, and Claudia as well. She she's a instructor. Okay, a couple of you can't, okay. All right. But for the most part, if you don't and but that's actually because you've used it. Okay, you actually making my point. Uh you've used Spanish and that's why you could still do it. If you don't use it, you will lose it. Look, in ministry it's the same way Even in the knowledge of the truth of Scripture, if you are not constantly in the Word and over and over going through the Word, you can lose your ability to be able to admonish others. Now, we see in the text here, it says, because of the grace given to me by God. At the very outset, as Paul talks about his ministry and his calling, he says in verse 15. It is because of the grace of God. He's already said a couple of chapters before in Romans chapter 12, verse 6, that the giftedness that we have, that all of us have differing gifts. Verse Romans 12, 6, have then gifts differing according to the grace that is given to us. Paul at the very outset realizes That the gifts that he has, the calling that he has, is entirely because of the grace of God. We see it also in Romans 1. 5. That through him we have received grace and apostleship. And we see in 1 Corinthians 15, he says, By the grace of God I am what I am. Verse 16, then, we get into a particular focus of his calling. His particular marching orders, if you will, and that is as a priest, and I have it in quotes as a per on purpose, as a priest to the Jewish people. In verse 16, that's actually the word. It says that I might be a minister. The new King James decides to translate it as minister for good reason because it's not it isn't that Paul is actually a priest like he's a different order of priesthood than Christ or something something. No, uh Christ is our only high priest, but he is using this car term priest, or it's translated minister here, as an illustration to help the Jewish Christians that he's speaking to understand what his role is for the Gentile Christians that are there. He wants them to understand that he is a go-between. He is a mediator. He is a peacemaker, if you will, between the Jews and the Gentiles. God called Paul to a particular ministry. to the Gentiles so that he can foster a relationship with the Gentiles and the gospel can go out to them and they can be brought into the fold if you will. And he uses this illustration to help the Jewish peop Christians that are hearing this understand this. He's not saying that he's a mediator between God and men. He's not saying that at all. First Timothy two Paul has already said there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus. He is simply saying here in this passage, he is saying that he is God's particular ministry for him is to reach out to the Gentiles. And it's interesting the wording he uses here, verse 16, second part 16. that the offering of the Gentiles might be acceptable, sanctified by the Holy Spirit. Of course, you know if you go back to the Old Testament and you see what the priests And the Levites and the High Priesthood. They would receive the offerings from the people, and they would set them apart and sanctify them so that they were pleasing to God. They would be sort of the The go-between, if you will, uh the the they would facilitate the offerings being prepared and undefiled and and create pr and and put in such a way that God would accept them and his presence would continue to be with them. So what Paul is saying is, I have reached out to the Gentiles with the gospel so that they their offering, if you will, which is actually the offering of Christ, he's the offering. Would be acceptable to God. They would understand how to trust in Christ and be saved, and they would be able to be brought into the body of Christ, into the fold of Christ. That is his particular ministry. The only thing I think, of course, we do not have that ministry, very specifically, not the way Paul did. There's no question about that, that Paul was uniquely selected for that ministry. But I want to see, I do want to see the clarity of his marching orders. And the clarity of his marching orders brought forth a clarity in his message and his ministry. He did not shudder to talk about the nature, the the nature of the Jews and the Gentiles, the wall that was between the Jews and the Gentiles, Ephesians chapter 2. to the hostility that was there. He knew he was an ambassador to the Gentiles from God, and he took that responsibility. And he was very clear about the gospel, about the truth, about the the the receiving of the Gentiles, and how it was all supposed to work. He had real clarity about this. In fact, so much clarity that he corrected up the apostle Peter When Peter wasn't right on it. We see that in the book of Galatians. This is a clarity that Paul had that really propelled him to be bold in his The clearer we are on the commission, the Great Commission to evangelize, the clearer we are about what our responsibility is in sharing the gospel with people. The clearer we are on our responsibility in making disciples and discipling others, and the clearer we are about the ministry that God has for us, the more bold we are, the more focused we are going to be Paul then moves on, and we see in verses 17 through 19 the confidence in the purpose. There is confidence that he has in the purpose. And there are actually, uh this is a helpful section here. Uh we're going to see five different characteristics. of purpose in this text. As Paul turns his attention really to the preaching of the word and what his responsibility is in preaching. we're going to see his what this looks like, what this purpose looks like. First of all, verse 17, look at the text. It says, I have reason to glory in Christ Jesus. In the things which pertain to God. He glories in Christ. That's clear. And this is Paul's heart. Paul's heart is to glory in Christ. to boast in Christ. His purpose was to lift Christ high, to glory in him, to boast in him. 1 Corinthians 10 31. He who glories, let him glory in the Lord. 2 Corinthians 10. 17. But he who glories, let him glory in the Lord. Corinthians 12:5, of which one I will boast, yet I myself I will not boast except in my infirmities. Paul refused to boast in himself, and he desired to boast in Christ. He gloried in Christ and what Christ was doing. Galatians 6:14. But God forbid that I should boast except in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. by whom the world has been crucified to me and I in the world. Colossians 1, 30 28-23. tells us exactly what he means by boasting in Christ. He was boasting in what Christ was doing and did do and will do through him. It wasn't about him. It wasn't about his talents, his abilities, his greatness. No. It was all about Christ In Colossians, he says, striving according to his working, which works in me mightily. Paul realized that he was nothing but a vessel through which God would do his work to bring people to himself He realized it was about what Christ would do through him. And he did not boast in himself. He would only boast in Christ. In fact, we have what he thinks of his own accomplishments in Philippians chapter 3. You remember that passage? In Philippians chapter 3 verse 4, he says this, though I also might have confidence in the flesh, if anyone else thinks he may have confidence in the flesh, I more so He basically says, now this is interesting, Paul says, I'm a pretty talented dude. That's my translation. He's pretty much saying I am, I, if anybody has confidence, I am more talented than just about anybody else. Now, you might think, well, what a what a pompous guy. But notice what he does with this. He says, he gives his qualifications. He says, circumcised the eighth day of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Brett Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews, concerning the law of Pharisee. Concerning zeal, persecuting the church, concerning righteousness, which is the law blameless. But that but what he he says, I was blameless, I'm educated, I've got I've got uh concerning the law of Pharisee, I I've I I follow everything I have zeal. He says, I got it all. And then he says this, but think what things were gained to me. To me, they were gain. I have counted them loss for Christ. They're worth nothing. In fact, he says this yet indeed I also count all things lost for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord. For whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them, catch this, count them as rubbish, that I may gain Christ. Do you know what w what rubbish is? Well let me just explain that rubbish has to do with sewage. That's probably all I need to say. They didn't have sewage back then. They didn't have the kind of sewage systems that they do now, there would be a rubbish pile outside the city. And you know what goes through sewers into a rubbish, rubbish pile. We don't have to go any further, right? You get it what he's saying. He's saying all of his accomplishments, all of his talents, all of his abilities, all of the things that he has done in his own strength, they are rubbish Compared to the excellency of the knowledge of Christ. He would not boast in those things. Number two, purpose is supported by intelligence. See, see, not only did he glory in what Christ was going to do in him, but notice what the text says. It says, in word and deed. He's saying that in my God is using me through word and also indeed. The nature of godly purpose in ministry That there is a clarity about those things and a consistency about those things. And unfortunately, none of us are completely consistent. Absolutely we strive. The thing that sh I shudder about, frankly. frankly is the fact that I get up every Sunday, except for the last two, I get up every Sunday and preach in the pulpit over and over and over again, many hours uh a year, and then I'm accountable for practicing all of it. The preaching is not the hard part. It's the practice hard part, frankly. It's the constantly wondering: am I can is my life consistent with what I'm saying? Is my life consistent with what I am preaching? And Paul said that the there's an implication here that the more consistent our lives are with what we are saying The more the Spirit of God works through them, Christ works through them, and we can glory. It's like having a clean vessel through which water can go through, a clean conduit with which got water can go through and go to its destination. And Christ can is God Christ works through In word and in deed. Also, purpose has clear objectives. Godly purpose has clear objectives. It says to make Gentiles obedient. Now, the word obedient there, the way Paul is using it, is talking about salvation. He uses this in Romans 1:5, where it says, for the obedience to the faith among the nations. He's talking about conversion. Romans 16, 26, obedience to the faith. So when he says he wants the Gentiles to be obedient, he wants them to obey the gospel. He wants them to come to Christ. He has a clear objective in mind. Godly purpose is empowered by the Holy Spirit according to verse 19. Now, of course, uh, we know that the signs and the wonders that uh that occurred in in the first century among the apostles are something that we won't go into a lot of detail now, but we don't have those same kinds of signs and wonders today, uh biblically. But in second Corinthians chapter twelve, verse twelve it says, truly the signs of an apostle were accomplished among Among you with all perseverance and signs and wonders and mighty deeds. When it was done in the first century. And although we don't have that anymore, what we do have still is the Spirit of God. And the Spirit of God does still empower us and empower the gospel and the message. ministry that we have. It is if we are purposeful in what we do, God, the Spirit of God, does empower us. We see that godly purpose is empowered by the Holy Spirit. And then finally, verse 19, godly purpose is strategic. It's strategic. It says so that from Jer Jerusalem and roundabout Lys uh Ilyracum I have fully preached the gospel of Christ. Now if you'll just uh you could see this up on the screen uh here again I have the the map. So You see that you see the the section where he talks Alyarchum, that's the you see where Rome is, and right up to the the east of that, northeast of it, you see that entire region That's Ilarakim. So he's saying from Jerusalem, that's all the way. You see Jerusalem on the map, that's all the way to the east. So from Jerusalem all the way to Ilarakim, which is actually pretty close to Rome, that's where Paul has preached. He has been strategically faithful in starting in Jerusalem and moving out from there and making sure the gospel is going out and starting in cities and it works its way out from there into the country. He's strategic about this. And he desires, as he's going to say later on, that he comes to Rome, preaches the gospel there, and moves on to Spain He is thinking about how he can systematically proclaim the gospel in a way that is strategic. He is a he he is he cares about this. So that he can say at the end of his life, he wants to be able to say this, and he and he is able to say this. 2 Timothy 4, verse 7. I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. You know, sometimes I think we need to begin with the end in mind. I think sometimes it's wise for us to look ahead, look to the end of our lives and say, you know, what does God want me to accomplish from here? to the end of my life. To think about this, to be strategic about this. Of course, we don't know what God's will is, and we don't pretend to know that. Paul had a lot more clarity about that than we ever will, frankly But to think about that, I I really I I really appreciate uh of course most of you know that John MacArthur passed away, I think it was not this past week, but the week week before. previous week. And um you there's there's you could find any of any preacher you could find something you disagree with him about. But the truth of the matter is there are things that I really appreciate about him. And one of the is he would say what was clear in his ministry is he would say, I want two things. I want to be faithful and I want to be useful. And that really resonates with me. Those two things. He didn't say I want to be successful. By anybody's by by the world's account, he was certainly successful. But that wasn't what he was concerned about. He wanted to be faithful and he wanted to be useful And if we think to in our lives, okay Lord, I just want to be faithful and I want to be useful. You know, we're very wanty people. We want all kinds of things. I want this and I want this and I want this. I think we need to think about that. I think I think the Apostle Paul's focus on ministry was not something where he had all these things he wanted to do. No, I want the gospel to go forward. I started in Jerusalem. I'm in Elecrium now. Whatever that word is, is a hard word. To say, and moving on through Spain. That's what I want. And we ought to have the same kind of focus as well. Then we see confidence as a planner. Now, this is a specific, a specific um role that the Apostle Paul had. Notice what it says, verse 20. It says, And so I have made it my aim to preach the gospel. Not where Christ was named, lest I should be built on another uh lest I should build on another man's foundation. But as it is written, to whom he was not announced, they shall see, and those who have not heard shall understand. What is Paul saying here? Paul said that it was his particular burden that he would go to places that were that had not had the gospel message yet to unreached places. He said he didn't want to build on another person's foundation. And he said this, he believed that this was the fulfillment of a of a of a of something of a prophecy in the Old Testament. He himself was a fulfillment of the prophecy in the Old Testament, Isaiah 52 fifteen is where that comes from. It says in the passage So shall he sprinkle many nations, kings shall shut their mouths at him, for what I had uh what had not been told them they shall see Now that is the ultimate fulfillment of that prophecy in Isaiah 52. 15 will be in actually the second coming of Christ. That's when that will be completed. But Paul saw himself as a partial fulfillment of that. That that the gospel was to go in places that never heard. People who did not understand would understand. People who had not heard would hear. And the question might be uh this is something I remember wrestling wrestling with with even in college when I read this passage and there were some that would um some that would would say there were missions majors you usually and they would say, Well, um I wanna go where I I don't want to I don't want to go preach another in another church. I just want to I want to go where no one's been before um and and start a church there. And they almost would say it in such a way that was kind of I have the highest calling a kind of a thing. missionary. I was very involved in missions. I was actually the mission pre president of pr a mission prayer band uh later on in in college. I thought sh very likely very possibly I would be But Paul is not suggesting here that everybody should follow this. That everybody should try to go, every preacher, every pastor should go where n where somebody's never been Before. This was his particular burden. We know this because 1 Corinthians 3, verse 6 says this: I planted, Apollos watered, but God gives the increase. There are different giftedness, different burdens that God gives people based upon your particular gifts, and based upon Paul's giftedness and his abilities, God sent him to go and to plant churches where there never were churches before. He was a pioneer in that respect. So he planned things out as a pioneer. And I think that we can not we should not take it, well, we all need to be pioneers. But I think we all should consider what our own giftedness is. When it comes to the kingdom of God, when it comes to what God, our particular place in God's kingdom, what he wants us to do. We really should consider how what is our giftedness? How has God gifted me? Not that it's of my own greatness. No, every gift is a grace from God. We've been over that. But as God gifted, how has God gifted me in a way that I can be most faithful and useful? For his kingdom. That would be a wonderful question for us all to ask of ourselves. How has God gifted me To be most faithful and most useful for his kingdom. And to begin to contemplate that and to think about that. Paul had that clear in his mind. And so he was able to go out with clarity and boldness and conviction. Well, let's wrap this up with three questions. Three questions that I want us to as we reflect on all of these different things that I've talked about, I want us to ask three questions. Number one, R is kind of a long question. It's also in your bulletin, so don't feel like you have to To write it down. Are we motivated in our goodness to others, growing in our our knowledge of the truth, and developing in our ability to counsel others? Are we motivated in our goodness to others? Growing in our knowledge of the truth, and developing in our ability to counsel others. See, these are the things that God says we need to grow in. Do you when you think about your life, when you think about your your um your ministry, do you have a genuine desire to To do good to others, particularly in the household of faith. Are you growing in your knowledge of the truth? Are you purposefully knowing more about the Word of God? You know, sometimes we downplay knowledge. We should not. We should not say, well, it doesn't really matter what you know as long as what you do. No, knowledge of the truth is important. Scripture says that. People say God says, My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. Are you growing in your knowledge of the truth? And are you even growing in your ability to be able to work with others to help people grow in their walk with the Lord? What does it look like for someone to move and and to grow in Christ-likeness? How does that happen? Can I help people to go from here to here in their walk with Christ? This is these are the kinds of things where think about even as we look ahead for example to I next year. We ought to be thinking if we're gonna be working in Iwana, we ought to be thinking, uh are these how can I grow in these kinds of things or in Sunday school or in uh and teaching ministries or in helping ministries, administrative things, all of it we should be thinking thinking the it should be should fall into these kinds of these kinds of categories. Number two, do you have a God-given confidence that results in a God-given boldness? It's a really simple question. Are you confident about what God wants you to do? When it comes to evangelism, it comes to the Great Commission, it comes to making disciples. God has called everyone to make disciples. He has called everyone to disciple others Every Christian is to present the gospel to others. That is true of all of us. Are we clear about that? Is that central in our thinking? And does that confidence that God has given us that responsibility result in God-given boldness? And the third thing I would ask is this: do you glory and boast in yourself or in Christ? Now immediately you say, well, I'm not a bragger, I don't brag. Are you sure? When we think about ourselves, when we think about others' perceptions of us When we think about what we do, are we caught up in our own uh uh what other people think of us? Are we trying to boast and give other people an elevated view of ourselves Or will we say, no, I don't want people to have an elevated view of myself. I want people to have an elevated view of Christ. What is our goal? What are we glorying in? And then I would ask a final question that's not up there. Paul's expressed burden and passion was that people would come to Jesus Christ. They would understand their sin and their need of a savior and be saved. And can I ask you this question this morning? What is your relationship with God look like? Do you have a confidence of knowing that you are in Christ? Are you sure that if you were to die today, you would spend eternity with God? If he were to ask you, why should I let you into heaven? He's not going to ask that, it's hypothetical, but if he did, what would you say? If you're not sure about these things, would you come and talk with me after the service? I would be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure you will spend eternity with the Lord. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the example of the Apostle Paul. We thank you for the confidence that he had. In the partnerships that he partnered with, and the calling that he had as well, and the purpose that he had We thank you for his focus, and I pray, Lord, that you would help us to follow his example. That we should be clear about what you want us to do. Clear about our purpose in life, that there would be clarity when it comes to our confidence in Christ. That we would not want to boast ourselves That we would not want to lift up ourselves. It wouldn't be about what our life is, but all of that would be swallowed up in Christ. Christ. And I pray, Lord, that you would focus our minds and our hearts on that. Apostle Paul. And then Father, if there is somebody here that doesn't know you as their Savior, I pray that you would work in their hearts to help them to see Their sin and their need of a Savior, I pray today that they would be saved. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.