That he even went outside his empire and brought in instruments from other cultures, and all of them are going to be put into practice here to bow before the king of the world. Don't rely on others only to bolster your faith. And so this says in verse seven, so at the time when all the people heard the sound of the horn, the flute, the harp, the lyre, and symphony with all kinds of music, all the people, nations, and languages. The emphasis there. But if not, let it be known to you, O king, that we do not serve your gods, nor will we worship the gold image which you have set up. I don't know if they could feel the heat, but the pressure was definitely on. Shadrach Meshach and Abednego and said answered and said to the king, O Nebuchadnezzar, we have no need to answer you in this matter I mean the beginning of Daniel makes it very clear. And serve him if you're not willing to bow, he's going to be very suspect of your work. It's God who revealed the secret in Daniel chapter 2. There's no question. I don't think that's a picture we want. And he spoke and commanded that they heat the furnace seven times more than it was usually heated. And Nebuchadnezzar is astonished. Is it an angel? What do you do when you're facing the fire? But they were going to trust him either way. They were going to trust God. And he and a couple men from a different tribe went to a guy they thought was going to be friendly, a guy who liked to trade with outsiders. Let me tell you another story. They're going to put him number one. Let's pray. Hananiah, Mishel, and Azariah. We have two words here for worship, the word worship and the word serve, although often these words can be uh tra uh trans interchangeable in some ways. Sure. Three men. Here is the three Hebrews and their mysterious friend walking Inexplicably, he couldn't do it. This is what had happened. uh belief Sidon and uh she was working in a pregnant uh pregnancy camp sharing the gospel as she could. The counselors and the treasurers and the judges, the magistrates, and all the officials of the provinces gathered together for the dedication of the image that King Shabbatnez This statue was not as tall as the pyramid at Giza, but it's still very, very low. But I wanted to get the scale there. to come to the dedication of the image. You've got horn, flute, harp, lyre, psaltery, and symphony with all kinds of music. And they say, okay, this is proof that Daniel is actually written later, not during the time of Nebuchadnezzar. whole statue of gold and the whole thing represent me. Everybody who's anybody is coming here. The the king sent his his henchmen around to kill all the wise men and they said, Hold on a second, let's pray to our God, find out what the meaning of this dream is. And so they're not even mentioned here in the beginning. And it's almost like in this setting, we've set up a challenge. This story. Not mentioned in the Bible, but kind of pulling them down. himself. I mean before going all homicidal, the king just can affirm, is this really happening? I'll give you another chance. Everybody says this is true, so therefore it must be true. They decided for themselves, not with the crowd. Who is going to be number one in your life? else doing? in control over everything. What they already believed. You're bowing down your knee. Although I'm sure there was a massive feeling of awe as people looked up at this giant statue, and then the music plays, and thousands of people bow at the same time. Loyal. What's going on here? Chiasm or chiasm, the big X, or as Pastor Jim likes to say, a true sandwich. Two different languages, very unique. There's a exhortation to God's people to remain faithful, faithful in the face of fire, as we see here in Daniel three, faithful in the face of lions, in in Daniel chapter six, but the same basic A view held by many expositors. When you walk through the fire, you will not be burned. They're not hurt. What would you say? Here is Ten 9, Michelle and Azariah. 317 and 18. I don't know why he goes on a boat. Jummelia did. Some friends. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. the administrators, the governors, the counselors, the treasurers, the judges, the magistrates, and all the officials of the provinces. Symphony with all kinds of music, all the people, nations, languages fell and worshiped the golden image that King Nebuchadnezzar set up. Now this idol is huge. Quite tall. Impressive. having Greek names, some who don't believe the Bible and question the author the the the prophecy in Daniel will say, well look, there's a couple of instruments. It's almost like he put out a challenge. I'm gonna do what God wants me to do. I mean people who are high up in the Babylon's government who are not going to bow down? Maybe you start questioning everything you believe because it looks like the whole world is against you So the idea is we don't need to think about it. The first two directly apply to this situation. This response has its mystical side in subjective experience and its practical side in objective obedience to God's revealed will. For the king in this in this time, it was a loyalty, a loyalty test. Worship is a loving response that's balanced by the fear of the Lord, and it is a deepening response as the believer comes to know God better. service. The king asked this question. Verse 19 talks about the heat of his anger, and then verse then it also talks about the heat of the furnace. The king makes his move They're thrown in the fire with the The clothes, their turbans, everything, all tied up together. You know, this fire is seven times hotter, and so originally it would have been bad. They would never had the opportunity to witness before the king. But every day of the week. Or for structuring your family and your life and putting habits into your life that are godly, and they say, Why do you do that? above all. They hauled him off and he disappeared. They trusted God to deliver however he deems best, fully aware they could end up fried, dead in that furnace He was frustrated. Babylon. You might stand for God and lead someone to say things like Nebuchadnezzar, there's no God in the world like the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Deb. From physical issues, but more importantly, from spiritual darkness, from the punishment of sin, which is separation from you Forever in hell. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. Nebuchadnezzar the king made an image of gold, whose height was sixty cubits, and its width six cubits. Here we have this picture, this giant idol set up just out the city, inside the city of Babylon, and thousands of people bowing the knee to worship this idol. And the pyramids are a lot taller than the camels. people there? God. Hemnai and Israel and Asarai getting together, having a short prayer meeting, or maybe a long prayer meeting. Hananiah, Mishel, and Azariah. Ahead of the fire, and for them, we're talking literal fire, ahead of the fire, they had made their choice And here they are. Do you give in? Kind of has the idea of that act in a ritual of bowing or also you know because that thing or that person is number one in your life, it's affecting the rest of your life. Warren Wearsby in one of his books says this: worship is the believer's response of all they are, mind, emotions, will, and body, to what God is and says and does. But worship is more than a feeling or an experience. It is the direct acknowledgement of God's worth to God Himself, expressing in words and actions the praise, adoration, and thanksgiving that are due Him. Who are you loyal to most of all in this world? Commitment, their loyalty to serve the king every day. all. Our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver. Our God is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us from your hand, O King. who reduces the mighty, humiliating a Nebuchadnezzar. meaning of the stories. shifts. Everyone to know. Throw them right in there. As we look back and we see the story, we can see the hand of God. And there was a fourth man in the fire, one that was not Hananiah, Azariah, or Mishel. In the fire. is what you say in praise and what you do in your life. in front of the fire, like the situation like Hannah, Mishael and Azariah, which uh you know, thankfully is probably very little likelihood will ever happen. Whatever it was that they did, it became very clear from what they did that God was number one. How do we respond? I don't know if they stood up when everybody else bowed, or they just tried to get out of it and somebody caught them and hauled them in and say, hey, these guys these guys are trying to get out of it. Can God deliver? We know the story. Before Galderion helped Jim Elliott, he was working alongside Frank Brown. Yeah, you know how the story ends? Men, uh total of five men. But during that first contact, these people who were hostile to outsiders did not understand what was going on. This was after nine eleven. Her, she dies. Nebuchadnezzar got the message. They come from teachers, from co-workers, from your boss. time in context which I can't talk about on live stream. When the challenge was made, everybody bow down before the king. Lord, we face difficulties. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. He set it up in the plain of Dora and in the province of Babylon. Help us to think it through. To come to the dedication of the image of the king Nebuchadnezzar had set up. king and tells about Hananiah, Mishel, and Azariah. Regardless of what others around us are doing. Graven image out there. In fact, in this worship service, you know, pagan worship service here in Daniel 3, you've got music and all kinds of instruments. Notice he says, it's expressing in words and actions, in what you say and in what you do. And if we look very quickly at the outline of Daniel, we see that God is the main character in every chapter. For him to represent him. The king has said, who is a God who is able to deliver? How is that even possible? The one true God who made the world. Instead of saying these truths in just like a paragraph form, no, he puts it in a story, he brings it to life, he shows us in the actual events of history that he is the one true God who should be worshipped and he can deliver. Verse 17 again. We see that God is able to deliver it, but in some cases God chooses not to. If you don't know the story, um Jim Elliott went to Ecuador as a missionary in nineteen fifty six, a little bit before that. The guy was deep in the jungle. Along the side of the path with a gun. They had no idea. Father, again, we come to this time this morning that we sit under your word and your teaching. Help us to set aside all the cares and the anxieties and all the thoughts of this day. And I pray that in all things, Father, your great name will be lifted up and glorified. O peoples, nations, languages, that at the time you hear the sound of the horn, the flute, the harp, the leery, and the psaltery, in symphony, with all kinds of music shall be cast immediately into the midst of a burning fiery furnace, so that at that time when all the people heard the sound of the horn, the flute, the harp, and leery, and the The pyramids at Giza. Here that those are from Greeks. But they're not here in the beginning of the story. But they had already made their choice. Actually, verse 5. That would be stupid. Except three guys. It's kind of dramatic. You know, and when we go through difficulties, we often focus on ourselves and it all becomes about us. Chapter 7 through the end, I mean chapter 8 through the end, that's all Hebrew. There's no way you escape this. I don't think he knows what he's seeing there, but he knows this is miraculous. They didn't come out and have to go on an iron lung. They trusted him, first of all. A promotion. Sometimes you deliver out of the fire, other times you pass through it with us. But we really would love to meet you in person. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. Take a look at that. The dream had a massive statue in it and had a head of gold, and he had heard from Daniel, who told him from God that that whole that gold head was him, his kingdom. Well, first you decide ahead of time. We're worshiping a God who made the world, a God who cannot be seen, a God who's worthy of our worship, not made with men's hands. No uncertain terms. We don't know how this difficulty can be resolved, but we know that God can resolve it because there's nothing that He cannot do. This story is not really about Nebuchadnezzar. With the story of Daniel in the lion's dead. And so, because this is true, what should we do? That they would die. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. You shall fall down and worship the gold image that King Nebuchadnezzar has set up. Where are the good guys? I think it's interesting in the book of Daniel. They had already made their choice who they were going to serve back in Daniel 1. Sometimes we feel like the minority that we are. This man accused these three servants of God, saying, They do not serve your gods or worship the gold image which you have set up. Who s made that giant idol there? There's a question here of worship. But every day. This is a rhetorical question. But that's not true. This is the common language spoken not just by the Jews at this time period, but by other nations. Never doubt God's ability. McDonald in his commentary says this: We believe that it was indeed the Son of God. Because we're not willing to stand for Him. Where was God? Amen. God is the main character. Now we're going to see in a moment, Hannah, Michel, and Azariah. Oh other Jews are are bowing. They could have rethought their convictions in the time of stress. A king over all kings, the most high God. Look at this definition of worship here by Wayne Grudom in his Systematic Theology. And then became, we move to the second one. And then one of the wives pops out of the jungle and says, You better get out of here. That's what Bonnie Witherell did. And notice Nebuchadnezzar got the point. You might get stand for God and think I'm gonna lose everything. has set up. I mean you see there in the picture it doesn't look that tall. And they had a prayer meeting and they put they sought God. The book of Peter calls them fiery trials. Really, this text is going to focus on these two questions. In your life. But one who made all things. Answer that Shadrach, Meshach, and a given Bagnu give. Nebuchadnezzar, he's attacking God's servant in that moment. We see the difficulty and we forget the God who's able to take you through that difficulty. Four impossible things happen. Is it the son of God? We've heard it a bazillion times. And obey you and live for you and speak for you, regardless of the outcome. Those are full-size people. In chapter 2 and chapter 7, there's a vision of a coming kingdom where God rules over all. Today, what fire do you face? There are so many people there. Opposition. Maybe that was nice music. What do you do when you face the fire? Hananiah, Meshael, and Azariah, they had decided ahead of the conflict who they were going to serve. They already decided ahead of time. He wants Nebuchadnezzar to know. Miller in his commentary in the uh New American commentary says this: Most likely the fourth man in the fire was the angel of the Lord, God himself in the person of Jesus Christ. Focus on putting God first, worshiping Him above all, and trusting Him to deliver. What God will do. Everybody from inside the empire, outside the empire, everybody fell down and worshipped the gold image which King Nebuchadnezzar had set up. The two are together. What do you do when you're facing the fire? He is able to deliver. I see four, and one looks like the son of God. Or was it an accident? Here, you know, we're gonna play the music again. But we got a showdown here. Is there a God who's able to deliver from this? Why should we be surprised when God does what only God can do? And not only that, number four is an impossible thing. And so he tells in his biography of this of one time that he went to make first contact with a group called the Ashuwaras They hadn't come there to rescue him. But we face things where we're like, I don't know what I'm gonna do. Maybe maybe this code that we're reading here is obsolete. When we think of worship, we often think of you know what happened just before I stood up to preach, you know? And in the second scene, we now have a showdown between the king and God himself. Have you already made the decision that God is number one? The other story is Josh Sullivan. He was very, very angry. Stack seventeen t people or sixteen or seventeen people up. He makes a statue. Here they were standing for a supposedly defeated God in an obsolete code of conduct. Times have changed, but God has not. What do you do when you're facing the fire? What he sees, he cannot explain. This passage has two questions that are answered. That's impossible. But if not, there was a definite possibility that when they were thrown into the fire But not far away from Jim Elliott. If your name drowns, it seems like a bad idea. But some days after this, there was a gunfight. He says, he says in verse two, King Nebuchadnezzar sent word together together the satraps, the administrators, the governors, the counselors, the treasurers, the judges, the magistrates, and all the officials of the provinces He's gonna get an answer to his rhetorical question. Here's Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. And look at their response. Either God was going to be with them through the trial to the bitter end, or God was going to take them out of that trial, save them from it. It was like the case of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Think of this story here. It would be foolish. You get this picture here, big statue, little people see the little man there in the perspective. There's a lot of pressure here. The Bible, in fact, spe especially the book of Daniel, it emphasizes that God is sovereign over all. Frank Down nobody's heard of because he lived. This is much more recent. You know what works in extreme situations like this also works in the mundane. Here they had everything to lose. I mean very, very large. It's possible they just tried to be very, very careful and like try to, you know, get involved with other things. That's actually what everybody was doing when they're bowing down and they were literally bowing down in worship to this giant idol. Then in the middle, where the main meaning is, we see God making it very clear that God rules in the affairs of man. Why should we be surprised when God does miracles? Absolutely. So they get off the boat, walk through the jungle, single file path, you know, and they get to the house of this this contact and there's nobody there. Secondly, the king said, They frustrated the king's word. Is your faith your own? When you face the fire, you start to find these things out. Well Hanai and Mishael and Azariah, they had decided in chapter one what they were going to do. That same temptation comes today. He is able to deliver. I wonder what amazing opportunities to speak for God we miss. They believed God wanted them to take the gospel to these people. They're going to fear no other human being. Is God able to deliver? You might lose a job promotion. We are going to be in Daniel chapter 3 this morning, verses 1 through 7. And so the king, I give him some credit. They said, we're going to worship God. Who do you worship? It tells them what they should do. And so they drag in Hanaiah, Mishael, and Azariah. But he's also the main story, the main character in your story too. Probably Jesus Christ. I mean I go to a barbecue and roast a couple hot dogs and then I gotta go home and I smell like the bonfire. Worship is more than a ritual. If that is the case, our God whom we serve is able to deliver. In fact, that's normally what happens. He's in s he's sovereign. They chose to stay and reach out to um she was especially she was working with uh Palestinian women in the the uh city of And often we look at what we might lose rather than how God might use that difficulty. Lord, there may be some here today who have not yet trusted you as their Savior. Little people, very big statue. I don't wanna be it may not have been quite this public, but somebody knew what they were up to. These mighty men of valor are sacrificed to prove the point. Help us to meditate upon it, not just hear it, Lord, but be doers of it. And they stood before the image that Nebuchadnezzar had set up. Those are not half-sized people. We've got all the government officials, all the important people are there looking at this gigantic statue. But the Greek empires, you know, not for a while later. He sets up the sets up the picture here. He's the protagonist. It's really clear from Scripture. The answer to this question is, there is no God who can deliver you from my hand. There was no suspense as I told this story, was there? Hey, didn't y'all hear the music? It's not all about you. Normally Old Testament books are all Hebrew, New Testament books are all Greek. He didn't know, but he saw something that was definitely not normal, something that was definitely supernatural She was just doing what she believed God would have her to do, sharing the gospel with people who would never have the opportunity to share the gospel otherwise. We see this in verse 8 to 18. And it's one that affects not just a moment in time, a Sunday morning event. He's looking in there and he's counting four. It's certainly true that when believers go through fiery trials, Christ is with them. So trust him to deliver. In fact, later in the middle of the story, when they're given a second chance to make the same choice, they don't waste any time deliberating. Does your worship reflect whom you serve each day of the week? Like how is that even happening? The man took his gun, aimed at Frank, and then he froze. The ransom notice started coming out. My travels have taken me there. No dilemma, no question. We should bow down. God gave Jehoiakim, king of Judah, into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, but it certainly didn't look like that from the circumstances. They said, we will not serve your gods, nor will we worship the gold image which you have set up. Seven times harder? Second question in the passage is this: Can God deliver? And he had already decided he was going to shoot the last guy in the single file line going back to the boat. Now, why would he make a statue? So they had made the decision who they're going to serve. Everyone, but Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah, had bowed. Nebuchadnezzar saw what they did before he heard what they said. And look, look, he he he analyzed what they did. Maybe you face people looking down on you. Who is the God who will deliver you from my hand? He wants all nations to know that he is sovereign over all. This is actually in the news just a couple months ago. Most of the time when we make this choice, it's not quite as desperate. Lord, you are God who is able to deliver, to save, when there is none like you. I mean I look pretty big, you know, but this is a selfie. You know maybe I'm wrong about then they looked at the word of God. Who is a God who is able to deliver? Second question, can this God deliver? Helena and Mishel and Azariah, they had already decided what they were going to do, but they did not know what God was going to do. They went to reach a tribe of people deep in the jungles of Ecuador that had never heard the gospel. He understood the lesson. Nobody could have foreseen this. There is music from all over the world. All we have here are bad guys. Don't waste until you face the fire. We don't need a second chance. You know the Ten Commandments? Who is number one in your life? This is really is a question of ability, the ability of to deliver. It's God, the main character, acting on behalf of his people. They have this awesome opportunity to witness for God. They knew who their God was. Or just you know compare it to the people here. Anyone gonna do that? This time, play the music, you bow, we're all good, nobody goes in the fire furnace. In that moment it would have been easy to give in and say, okay, maybe God did lose Number one, there are four people in the fire. Whether he delivered them from the fire, or somehow they never went in the fire at all, or whether they were burnt up in the fire. They were going to do what God wanted them to do regardless. What difficulties are confronting you? They had everything to lose. They just actually had been after somebody else came around the corner and bad guys started shooting at them, so they shot back, and when they were done, they had rescued the missionary completely accidentally We we give in to the crowd like everybody else can't be wrong. They decided, you know, everyone else may be wrong, but we have the word of God. Who do you serve? Now we may not know how he will deliver. But if not, he trusted God, went into danger, and he died. Lord, there's no one like you. You kind of think of picture the scene in your mind or maybe maybe take a look at the picture on the screen there and you think, okay, I've been places where things are tall. This is all bad guys. We often think the book of Daniel is about Daniel, because his name's right on the front of it. At the exact same time was a guy named Frank Brown. We have these two how many of you heard Bonnie Bonnie Witherell? It comes down to worship. In chapter 2, Daniel is the one who prays and God gives him the meaning of the dream, but who's with him? The challenge is there. The time you hear the music, you fall down, you worship the gold image that King Nebuchadnezzar said up. Shadrach, Meshad, and Gebedigo, they're like in the middle between the two guns. It's God who's I'm going to give away the end of the story, but I think you already know it. Look, even the guys who talk you in are dead. Know God for yourself. Are you all deaf? No, they didn't didn't think through that at all. You've got the crowds all bowing. We're not going to worship the idol. And we miss the big picture. The flames will not set you ablaze. If you don't, you end up in a fiery furnace. Dear Lord, thank you for this story from history that illustrates your power. Because we don't want to stick out in the crowd. And Frank just walked through the path, had no idea he nearly died, got on the boat, left. Well yes, He can. And in fact, you get promoted like they did. Because what he sees is impossible One is a question of worship, and the second one is a question of ability. The fire is seven times hotter so that when the mighty men from his army come there, they die because the fire is so hot. This is a very, very large pyramid. This story is about God. God made the world just by speaking. Things don't have even the smell of smoke on their on their clothes or on their turbans We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. Let's bow our heads together and go for the I've seen the pyramids. And we especially see it here because Daniel in chapter in Daniel chapter 3, Daniel's not even there. We already know. It's God who rejects the proud with the ultimate fall of the last king of Babylon. And now it's almost like we got a Western scene here, and Nebuchadnezzar has pulled out his gun. Like, how many guys do we throw in there? No, they were fine. And then when they pull him out and says, come out, I guess he didn't send anybody in, he just told them, come on out. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. But we don't see that in Daniel chapter 3. And now we come to the first scene in our story. But it really wasn't about them. And they were aware of this. You know that? The police stumbled upon the bad guys. I mean it was very obvious. Or is it your parents? There's a question for Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah. That's not for you know hundreds of y years later, actually. You shall have no other God before me. He is in control. He was going to another unreached people group, except for this group didn't just have spears. But they go on the boat and they don't drown. Maybe you're not in the challenge now, but but down the road, as you stand for God, difficulties will come. I think this is hilarious. They're going to yield their bodies. And maybe we're picturing a scene kind of like this. You follow a bigoted book that talks about things that are irrelevant. And morals have not changed. Look at verse 28. They had decided they were not going to serve or worship any God except their own God. Often we focus on what we might lose. And lots and lots of people standing there. They're going to show up. They already knew what they were going to do. The others around them had conceded that God had lost I think most people here have heard this story before. He's a missionary to South Africa. He is able to deliver. Here we come. What should we do in this situation? When you come on Sunday to worship, what does your presence here mean? This story is part of a ser sequence of stories here that's leading to one main idea. No, of course not. You need to be bowing. Do you capitulate? Now they didn't know if he would or not. Number one, whom should you worship? This is super bad. There are no good options here. Who's gonna not bow? Or is it going to be God Himself who is over every king? Are his people really loyal to him, to Nebuchadnezzar? With them in the fire. But sometimes we're so focused on the loss. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. But there's something missing in this story as we're setting up this this this picture here Remember the conflict's not about you. And oh no, uh nobody else has gone through the situation that I'm going through. Who is with Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in the fire? No matter how the king viewed him, the Lord either saves us out of troubles or he will be with us in the troubles. Usually when this happens, it doesn't go so well for the missionary. We've got Nebuchadnezzar, we've got people from all over the world, all the important people there bowing. You never heard of him, but he was doing the exact same kind of thing as Jim Elliott. I know a couple other people have seen it here too. I mean, we don't this is the book of Daniel. But often we just see the fire and we forget the God who is able to rescue from the fire. God can, God is able to deliver. Lots of little people, very big pyramids. Hey, what are we going to do? Is it true, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, that you do not serve my gods or worship the gold image which I have set up? You remember that God is able. Uh the most important thing is right there in the middle. They confront the king, and it does not look like it's going to end well for them. It's more than an event. Take an example. Nebuchadnezzar said, They frustrated the king's word. You try to witness, try to be a good testimony for God, and instead of them listening and getting saved, they start looking down on you. They've obeyed God. How many of you have heard of Frank Brown? First, what did they do? They could lose their lives. I am close, it is far. If you look in Daniel chapter 1, verse 11, Daniel is the focus is on him, and he made the choice. But here in the middle, 2 through 7, they're in Aramaic. And he commanded certain mighty men of valor who were in his army to bind Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego and cast them into the burning fiery furnace. Who is number one in your life today? We pass through fiery trials. Some of the instruments even mentioned here when it goes through there talking about the different instruments that it play before everybody bows down They had gotten these instruments from all over the world, even outside the empire. Grow in your faith before the difficulties come. He wants to confirm, is this true? In his questions, he says it looks like the Son of God. Very, very tall. That's how tall this statue was. They had seen God work and do great things. They said this is what God's word said. Why do they have the opportunity to open their mouth and say how great God is? Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. Harry, just read the setting to one of the most exciting stories in the Old Testament. And let's have everybody bow to it. Don't wait until a teacher challenges you at school or a co-worker ridicules you. If that is the case, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fire of the furnace, and he will deliver us from your hand, O King. He says this, worship is the ascription of ultimate worth to God. He has put us in a situation that's fiery, that's difficult. We're living for him, number one, above all. We do not know what he will do next. Or it could be translated the son of a son of the gods. The men who threw them in are now dead and they didn't even go in the fire. Number one, worship God above all. Nebuchadnezzar says this. You know there's a fiery furnace involved here. Whom do you serve with your life? There's no question of ability. That's what he says. Well, he had a dream not too long before, just a year or two before this. They immediately answered actually the the the screen there meant highlights this, but let's go back just a little bit, verse 16 Now they're standing in front of the king, the king of the world, and he says, I'll give you a second chance. When your friends mock you for going to church or for believing what the Bible says I I love reading missionary biographies, as you know. As Nebuchadnezzar testifies here at the end of chapter 3, you are the most high God. And King Nebuchadnezzar sent word to gather the satraps And two questions are raised in It's a big statue. What's most important to you? But trust him to deliver in the way he deems best. You're in danger. Who's gonna oppose the king? We think of our time today. Look at verse 19. And so because they took this stand, they had an amazing opportunity to witness for God in front of the king of the world at that time. But that's not what this is saying. Nobody is going to do that. I mean the pressure is huge. Should we bow? It's more than a ritual. We'll talk about touch on that a little bit later. But Daniel is actually Hebrew and Aramaic. Nebuchadnezzar says, this, you will worship me, and your God cannot deliver you. So they went on a boat, a guy named Frank Dra Who or what do you value most? This junior church type picture here, you look at, you can see the little people, very, very big statue. Thankfully, most of the time the fire isn't literal, as is in the case of this. What do you do when you're facing the fire? The king wants to be God of everybody. It's more than an experience or a feeling. They make it to the uh they make it to the the place in the jungle there where They just left the results in God's hand. God is sovereign over all. That's what they did in Daniel chapter 2 Take a look at the chapter, I mean verse 6. But very quickly it moved into another another question. In fact, he he calls to ask his mathematicians and say, how many men we throw in? He is the main character. Especially as you look at the first six chapters of Daniel, what do you have here? Is God able to deliver? They trusted him. He was preaching in his church in South Africa when gunmen interrupted the service and kidnapped him from the pulpit. Decide ahead of the fire what you're going to do. I mean, what Worship is more than just Sunday morning. I am the ultimate power in the universe, is what he's saying. In the early two thousand she was a missionary in Lebanon. They trusted him They yielded their bodies. Nope, everybody everybody's gonna bow Hey, I have a yet another junior church picture of this story. There are other Jews here in the in the city and we're young. Who is the God that's able to deliver? Ultimately, it's about God. Who do you worship this morning? The fifty-six is what was when he died. Even if it upset the most powerful man in the world, they were going to obey God. And help us this morning to concentrate fully upon your word. And I'm sure we've got this guy, almost like a actually not a false witness. But here they've been in the fire, and you can't even tell. And resoundingly, the passage tells us, yes, he can deliver. And so he he leaves. But when we go and we obey Him, we leave the consequence But in the end, what happens here? Is your faith just a Sunday thing, or is it an everyday kind of thing? Next thing that was possible was they were walking in the fire. Because we want to avoid confrontation. There was misunderstanding within the cultures. And as we take in your word, Father, So take a look at the camels in this picture. But the first seven verses, they're not even there. They've been tested in chapter two and now chapter three. And so God wants not just the Jews to know these truths, he wants The three Hebrews experience literally the promise from Isaiah 43. What challenges coming to your beliefs? And you know what? Maybe not show up that day. But look at it, everybody's bowing. We have the Ten Commandments, and you know what? He raises up kings, he puts down kings. Our God is able. But for them, there was a lot of suspense. I think throughout history we see this Whole lot less hands, and two of them are from my family. Where's Daniel? At least not what God says Who's the king? We're not just talking peer pressure. And look at the look at the It's God who rescues his servants in Daniel chapter 3. Then Nebuchadnezzar was full of fury, and the expression on his face changed towards Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. In fact, if he didn't do miracles, would he be God? These losses are imaginary. Then a herald cried aloud, To you it is commanded You have the Greeks, you have the Persians, then I mean sorry, you have the Babylonians, you have the the Persians, then you had the Greeks Maybe he's astounded. He's able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace. Then, moving in, chapter 3 and chapter 6. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But actually the book of Daniel is about Daniel. Nobody is gonna stand up when everybody is bowing down. The act of bowing before this statue in Nebuchadnezzar's time expressed their So here's this book that's got this section that's very, very clear. Here's Nebuchadnezzar. So the satraps and the administrators and the governors For them, is it going to be Nebuchadnezzar? No. Here is that question. Music. We're not worshiping an idol. Nebuchadnezzar spoke saying, Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. These pyramids are very, very tall. And don't make graven image, is number two. Can God deliver his people? The God who made the world can act in any situation. We might lose respect from other people because hey you're following an old book. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. Or get closer and look straight up. It's saying that Nebuchadnezzar's reach was so far Then God makes his move. Later on, he says, he sent his angel. If you are put up And they don't understand Not quite the consequences are not quite as dire. The guy who's saying this In fact, the king had gathered everybody who's anybody to this statue. And that's what he's doing here. Bow. Often we give in when we see that. The word serve has the idea of to work for or to reverence, to revere. But they say, there's no question here. He does his worst. He didn't just verily deliver them One day she goes to the clinic, guy comes up behind her, shoots Trust him and leave the results in his hand. They were willing to suffer if necessary. Lord, I pray that you'd work in their hearts and see that you're a God who is a God above all. And Father, I pray that you would prepare each of our hearts, Lord. Therefore, Lord, we ask for your Spirit to work mightily in our hearts, and we ask that you will guide and direct in Jesus' name Now, in the moment of conflict, they didn't reconsider, they didn't change their mind. Otherwise, in fact, if you're not willing to bow, he's just going to put you in the fire furnace because you're clearly not And what is going to happen here? The answer is obvious. Look at these two guys. Usually it's a but if not kind of situation And the bad guys either fled or were dead. It's very, very tall. Verse 6. We're going to do what God wants us to do Times have changed. Is there any difficulty in this world that He made that He can't solve? But if you were They're not bowing. And if they do, what's gonna happen? A confrontation between But instead they just confirmed But worship is more than music. Worship is more than just a feeling. The attack is on God and his ability. Worship God alone, who has power to save like no other. God, I'm gonna do what you want me to do, I'm leaving the re the results in your hands. It is imp We face They didn't need to look around them and say, well, what does everybody This story is not about Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego Who was that fourth man? Do others know? This guy, all his wives, children, gone. He goes. The king's giving them a second chance, but they don't wait. It was from hundreds, thousands of years before. We're going to see later, you know, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, or their Hebrew names, Hananiah, Meshach, and Azariah. What do we do when you face the fire? Worship has the idea of bowing down. Worship But for them it didn't matter. The last guy in the line was Frank Drown. Daniel chapter 3, verses 1 through 7. You got these three guys standing up. Wait a minute, there's there's people in my kingdom It's something that should affect every aspect of you. God is attacking This is not the outcome anybody expected You see it there in the yellow up there. And whoever does not fall down and worship shall be cast immediately into the midst of a burning fiery furnace. Are you going to worship at this moment? So the the book of Daniel actually is written And well, I don't even picture God pulling out a gun. Now, does Nebuchadnezzar know what the son of God looks like? And if they had never taken the risk of doing right In fact, one of his co-worker he shared a co-worker with Jim Elliott, a guy named Roger Yaldarian. This group had guns. He and a team of four What might happen, they might not happen at all. The first two are pretty clear. Think about worship Who is number one? Who is number one in your life? The story is very, very clear. And they died. What he doesn't know is this guy is hiding in the bush. I don't know if it looked like this or not And the king was not happy. We cannot see the future, but we have confidence that he can see the future. It's God who who reversed man's plots. One of them you've heard of, the other one you have not. And you never know May the Lord richly bless you. I tell you, there's a lot out there. And yet they chose I don't think he was expecting someone to answer this question He's not a believer. They're not walking right now, they're laying dead. And they took many precautions, did many things ahead of time before they tried to make first contact. And whoever does not fall down and worship In our lives, we face difficulties. The question of worship is for God's servants. But at this moment, as they are feeling that fiery furnace behind them, it didn't look like it w God was really sovereign. He is sovereign over all. I don't know where he is. And maybe just, you know, try try to be under the radar. It's because what they did in their life Verse 30. Morals have changed. Worship is a decision. And you notice he says this, real worship always leads to Nobody's go passed through this trial. God's making a point. In Jesus' name. It's more than just a confession that I worship God. Makes you wonder, why are they in Aramaic? But if not Don't focus on what you could lose. The fire only strengthens faith that is already there. Notice Chapter one is Hebrew. Can they see it in what you do? They had no idea that God was going to rescue them out of the fire. He didn't know till many years later that Camels are pretty big. So And now they're on their own. They didn't have any decision to make. There are no idols behind me What will God do? Or to put it the other way, there's nothing impossible with God. We think about this story here, the book of Daniel. And we're not going to risk anybody else. We walk through the valley of shadow of death, but we know that you are with us It says I mean look around, like those guys did it, those older guys did it. It became very, very clear who they served. We know who is able. He wanted to shoot him. Now we're at the time of the Babylonian Empire. They took spears and killed Jim Elliott and his four co-workers. Fiery furnace. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. A dream, and he found out the meaning of this dream. You'd expect there would be like a dilemma here. When you sing his praises, is that all it is? Nebuchadnezzar, he makes the first move, and what's he going to do? Not the same as Shadrach, Meshach, and Gedebedio But Lord, help us to trust you. So picture you're there now. They already knew what they were going to do ahead of the conflict. And in the second scene here, somebody comes to the It's a dramatic scene. He looks in there and goes, There's something different going on in there. Maybe he's on a trip for the king. He really is a true witness. Here's the question. Then the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in the province of And there happens to be a very, very large, shiny It had to have been a very moving experience Not just on this day. Lord, help us to be faithful, Possible they could they could see the fiery furnace behind them like this picture. Many have looked at this passages and they've seen To be a witness God Himself. But look at verse 18. And when they were done, the police opened the car door, and inside the car was Josh Sullivan. Amen. And then are you going to be loyal to the king? I don't know what they're mathematicians. God can deliver. And did I mention it was tall? Here's pressure. Because that's who he thought he was. Not just on Sunday morning But either way, they had decided to trust God abundantly You might stand for God and gain respect They oppose the king. They're taller than me For example, I lived in Hong Kong for many years. He purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself, break God's law, but who was following with him? Who are you going to serve? We hope to see you soon He is the main character of the big story of human history. God was number one. Let's zoom in there. It's God I want to go back and look at verse 17 and 18. The one you've heard of is probably Jim Elliott. Because God was number one and they were going to obey him. Okay, and check out the people. Who is number one? His finger was on the trigger, yet inexplicately. As we set up the story here, the good guys aren't even mentioned He's saying the same thing. They don't even they don't even consider like wait a minute, maybe we did the right Not gonna happen. Maybe it doesn't apply in this modern age. It's God who raised up Daniel in Daniel chapter 1. And notice there's a there's a structure here Does he even know that the one true God has a son? Even got this one guy here. Now you can't directly attack God, so They walk out Can they hear it in what you say? They had already made up their mind. Okay, well this was kind of a dead end He's elsewhere, but he's not there. You worship them and then you serve with your life. I'm alone 2. Do it now. Who are you going to worship? God rescued them, delivered them, and what happened? Now there wasn't a canyon quite like this Daniel's not in this story. They made it, they made it an un no uncircum It's coming right out of the furnace Who do we worship? But where? But hey, I work with people who actually make this decision all the time. Now The question of ability is about God's servants. But now the scene Let's take a look at one more picture. A couple of these instruments are actually Greek. I mean, really They're going to trust him He thought, okay, let's just make the whole Is it genuine? Everybody Because look at verse 12 No, it's how you it affects how you live your life. You can deliver not just from I mean this is Don't go in the fiery furnace. It is called the Exchange. You see those little pyramids He's not It's a question of worship They're going to trust God to deliver however he deems best. We worship God alone. How many people heard of Jim Elliott Who are we to stand up and maybe we're wrong? And he Why are they not even mentioned? He gets very, very hot. Those buildings are tall. I don't know if it was that close or not. Daniel says They got a Or for example Verse 6.