We are going to be in Romans chapter fifteen this morning, going through twenty-two through thirty-three. And before we do, let's uh go before God and ask him For his guidance for us. Father, thank you. Thank you for your word. Thank you that we can come before your throne and lift up our prayers and consent. concerns because of what Christ has done at the cross on our behalf. And Father, I ask that as we come to this time to sit under your teaching I pray that you would help us to move aside all of our distractions and all the cares of this week. And I pray, Father, that your spirit will work Mightily in our hearts. Help us to be attentive, Lord, to your word. That we would take what you speak to us this morning through your word, and that we would not be just hearers of it, but that we would be doers of it also. And I thank you for your word and we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. So we are in Romans chapter 15. Verses 22 through 33. For this reason I also have been much hindered from coming to you But now no longer having a place in these parts, and having a great desire these many years to come to you, whenever I journey to Spain I shall come to you, for I hope to see you on my journey, and to be helped on my way there by you, if first I may enjoy your company for a while. But now I am going to Jerusalem to minister to the saints, for it is pleased those from Mac Macedonia and Achaia. To make a certain contribution for the poor among the saints who are in Jerusalem. It pleased them indeed, and they are their debtors For if the Gentiles have been partakers of the spiritual things, their duty is also to minister to them in material things. Therefore, when I have performed this and have sealed to them this fruit, I shall go by the way to a view to Spain. But I know that when I come to you, I shall come in the fullness of the blessing of the gospel of Christ. Now I beg you, brethren, through the Lord Jesus Christ and through the love of the Spirit, that you strive together with me in prayers to God for me. That I may be delivered from those in Judea who do not believe, and that my service for Jerusalem may be acceptable to the saints. that I may come to you with joy by the will of God and be refreshed together with you. Now the God of peace be with you. Amen. Uh I want to begin by asking this question. As Christians, do you see yourself let me just think about your your life as a Christian? Do you see yourself as a vital member of God's kingdom advancement in this world? When we think about ourselves as being a Christian, we we often think of ourselves as having a individual personal relationship with God, and that's true. And we see ourselves as it's important for us to have certain things that are part of our lives and other things that aren't part of our lives, and that's true. But I think it's very helpful for us to think of our lives as part of an overall plan of God to advance his kingdom in this world. And the question is, what part do I play? What role as a Christian do I have in God's kingdom advancement in this world? We see the Apostle Paul is speaking here, and he's talking to the church at Rome. He's in Corinth, and he's em and he's and he's uh writing the church at Rome. And um and what we see here is he desires to be with them. But he wants to be with them. In God's will. It's really interesting. Would you look down at Romans 15, 32? Notice what he says: that I may come to you with joy by the will of God. He says, I want to come to you with joy, but I want it to be by the will of God. But that's not the first time he said this. Back in chapter 1 of Romans, verse 10, it says this making request if by some means now I at last may find a way in the will of God to come to you Twice in this book, at the beginning of the book, and now at the end of the book, he says, I want to come to you, I want to be with you, but I want it to be in the will of God. He also says in Romans 8. 27, he says, now he who searches the heart and knows the mind of the Spirit is, because he makes intercession for the saints, according to the will of the Spirit Paul is occupied with doing the will of God. He wants to make sure that if he's going to go to Rome, it's going to be in the will of God. the right timing, the right place to please God in the right circumstance. He says, when I come to you, I it will be in the fullness of the gospel, to fulfill the gospel in your lives. He wants to be in the will of God. Ephesians 5:17. Therefore, do not be unwise, but understand what the will of the Lord is. A very important passage that we have already seen in Romans chapter 12 tells us about the will of God and how we are to prove the will of God. And I think that as we look at this passage, what we're seeing then is it actually played out in Paul's life in the passage that we have today. Romans 12, 1 and 2 says this: I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And he says this. In other words, he says, present your bodies, your lives to God to do whatever he wants. How are we to prove the will of God? How are we to identify the will of God in our lives? Number one, you've got to realize you're all God's and you're none of your own. And you present yourselves as sacrifices to God, living sacrifices. And then he says, do not be conformed to the thinking of this world, my ad. This we talk about. Don't be conformed to the thinking of this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. So that what you may be able to prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God That is, what God says in His Word is that if we are to prove what is that perfect will of God in our lives We are going to do so number one as we present our bodies to him, our lives to him to do whatever he wants to do with them And number two, as we renew our mind with the Word of God, that we are our mind, our thinking is transformed. You say, well, how does that play out? How does that work its way out? And I think this passage helps us with that. Paul is talking about how he wants to go to Rome. And he wants to eventually go to Spain, but he has a lot of other priorities that are keeping him from going And there are factors to consider to make sure that he does it in a way that is truly pleasing to the Lord and really going to be according to the will of God. And so I think we find from the passage that we're looking at this morning how this Romans 12, 1 and 2 life plays out practically in the Apostle Paul. Paul's heart was to do the will of God. It was the same heart that Jesus had when he was on this earth. Jesus said, John 5, 30, I can of myself do nothing. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is righteous, because I do not seek my own will, but he but my own will, but the will of the Father who sent me. And in John 17, 4, as he prays to his father, he says, I have finished the work which you have given me to do Jesus himself was preoccupied not with his own will but with his father's will. Paul was preoccupied Not with his own will, but with his father's will. And you and I, folks, need to be preoccupied not with our will, but with our father's will, with God's will. So what factors are involved in discerning God's will? I think we see the first one in verses 22 through 24, that it is providence over passion. Paul really wants to see the church at Rome. He has never been there. He hasn't seen interacted with them. He's heard about them. That's probably a very large church There are a lot of Jews and a lot of uh Gentiles and they are working together. He desires to see them. We've already seen that he commends them. for their faithfulness, for their ab ability to be able to teach others and to exhort others and to encourage others. We saw that last week. And he wants to go to them. But he says this, verse 22, for this reason I've been much hindered in coming to you. He says, at the outset of this passage, he says, I've actually been hindered in coming to you. Now, Paul has, this has happened a lot to Paul. He wants to do something, and then he's been hindered from doing it. He wants to do something else, and then he's been hindered in doing it. In Acts 16, verses 6 through 10 it says this, or at least through verse 8 it says, Now when they had gone through Phrygia and the region of Galatia, they were forbidden by the Holy Spirit to preach the word at word in Asia. They'd gone toward that area, and then they're forbidden by the Holy Spirit to preach there. And after that they had come to Miesia, They tried to preach in Bithynia, but the Spirit did not permit them there. So passing by Mithia, they came down to Troaz. Do you see that passage? They're trying to go one direction and they're prevented. Go in the other direction and the Holy Spirit prevents them there They go in another direction. All kinds of I mean it it is all kinds of different ways. And finally they come in verses nine through ten, they come to A place where God calls them to Macedonia and they are free to be able to preach there in Macedonia In 1 Thessalonians chapter 2 it says this about the Church of Thessalonica. It says, But we brethren, having been taken away from you for a short time in presence, not in heart, endeavored more eagerly to see your face with great desire Therefore we wanted to come to you, even as I Paul, time and again. But Satan hindered us. So Paul has been hindered by God, the Spirit of God, Satan, all of this Paul constantly in his life, we're going to see this as we go through this, he is hindered. He is providentially hindered from going a particular direction until he then goes another direction. But then also, as he is right now in Corinth, and so he's been ministering in the region of Dalacia and uh other areas near Macedonia, in that particular region. He says, verse 23, but no longer have I a place in these parts. What does he mean by that? No longer have I a place. He says the word place means opportunity. In fact, in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 27, this word is used. It says, don't give place to the devil, or don't give opportunity to the devil. That's the word here. He says, I no longer have opportunity in this region. So he is discerning the will of God and he realizes, number one, I have been hindered in the past from coming to you, but also now I'm looking at where I'm at and I'm realizing that the opportunities The open doors are not here, and that's going to potentially free me to be able to come to you at some point. And then he says this, and having a great desire these many years to come to you He has this great desire over many, many years to him, to come to them, and yet so far he has not been able to. And even now he is saying that he he eventually wants to go to them. And we see his plans. His desire is actually to go to Spain. Spain is a region, it's the Old Testament Tarshish over in 1 Kings 10, verses 22. And if you could put the map up, we could see this. Um you could see in he is moving his way from Jerusalem westward, he's in Corinth now, and his his desire is to go from Corinth to over through Rome into Spain. That's his desire to go westward. He is involved in church planting and gospel presentation as he Spreads the gospel and he wants to see it continue to move forward westward westward from Jerusalem. He has these desires. So he says, when I journey to Spain, I shall come to you. I'll come to you through. That makes good sense He's strategizing, he's thinking about this. Spain is a region where there is a major commerce. There was a famous philosopher and statesman, Seneca, who actually tutored Nero in Spain. And this would represent Paul's expansion beyond his third missionary journey. So that's what Paul wants to do. And he says, when I come to you, I'm going to come to go to Spain, but by way of you, I'm going to come to you first. He says, I hope to see you on my journey. Uh I I want to spend time with you. I I want to see you. Paul is Paul is one who is relational. He's not just about numbers. He's not just about uh about um accomplishing things. He does a lot of accomplishing things, but he he is very relational. He wants to see them. He wants to spend time with them. But he also says this, and to be helped on my way there by you. This helped, this word helped is often translated to be sent out or to be s or to send them away. In Acts 13 it's mentioned there, Acts 15 as well, being sent. It really is talking about being sent with monetary support. Paul, as a missionary, is basically saying that I need to go to Spain and I'm hoping to come to you, spend time with you, and that you will see the the investment that you can make in my ministry to send me to Spain so that I can be provided for through you. That's what he really what he's talking about. He is really he is saying that when he goes to Spain, he needs support and he's asking essentially for them to consider supporting him. Um in First Corinthians sixteen, six it says, and it may be uh and it may be that I will remain and spend the winter with you that you may s send me on my journey. He's basically saying to Corinth at that time, when send me on my journey means send me with some finances. Now, I just want to say that this is a practice that was happening all over the New Testament in churches. Missionaries would come, apostles would come, people would come by They would be exhorted to show hospitality and then to send them on their way with a gift to be able to go to the next place In 2 John 6 it says, who have borne witness of your love before the church, that you send them forward on their journey in a manner worthy of God, you will do well. In that passage, they are exhorted to do well by showing hospitality to those who are carrying the gospel and spreading the gospel, and then able to move on in doing so. But this is not a cold solicit for money. He says here, if first I may enjoy your company for a while. He genuinely wants to come to them. He's wanted to for years. He wants to see them. He wants to spend time with them. He wants to have a relationship with them. And he wants to literally enjoy their company. Now, all of this I think can bring us to a place of application where we realize some things. One of the things I think we can realize from this passage so far is that in God's kingdom work, you have people like the Apostle Paul that must be supported and need to be supported by God's people. And God's people back in the first century did very well in realizing that their role was to support people like Paul in order for kingdom advancements. And wouldn't wouldn't we see our giving that way? That as we give in biblically in proportion to what we receive from the Lord, That we would see it as an opportunity. Sometimes I think when we give, we give sort of as a duty. And Paul's actually going to say it is the duty of a in a particular situation that he's going to come to in a few minutes. But more than just a duty, we ought to see it as something that we get to do. We get to be involved in giving to the work of God. for the advancement of the kingdom of God. This is part of the way that we are a vital part of God's kingdom advancement in the world. When we give, we give because we want to see the kingdom move forward. We give, we give because we want to see God's work and the gospel spread and churches planted And I think it's very important that we remember that as we tithe, as we give regularly and cheerfully, we do so because we are excited about the opportunity to give. And I just want to say this very practically. I'm thankful for this church. I'm thankful for your giving. Uh I'm thankful for your your regular giving. And I'm thankful for how the Spirit of God is working in our church to give regularly and to give as an opportunity to advance God's kingdom. Paul moves on then. He has not only been delayed from seeing them in the past, but now he reports to them that he is going to be delayed in seeing them in the future. Notice what it says in verses 25 and 20 through 27. He says, but now I am going to Jerusalem to minister to the saints. Now, I don't know if you notice on that map, but that's in the opposite direction. He's in Rome, and he wants to go westward to see I'm sorry, he's in Corinth, and he wants to go westward to Spain by way of Rome But as he's in Corinth, writing to Rome, he says, I want to go, I need to first go to Jerusalem. Well, wait a minute. That's the opposite direction, Paul. You can't go to Rome by way of Jerusalem. That's the wrong direction. You're going the wrong way. And yet because he wants to do the will of God, because he desires to do the will of God. We begin to see that his heart is to is to put need over desire, providence over passion. but need over desire. And we see that here in the text. He says, for it pleased those from Macedonia and Achaia to make a certain contribution. For the poor among the saints who were in Jerusalem. Of course, we know historically that there was a famine that struck Palestine in 46 through 48. We see that in Josephus mentions it, but the Bible actually mentions this in Acts chapter 11, verses 27 through 30. In that passage it says, And in these days prophets came from Jerusalem to Antioch. Then one of them, named Agabus, stood up and showed by the Spirit that there was going to be a great famine through all the world. which also happened in the days of Claudius Caesar. This the disciples each according to his ability determined to send relief to brethren dwelling in Judea. So there this this this uh famine that occurred in Palestine in the Jerusalem area affected the Jewish Christian in such a way that there was essentially, you could say, a Christian church relief effort among the churches that are in the in the regions around Jerusalem, north of Jerusalem, and westward in Macedonia and Achaean other places. There was a concerted effort to help the Jewish Christians who were experiencing famine in Jerusalem. It's kind of amazing as you begin to see what's going on that there was this cooperation among these like-minded churches to help in this area in Jerusalem. Paul, in his letter to Corinth, he says this in wanting them, getting them to help. He's actually very, very specific in how he says they need to help In verse 1 of Romans, 1 Corinthians 16 it says, Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I have given orders to the churches of Galasia, so you must do also. For the first day of the week, let each one of you lay something aside, storing up as he may prosper, that there be no collections when I come. He says, start saving now. Put away some money every week regularly so that when I come, we don't have to scurry around and get collections. I can just come and go. Pretty specific how how how pretty pretty uh um pretty clear here. And when I come, whoever you approve by letters, I will send your to bear your gift to Jerusalem. But if it but if it is fitting that I go also, they will go with me. He's still even at that point wanting to make sure that he's doing the Lord's will and saying, if I go, if it's fitting that I go, then they'll go with me. And later on in 2 Corinthians chapter 1 verse 16, it says that he will pass by way of you to Macedonia. People of Macedonia were also involved in this concerted effort to get relief over to the Christians in Jerusalem. This was something that was that was on the minds of Christians everywhere. that there would be a help of other Christians that were in genuine need. In Galatians chapter 2, verse 10 it says, they desired only that we should remember the poor, the very thing which I also was eager In verse 27 of this passage, Paul says something quite interesting. He is going to say why these Gentile churches in these regions should give to Jerusalem. He says it this way, I'm pleased, it pleased them indeed, and they are their debtors. And what is he talking about? They are their debtors. These Gentile Christians who are working their own vacation vocation, he says they are their debtors. That is, what is he saying there? These Jewish Christians, these Gentile Christians are in debt to the Jewish Christians. Well, he's speaking of spiritual things. And we see that from the passage very easily here. It says, for if the Gentiles have been partakers of their spiritual things. They also must minister to them in material things. Now, what is he talking about there? Here's what he's pointing out. He's pointing out that salvation is sourced in the Jews. that the source of salvation came through the nation of Israel. Jesus said this to the woman at the well in John 4, verse 22. You worship what you do not know. We know what we worship, for salvation is of the Jews. And this is prophesied in Scripture. That the Gentiles, that there would be this union between the Jews and the Gentiles, the source of the Gentiles of the spiritual source, and the Jews helping physically In Isaiah 2. 3 it says, Many people shall come and say, come and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of God of Jacob. He will teach us his ways, and he shall walk in his paths. For out of Zion shall go forth the law and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. So that was God's plan that Israel would people would be saved. And you remember from Acts chapter 2, many thousands of people were saved, Jewish people were saved and became Christians. And salvation continued through the Jewish people. And so that's why Paul says several times in Romans, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek, or also to the Gentile. So this he saw as really an obligation of the Gentile Christians toward the Jewish Christians. Because obviously, in other words, they should want to do this. They should want to help out these suffering Jewish Christians. He says then, therefore, when I have performed this, he has by this time decided that he is going to Jerusalem, and he is making sure that the fruit is getting where it's supposed to go. and have sealed to them this fruit, I shall then, after that, after I go to Jerusalem, I'll then go to Spain, and I'll see you by way of Spain. Then he says in verse 29, but I know that when I come to you. So he's like, uh in the past I've been hindered, and now in the future I'm being hindered by this greater priority. But when I come to you, he says, I shall come in the fullness of the blessing of the gospel of Christ. He says, when I come to you, I want to make sure that I'm coming And I have the freedom to be able to come knowing this is going to be the best thing I can do for the sake of the gospel. I I just really appreciate Paul's heart and in really wanting to make sure that what he does And how he conducts himself and the timing in which he does things all is intended to carry out the gospel for the fulfillment of the advancement of the kingdom of God for the gospel's sake. And he says, once I've done this and these priorities, then I believe I can come to you, and that's the next the best next step I can take for the advancement of the gospel. Now, maybe you're listening to all this and you're going, wow, this is not like a straight line. This is This is so like convoluted what's happening here. It's kind of messy. He's wanting to come to s to to uh Rome He wants to go to Spain eventually. He's hindered multiple times. Then he's still hindered because he has a greater priority. And he's telling all this, well, how does this all work? It really tells us something about I think a I think an application we can take from this and that application is we need to be flexible. Have you ever seen this before? This is uh on social media, I've seen it several times. I I it's a very simple illustration. But I just think it's great. I think it's really applicable to our lives as Christians. You you see a goal. Okay, God, I think God wants me to do this. I remember when I was uh You know, really young, I was in college and thinking to myself, okay, I'm I'm preparing to be a pastor. And I'm gonna go to s go to uh uh Bible college and go to seminary. And, you know, I had this sort of straight line. After I go to seminary, I'll probably take an assistant pastor for pastorate for a while, and after I take an assistant pastorate, then I'll have to get some experience, and then I'll take a senior pastorate, and life will be, you know, straight. That is not the way life works. How many of y'all when you're young you think there's this straight path from one to the other But by the time you get a little older, a little more experienced, you realize, no, God's plan has all these hills and all these valleys and all these obstacles and all these things. All this, it's just, it's not a straight line. You read through the book of Acts, and this is what you find with the Apostle Paul. There are no straight lines. He's going back and forward and hindered here and going over here and all this stuff. And you think, I mean, this is so confusing. You know what happens when we just submit ourselves to the will of God? We begin to say, okay, Lord, whatever it is. Whatever direction you want me to go, I'll go. Wherever the need is, that's what I'll do. And we stop resisting. We stop saying, well, but I want to do that. And we start saying, yes, I want to in God's time, in his plan, but I want to make sure that I have the right priorities, I'm fulfilling the right needs. And if it looks a little convoluted and I've got to go that way to go that way. That's okay, because ultimately what I really want is God's will. And that is something that we as Christians, as we grow in Christ, as we mature in Christ, there is something practically that occurs at some point in the in the in the growth and the development of a Christian, where simply he says, okay, yes, back at camp sometime, I said, I'll do whatever you want me to do, God. But now I'm living it. And now I've seen with from in hindsight how doing whatever you want me to do doesn't make a lot of sense sometimes. And yet I gotta trust you, Lord, that you have a plan for everything and that you're gonna bring about what you want ultimately. And there's a sense in which you begin to say, okay, Lord, just Just show me the next step. What's the next priority? What's the next need? What's the next thing that you want me to do? Yes, I have these grand plans. Yes, I want to do this. Yes, this is this would be great. But Lord, just what's the next step? Just show me one step at a time because I want, I desperately want to be in your will. A servant of God involved in the advancement of the kingdom of God has the flexibility to be able to just do whatever God calls them to do. And we see that in the life of the Apostle Paul. But as the Apostle Paul makes plans to go to Jerusalem by way of Macedonia and Achaia, which is actually, he's going north. to go east than to go toward Jerusalem. He doesn't want the Church at Rome just to sit passively The Church of Rome is uniquely uniquely equipped to do something in this situation See, they're they're mixed uh between there lots of Jewish Christians and a lot of Gentile Christians. They understand the tensions between the Jewish Christians and the Gentile Christians the first century because they're living it out. They understand the unity that is brought in the gospel. And so because of that, the Apostle Paul doesn't just say, okay, wait for me, be passive about it. Paul says, would you pray for me? Would you pray, actively pray, as I go to Jerusalem to meet the needs? See, what Paul has in mind is something more than just making sure that these people are fed and clothed Paul as an ambassador, as an ambassador of Christ, and as an ambassador since between the Jews and the Gentiles. He wants to see unity brought between the Jews and the Gentiles. We saw that already, as a quote, priest, unquote, unquote, that we saw last week. And he knows that if this is going to happen, that this kind of this can help greatly, but he knows he needs God's working in his life for this to happen. And so we see that he asked for prayer over passivity. And I want you to notice how urgent he is about this. Would you look at verse 30? He says, now I beg you, that's a great word. Now I beg you, brethren, through the Lord Jesus Christ. The word beg means to urge, to beg, to exhort. He says, would you please, I beg you to be in prayer for me. Paul understands he's got all these plans, he's got all these uh direction and doing what he believes he needs to do and all that But he understands that if what if God's kingdom work is going to be accomplished, he desperately needs the prayers of God's people to do that. And so he not only says, hey, by the way, would you pray for me? Hey, you know, if you got a minute or two, would you pray for me? Hey, would you just say a prayer for me? No, no, no. He says, would you, he begs them. I beg you, brethren, through the Lord Jesus Christ and through the love of the Spirit. What is he saying there? Through the love of the Spirit. Now, this could be taken one of two ways. It could be the Spirit's love for him, but I don't think that's what it is. I think he's talking about his love or his value of the Spirit's working. Now we've already seen this. We saw this in the book of Acts, the Spirit hindering him, the Spirit leading him. And what he's saying here is that would you pray that that the Spirit of God would lead me. And I value the Spirit's working in my life. I value knowing that the Spirit is leading me the way that He wants me to go. I value this. I love this. I want to be in the will of God. Psalm 143. 10 says this: Teach me to do your will, for you are my God, your spirit is good. Lead me in the land of uprightness. Can I ask you a question? You say, well I I I want to do the Lord's will. How much are you praying? Are you praying fervently? I want you to notice how he asks these people to pray. It says that you strive together with me. In prayers to God for me. He says, strive together To pray. The word means to agonize. It's sometimes translated to war or to wrestle. Back in Romans 7. 23 it says, But I see one another law war in my members, warring against the law of my mind. That's the same word. You think of Jacob in the Old Testament wrestling with the angel, the man wrestled. There is an agonizing wrestling kind of prayer that God wants us to do for uh for the sake of the kingdom. You know, we're we we just like it if we're comfortable, you know If we just kind of sit and pray a little prayer here, say a little prayer for you. That's what we think of prayer. That is not what God says how we're supposed to pray. How many of us have worked? I was convicted, I was very convicted as I was studying this. How many of us have worked at prayer, have labored in prayer, have agonized in prayer, have either literally or figurally been on our knees in prayer? Paul begs the church at Rome to agonize in prayer. on his behalf. Why? So that he would be truly led by the Spirit to do his will. And there are three things he asks to be pray to then to pray for. And the one is very practical. Verse 31. He said that I may be delivered. What is he talking about there? He realizes that the situation that he's about to go into is actually a very dangerous situation. Here's what's sort of interesting. We know from 2 Corinthians chapter 12 that Paul has been in all kinds of persecution, imprisonment, beatings, everything you can think of. And there are two groups of people that tended to persecute Paul, the Romans and the Jews. But out of the two, which one did more? The Jews, his own countrymen. And what he was about to do was to go back into Jerusalem, and he knew that those who knew Christ would be glad he was there, but those who didn't would be ready. to persecute him. He was really headed back into the the into the fire, so to speak, into the belly of the beast back in Jerusalem. And he realized this. In fact, in Acts 21, I won't take uh sometime read this as an interesting account of what happened, but basically the Christians there are warning him, don't go back there. Do not go back there. It's going to be dangerous. There's actually a prophet that prophesies that he is going to be persecuted when he goes back to Jerusalem. But he says in that passage in In Acts 21, he says, but Paul answered, What do you mean by weeping and breaking my heart? For I am ready not only to be bound, not only to go to prison for this, but also to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus. So when he would not be persuaded, we cease saying, that they said, the will of the Lord be done. Paul said, I am willing to go and to die in Jerusalem. Would you but he did at the same time to these people, he said, would you please pray for my deliverance? Pray for my safety, pray for my deliverance The other thing that he asks prayer for, and by the way, I guess I'll mention this as well, God does answer his prayer, their prayers. He is not does not die in Jerusalem. He is imprisoned for a very, very long time. In fact, he is imprisoned so long that he never ends up in Spain as far as we could as far as been recorded. We never we don't have any record of him being and end up actually ever getting to Spain. He does actually get to Rome by way of his imprisonment. He actually ends up in Rome and he rents a house for two Two years he's under house arrest and he's able to meet up with them by way of because he was imprisoned and he went with a bunch of prisoners over to Rome. Interesting how God carried all that out. What we see here then, secondly, is acceptable service. He says, number one, would you pray for my safety? But number two, it says, and that my service for Jerusalem may be acceptable to the saints. He says, I want all this to work out for the sake of the gospel. He's not saying would you pray that they're all happy and pleased? No, he's praying that they would understand The significance of these Gentile Christians showing their abundant generosity to these Jewish Christians that they would accept this as a token of their love, so that there would be a unification together, that God would really do a work of unifying together in the body of Christ as a result of this. and that it would be for the advancement of the kingdom of God. Paul often prayed that his work would be that the word of God, the gospel, his efforts would be used of God to do what God wanted them to do. In Ephesians 6, verse 19, it says, And for me that utterance may be given to me, that I may open my mouth boldly to make known the mystery of the gospel. He understood that apart from prayer, apart from the Spirit's working, all of the efforts that he would make, and he made a lot of efforts. would ultimately be for naught. He needed the work of the Spirit of God. And he says again, he reiterates, he says, that my that I may come to you. He says, I want to be delivered, I want this to work. And then I want to come to you with joy by the will of God. And then he says this, and I may be refreshed together with you. He looks he looks ahead to going to Corinth. I'm sorry, going into Jerusalem. He looks ahead going to Jerusalem. He looks at the danger, the peril, the persecution, the problems, and he is praying that he would be in deliverance, and also that if this would be effective in what he is doing. So that he looks past that time to the day that he can head towards Spain by way of Rome and he can be refreshed by them. I think there's something we can learn from that. Are we as Christians refreshed by one another? Are we refreshed by each other in the body of Christ? Do we want to be in fellowship together, to be refreshed by each other, to be spiritually challenged, to be spiritually encouraged to be refreshed? That is something that we should want, that every day, every Sunday as we come together, or times of hospitality when we're meeting each other's homes, that we are refreshed spiritually so that we can go out and do what God calls us to do in the world. Paul understood this refreshment. And we know that ultimately, through many, many other obstacles, He finally gets to Jerusalem. He has all kinds of problems in Jerusalem with the authorities there. He ends up in prison. But eventually in Acts 28, the very last chapter of the book of Acts We find in verse 15 it says this, but Paul saw them, the Roman Christians. He saw them, he thanked God, and he took them courage. Ultimately, his desire to be with Romans was fulfilled through many, many obstacles, but he did so in the will of God. Now I want us to ask a few questions just to get our minds thinking. Okay, so so we understand if we look at all this We understand that we want to be in the will of God, and we understand that Paul was intent on doing being in the will of God, and we see him Doing things by way of priority and need and not just doing what he wanted to do and all that. So let's flesh this out with some questions for ourselves. I think these would be very helpful questions. They're in your bulletin Number one, do we prioritize God's providence over passion and need over desire? Do we prioritize God's providence, God's hindrances or opportunities? Are we looking for the opportunities? Are we noting the hindrances? in God working and are we looking for those over just what we want? Or are we just intent on doing what we want to do? If we are intent on doing what we want to do, even if it's a good thing, it was a good thing that Paul wanted to go to Rome. It was a good thing that Paul wanted to spread the gospel in Spain. But if he is doing what he wants to do over the priorities of what God is hindering versus what God is opening up as opportunities, then he is fulfilling his own desires rather than God's desires. And he was careful not to do that. Do we prioritize God's providence over passion and need over desire? Number two, are we willing to follow God's direction over our own desires? There's nothing wrong with having desires. Paul was a passionate person. It's obvious in this passage. He for years wanted to spend time with Rome. And yet he always put God's direction over his own desires. Number three, do we see physical giving as essential to advancing God's kingdom? Do we see, look, I I just want to say this to you. There is a notion in Christianity, and it is a bad notion. That if you, you know, that if you go to, you know, you're you're you're graduating from high school and you're deciding what you want to do in life. And if you really want to serve the Lord, you'll do one of three things. You'll be a pastor, a missionary, or a Christian school teacher. And everything else is kind of like, you know, not that, not it's like secondary. It's like not really what, you know, the best. Folks, that is not what we see in the book of Acts. It's not what we see in Paul's teaching. We we don't see that. The fact of the matter is, pastors and missionaries can't do what they do if you don't have people working jobs to support them. And it's equally important. You have to simply do what God has called you to do. You are a vital part of the kingdom work When you do what God calls you to do. And that doesn't necessarily mean full-time vocation. You are not better if you do full-time vocation. And secondary or the other way around. You do what God calls you to do, and that's exactly the place that God wants you to be. And we have I have seen this on time time and time again. Where Especially young people get this sort of notion that the only way I my life really can count is if I do something like pastor, missionaries, or for some reason Christian school teachers in there. And the truth of the matter is, God's people need to be everywhere. I mean, there are certain vocations you shouldn't be in for obvious reasons. But for the most part, we need God's people are our salt and light in the earth. And also, God's people are integrally involved in supporting the work of the gospel and missions and discipling and all of that. And this is God's plan. We see it clearly in this passage, don't diminish your role in God's kingdom advancement in your life. It is not secondary. If you're doing what God has called you to do, it is equally important. Number four, do we labor in prayer for the growth of God's kingdom? Boy, I tell you, this is convicting. I'm reading through this and I'm looking what this word, what this idea of laboring or agonizing means And it's very easy for me, I'll just be transparent, it's very easy for me to say, I need to pray about that. Okay, and I'll pray something real quick and then I'll be on And there's nothing wrong, by the way, sometimes with just praying quick prayers. There's nothing wrong with that. We find Nehemiah doing that before the king when he had the answer to the king real quick. But there are times, folks, that the kingdom work is so great and the and the and the and the stakes are so high and the challenges are so apparent that we need to spend some time agonizing and laboring in prayer for the advancement of God's kingdom. Do we do that? Is that something that we do? And then I would just say this, as I do every single Sunday, the only way that you can be in the will of God is that if you are a child of God. And contrary to popular belief, you're not born a child of God. You're born a creation of God, but you're not born a child of God. The Bible actually says that you are born in your sin because of Adam's original sin. And the Bible tells us that because of our sin, we need a Savior, Jesus. And that if we'll understand what Jesus did in dying on the cross for us, shedding his blood for us, then we can be rightly related to God. Are you rightly related to God this morning? Let me encourage you, if you don't know, if you're not sure where you stand with God, where your relationship with God is, please come and talk with me, and I'll do my best to help you understand. what the Bible says about how you can be in right standing with God. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we thank you and praise you for your word. We thank you for this very practical narrative here of the Apostle Paul as he explains how he desires to follow after your will. We thank you for the desires that we see in the Apostle Paul, but we thank you for how he is so careful to go where you want him to go. to follow the open opportunities, to recognize when there are closed doors, to identify the needs that are there and to put his own desires aside for the need the greater needs that he finds. Lord, may we all see, those of us who are Christians, may we see ourselves as a vital part of the advancement of your kingdom. And then Lord, may you would you cause us to really think about what our role should be? And fulfilling your will and doing what you've called us to do. And Father, as we look ahead to communion, we have a chance together today to celebrate what Christ has done. And shedding his blood on the cross for us to forgive us of our sin, breaking his body, suffering for us, in our place. And Lord, this is why we are unified together. There are many differences among us. There are differences of opinion and differences of background and differences of likes and dislikes and All kinds of other things. But the thing that unifies us is that we believe that Christ died for our sin, rose bodily from the grave. And that one day He is coming for us. We thank you for those truths, and we thank you as we are able to worship and celebrate them this morning. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.