All right. Well, please turn in your Bibles to First Thessalonians. Um and chapter 2 verse 19. It's great to see everybody out again after VBS. Sure we're all Uh very thankful for what the Lord did uh last week and it was really cool to see all of us um doing something big like that again. Um Since COVID kind of canceled all that kind of stuff and so it was cool to see different people's gifts, you know, standing out and the body fitting together and doing something. So that was a blessing. So good to see everybody after that. And I just want to say before we start, a big thank you to everybody. I've seen it as a big ministry of you all um to me um giving me opportunities to do this and to learn. Um so yeah, I know it's it's not like uh it's not at all like having, you know, your own pastor up here. And that's a sacrifice for you, so I thank you for that and um thank you for your encouragement and your prayers. Uh it's meant a lot. Um and it's been a great experience for me. So let's go ahead and get started then. And uh to get a prime our thinking for this this passage, um I was listening to a podcast a few weeks ago. And uh the guy talking uh brought up a point about how people think about the end times. And what he said was, you know, there there's people who think different things about the end times and especially about when Christ is going to return. Some people think that You know, there's going to be a build-up of righteousness on the earth and it's going to get to the point where everything is, you know, almost perfect and then the Lord's going to come back. And some people and the persuasion that most of us believe is that um, well, actually the very next thing we have to look forward to is Christ coming back. It could be at any moment. And the the gentleman that was speaking, he made a good point though, um, that the people who tend to believe in that that way that uh that things are going to get better and better. They seem very active uh because they're trying to make that happen. Uh while people who I'm and I believe this with all my heart that the next thing that's gonna happen is the Lord's gonna come. The next thing that we know prophesies is that the Lord's gonna come. Um so I'm not knocking that. But he he he mentioned that um Sometimes people who believe that can kind of get a defeatist mentality that, oh, things are just gonna fall totally apart. And so we might as well just sit back and watch the world burn because Christ is going to come back and uh and it can lead to lethargy maybe um and not really a a positive attitude when it comes to what we expect God to do So I kind of want us to look at tonight as uh you know reasons why we shouldn't sit back and think that way. way. Reasons why we should be motivated. And this text in verses 19 and 20 of chapter 2 here gives us some God given incentives for why we should be going about the w the Lord's work and being involved in other people's lives, fulfilling the Great Commission, and discipling other people. It's pretty short, but it's very packed with meanings. So let's go ahead and pray. We'll read it and we'll we'll get into this. Alright, let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you so, so much for your kindness to all of us. We thank you for bringing us from the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of your dear son and we thank you that uh we have his return to look forward to uh when he will save us from uh all the wrath to come and Where he will transform us and we'll be with him and like him as he is. And we look forward to that day. And Father, we want to Take the time tonight to think about getting motivated for preparing for that day in how we serve one another now. So we pray that you'd please help us by your Holy Spirit to understand what it is that you've said here and and how it's intended to motivate us. And please help us to um see your glory in um giving us such opportunities and grace and uh to be inspired to to serve you better because of of what we look at in your word tonight. We pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. So let's go ahead and read these two verses. It says, For what is our hope or joy or crown of rejoicing? Is it not even you, in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ, at his coming? For you are our glory and joy. Alright, so the speaker here is the Apostle Paul, as we've been talking about, and just a quick recovery since it's been a little while since we've uh visited this story. But On one of Paul's missionary journeys with Timothy and Silas, he goes to this city and it's called Thessalonica. It's a big, you know, port city, and there's a highway that runs through it, so it's really busy. A lot of religious activity and stuff like that. He shows up and he starts preaching uh in the synagogues and makes uh a bit of a commotion. A lot of people get saved and Then some of the Jews there get very envious of him that he's taking away people from their practices And they go ahead and rouse up some uh some fellows in the the square to to go and and arrest this man who Paul was staying with, um, whose name was Jason and uh basically forced Paul's hand to to leave the town so that they wouldn't continue to to harm these people. So uh but while Paul was there, uh he was there for at least three weeks, probably more He spent a lot of time one you know, w in close proximity with these people and ministering to them. And they were all new believers who had just left their old lifestyle, so they're very hungry to learn about God. So he spends all of this time just investing in the in them. And we got an a description of that in chapter two, which we've been going through. And He he talks about how he was motivated in in verse six by pleasing God. Um and or sorry, that's in verse four by by pleasing God. He in verse six through uh 13 there talks about how he was like an infant totally dependent on God. He was like a mother tender and sacrificial in his love for them. He was like a father, he had a vision, and he was wise in how he counseled and led them. Um so this this letter is very heartfelt. There's this close relationship that he's had with them. And we finally get to this point at the end of chapter 2. And Paul's lamenting, you know, how he couldn't quite get to them because he was being stopped by Satan in in verse It says, Therefore we wanted to come to you, even I Paul, time and again, but Satan hindered us, and he gives the reason why he wanted so badly to get to them. For what is our hope or joy or crown of rejoicing? Is it not even you in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ that is coming? For you are our God glory and joy. What Paul is saying on on the surface here basically is we wanted to come to you. Chapter 3 says because he wanted to strengthen their faith, make sure that they were secure. Um because these people are his investment. They they're the people that he loves, that he that bring him joy as a parent. and that he knows will one day bring him joy as they endure to the end, and they are the people that he can present to Christ and hear well done from him. So we're gonna take this text in just basically two two points. First point is gonna be What does this whole concept of glory mean? And the second one is going to be what's this whole concept of joy? And we'll find I think we'll find that these two things, glory and joy, are really what God promises us if we're faithful in discipling other people. This is the result, this is the incentive at His coming, what He wants us to be hoping to receive from Him. So, first of all, we're going to start with glory. And hearing glory, hearing that we ought to be motivated by glory, it sounds like a bad thing. And actually, if you go back in chapter two, All the way back to verse 5, sorry, verse 6, it says, Nor did we seek glory from men, either from you or from others. So Paul has already kind of made glory sound like a bad thing. So what's what's the difference here? Um well glory if if you're if you're If you're trying to get it in the right way and from the right sources in the way that God ordains, it's not a bad thing to want. Glory basically means um how high an opinion others uh would have of you. And you can and it can be talking about the opinion of people. It could also be talking about the opinion of God. In John 12, verse 43. Um, Jesus is preaching and there's some people who start to believe him, but they don't want to come out and say that they believe him, and it says it's the reason was because they love the praise of men more than the praise of God. And that word praise is the same word. for glory here. So really it comes down to who do you want to have a high opinion of you? Do you care about God's opinion more than you care about people's opinion, or do you care the other way around? Do you want a crowd of people to think, alright, he's a great guy, or do you want God to think You know, that's an obedient child, that's an obedient servant. That's what we're what we're thinking about here. And this glory, it's a good thing that's given by God as a motivation for us. Um it's probably good to feel uncomfortable about that at first, but we don't want to stay there because the Bible tells us that it's a good thing This uh crown of rejoicing in verse 19 kind of gives us an explanation, maybe a picture to think about this glory. And that word rejoicing there is often translated boasting, and it is is probably a a good idea to think about that word, boasting, instead of rejoicing here. What is our hope or joy or crown of boasting? That's to give us a picture of what exactly this glory is. When it talks about a crown of boasting, we looked at 1 Corinthians 9. uh last time but we won't go back there again but it's basically talking about a winner's wreath like we're probably all watching the Olympics right now. Well that was one of the things they compete for. That's the symbol that you Finished the race, you got in first place, you you did a good job, you competed according to the rules, this is your reward. Well, in our life we're supposed to see these people that we're investing in, these people we're discipling. and seeing God change through his word and his spirit, these are our winners' wreaths. So at the end of our life, um whatever it is that we've uh you know, done in somebody else's life by God's power, that is the evidence that we've competed according to the rules, that we've been faithful and that we're being rewarded. So it's a winner's wreath, but it's more than that as well. If you look at uh 2 Corinthians 10 Uh verses thirteen through seventeen. I'll read it. You don't have to turn there, but it says, We, however, will not boast beyond measure, but within the limits of the sphere which God appointed us, a sphere which especially includes you. For we are not overextending ourselves as though it as though our authority did not extend to you, for it was you to you that we came with the gospel of Christ, not boasting of things beyond measure, that is, in another man's labors, but having hope that as your faith is increased, we shall be greatly enlarged by you in our sphere, to preach the gospel in the regions beyond you, and not to boast in another man's sphere of accomplishment. But he who glories, he who boasts, let him glory in the Lord. For not he who commends himself is approved, but whom the Lord commends. So it's not just that we're competing and we're trying to get these people so that we can have like this number in our head that, oh, we were better than someone else. No, it's really about receiving from God commendation that we are faithful. It says, he who commends himself is not approved, but whom the Lord commends. And that whole passage is talking about how these people in that book, the Corinthians, that Paul ministered to, those are the people that he gets to boast about because God worked through him for that. Um now boasting okay we all know that there's a sinful kind of boasting which is basically Okay, I'm just going to talk about the things that distinguish me from other people so I can feel better about myself. That's not what this is talking about here There's also the kind of boasting that's almost a self-defense, and Paul talks about that a lot in 2 Corinthians. Sometimes he's having to go through just a long list of proof how that I'm legitimate that I'm not doing this for myself because people are, you know, accusing him. There's that kind of boasting. But the kind of boasting this is talking about is a kind of boasting that's recounting God's work that He's used you to do. And it's not for your glory, it's for his glory. It's like when a missionary comes by and we hear a report from them and you see a glow on their face when they start talking about somebody who came from just a totally pagan background. and now is maybe a deacon in that church and have had their life totally transformed. Well they definitely played a part in that. But they're not going to really highlight, I'm the one who did it. Okay. They're talking about what God did. Um and that's really what boasting in the Lord is like. And you know um we've had examples of this all throughout this book already. Chapter one is full of got of Paul just talking about what God did in these people's lives. Um and that's that would be what this boasting is. But when we do that, we know in our hearts That God gave us even those opportunities and worked in those people and that's commending um our faithfulness, which is not that our faithfulness is something special, but just God is that gracious that He would do that. This passage uh basically tells us two points in time though. That people whom we discipled are our glory. It says that they're our glory in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at His coming. And then it says in verse 20 in the present sense, you are our glory. So what's the difference between those two times? Well, the uh the first time the that's mentioned at the coming of Christ basically has to do with we all are going to be judged for what we do on this earth. And uh the the investment that we've made in other people is going to be what we're what we're judged on. Uh at least one of those things. Um in let's see, Second Timothy, um sorry, my bad. Um second Timothy four. Oh, I've got the wrong page totally. I'm sorry guys. Let's see. Well, I'm not gonna be able to quote that. Um let's see. I printed double-sided today, which is not what I usually do. This is another example of you guys being very patient with me, so I thank you for that Okay. But basically in in second Timothy chapter four, Paul's saying, okay You guys are are or I'm I'm expecting to see to get a crown of righteousness from God because I'm about to finish this race. And God is the judge of Uh if God is the righteous judge, he's going to give that to me. So at the end of the race, there is a judgment. The righteous judge gives you a crown. That's what I was going to say with that first. So if you'll please turn to Matthew 25, there's a parable that talks about this. We're going to look briefly at that. But on on the way, while you're turning there, I wanna I wanna read you this quote, and it's it's long, but it's really worth it, uh, because this is like one of those paradigm shifting quotes. It's from C. S. Lewis's sermon, The Weight of Glory, which if you haven't read, please read it. It's so, so good. But he he talks about his own journey to kind of accept this idea that God would glorify um his children and what that means. So he says, I turn next to the idea of glory. There is no getting away from the fact that this idea is very prominent in the New Testament and in early Christian writings. Salvation is constantly associated with palms, crowns, white robes, thorns, and splendor like the sun and stars. All this makes no immediate appeal to me at all. And in that respect, I fancy I'm a typical modern. Glory suggests two ideas to me, of which one seems wicked and the other ridiculous Either glory means to me fame or it means luminosity or shining. Okay. As for the first, since to be famous means to be better known than other people, the desire for fame appears to me as a competitive passion. And therefore of hell rather than heaven. And as for the second, who wishes to become a living electric light bulb? Okay, so C. S. Lewis is basically saying, look What God is promising me in heaven doesn't sound even like God to me because he's saying, Okay, you're gonna get glory, but that just sounds like, okay, being famous, he tells me not to want that. And then um, you know, shining like a light bulb, that doesn't make sense either. So he he kind of talks about how he wrestled through this. When I began to look into this matter, I was shocked, uh it says stocked here, I guess. Maybe he said stocked, stalked to find such different Christians as Milton, Johnson, and Thomas Aquinas taking heavenly glory, quite frankly, in the sense of fame or good report. But not fame conferred by our fellow creatures. Fame with God, or approval, I might say, appreciation by God. And then when I had thought it over, I saw this view as scriptural. Nothing can eliminate from the parable the divine accolade. Well done, thou good and faithful servant. With that, a good deal of what I had been thinking in my life fell down like a house of cards. I suddenly remembered that no one can enter heaven except as a child, and nothing is so obvious in a child, not in a conceited child, but in a good child, as its great and undisguised pleasure in being praised. Not only in a child either, but even in a dog or a horse. And apparently what I had mistaken for humility had all these years prevented me from understanding what is in fact the humblest, most childlike, the most creaturely of pleasures, nay, the specific pleasure of the inferior, the pleasure of beast before men, a child before its father, a pupil before its teacher, a creature before its creator. I'm not forgetting how horribly this most innocent desire is parodied in our human ambitions. Or how quickly in my own experience the lawful pleasure of praise from those whom it was my duty to please turns into deadly poison of self-admiration. But I thought I could detect a moment. A very, very short moment before this happened, during which the satisfaction of having pleased those whom I rightly loved and rightly feared was pure. And that is enough to raise our thoughts to what may happen when the redeemed soul beyond all hope and nearly beyond belief learns at last that she has pleased him whom she was created to please. Please. The point of what he's saying is part of the glory we will enjoy in heaven is the sense of our acceptance and delight and approval from God. For pleasing the one we were created to please. He's made us to feel joy in that. And that is something that we've experienced growing up as kids. That's something that we see in families all the time. Um and that's something we'll taste the reality of finally when we are in glory. If you look in that parable in Matthew twenty-five, we're probably all familiar with it. Um so I won't go ahead and read all of it, but basically it's you've got these servants, their master's going away into the country, and he's coming back, and he gives them talents. And pastors often taught us that talents is grace. He gives those talents and then they work hard and he comes back to find out what they've done. Here's what they say. Lord, you delivered to me five talents. Look, I've gained five more talents besides them. The other one says, Lord, you delivered to me two talents. Look, I've gained two more talents besides them. And the Lord says the same thing to both of them. Well done, good and faithful servant. You are faithful over a few things. I will make you ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of your Lord. A couple of things to draw out from that. If you notice that word look, um I studied this passage for a project in school, and one of the things that the commentators said about that word look is that It's almost like that situation where you've got the little boy who's just made a Lego set and brings this to his mom and says Look. Or, you know, you've got the dog who just rolled over and then is looking at you right in the face with a big smile. Um this isn't just a Well, I'm gonna have to show this to you, I guess. This is like look, I've been waiting to show you this. Um Both servants were eager to show the master their work because they knew him to be a gracious master. And the second thing that we see here is that the master cares about the relationship, not the numbers. He gave them different amounts in the beginning, five and two. Both of them doubled that amount. And he doesn't look at the one who has five and say, Wow, that's a whole lot more impressive. You've got ten. He doesn't look at the one with four and say, well that's pretty good. He had ten, but you know, I I guess I'll give you a pat on the head. He tells them the exact same thing He's got the exact same pleasure with them. And that ought to encourage us because, I mean, some of us can look at people who are really smart. uh athletic, all of these things, have you know, lots of money and things like that, and are able to serve the Lord in ways that excel what we're just actually able to do. And God actually isn't comparing your work with theirs. He's looking at you as if you were the only one and just looking at your faithfulness because he cares So that's kind of the beauty of what we have to look forward to. is when it's when when he comes back and is able to look at us in the face and it's just you know, it's just us and him. There's no more competitive spirit inside that is dissatisfied with how we don't measure up. But if we were faithful, We are going to have confidence that we're going to be very elated when he says, enter into the joy of your master in that moment. Now, that's what uh that's what the glory is going to be when we see him. Uh but what is this glory now? We won't go there in our Bibles, but in 2 Corinthians 3, we get an idea of what the glory is now that we receive from this. It says in 2 Corinthians 3, do we begin again to commend ourselves? Or do we need as others some epistles of commendation or letters of commendation from you? And what Paul's basically saying there is right, there are these people who are trying to slander him and they're saying, We're better than Paul because we have these letters that are from people of high pedigree and all that stuff that say we're great. Okay. So Paul is basically trying to argue against them and say, okay, uh d do we need do we even do I need to get one of those for you? And here's why he's saying that. Verse 2, you are our epistle written in our hearts. You are our letter. You are what commends us. Known and read by all men. Clearly you are an epistle of Christ, ministered by us, written not with ink, but by the Spirit of the living God, not on tablets of stone, but on tablets of flesh, that is of the heart. When we disciple other people, whether it's whether it's through you're raising a family, okay, or you're just in church and it's happening naturally that way, uh whatever whatever way that happens. When God uses you in someone else's life, the Holy Spirit writes that on your heart. He bears witness with that. And it's a commendation to you. It's a foretaste of God saying, well done to you. That's what this is saying. So you don't need somebody to go and write a letter to that person. To tell them that you were a good minister or a good friend or whatever. The Holy Spirit, because He used you in that moment and because He used God's word to change that person, both of you know Alright? That God was using you, and that God was pleased with you in that. So the foretaste that we have of that well done comes From time to time in degrees throughout this life, when we are faithful and we see God working. And it doesn't mean He's not pleased with us when we don't see Him work. Um that he has purposes for that as well. But when we do get to see something like that, we need to take that for what it is and and be uh be grateful for what that means uh for us. All right. And uh second point for tonight is joy, and we're gonna go through this quickly So we've seen what it what it really means for for us to have uh to be seeking this glory, why it's so motivating. Um but what does this joy aspect have to do with? Well, uh spiritual parenthood involves basically having, you know, a bis a blip uh sorry a biblical vision for your children. that they will one day be holy and wise and righteous children of God. That's peppered all the way through Proverbs. You can see all sorts of things like that. But We'll say Proverbs twenty three nineteen is just an example of that. Hear my son and be wise and guide your heart in the way. Just an expression of a father's heart. I want you to grow up to be a wise person. And that's what we all have in our in our hearts for people that we're trying to invest in. But when that person you invest in does make progress, sometimes very fast, sometimes over many years, it does give you a sense of joy. It says in Proverbs 23, 15-16, My son, if your heart is wise, my heart will rejoice. Indeed, I myself. Yes, my inmost being will rejoice when your lips speak right things. Proverbs 23, 24 and 25 says, The father of the righteous will greatly rejoice, and he who begets wise children will delight in them. Let your father and your mother be glad, and let her who bore you rejoice. And then 3 John 4 says, I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in the truth. So in any relationship where you are investing in somebody else spiritually and you see them progress, There is a joy that God puts into that moment for you. And it's it's it really does go a lot along with the glory because you're giving glory to God for what He's doing in these people's lives. And that gives you a joy that's beyond just seeing God work in your life, seeing that He's now been so gracious to you as to use you to do that in other people's lives. But what does that have to do with Christ returning? And we'll end on this point. We know that experience in this life. But the reality is when Christ comes back is going to be the fullest realization of that joy that we've ever had. You know, think of your children. Think of all of the good things that you've seen in them if you're a parent. Think of your friends if if you've you're somebody who who invests in your friends. Think of the good things that you've seen in them. Think of the ways that they've grown over the years. Think of the times that their insecurities or their fears or their pride have got the best of them. you've had to grieve over um a time when they've backslidden and and how that's affected you. When Christ comes back, it says in Colossians 3, 1 through 4. That, sorry, we'll we'll start in uh verse two. It says, set your mind on things above, not on things on this earth. For you died and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. And that appear isn't just talking about you'll be there. That's talking about that person, that new man created in Christ Jesus who you've been struggling to be all your life, that's all there will be left. And not just that, but the glorified that. And so the people that are your friends, your family, your wife, your kids that you see that in and you try to nurture and cherish All of a sudden, you're going to see that person that you've been trying to draw out your whole life, and it's only going to be that person. And it's going to be more great and inspiring than you ever imagine. And that's what we have to look forward to. So I'll just end with a few questions for us to kind of take home, think about. Are we motivated by these things? In all our relationships is the primary question we're asking ourselves is, you know, when I give an account for this, am I going to see God's smile or his frown? Is that what's driving us? And secondly, are we looking in other people's lives for those good things? You know, Pastor was talking on Sunday morning um about using our imaginations. And it's so easy to use our imagination when we see somebody, you know, maybe they don't greet us or they walk by us. um or you know, step on our toe or something like that. Just silly little things sometimes. And then we we set our imaginations putting motives in their heart and just saying, oh, they're such an evil person all these things. Um or somebody hurts us in a deep way and then we use our imaginations to just turn everything that they do into something bad. Well we need to be using our imaginations for the opposite of that. Think of the people in your life and use your imagination, okay, to see them growing in Christ five years from now. Um, what does that look like for them? We've got a lot of teenagers in this church um going through a really, you know, difficult time in their life of a lot of decisions and things and in a crazy world. Um what does thriving in Christ look for them look like for them in five years? Um do we have this kind of hopes for each other? Are we confident in God's working in one another this way? So that If if we do if Christ does come back today, um and we're all there together and we're all transformed We are looking around with awe and enjoyment of who these other people turned out to be like we were hoping for. Um let's try to let's try to do those things. Especially with a wana coming up and um pray and go getting to minister together. Um let's use our imaginations for those things and look forward to that day. Alright, um I'll go ahead and pray, and then I'll be out at the table to uh give you your your sheets for the praying go, and we'll just do what we do. Alright, let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your promises and for the confidence that we have that Um you keep those who love you and um that we will see your face and be changed. We pray that you'd help us to Uh be hoping for that day, looking forward to it, and that it would motivate us to um encourage one another to love one another in such a way that is looking for the good and is desiring to please you first. And we pray all of these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.