Father, we come to you this morning. We thank you for who you are. We thank you for your word and your truth. We thank you for your love. It is actually because of your love. that we can love others and that we can love one another. We thank you that it is based upon that great love that you have for us. Lord, as we look ahead to the message this morning and we look at Paul's desire to foster a loving community among the church at Rome and among the people that he knows in Corinth and his associates, I pray, Lord, that we would glean from this And be grateful for the loving community that we have in our church and also challenge us on how we can have an even greater, more unified, more harmony, and more loving community. We thank you for your word. We thank you for how the gospel brings us together. The gospel helps us to show the love of Christ to others. And um and that people can know us by our love. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Romans sixteen. And we are going to be looking at verses one through twenty of Romans chapter sixteen. Verses 1 through 20. We are coming to the very end of this book. We have been in in Romans for about a year, and um I am I have it has been a blessing a great blessing to preach through this book. We're coming to to the end of it now, and the Apostle Paul has twenty-six names he mentions uh in this chapter and we will see what the Lord has for us in Psalm 16, and we'll read verses 1 through 20. Verse 16 says, I commend to you Phoebe, our sister. Who is a servant of the Church of Centria, that you may receive her in the Lord in a manner worthy of the saints, and assist her in whatever business she has need of you For indeed she has been a helper of many, and of myself also. Greet Priscilla and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus, who risk their own necks for my life, to whom now only I give thanks. but also all the churches of Gentile of the Gentiles. Likewise, greet the church that is in their house. Greet my beloved Penetus who is the first fruits of Achaea to Christ. Greet Mary, and who labored much for us. Greet Andronicus and Junia, my countrymen and my fellow prisoners who are of note among the apostles who also were in Christ before me. Greet Amplius, my beloved in the Lord. Greet Urbanus or our fellow worker in Christ, and Stachius, my beloved, greet Apellus, approved in Christ, greet those who are of my household of Aristobulus. Greet Herodian, my countrymen, greet those who are of the household of narcissists who is are are who are in the Lord. Greet Triphhenia and Triphosa, who have labored in the Lord. Greet the beloved Persissus, who labored much in the Lord. Greet Rufus, chosen in the Lord, and his mother and mine. Greet A Syracus, Phlegen, Hermes, Patrobus, Hermes, and the br brethren who are with them Greet Philologus and Julia, Nerus, and his sister and Olympus and all the saints who are with them. Greet one another with a holy kiss. The churches of Christ greet you Now I urge you, brethren, note those who cause divisions and offenses contrary to the doctrines which you learned, and avoid them. For those who are such do not serve our Lord Jesus Christ but their own belly and by smooth words and flattering speech deceive the hearts of the simple. For you, obedient your obedience become known to all Therefore, I am glad on your behalf that I want you to be wise in what is good and simple concerning evil. And the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen. Now that is, in verses 1 through 16 of that passage, that is the longest list of names in the New Testament, and some of you were finding it very entertaining as I read all of those names. And I will tell you, I found it quite challenging uh to to take this text and to structure it in such a way that we can see what it's saying for us, but I think uh we will be able to do that as we go through this. I think what Paul is doing here as he com commends people and he greets people and he warns people of potential divisions is he is fostering a loving community in the church. And I think that's what we're going to learn as well. A few days ago, uh I went with my family, I think it was Monday, we went with our uh my family over to the Howard County Fair And the Howard County Fair makes it look like Howard County has a few farms in Howard County. And it does, a few, not many. Um and uh and it's a very uh there's all kinds of things that you can see. You could see cattle prodding and And and you could see all kinds of sheep and goats and pigs, lots of pigs actually. A lot of pigs. Um and and rabbits and all that kind of thing. But one of the things that that they did there was a presentation of of how a sheepdog guides the sheep. I read a book years ago called Lessons of a Sheepdog is actually for pastors to read to understand some of the illustration of their role as a as a under shepherd, as a sh as a pastor or as a sheepdog, if you will. And there are two goals of a sheepdog when it is guiding the sheep. And you're going to see this in a minute. I actually took a video of it. This is my video. It's not high quality or anything. I was just taking it with my phone as I was there. You're going to see two things. You're going to see, first of all, that the sheep guides and points uh uh sorry, the sheep dog uh this border colleague guides and points the sheep toward the shepherd, constantly pointing the sheep toward the shepherd, and also he gathers them together, keeps them together. Pat, if you could show that video, if you guys could show that video, it's just a couple of seconds. It's not long. But take a look at that and see if it you can see what's going on here. And that is a way. The man staying there is supposed to be the shepherd. How we do it. So now we want to counterclockwise and go around them. That's what he does. He just sits behind them. She directs him, gathers them together, keeps them together, and points him toward the shepherd. A stop. A magazine moving. Alright, that's all I took there. But that kind of gives you an idea of how the sheepdog, what is he doing? He is gathering The sheep and usually it's more than three. It could be fifty sheep or more in a in a big pasture. This is obviously just a presentation. But gathering the sheep, and he's not wanting to direct the sheep toward himself. He's wanting to direct the sheep toward the shepherd, but he's also running around the sheep, trying to keep them together. The Apostle Paul here is writing to the Church at Rome, and there are and he has never met anybody that He's never met people the he's never gone to Rome. He's actually met people that are in Rome now when he re writes uh only because they were with him in other places. And the people that he's going to refer to in some cases are coming to them from Corinth. But he isn't he hasn't been to Rome, and yet the affection with which he people to them as well. So what we're going to see from this passage in verses 1 through 4 is that what fosters community, well, one is genuine commendation. Paul is genuinely commending certain people. And we're going to see that in verses 1 through 4. Then we're going to see in verses 5 through 16 a warm greeting. And he encourages warm greeting amongst each other. And then we're going to see in verses 17 through 24 a clear warning. He has to warn them about something. There is unity in the church. There is a loving community. He wants to foster that. But there are dangers that would keep this community in Rome of being able to have the love and the unity he wants them to have, and so he's going to warn them in seventeen through twenty. Let's pick up first and we're going to see He starts out by commending a woman named Phoebe. This woman was obviously a very godly woman. And there are three things that he says as we look at this genuine commendation that fosters loving community. that we see in the passage, first of all, number one, we see that it is that he is he says she is a sister. He says, I commend you, Phoebe, our sister. Now you guys can move to the next slide there. You're gonna have to just try to keep up here as we're gonna go work through a lot of material kind of quickly. Um there, there you go. Very good. Um so number one We see here that he says, you are a sister. In Ephesians chapter 2, verse 19, Paul describes the episode. the church as members of a of the household of God. Members of the household of God. God describes his church as a family. He says of this lady, this godly servant of the Lord, he says of her that she is a sister. That's a wonderful thing to say about someone who knows the Lord. That is the kind of relationship, obviously, that Paul had. He saw these godly women as sisters. In 1 Timothy 5, I think we have a very important verse in verses 1 through 2. It says this: Do not rebuke an older man, but exhort him as a father. But fellow citizens, I'm sorry, younger men as brothers and older women as mothers. younger women as sisters with all purity. We see clearly that Paul tells Timothy that we as a church should relate to each other as a family, as sisters. And brothers, and fathers, and mothers. We understand what a family is, and so this helps us to see the kind of closeness that God desires his people to have one with another. It should be like family. He says, secondly, a servant of the church of centria. Now this is interesting. The word servant is actually the word that's translated sometimes as deacon. In fact, there are some that actually would suggest that this lady is a deacon of Centrea Centria. Now we know from 1 Timothy chapter 3 that it actually says in that passage, it does speak to wives of deacons, and it could be translated women. And we do know in another place in scripture that there are there is a there are deaconesses mentioned, but we also want to understand that there is a distinct Of course, between where it talks about women or wives as deacon or deaconesses, and when it says that a woman, the deacon must be a husband of one wife, which is clearly a man. Either way, what we actually see here in this passage is a great commendation of this single woman who is a true servant of God. This is not necessarily that she is holding an office, but it is that she is truly a servant of the Lord. And we see feet In fact, she is going to be the one that delivers this letter from Corinth, from Paul's pen to Rome. And she is the one that delivers this. Then we see in the passage that she is also a helper. It says, for indeed she has been a helper of many and of myself also. Uh this word helper could be translated as actually could be translated sponsor. It's the idea of someone who helps not only physically but in this case monetarily. She probably had some means about her and she was helping to keep the ministry going because of the finances that she had and she willingly gave. It also carries the idea of hospitality and we could assume that Phoebe was also a very hospitable person as well. This woman was such a wonderful single woman. Now that should actually be something that we should take note of by By the way. In the first century, single women were not really valued that highly by most people. But what we see happening in Christianity is that single women and single men are elevated to having a very high value. In fact, Paul says in Cor to the church at Corinth, chapter seven, it is good for a man not to marry a woman. Now that doesn't mean that marriage is bad. Of course, we already see from Genesis that marriage is a wonderful thing that God has instituted But we see in the New Testament as the church arises and as God inaugurates his church and forms his church that God really uses single men and women for his purpose. In fact, Paul says, as a widower likely, he says, I would that you be like me, because I am free to go out and deserve. I just want to say to you, single ladies out there and single men out there, don't get married until God is clearly leading you to get married. Stay single and serve the Lord faithfully. Be willing, understand that you have a great service to the Lord as someone who is single. Don't feel as though you need someone, whether you're a single man or single woman, you need someone to complain Complete you. You need Christ to complete you. The only reason to get married is to marry, and we're going to see a couple here in a minute that really is used of God as well, is to marry because you know you can serve the Lord better together than apart. This what he actually exhorts these people to do to this single woman, notice what it says here. It says that you may receive her in the Lord. Accept her. The word receive is to accept. Accept her in the Lord in a manner worthy of saints. Understand, she is a fellow Christian. She is of equal value and of equal status, so to speak, because she is a child of God. You need to receive And by the way, you need to assist her in whatever business she has in each of you. She tells the he Paul tells this entire church, make sure you assist this one In whatever she has need of, because she is a true sister, a servant of the Lord, and a helper to the kingdom of God. That is a great commendation of single women and frankly and frankly single men as well. And let me just encourage you, understand that God can use you greatly as a single man. We move on and we have a second commendation in verses three through four. in Rome, and uh they have not they have been we're going to learn a little bit about them they are Priscilla and Aquila. He says they're my fellow workers in Christ Jesus. And the Bible talks quite a bit about this couple, Priscilla and Aquila, or sometimes it's Aquila and Priscilla. And there's no rhyme or reason as to why sometimes the wife is named first and sometimes the husband is named first. Uh it's kind of interesting that that is the case. There are some people that make different different ideas as to why that is, but I don't think there's really any any Any true confirmation of why sometimes uh the woman is actually mentioned first or the wife is mentioned first, or the man is. But clearly we could see that they are equally valued in the kingdom of God for their service to the Lord. And we see, I just want to mention a few things. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Acts chapter 18 for a few moments? I want to look at these wonderful couple, Aquila and Priscilla, for a few moments here. But you take your Bibles and turn to Acts chapter 18. And as you're turning there, I want you to understand something about these folks. These folks are Jewish. They're Jewish Christians. And in 4950 A. D. , somewhere around there, they were kicked out of Rome by Emperor Claudius. We actually are going to see that in the passage in Acts chapter 18. So if you look at Acts chapter 18, you'll pick up in the first verse it says this. After these things, Paul departed from Athens and went to Corinth. And he found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontius, who had recently come from Italy with his wife Priscilla, because Claudia had commanded all the Jews to depart from Rome And he came to them. So because he was of the same trade, he stayed with them and worked, for by occupation they were tent makers. Here's Priscilla and Aquila. They're not a pastor and pastor's wife. They're not even an official deacon and deacon's wife. These are, as far as we know, these are simply tent makers. These are people that are making their living making tents. And the Apostle Paul on occasion made tents as well. And at this time he probably he didn't perhaps didn't have enough support from the churches that he was going to ministering to or the church that he was ministering to, and so he chose to make tents. And that's how he met these people as they arrived in Corinth. We actually find in First Corinthians that he did not want to receive funds from Corinth because He didn't want to cause anybody to stump to stumble there. And so that may be why he was actually making tense in this case. But either way, he met this wonderful couple and they join they began, they they had a wonderful relationship And that no doubt talked in fellowship about the Lord, and no doubt the Apostle Paul instructed them greatly in the things of the Lord for the six months that he was with them. But we see in the passage that it says what he valued of them is that they risked their own necks for my life, he says. These were how dedicated these people were. They didn't care about earthly things, they cared about heavenly things. They cared about the advancement of the kingdom, even to the extent of their own lives being risked. These were the kinds of that what a godly couple we have here. It says to whom not only I give thanks, but also the churches of the Gentiles. So they were in Corinth with Paul in 50 through 52 A. D. And Paul, of course, stayed with them. We see that in verse 3 of Acts 18. And that was about three six months according to Acts 18, verse 11. But then they moved in Acts 50, or in AD 52, they moved to Ephesus from Corinth. And the Apostle Paul, and they accompanied the Apostle Paul there. They arrive in Ephesus, and we find that in verses 18 through 19 of that passage that Paul leaves Ephesus to go to Syria, and Aquila and Priscilla, they stay in Ephesus. And we pick up in verse 24, and we want to read there, because in verse 24 we find that Aquila and Priscilla are used greatly in the life of a man named Apollos. Apollos was a very powerful speaker, a great preacher of the word. A godly man who loved the Lord, but apparently he didn't have some things that were quite correct in his theology. He didn't quite understand some things that he really needed to understand. With that in mind, look at verse twenty four. It says, Now a certain Jew named Apollos, born at Alexandria, an eloquent man And a mighty and mighty in the scriptures came to Ephesus. This man had been instructed in the way of the Lord, and being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught accurately the things of the Lord, though he knew only the baptism of John So he began to speak boldly in the synagogue. When Aquila and Priscilla heard him, they took him aside and explained to him the way of God more accurately. Here is a godly couple, listens to this man of man Apollos, realizes that what he says as he refers to the Old Testament and the things of the Old Testament, And they began to explain to him the truth. They were careful. They knew the scriptures, they used them greatly in the life of the apostle of this man Apollos, who was not an apostle, but but a preacher of the word. And so they took him aside. In verse 27 it says, And when he desired to cross to Achaea, the brethren wrote, exhorting the disciples to receive him. So they And when he arrived, he greatly helped those who had believed through grace, for he vigorously refuted the Jews public publicly, showing the scriptures that Jesus Jesus is the Christ. Now this man and this woman, uh Priscilla and Aquila, they weren't necessarily great speakers. They weren't powerful preachers. They weren't people that were constantly prominent and up front, but they were faithful servants of God who were used of God in whatever way he wanted them to be used They learned well the truths of the Word of God so that they could even instruct a man who would go on to faithfully preach the gospel and refute even the Jewish leaders. What a great couple we see here in this passage. What a great example of a godly couple. We find actually in 1 Corinthians. 1619 that they are hosting a house church in Ephesus. That's no small task. You ever hosted any They return to Rome in AD fifty seven. We see that in r here in Romans 16. They're in Rome by the time Paul is writing And actually they end up back in Ephesus under Timothy's ministry, where Paul says to Timothy in 2 Timothy 4, verse 19, greet Priscilla and Aquila and the household of Anephora. Now I say all of this in highlighting this couple because Paul highlights this couple and scripture highlights this couple. And I can just say this very very frankly. The Church of Christ needs more couples like this. It needs single people like like uh like the the lady before that we talked about, but now it needs this couple as well. well. Let me ask you a question, married couples out there. Is that your goal? Is your goal to be a Aquila and Priscilla? To serve the Lord in whatever capacity He gives you. It might change, it might adjust, it might be traveling in one cent one time. It might be hosting and being hospitable another time. It might be actually knowing the word well enough to be able to correct doctrine in another time. Whatever it is Is that how you see your marriage? A marriage of uh of an Aquila and a Priscilla that are supporting and helping the ministry And really living for the sake of the kingdom of God. Yes, they're working, yes, they're serving, but ultimately their goal is the furtherance of the kingdom of God in whatever way God wants. We need those kinds of couples. I would challenge you, married couples, be Priscilla and Aquila. This is a great example for us. May we find many that are serving this way. And I want to say in this church, I am grateful because we do have couples in this church. I'm not saying we couldn't use more, because we certainly could. And I'm not saying that we've arrived in this area, but I am thankful for the couples that I could say, you know what, I see that kind of Aquila and And Priscilla uh mindset thinking in their lives. Church is not a side thing, it's not a part-time thing, it's not a hobby. It's the main thing whereby we will we want to further the kingdom of God. We see this in these great this great couple. So we've seen Phoebe and Priscilla and Aquila, all very different people, different gifts, different stages of life, and yet God really uses them. And then we move, and we see here in the text that the Apostle Paul is going to move from commendation to warm greeting. He commends these people. He wants them to accept them and to fellowship with them. But now we move and we see a list, a long list, verses 5 through 16. And he says to greet, greet, greet. He's constantly telling them to greet various people. I want to say at the outset of this, when he says to greet them, he is not just saying, you know, just say hi and bye. Make sure you say hi. Make sure you say bye. That's not what he's saying at all. He wants them to this idea of greeting is a warm greeting. It's a warm reception. Every time you see the word greet, think of someone with open arms receiving someone else. Receive them. Accept them. Draw them in. Accept them into the fold. Greet them this way. Accept them. And what I've done in this text is I have categorized various groups. I'm not going to go through every single name, and many of these names actually we know nothing about them. And there's all this conjecture about certain people and all these different things that might be the case. It's amazing the commentaries that I read that there they'd be like, it might be this and somebody says this and it could be this and it might be this, but maybe it's not any of it And I'm thinking, you know, I'm not going to preach all the different people and what you know all that. What I've done is I've categorized things in groups of people, and you're going to see how Paul greets them and in a sense commends them. them too, but how they are to be warmly greeted. We first see that there are early converts and first fruits in this passage. We see this man appenetus in verse 5 of Romans 16. Likewise, greet in the church their house, greet my beloved appenitus. who is the first fruits of Achaia to Christ. He says, greet the early converts, the first fruits. Make sure you greet them. We see this in 1 Corinthians chapter 16, verse 15. He says, I urge you, brethren, that you know the household of Stephanus that is the first fruits of Achaea. The Apostle Paul wants them to understand that they should greet these early converts. Then we see that there are hardworking servants of the church. Mary is one, verse six, greet Mary, who labored much. And verse twelve, greet Tephina and Triphosa, who labored in the Word. And Romans 16, 12, it says, Persis. Who labored. These people labored, they're hardworking, they're laboring together in the Word. And then we have those who are imprisoned for the gospel. Notice Romans 16, 7. It says, Greet Andronicus and Junior, my countrymen and my fellow prisoners who are of note among the apostles who also were in Christ before me. Now when he says there in note of the of the apostles, verse 7, he's not saying that they are apostles or they are among the like one of the apostles. He's saying the apostles knew them. And they are longtime believers. They came to Christ even before the Apostle Paul did. They've been faithful, and they were actually imprisoned for the sake of the gospel. He says Greek Then he says, greet those beloved in the Lord. That's in verses 8 and 9. Greet Amphleus, my beloved in the Lord. Roman Tachus, Greet Urbanus, our fellow worker in Christ, and Tachus, my beloved. beloved in the Lord. And then approved and commended. Approved and commended. We see Urbanus verse nine Greet Urbanus our fellow worker in Christ and Stachis my beloved and Apellus verse ten Greet Apellus approved He says, they're approved. They are commended to you. They are truly Christians. They are truly born-again Christians. And then he says, he he says, greet certain households. We move to households. Households in the Lord, the household of Aristobulus. Aristobulus. Yeah, Aristobolus. Greet this household. The household of Herodian, which is very likely of the uh of Herod Herod the Great, that that that line of of um there's some some familial connect connection there And the household of narcissists. All of these are various households that are families, that are extended families, clans, if you will, that um that are truly faithfully serving the Lord. Greet those people. And then chosen spiritually, those who are spiritually significant. He says, Rufus and his mother. I I like this by the way, verse 13. He mentions Rufus. Rufus is also mentioned in Mar uh uh in Mark 1521. Probably this is the this is the father Which is the father of Alexander and Rufus, who was Simon of Cyrene, the Simon of back in Mark 16, Mark 1521 we find that Here's Rufus, who is a son, who is uh a child there of Simon Cyrene, who is faithful to the Lord. We see that in the passage. But notice what it says, Rufus chosen and his mother, and then he says this. Look at it, verse 13 He says, and his mother and mine. Now, was Rufus physical brothers with Paul? No, it's highly unlikely. But Paul saw certain women in his life, probably older women, he saw them as mother figures in his life. He says, probably what I would imagine here is that Rufus' mom took him in, uh, expressed love and a true l motherly love for this for for Paul. And Paul recognized him as a spiritual mother to him, a a nurturing figure in his life as a Christian. You see again the kind of family that is supposed to be the church. The church is a family And then fellowship groups and saints in general we see here. We have all of these names, which I'm not going to take the time to read in verse Verse 14, and it says, I've already read them, so we'll just call it that, verse fourteen, and it says, and the brethren who are with them. These are the brethren who are with them, all these different people. And verse 15, it says, and all the saints who are with them, he speaks about specific groups. Perhaps they are house churches within Rome that are meeting. And he wants them all to have a sort of fellowship one with another. Now I want you just for a moment to look at this list. What makes up a church that is that is a church that is a loving community? What does it require? What's needed? Well, early converts and first fruits. You've got to have Christians, that's for sure. Notice hardworking. He says multiple times, they're laboring together. You know what makes a loving church? A loving church is a church that labors together A church family is a church family that cooperates together and works together and labors together. It's not just one person having their ministry, another person having their ministry, another person having their ministry No, there is a working together. I think of the times that we have community days or VBS or Awana. These are times that we are working all together. And I I've got I would certainly not mention who it was, but I felt pretty sorry for him because I mentioned how we have community days at our church. We have an Easter egg hunt day and uh we'll have you know four hundred people here uh sometimes and that we're all our whole church kind of most of our church will get involved in this and He said when he tries things like this in his church, nobody wants to they only want to do certain things. And he needs people to do all kinds of things, but they're not they're only willing to do exactly what they want to do. They're not willing to do anything that anybody else, you know. And I just thought to myself, well that's really sad and I'm really and may be thankful for you all, frankly, because you're not like that. Um the majority of you are willing you might have a preference and that's okay. Okay, but many of you will come to me and say, look, here's my preference, but I'm willing to go wherever you want me to uh where wherever is needed. Where I'm willing I'm willing to serve wherever is needed. And it's a great spirit. I I really believe that. We have a great spirit in our church here. It's a wonderful thing. And it made me very sad when I heard of a pastor, a godly man, who in his church can't do things like that because everybody wants what they want and are unwilling to serve in areas that are genuinely necessary. needed. May we not, number one, not lose that. And may that grow that we are laboring together. We're looking ahead to Iwana and it's a big ministry and not everybody needs to be involved in Iwana in order to be a viable member for the first time. church or anything like that. There are other ministries that the Lord has given us here and that's wonderful. But uh w as we look into the fall ministries, we've had a bit of a break in some ways and a difference, a change Let's look ahead and say, hey, we want to roll up our sleeves and work together and serve together. And there's sort of this byproduct that happens as we do that, that we we get closer to each other and we We love each other more, and we can say that we're beloved in the Lord. And we realize that God has approved us. We're not approving of ourselves. We're not trying to approve others. Why why is it, you know, one of the things that happens in a church that really or any organization is that if everybody's worried about being individually accepted. Or everybody's so concerned about what they look like, or I I see this in the workplace a lot, where everybody's worried about what they look like, what their image is, what they how they are perceived. and whether they're truly accepted. You think of middle school. You poor people in middle school. It'll you'll get out of it eventually. Believe me, just wait. It'll happen. I I just think of everybody in middle school that's always just constantly trying to get accepted and make sure they're accepted and put the other people down to make sure they're accepted and Give you know, they gotta come up with all kinds of of um of r replies to things that are said and trying to navigate all of that. Boy, church should not be a middle school A church should be one where we realize that we're accepting the beloved. That we are accepted. I realize that I am accepted by God. Because of what Christ has done for me, of no merit of I of my own. So I don't have to worry about being the being accepted by everybody or everybody thinks I'm the greatest thing in the world or not. No, because I'm accepted by God. And that ought to be good enough. And and we realize that there is a fellowship together in the household of the Lord. Now it's to move on and we see in verse 16 that there is a certain kind of affection that we see here. Now this is an interesting verse. It says, greet one another with a holy kiss. The churches of Christ greet you. Now notice what he says there. He says, greet one another with a holy kiss. Now I'm going to be honest with you. I uh I read this and I decided to, as I often do, I look at the other occurrences in the old in a New Testament where it's mentioned. So the idea of greeting one another with a holy kiss. And do you realize it's a lot more than I realized? So he says in First Corinthians sixteen twenty, second Corinthians thirteen, first Thessalonians five, first Peter five, all say to greet one another in the with the holy kiss. Every single one of those place passages say, greet one another with a holy kiss. Greet one another. Greet all the brethren with a holy kiss. First Peter 5, 14 says, greet one another with a kiss of love. Acts 20 verse 1 says they embraced embraced each other. Hebrews 11, 13 says that they embra uh that there was an embrace there, embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on earth. What it tells us in this passage is that there is a genuine affection. Now look, the Apostle Paul is not the kind of person You read Romans ten through ten and eleven, nine ten and eleven, you read this passage, and this is not a guy who's like doesn't have a good head on his shoulders, right? And he's just like a uh uh you know sort of a wishy-washy guy. That's not that's not the case. But boy you come to this passage and you see the kind of affection that the Apostle Paul has for believers the kindness, the love, the genuineness that he has, where he says, look, you ought to greet one another with this kind of affection. Now, I should be clear, and most of you probably know this, but it was a cultural, culturally accepted thing to do to do to have a to do like a kiss as a greeting back then. My understanding is that it was usually actually men to men and women to women as a as a as a rule, where they would kiss the beard usually or maybe k they still do it today actually in the Middle East where you kiss one one side of the cheek and the other side of the cheek. It's usually a very quick thing. And um You know, it's not long or something. And and uh or if there's a kiss apparently historically and I haven't seen this lately presently, but it would be a kiss on the forehead for women. Um but it was something notice it says a holy kiss. Yeah Think it's important. This is something that is is pure and holy and right and is culturally unacceptable to do today. So don't kiss each other. Okay. You come and kiss me, I'm gonna step back and put my hand out. Okay. So so I I might I I you know if you're if you're old enough to be my mother, I'll hug you. Um And uh uh don't take that now I'm gonna hold some of these things, oh you think I'm old. I'll hug you I'll hug the brethren. Okay But all that to say, what I'm saying is simply that there is a way to affectionately agre uh agree each other that we should have in the body of Christ as family members. Members. We are family one to another. There should be a an affection for one another that we should have in the body of Christ. Christ. And we should follow foster those kinds of good feelings. Under in other words, folks, sometimes, and I'm guilty of this, where I I am not like a a super I don't wear my emotions on my sh shirt sleeve normally. There have been times I do and I surprise myself, but usually I don't. That's not usually the way that I I do. I I sort of function. And there are times that I could think, well that's just too emotional. Uh don't give me all that emotion. Well cranky about that. But folks, what we see scripturally is there is emotion involved in brothers and sisters in Christ. There is emotion involved in And affection for one another. And so we need to understand that. It needs to be appropriate, it needs to be right and pure and holy. We need to understand that. Then the Apostle Paul, I suspect, as he is writing this, and he is encouraging com he's coming people and he's encouraging greeting and all of this, I suspect that he also is aware, it bec he becomes keenly aware of the dangers that could threaten the union And so now he turns his attention to a clear warning. Apparently, and frankly, this is always a possibility, whether it's in the midst of us or outside of us in the where there are people that are straying away from the faith of the gospel, where they are twisting something within the gospel perverting or distorting the gospel. And that misteaching of the gospel is actually causing disunity in the body of Christ. And that's what we actually are turning our attention to now. He says, now I urge you, brethren. And he tells us what we're supposed to do with people who have compromised the integrity of the gospel in their lives. This is what he says to do. Number one, note them. Some translates translate it mark them. You need to mark them or note them. Philippians 3. 17 says the same thing, brethren. join in following my example and note those whose walk as you have for a pattern. Then It's who we're supposed to note? Well it says, note those who cause divisions and offenses. Divisions are obviously there those are dissensions. Those are those who are causing or crazy. creating factions likely there there are people in possibly that are threatening the unity of the body in Rome by wanting people And they gather people together to listen to them. And there are factions that are happening. Philippians chapter five, I'm sorry, Galatians chapter five verse twenty uses this in the midst of all kinds of other sins of non-Christians where it says idolatry, sorcery, hatred. Contentions, jealousies, outbursts of wrath, selfish ambitions, and there's our word, dissensions and heresies. The stumbling block idea in this passage has to do with a d there's a danger of abandoning the Christian faith. Now there are some that use this passage and suggest that any time anybody gets a little cranky in the church, that they should be marked And identified and all that. And I want you to understand that that's actually not what this passage is talking about. Not not what this context is talking about The context of this passage are those who are creating divisions through false doctrine. That's what's going on here. That it is by the false doctrine, the compromise of the gospel itself, that they are threatening the church. and threatening the unity of the body of Christ. It says here, contrary to the doctrine which you learned. Now I I at this point, you know, I I feel sort of a need, frankly, to be to to tread carefully here. Because it's going to actually say to mark, and then it says to avoid them. And I have to tell you that as I have heard preaching over the years years and teaching and read books, I have really seen this really taken out of its proper context. It's been used in a way that has actually caused unnecessary divisions in the church. If you go back to the 1920s, that was when the term fundamentalism was first used. And during that time, there were five fundamentals of the faith. And those five fundamentals were absolutely necessary for the integrity of the gospel. They were inerrancy of Scripture. Virgin birth, substitutionary atonement, bodily resurrection of Christ, and authenticity of miracles in the second coming. Now you think of that list, inerrancy of scripture, virgin birth, uh substitutionary atonement, bodily resurrection. Second Coming, all of those are absolutely essential to the gospel. You you mess with any one of those doctrines And the entire thing breaks down, and you have a perverted gospel message. I want us every all of us to understand that. You cannot twist or pervert the substitutionary Atonement of Christ and still have the gospel. You cannot. You cannot twist or pervert the inerrancy of Scripture and still have the gospel. And so there there was what was called during that time, there was what was called theological liberalism that questioned every single one of these. and ca and cr uh and encouraged doubt and even even uh uh uh uh choosing not to believe every single one of these And then there was a group of churches throughout this nation that said, we are fundamentalists. We are going to stick to the fundamentals of the faith. And those who are not Those who do not follow these fundamentals, we do need to separate from. Folks, I want us to understand that that's biblical. I don't mean to be mean spirit about any of this, but the Bible tells us that when someone compromises these clear fundamentals of the gospel That we need to note them and we need to avoid them. Now, I want us to be clear about this. Unfortunately, as time has gone on, This idea of avoiding people and Christians has sometimes expanded beyond the gospel. And folks, that's a tragedy. For the Apostle Paul, it was always about the gospel. We are unified by the gospel, and we are essentially divided by the gospel as well. And it is sad that as time went on, there were other things that were included beyond the gospel that became separation issues. That was way beyond what the historic fundamentals and the historic fundamentalists intended. So when it says here to avoid them, I want us to notice that this means don't keep company with them. And this is frequently in Scripture. It's not just once or twice. First Corinthians 5. 9 says don't keep company with them. First Corinthians five eleven, same thing. First Timothy three five. First Thessalonians three six. Withdrawal from every brother who walks disorderly and not according to the tradition which is which he receives. But I want us to notice this as well. This is not does not refer to somebody who is questioning these things. It's someone who is affirming that they do not believe these these things or they are twisting one of these fundamentals and as a result they are actually trying to get other people to to they're trying to convince other people as well. Those are the people you've got the Bible says this. So the Bible says you've got to you've got to identify them. And yeah, you can't keep company with those people anymore. Now I want us to be, I want to be clear about this. I want to see what Scripture says about this and understand that actually it's not saying that we need to shun them. There is a difference. It says this in 2 Thessalonians 3, verses 13 through 15. It says, But as for you, brethren, do not grow weary in well-doing. Or in doing good. And if anyone does not obey our word in this epistle, note that person, same thing, same instruction, note that person, and do not keep company with him. That he may be ashamed, that there is a sort of sense of guilt that comes from that, realizing that they're not part of the body they're not uh they're not uh uh in unity with the body of Christ anymore. Verse 15 Yet do not count him, even that person, do not count him as what? Don't count him as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother. Even while we are marking, even while we are avoiding, because we don't want to be deceived, at the same time, we are not counting that person as an enemy. enemy we are admonishing as a brother. Now you say to yourself, well, you know, at what point is this supposed to happen? Well w when does this occur? Titus helps us with this. Chapter 3, verses 10 through 11, it says this. Paul's telling Pastor Titus this. He says this, verse 10, reject a divisive man after the first and second admonition. Knowing that such a person is warped and sinning, being self-condemned. So there should be a warning. There should be a second warning. At the most, there should be a third admonition And after that, well it says actually after the first and second admonition. So there's a first admonition, there is a second admonition. After the second admonition, then that is when this occurs. And it would presumably be that leadership, Paul is telling Titus this, that leadership is doing this, that leadership is making these people trying to get them correct their theology helping to come back into the truth of the gospel once that occurs then there does need to be a noting and avoiding if they continue in false doctrine. This is what we see in Scripture. There's a reason in verse 18 that this is the case. Their problem, it says, Paul says here, is that for those who who are such do not serve our Lord Jesus Christ but their own belly. The truth is the reason that some would would stray from the faith is actually it's actually a spiritually a spiritual motivational reason. Paul is essentially saying we believe what we most want to believe, and it's always true. If we want to believe the truth. then we will. If we want to believe some version of our truth because it sits better with us, or more palatable to us, or more comfortable with it, or whatever the reason Then we're actually doing it from selfish motives. And we need to understand that this is the case. That someone who is choosing to stray from the faith is doing so from a point of selfishness. Paul doesn't. Mints words about this. He doesn't sugarcoat it. He is clear about the truth of this. He says there they have a method, there's specific method. They deceive the hearts, particularly it says, of the simple. I think sometimes people do this They're not they're not and it's not enough to believe it. They want to begin to propagate it because something in their conscience makes them feel better about the false doctrine if they can get other people to believe it too. And so when they have an opportunity to do that, they will do that. And they'll do it toward those who are simple. Now, what does it mean by simple? It's really talking about those who are not thoroughly, thoroughly well versed in Scripture. That's who they go after. They go after the people who are not thoroughly well-versed in Scripture. They're not going after the Priscilla and Aquillas of the world. They're going after it says the simple. Now they may talk to try to convince others, but they're going to deceive the hearts of the simple This is something that we have to be aware of. Philippians chapter 3, verse 18 says this for many walk, of whom I have often told you, and now tell you, even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ. Whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly, whose glory is their shame, who set their mind on earthly things. And then we have some reasoning in verse 19 and some advice. He says this, for your obedience has become known to all. Therefore I am glad on your behalf. He's speaking to the Romans, the Roman church, and he's saying your obedience has become known to all. When he's talking about obedience here, I think he's talking about obedience to the faith of the gospel. He's already said this three twice in Romans. Romans 1. 5, it says, Through him we have received grace and apostleship for obedience to the faith among the nations for his name. And then in Romans 1626, again, it uses the term obedience to the faith. So he is saying that abroad, they their faith in the gospel Their choice to believe the gospel is known abroad. He says, but, and notice this really key advice. I think this is critical. The key advice he gives here is this. He says that I want you to be, notice what it says, wise in what is good and simple concerning evil. Did you catch that? Don't miss that. Really critical. What is Paul's intention? He says that they be wise in what is good. And simple in what is evil. Paul is clearly thinking about the first three chapters of Genesis. We know that because he's going to say in verse 20, and the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly. The crushing the head of Satan is clearly from Genesis chapter 3 verse 15 where it says, I will put image image Between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed, he shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. But before he says those words, he says, I want you to be wise in the good. and simple to the evil. What is he saying there? He is saying this. He is saying, I don't want you to know everything about what is evil. I want you to be simple. I want you to stay innocent in those things that are true that are evil. You know, sometimes I think we think, and in Christian, as Christians, protect particularly in this information age, that if we learn everything about everything that is wrong, that somehow it's going to protect us. But that's not the admonition that we have from the Apostle Paul. That is not what he suggests here. By divine inspiration. We see that Paul's method of keeping people away from false doctrine is to be wise in the good, to know the good. But the simple but be simple in the evil. And I think by way of application we can say this: there is this thing called curiosity. That can be extremely good or extremely bad. When Satan came to Eve and said, You will not surely die, instead, you will be like God, knowing good and evil. You will have knowledge you didn't know before. Well, actually, that was true. She would have knowledge of evil that she didn't know before. But that wasn't a good thing. That was a bad thing. So there is a curiosity that we can have. And a curiosity toward evil things, folks, we need to be careful that we do not feed a curiosity toward sin. We don't feed a curiosity of evil things. But instead, we do feed a curiosity of good things. The perfect, I think the perfect illustration Is in Genesis. You have all of these wonderful trees that they could eat of. And he said, you could eat of any of them. Eat all of them. Eat of any of them. You can have your fill of any of the trees. But there's this one that you can't have. And you know what you and I do? We have all of these wonderful things we can be curious about. You look at any discipline in academia, you could be clear curious about science, you could be curious about math, you could be curious about English grammar, if you're really weird, you can be curious about all kinds of things. And you should delve into them and enjoy God's creation. and what he has done. And you can get into the Word of God and who God is and delve into this and be curious and ask questions. Be curious, really, really curious about the truth of God's Word. God wants us to be curious about those things. But there's something we shouldn't be curious about. When we're curious about evil, when something flashes up on the screen and we sort of go, oh, I'm kind of curious about that. We ought not click. Because God's desire for us is that we are that we are wise in the good But we're simple to the evil. Parents, don't deceive yourself into thinking that you've got to you've got to you've got to have your child children involved in every evil thing about Uh so that they're prepared for the future. That's not what we see in the passage. Now, I do think on a way of uh by way of balance that you can isolate your kids too much as well. well. I think if we're isolating our children from non-believers, we're not helping them to be salt and light to the world. So I I think there's a balance here. But if we think that if if if our if our deliberate method is to expose our kids to all kinds of evil thinking that somehow that's going to be the thing that really um that really helps them to stay away from the evil that we've exposed them to. Folks, we ought not be familiar with evil. We don't want our kids being familiar with evil. We want them to feel to have this the conscience that it's that it's it's something's wrong. It's it's not right. There's there's We need to build our kids' consciences about things rather than having them be familiar with them. Paul tells us this, Philippians 4, you know the passage. Finally, brethren, whatever things are true, whatever things are noble, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things are a good report, If there is any virtue, if there is anything praiseworthy, meditate on these things The things which you learned and received and heard and saw in me, these things do, and the God of peace will be with you. Then he says, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen. Amen. I have four personal questions that we need to ask ourselves. Four personal questions. Number one Are we ready to genuinely commend other Christians for their sincere service to the Lord? Are we ready to genuinely commend other Christians? We want to see what other Christians are doing and be grateful what they're doing and be supportive of what they're doing for the Lord. I I love you know gossip is sin, but I love when somebody comes to me and says, You know what so-and-so did that was a good thing? Do you know what so-and-so did? They went out and did this, or boy, they really were faithful here, or they really did a great I love hearing that. And we ought to be doing that more. We ought to be going to each other and saying, hey, you know what so-and-so did? Wasn't that a great thing that they did? Not that we lift anybody up as some great person, but that we're thankful for the work of God through individuals in our church. And we want to be careful not to embarrass people or lift people up or you know that kind of thing. It's not what it's about. But just to be grateful for God's working in people in our church. Share those things with one another. I think that that's something that is helpful in the body of Christ. Number two. Do we regard one another as family brought together by the gospel? Is that how we look you couldn't see you you see that clearly in this passage, do you not? I mean it's it's obvious that this is how the Apostle Paul see these things people. He's a widower. We don't see him having a lot of actual family relations, you know, like family relationships, if any, but man, he sees his church as a family. What a wonderful thing. What a wonderful thing that when God diminishes our physical family, we have a spiritual family. We ought to draw closer to them. This is something that, frankly, we need. This is something in the first century church, as Christians were, this is the truth, as Christians were being persecuted In some cases, they were being shunned by their family because they were Christians and Christians were pure persecuted, and their physical families were shunning them. And boy, did they need the spiritual family of God Do we regard our church family that way? Number three, do we express genuine affection for other believers? Not weird or impure, but genuine affection. Our brothers and sisters in Christ, do we express genuine affection for others? other believers. And number four, are we willing to note and avoid those who compromise the gospel and refuse to be That's a hard one, right? We don't like to be mean. Boy in this world the idea of this is not well received necessarily. And of course we want to be careful that we're not trying to shun people or trying to No, but if someone is going to if someone is going to promote false doctrine, we've Got to identify them and we've got to not keep company with them. Otherwise, the Bible says we have the possibility of being deceived. So we need to become If you're here this morning, what you're actually seeing through all of what we see in this passage is a group of believers that are brought together by the gospel. These six names are all people that the Apostle Paul said have received the gospel. There is a certain bond that Christians have in the gospel. And so I would ask you this morning, are you a Christian? Have you accepted the gospel of Christ for your own? The Bible tells us that the gospel is that Jesus died, was buried, and then physically rose from the grave. He died, 1 Corinthians 15, for our sin. He was buried, and he rose from the grave victorious over sin and death. So that if we understand our sin and our sin separates us from God, and we accept what Jesus did to pay the punishment for our sin. We can have his right, he takes our punishment, we can have his righteousness so that we can be in right standing with God when we apply that by true saving faith. And if you don't know where you stand with God, you don't know where you've accepted the gospel, maybe you're reading that, you're listening to all this and you're like, I want a part of that loving family. The key is to accept the gospel of Christ. And if you don't know where you stand in your relationship with God, please come and talk with me after the service. I'll be more than happy to show you from the Bible how you can know for sure that you You will spend eternity with the Lord that you have a right standing with God by what the Bible says. Not by what I say. Not by what somebody thinks, but by what the Bible says. Let's go. Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and we thank you for your word. We thank you for its truth. We thank you for the love that we see in the Apostle Paul. We thank you for his desire to foster um true loving community in the body of Christ in the Church of Rome. We thank you for the things that we can learn and glean from this. And I pray, Lord, that as we think through the These things we would be personal when it comes to our to these questions. We would ask ourselves, do we have the kind of affection that the Apostle Paul had for the body of Christ? Do we have the kind of desire? Do we see each other as family? And Father, we understand that it is through the gospel and because of the gospel that we are brought together in Christ. And we understand, Father, that as we love one another, that is a wonderful testimony. testimony to to the outside world, they will know we are Christians by our love one for another. So I pray that your spirit would take your word and you And if there is anybody here, Lord, that doesn't know you as their Savior, that they would understand their sin, their need of a savior and they would be saved. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call, so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.