So Welcome everybody tonight. It has been an interesting Sunday for the last two Sundays we've had plumbing problems at our house. So last Sunday we had a hot water heater go and my dad and I replaced it between the morning and evening services and this This Sunday we had our sink drain leak. So we did that between evening services. But thankfully it all gets fixed. Dad's uh ability to be able to do that and all of that. This that is great. I don't know why more people don't use strollers. I want one. Anyway. Yeah, that's that's great. Um I I really encourage uh use any kind of strollers or or uh pack and play Let me go ahead. Let's go ahead and sing. Let's let's start uh With five oh two near my goddess. We can all stand together. Never my God to the The sand Then make my way. Time for an A. My dot and binary didn't ever Father, that would be our prayer tonight that you would help us to draw near to you, even tonight, and we understand that you have made All kinds of provisions for us to be able to draw near to you. Of course, you've given us your word and you've given us your spirit to be able to understand the significance of it. of your word and you have given us each other and the church. You've given us the um the practice and the uh to be able And uh Lord, your desire is for us to draw near to you. Lord, it is is incredible to think that you even want that to happen. We are our our ways are wayward, we are constantly going our own way. Our sin is ever before us when we think of your own holiness, and yet because of the great sacrifice that Christ made on the cross for us, we have been delivered and we can And truly be we can celebrate that. And we pray that you'd help us to do that even this morning. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. You may be seated And uh you can go ahead and trick take your Bibles and turn to Exodus uh this this evening, Exodus chapter twelve. While you're turning there, I just wanted to sort of talk for a few minutes. minutes sort of a family kind of a family meeting about uh just something to really encourage you about. Um last deacon's meeting we had, we actually had it on Friday night this past Friday night and we were talking and uh something was raised as a sort of a concern that um I you know that I wanted to just sort of um uh address. Um so um several you know about a maybe two years ago actually this has happened more than once but I've had people People just say how friendly our church is. They've been they've really expressed that. I've had I've had friends from time to time that I've known for years, many years, that just came to stop by uh just to hear you know, just to see they have they have their own their members of another good church in in the area, but they just want to stop by and see me or whatever. And uh they've noted how friendly our church is. And I just I'm very thankful for that. But I also want to encourage us to continue that. So so um right now, you know, when it comes to the whole everything has been so disorienting and uh we meet outside and you gotta pack up your own chairs and those kinds of things and there's some difficulty with It could be very easy for us to just sort of become preoccupied with handling our own families that we don't look around and see if there are visitors and really reach out to them. And can I just encourage you to make sure out to them and uh and show love to them. If that means that I've just got to leave my chair there for a little bit and not pack up quite yet and go over and see them first and then and then that that kind of thing. And I would really encourage you to There's some churches that they get so used to not doing that and they just assume that there's gonna be you know the the friendly folks will do that. Like there's this group at the church that's the friendly folks folks and the ones that aren't. You know, you got the friendly folks and the nerdy folks or something, I don't know. But we don't want to be that. None of us are nerdies here. We all ought to be friendly. Okay. Um and and so if I could just encourage you that way that that before the service, after the service, um uh we're now getting into this new normal for a while anyway way and hopefully now we can when we have guests uh we we tend to all we ha we we just tend to have more guests when we're outdoors. That seems to be almost every single time we have somebody that comes in It's new uh new uh when we when we meet outdoors. So when we do uh if I can just really encourage that way, um just to just to be mindful of that. We want to we want to be hospitable uh to the guests that the Lord sends us and uh reach out to them. I mean pray that we can get in into spiritual conversations with them and and uh and um eat you know I I you could even just if you're getting into a conversation about that with them, I've seen some of you do this, uh and and you gotta go or they gotta go or something like that, just say, hey, uh you wanna Hey, this week, let's grab coffee or something. There'd be nothing wrong with doing that. Um you don't have to wait, well let's go make sure they go through the visitor process, you know, they gotta go through um they gotta get the letter first and No, just just just do that. Uh and and you know, that kind of a thing. Just just reach out any way you can and I just really encourage you that way. One of our like our only outreach right now is if people come. And uh and that's why we're we have I have an inclination to be outside. Of course today was not possible. But I have a I have a strong inclination to be outside when we can, uh, because it's just about our only outreach outside of the streaming and those kinds of things, which is good as well Well that's right now their only outreach. So uh just I just want to encourage you that way. And thank you for doing it in the past and and uh please continue. Alright, Exodus chapter twelve tonight. And we have are picking up here in um we're we're gonna be looking here at But uh we'll pick up here in verse eleven. Uh this is point number two. Well, let me just let me just review a few things first before we get into into verse eleven here. We noted this morning that this is a passage on the Passover, and we also noted this morning that this is a passage that Um that makes uh that that at first it may not look like it really has that many you know like what's what do we have to do with this passage. But if you look over at Luke twenty two, which we did this morning, you s And then also, as we noted this morning, there's this connection When the disciples came together to break bread, Paul preached unto them, ready to depart on the morrow, and continued his speech until midnight. Now I hope that that was a you know a an an evening service and not a morning service because if it was a morning service that was that was like a twelve hour sermon or more. Uh hopefully it was an evening service. And so they all met at seven seven o'clock and it was a short, you know, short five, six hour sermon. You know, five hours something. Um but um they did meet together and uh and there's all There so there is a continuity between the practice of the Passover in Exodus twelve and our Lord's Day gatherings uh that we are on are commanded actually to to observe uh in the New Testament. And then what we looked at is how do we experience It's not just a matter, it's not just a matter of reading what happened. Okay, yes, I know the Bible says I'm delivered. But it's actually participating in deliverance. It's experiencing it. And we use the illustration of someone who's married. Um but if someone's married and never does anything with their spouse, never talks to their spouse, never goes and on a date with their spouse, never never um walks with them or anything like that. They never do anything with them and they go you know a decade and don't do anything, then they're not experiencing their marriage. They could be still married, but they're not experiencing it. And sometimes our relationship with the Lord is that way, where we may genuinely be saved, but we're not experiencing the the deliverance that God has given to us. And what helps us is the fact that we are assembling together. Once a week, uh more than once a week, hopefully, to meet together. When we do that, we're celebrating what Christ has done for us. So with that in mind, then we first we need to uh there are three uh ways that we experience um deliverance. One is the application of deliverance. We want to apply deliverance and you remember we talked about the blood that was put on the doorpost, on the lintel. And that was an application. They had to do that in order to experience deliverance from God. And there are applications for us. There's nothing, there's no work we can do to merit the the uh the deliverance from God. But there is a mental work that we need to do of applying the the In other words, our heart is going to condemn us. We are Satan is the accuser of the brethren. That's going to happen. And yet it is God who who and Christ who has delivered us, and we have to reckon that to be true. We have to reckon that to be so. Our heart condemns us, Satan condemns us. And God says there is therefore no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. But that is something that you have to apply mentally in your own heart. And then we looked at a little bit we looked at anticipating the deliverance. That now, and you'll note from this morning that they had to do certain things. They had to keep their sandals on, they had to keep their belt buckled, they had to keep their um uh their staff in hand, they had to be ready And watching for the deliverance of God. And we see scripturally that that that was Jesus' emphasis in Matthew 24, 20 forty two it says he says watch therefore for you do not know what the hour the Lord uh the hour no the hour the Lord is coming. And in Matthew twenty five thirteen it says watch therefore for you know neither the day nor the hour in which the Son of man is coming. He's saying, watch, be ready, anticipate, pay attention. Christ is coming. Be ready for the coming of Christ. So we're supposed to be ready. And when we take the Lord's Supper, or when we gather together on a Sunday, we are doing so in anticipation. Of the fact that one day we are all going to gather. The whole church, the bride of Christ is going to gather for that great marriage supper of the Lamb It's going to be a wonderful, glorious day. And we're getting sort of a microcosm of that day every Sunday when we meet together. But one day we will meet all together in the future Would you take your Bibles and turn to Revelation chapter nineteen? I want us to look at this this e this evening for just a few moments, and I want us to see this. This is Is the passage that we see spelled out for us what is going to happen when it comes to the coming of Christ, and then you have this marriage supper of the Lamb. Rev Revelation chapter nineteen, and we're just going to begin in verse one. It says, After these things I have I heard a loud voice of a great multitude in heaven. Saying, hallelujah, salvation and glory and honor and power belong to the Lord our God. For true and righteous are his judgments. Because he has judged the great harlot who corrupted the earth with her fornication, and he has avenged on her the blood of his servant Preachers fell down and worshipped God, who sat on the throne, saying, Amen, Alleluia. Then a voice came from the throne saying, Praise our God, all you his servants, and those who fear him, both small and great. And I heard, as it were, the voice of a great multitude as the sound of many waters, as the sound of a mighty thundering, saying, Hallelujah, for the Lord God omnipotent reigns. Let us be glad and rejoice and give him glory. For the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his wife has made herself ready. Keep that in mind, his wife has made herself ready. And to her it was granted to be arrayed in fine linen, clean and bright, for the fine linen and the righteous acts of the saints. That he said to me, Write, Blessed are those who called to the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he said, These are the true sayings of God. And I fell at his feet and worshipped him. But he said to me, See That you do not do that. I am your fellow servant, and of your brethren you have the testimony of Jesus. Worship God, for the testimony of Jesus is the Spirit Of prophecy. So we have here the marriage supper of the Lamb, where the bride of Christ, the wife of Christ, which is us, that's the entire church, the universal church. is gathered together at this great glorious feast. We're looking, and we're to anticipate that day Well, how do we do that? Well, we need to be ready. But I want us then to notice this that in conjunction with this Passover in chapter 12 of Exodus, you have this feast, this feast of the unleavened bread. And we find that feast in verses 15 through 19 of this passage. So if you'll turn back there to Exodus 12, you'll see this. And I want you in the we're not gonna we're not gonna look into a lot of the details. There's actually quite a few details uh also in Deuteronomy and Leviticus. We're not really trying to hone in on the details tonight. meaning of this but I want you to see picking up in verse fifteen it says seven days you shall eat unleavened bread On the first day you shall remove leaven from your houses, from whoever eats leaven bread from the first day unto the seventh day, that person shall be cut off from Israel. On the first day there shall be a holy convocation on the seventh On the seventh day there shall be a holy congregation for you. No manner of work shall be uh done on them, but they which every one must eat, that one that only may be prepared uh that only may be prepared. Look at verse 19. The seven days, again, he says it again. The seven days, no leaven shall be found in your house. Houses, since whoever eats what is leavened, the same person shall be cut off from the congregation of Israel, whether he is a stranger or a native of the land. The question then becomes, what is this leaven picturing? We have this, and it's not only here but other places in the Pentateuch in the first five books of the Bible. uh books of the old testament, you've got this prohibition against any kind of yeast or leaven. And if you've got to they had to cleanse their cleanse their houses from it, all that. What's it talking about? Well in Luke chapter twelve, verse one, I mentioned this this morning, but in Luke chapter twelve this one verse one, Jesus actually said this about the Pharisees. Said, Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees. And then he says what it what it is, which is hypocrisy. The leaven in Scripture has to do, of course, with sin. We know that But particularly the leaven of the Pharisees is leaven you couldn't see. It was sin that you couldn't see. Why? Because the outside was clean. That's why Jesus would call them things like white is sepulchre. With dead men's bones and clean cups with filthy insides and things like that. And God says that in the Passover, leaven shouldn't be there. In First Corinthians chapter five, verse seven, we see a m even more direct connection. Now let me give you a little context in First Corinthians. Chapter five is a passage where Paul is telling the church at Corinth that you've got to deal in church discipline, you've got to deal with somebody who is disciplined. An unrepentant sin. It was actually incest. You've got to deal with this. And he says, if you don't, there's going to be problems in your congregation And in verse 7 it says this, purge out therefore the old leaven, that ye may be a new lump as ye are unleavened. For even Christ, our Passover is sacrificed. He says, Christ is our Passover, is sacrificed for us. Therefore, let us keep the Feast, not with old leaven, neither with the leaven of malice of wickedness, but of the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. What feast was he saying to keep? Well, you go you fast forward you go just a few chapters later in verse in chapter 11 of 1 Corinthians. What feast is he talking about? It's the Lord's Supper. And that's why you have in 1 Corinthians 11, verse 27, it says, and whoever eats this bread and drinks this cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself and so let him eat of this bread and drink of his cup this cup, for he who eats and drinks of uh of it in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment to himself, not discerning the Lord's body For this reason, many are weak and sick among you, and many sleep. Now, the point that we need to make here is simply this: that the way that we prepare for the Passover Passover for the way that we experience deliverance is as we prepare by the cleansing of our own heart. Hearts, by confessing our sin before God, by recognizing when we sin and recognizing God's forgiveness for our sin. The Lord's Supper and the Passover is to be a time of celebration. Why? Because God is delivering his people. He has delivered us And in that celebration, we can experience it by recognizing God's deliverance in our lives, by identifying the sin, and by saying, God. Which you, God, you have cleansed me of that sin. By agreeing with God about the sin, agreeing with God with God that He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all and righteousness. And in 1 Corinthians chapter 5, Paul is saying, look, if you have someone who is an un who is an open, unrepentant sin, you must cast them out. They can't, they can't Now that does not mean, by the way, that they shouldn't come and hear the preaching of the word. It doesn't mean that you're shunning them in an unloving manner or anything like that. That, but somebody who's an unrepentant sin, who's gone through the steps of church discipline in Matthew chapter 18, they can't partake of the Lord's Supper with believer. And Paul explains why in this passage. Now, let's let's apply all of this at this point. We've got, okay, if we're going to explain Experience the Lord's supper, or experience rather deliverance the way that God wants us to. If we're really going to experience this the way that God wants us to We need to do three things in our lives. Number one, we need to apply deliverance personally. Number two, we need to anticipate deliverance eagerly. And number three, we need to prepare for deliverance constantly. In other words, if you're saying we remember listen this morning we asked the question do you ever find that sure in church you're just going through the motions? Do you ever find that you're coming to a service and it's and it's It's empty. It's hollow. Well, let me just suggest to you very strongly that if you are consistently applying deliverance personally If you are consistently anticipating deliverance eagerly, you're looking for the coming of Christ. If you are consistently preparing for deliverance constantly, If you're consistently recognizing your sin and recogniz-which is every day, it's an everyday occurrence. Recognizing your sin and recognizing God's deliverance. Can I just Can I just encourage you this way that if that is happening in your life, you're going to look you're going to anticipate the Lord's day. You're going to want to be with God's people and celebrate what God God feeling for you. It's going to be something that's joyful and joyous. It's going to be something that God that is that has is full of meaning. And it's going to be like a gr even greater experience of deliverance as we gather together. So what is all this supposed to re Resulted. So let's say all this is happening. What's the result? Look at verses twelve. Look at verse 14. Chapter 12, verse 14. It says this. So this shall be to you a memorial. And you shall keep it as a feast to the Lord through your generations. First of all, he says, this shall be to you a memorial. What is it talking about when it talks about a memorial? It's talking about the idea of a reminder. Remembrance. Now that shouldn't surprise us, should it? We've already learned that about the Lord's Supper. We read it every single time we take the Lord's Supper over in 1 Corinthians chapter 11. This do in what? In remembrance of me Well this memorial, this word memorial is translated it's most often translated memorial. It's second frequency of translation Is remembrance. Sometimes it's translated record or also remembering. So it's the idea of, if you think of a memorial, why do you have a memorial? Why do you have statues that some people want to take down, apparently? Why do you have that? You want to remember the past. You want to remember history. And by the way, you've got to remember both the good and the bad of history. Or you're doomed to repeat the bad. And you're doomed not to be thankful for the good So God says that this Passover and our Sunday morning, our not just morning services, our Lord's Day services are to be this kind of a thing. It's to be a morning Memorial. It's to be a time of remembrance. And secondly, we are to celebrate it in three Look at verse 14 again, it says this, and you shall keep it as a feast. The word keep is a very interesting word. It is a very, it's actually a very colorful word. Sometimes it's translated celebrate. It's actually translated dance. Okay? So when you think of keep the feast, you don't that doesn't it's not just a matter of This is a something that is a celebratory, meaningful kind of a thing In first Samuel chapter thirty, verse sixteen, it says, And when he had brought him down, there they were, spreading out all over the land, eating and drinking And dancing. This is this word. Because all the great spoil which they had taken from the land of the Philistines and from the land of Judah. Maybe Joy got it right. Maybe we are supposed to do liturgical dancing and I'm supposed to do lessons on that. Maybe she didn't. Now that's not the point at all. The point is not that we need to come and do some kind of fancy gyrations. The point is this that this is some this is going to do this is to intended to be a celebration when we come together. So if if we are experiencing what we are intended to experience, then when we come together, it's going to be a memorial And it's going to be a celebration. Now, with this in mind, let me just simply ask this question again. You ready? This is the question. Has the Lord's day And or the Lord's Supper become empty ritual for you? Or is is there a temptation that way? And I think all of us would say that there's all the flesh is there is a temptation that way. And I will just say to you by practical example, talking to somebody else about this illustration uh uh on on Saturday. Um but there is a you know what why is it that God commands us to assemble Now, I mean, you know he does that, right? Hebrews chapter 10. We all know he he says, don't forsake these son of us. He actually commands it. Uh why is it that he commands it? Well, is it so that we feel guilty when we don't Do it. Well, if we are driven primarily of guilt, if our motivation is primarily guilt Then what is going to happen? What are we gonna what is going to be the result of that? It's gonna be legalism. It's gonna be Phariseaism. That was the problem. That was the and we will be Begin doing it hypocritically. We'll be doing it externally without the internal desire, without the internal meaning. So, why would God give us a command? Now I'll tell you why God would give us a command. I think there are two reasons. One reason that God gives us these kind of commands is that when we are, when we When we don't want to do what we're supposed to do, then that should cause us to reflect. Does that make sense? When we don't want to do what we're supposed to do, then God wants us to look inward and ask the question: why is it that we don't want to do what we're supposed to do? supposed to do. It becomes a drudgery for us. It becomes guilt-driven for us. It becomes just another thing I've got to do. But that's not the point at all. That's not the reason for the command. Remember what the primary command of all commands are? What is it? Love God with all of your heart, soul, and strength, and love your neighbor as yourself. That comprises all of the commands. And so, what if we really love God And if we really love our neighbor, if we love them, why would we not want to come and be together with God's people? It it requires for us to do some soul searching, to to be aware of the leaven of the Pharisees, because if you just keep doing what you're doing, what you're doing all the time and you're just doing it because you Feel guilty if you don't. If you're living that kind of a life, that's not what God intended. So it would be counterproductive for me. You've probably heard plenty of messages Where somebody is going to harp on you, be at the service every single Sunday. Be at the services every time the doors are open. And then you feel guilty because man, you can't be here That would be counterproductive because then it becomes a ritual and it's not meaningful. Here's what I want to do instead. I want to give you some diagnostic questions. To ask yourself it's if you say if you say okay I I have to admit that I I fall into this sometimes where where Where this becomes empty for me. Where I come because I'm commanded to do it and I know I can do it. Or I come because I know my kids need it, or those kinds of things This has become just something that's empty for me. I want to give you three diagnostic questions. Okay. These are questions to ask yourself. And there's no judgment here. I'm just asking you to ask By the way, do you think that this ever happens in my life? That on Sundays could become empty for me as well. Do you think that I could preach an entire message and it could actually be something that's fairly empty? It could happen. And I have to admit I hope it hasn't happened very often. So this is important for me as well. Three questions. Number one. Are you rehearsing your deliverance from sin and slavery constantly? Are you rehearsing your deliverance from sin? And sin sin's enslavement constantly. Now here's what I mean by that. What I'm really saying is we would call it personal devotions, which I'm Also don't want to call it because then it's like this obligation. But every day, at some point in the day, and I would actually recommend that you have a time during the day And I would suggest that it should be unin uninterrupted time, and the only time I can figure out that's uninterrupted is you get up before everybody else And if you do that, then you will actually have this time. But it's not because you'll feel guilty if you don't, because then that's gonna go you're gonna go down the wrong road. It's because you want to prov you love God, you want this to be Be a time for you. But are you rehearsing your deliverance from sin and slavery every day? See, here's what how here's what sin will keep you from God. And sometimes we feel so guilty about our sin, it actually puts a uh uh a wedge between us and God. And there's no reason to feel guilty about our s there there is a reason to feel guilty about our sin uh about unconfessed unrepentant sin, but there's no reason to remain in our guilt. What we actually need to do instead, our our heart will want us to keep will keep us In guilt. Satan, who's the accuser of the brethren, will keep us in guilt. But what God wants us to do is every day to rehearse the fact that God has delivered us from sin. And delivered us from the enslavement of sin. Number two, do you genuinely anticipate the coming of Christ? Do you genuinely Anticipate the coming of Christ. We are to live every day loving the appearing of Christ. We ought to wake up every morning and In our time with the Lord, literally think about the fact that Christ could come today. Are you anticipating the coming of Christ. And not just when you have a bad day. Do it then? That's great. Isn't it wonderful that you can have a terrible day where their plumbing all goes wrong And you break your coffee pot, which we did this today, it's a really bad day when you break your coffee pot. My wife broke our coffee pot this afternoon. And uh I said it's okay. And I went right over to Walmart and got another coffee pot. It's in my car. Because if I don't have coffee, then I won't be awake enough to rehearse that I've been delivered from sin and slavery. So coffee is necessary. But even on those days you could say, Praise the Lord that Christ is coming for me one day. You can you can be content because of the coming of Christ. You could say, Okay, you're going through a hard time, you're going through suffering, you're going through pain, it will not last Last forever. You'll either die, which is actually a wonderful thing because you'll be with the Lord, or Christ will come for you. Number two, are you genuinely anticipating the coming of Christ? Number three, are you confessing and forsaking your sin freedom? Frequently. Are you confessing and forsaking your sin frequently? Folks, how often do we sin? Is anybody here only sin weekly? Is there anybody Here say, you know, it's just about, it's only like once a week. Because if you raise your hand, I'm now going to say that you're bearing false witness. None of us sin only once a week. Every one of us sins daily and usually multiple times a day. And so isn't it true, folks, that what should be a regular part of our experience with the Lord, it should be a regular part is confession. How can it not be if we're sinning every day? And confession is not one of those things where it's supposed to be something where, okay, I've got to like you know, mentally stab myself five times and no, just agree with God about your sin. Agree that it grieves God. Have remorse Over it and then reckon it to be to be the that you are delivered from it. He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us. From all unrighteousness. And do you know what will happen in your life when you realize your sin, when you confess your sin and you recognize the cleansing power of Christ? Do you know what will happen in your life when you genuinely understand your sin? Sin and when you generally understand the cleansing power of sin, of God, of Christ, do you know what will happen in your life? You're gonna be grateful. It's going to bring A joy and a celebration to your life where you can't wait to be here and celebrate with God's people on the Lord's day. Those three things. If we will, if we if these are consistent in our lives, you're not going to have to drag us to church. I'm not going to to be like oh man I gotta go again. Oh man I gotta do this. This is command. Oh man my my kids really need this. I don't know about me, but my kids really hearts are right, then what should flow from our hearts is our actions. And and and assembling on the Lord's Day becomes a fruit, actually. of a life with God. That's what God desires for each one of us. And by the way, the reverse happens. When we are assembling and we're celebrating on the Lord's Day, would you know Notice this, do you know what God did for us in His providence? He put the Lord's Day, did He put the Lord's Day on the last day of the week? He did not. The Lord's Day is the first day of the week. This is the Lord's Day is to set the trajectory for the rest of the week. It's to set the pattern for the rest of the week. That we begin the week with God and with his people, and the rest of the week we are continuing with the Lord And you anyway, I I could go on about this. I'll just simply say this. That these questions will really help us if we will Submit to them, and we will we will find that we are there is a new joy as we worship the Lord together. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you just for the time that we could spend together this evening. We thank you for your word and for your truth. Lord we do look forward to the day where Christ is going to come. And we're going to be joyfully and worshipfully worshipfully Rejoicing at the marriage supper of the Lamb. Lord, would you help us to prepare as the bride? Lord, keep us, help us to to get the leaven out of our lives. Help us to recognize sin and its early movements. Help us to to identify the eleven of the Pharisees in our lives, the hypocrisy that we find in our lives. And may we May we be constantly recognizing your deliverance in our lives. Lord Would you then help us to genuinely anticipate your coming? May we just constantly when we sin, may we agree with you about it And may there be a time of confession in our lives. Daily, maybe multiple times a day. And Lord, as we do this, May we just glory in times of celebration each day as we come together. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. You are dismissed. Have a great rest of your week. Begin with the end in mind. We've begun with the Lord. Stay with the Lord all week.