Uh let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come this morning with grateful and thankful hearts. We are grateful for what you have done on our behalf at the cross through your Son Jesus Christ. Christ, giving us this privilege and joy to come before your throne this morning because of Christ and what He has done at the cross on our behalf Father, we ask that you would help us this morning to set aside all the cares and thoughts and the noise of the week, even preconceived ideas for even now. We ask that your spirit would take complete control and guide and direct our thoughts towards your word this morning. Pray you'll give us understanding. And not only understanding, Lord, but give us the ability to apply it in our lives. Help us to be doers of the word and not just hearers. And we ask in Jesus' name Amen. So we are going to be again in chapter 16, and we will begin in verse 21. I might want to put my glasses on. Timothy, my fellow worker, and Lucius, Jason, and Sassipater, my countrymen, greet you. Tertius, who wrote this epistle, greet you in the Lord. Gaius, my host, and the host of the whole church greet you. Erastus, the treasurer of the city, greets you. And Quartus, a brother. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. Now to him who is able to establish you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery kept secret since the world began. But now made manifest, and by the prophetic scriptures made known to all nations, according to the commandment of the everlasting God, for obedience to the faith. To God alone-wise, be glory through Jesus Christ forever. Amen. Remember right, this is message 47. And um but we are I there's a think about ending this book. There are so many things that I'd love to review, but I tend to be the kind of person that will load too much information into a message and that might still be a little bit more than a little bit. But we're going to take what Paul has said here in his benediction, in this com in this uh text, and we're going to let him review for us what he wants to review. view by uh by what is said there. But the overall the old overall story of Romans, if you could p call it that, is a story of God's redemption, transformation, and restoration. We live in a world that is kind of a throwaway world, isn't it? Where you something doesn't work, you don't fix it anymore, you just throw it away away. I have noticed as inflation has increased increase that that's that's a little at least in my own mind it's a little less likely that I throw something away. I tend to try to fix it first because I don't want to buy another one because it's like five times more than it used to be. But uh that still tends to be the case. And there's a sense in which when when Adam and Eve fell, God had every right to just Wipe us out, wipe the and start over, to rip out the page and start over again. And yet there is a beauty to the to the restored relationship that comes through redemption. There is a beauty that we see from in the scriptures and a a greater understanding of who God is and a greater glory that God is able to reveal about himself because he is able to restore uh mankind, sinful mankind, to himself It's kind of like this car. Um I don't know if you like old cars. I I do. I uh uh for some reason the older I get the more I like old cars. Um but I don't like that one's pretty ugly, isn't it? But it's amazing what can happen when you totally trans when you totally restore something to its beauty. I mean, okay, that's a lot better, right? Uh that that that works a lot better. There's just something beautiful about res in fact. Something even there's a certain beauty even that's different than having a brand new car. The effort that goes into actually having to deal with the problems of an old car first And if you're a mechanic, you realize there are a ton of problems that you have to deal with first with an old rust bucket before you then are able to actually rebuild it. And in a sense, It's actually more difficult to do that than starting from scratch, taking a kit car, for example, and building a kit. That was just something my dad and I always dreamed that we were going to do. to take a car and build it build it from a kit and never happened. Maybe someday I'll do it myself. But that's easier than actually taking than actually restoring a car and making it beautiful again. And in God's plan of redemption, as we see Scripture, there is we God glorified Himself even more through fallen mankind being redeemed through the plan that God has given as it unfolds in Scripture than if God would have started over again. We know that to be true because obviously that's what God did. Now what we see from Scripture and from the Book of Romans is an overall purpose of the Book of Romans is simply this. Romans displays how the gospel conveys God's righteousness. Now, in conveying, what I mean by that is that there is a uh a dis a transmission and a reception. There is a displaying of of God's righteousness and an application of God's righteousness. God is righteous, we are not, and we must have the righteousness of God, how does that come about? We see that clearly in the book of Romans. A key passage that we recall all the way from chapter 1 is verse 16 of Romans chapter 1, where it says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God to salvation to everyone who believes. For the Jew first and also to the Greek, for in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith, as is written, the just shall live by faith As Paul comes to a close here in this awesome book that we've been going through, we see Paul is now going to see we see here in the text in verse starting in verse 21 that he refers to some of his associates, people that are with him that have helped him in the work and Timothy has been one of them. We see there Timothy, my fellow worker, and Lucius and Jason. And Sassipater, my countrymen, arguably they are Jewish people that have come to Christ and have been helping Paul in the work, and he says they greet you. We're not going to take last week we took a lot a long time in looking at the various names that he had mentioned. This morning we're not going to do that. He just mentioned these in passing as people that are working with him. I will note in verse 22 here it says, I Tertius, who wrote this epistle, greet you and the Lord. Did Tertius write this epistle? Well of course you read that and you realize that no Paul wrote the epistle, but they had what was called he had what was called an emanuensis, someone who was writing it down for him. I think in this case, probably verbatim, as Paul said these critical words of the gospel. And we see hi him taking the pen and saying himself, I, Tertius, have have uh done describing and this gospel full. Verse thirty-two, Gaius my host, and the host of the whole church greets you. Erastus the treasurer, the city All of these, Paul we see here, obviously he is uh tipping his hat to the reality of the universal church, how he in and uh uh is working with people uh even to be a blessing and writing this epistle and all that to this church at Rome. And then we have these final words, this doxology, this benediction in verses 25 through 27. And we have a doxology which is a final conclusion of praise. Paul is no doubt reflecting on all that he has written, all that has been said. And he doesn't, it's not a long doctology actually. It's actually pretty short, for especially for as long as the book is and how many things are discovered in the book, uh how many things are written about in the book And yet he wants to give this final praise to God for the gospel and how it has been revealed and how it has is it can it is it establishes people. And so we first we're going to see three things about the unveiling of the gospel and and the fact that it brings God glory in the way that it was unveiled. We're going to see in verse 25 that God's people are established. We're going to see verse 26 that God's truth is revealed. And we're going to see how God's truth is revealed. And then finally in verse 27 we'll see God's unique wisdom is displayed. And so we pick up first and we see this, verse 25, God's people are established. How to him now to him who is able to to establish you. Now you're going to notice as we go through this, and I'm going to try to point it out to you, that many of the concepts that we're going to see in the last three verses of this chapter are actually also found in the first chapter and a few themes throughout the book. Some of the things he said in the first chapter, he's going to return to now as he ends this Wonderful epistle. We see in Romans chapter 1, verse 11, it says, For I long to see you that I may impart to you some spiritual gift, so that you may be established. The word established means to stand firmly in. It's a concept that the Apostle Paul mentions many times in his epistles. Several times in 1 Thessalonians he mentions it. In chapter 3, verse 2 it says, And sent Timothy, our brother, our minister of God, and our fellow laborer in the gospel of Christ. to establish you and encourage you concerning your faith. Paul's heartbeat was that people would be clearly established in the faith of the gospel. 1 Thessalonians 3. 13, he may establish your hearts blameless and holiness before God. The idea of being established is being fully persuaded, fully assured. 2 Timothy 1 verse 12, for this reason I also suffer these things. Nevertheless, I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed and persuaded that he is able to keep what I have committed to him until that day. The persuasion, the assurance, the realization that the gospel is utterly and completely sufficient. 2 Corinthians chapter 9, verse 8 explains that we are sufficient in all things because of the work. He says, according to my gospel. The measurement with which we determine how we stand is whether or not we are standing firmly in the gospel or not. The substance of what we stand, what are we anchoring into, it is the gospel And the method with which we are to anchor ourselves in the gospel, and God anchors us in the gospel, is the preaching of Christ. That's what we see in the passage. Titus 1. 3 says it this way, but as in due time, manifesting his word through preaching, which was committed to me according to the commandment of God our Father. Now, I just want to say a few things about the importance of establishing ourselves, rooting ourselves, anchoring ourselves in the gospel of Christ, in who Jesus is. and what he has done. Isn't it true, folks, that we live in a world that is constantly changing? So many things have changed. I talked to my kids about the the d the time when I was in Th times when I was in college and I didn't have a cell phone. They can't imagine it. And I didn't have I wasn't texting. I couldn't text anybody. Well how do you get together with people if you can't text with them? You find ways. It's amazing. And uh and how uh you know our main s source when we went through college was n of of research and information was not the internet. The internet was around, but we went to the library and we looked up these things called books and we found information in them. Um I you know, things have changed a whole lot. Now you fast forward a lot of years unfortunately. And now, you know, we've got AI. And I was just going to a f uh uh I went to a c pastor's uh conference that um little one day pastors conference thing and and he was talking about all the features of AI and what it can do and what it shouldn't do and what you shouldn't do but what you what what what you can do and all that. And I'm thinking to myself, man, we uh I you know this is kind of crazy the amount of things that you can can do with AI. I mean they're gonna be driving our cars. In fact they already are in San Francisco, I think. But anyway, uh things are constantly changing. I was listening this week to somebody at at work at my part-time job talk he's in his fifties talking to a guy in his twenties. And explaining all of the different changes and everything that was he's talking about actually the rotary phone, you know, the the you know that kind of thing All the different changes that were occur that that have occurred over the l years and explaining how things are so different now and you need to understand this. I gotta be honest with you, if I didn't know where certain things that don't change and will not change and will never change. It would be a little unsettling all these different changes. It is anyway. But can you imagine that if if you don't have an anchor in the truth of the Word of God, if you don't have an anchor in the gospel, if you aren't clearly fixed on what doesn't change, all of these changes might be a little bit scary. And they might be a little uh uh unsettling. But there is a ch there is really a truth that d m despite the changes that occur in life and it will happen and it will continue to happen, whether it's technological or political or social or cultural or whatever those changes are. When we are anchored into the gospel that does not change and the truth of God's word that does not change, we can stand firm. Even in the first century, the Apostle Paul, he wants them to understand that God is able to establish you in the gospel, and he praises God. For this wonderful means of establishing us, we have an anchor. Think of the old song that says, In times like these, we need the Bible. In times like these, O be not idle. Be very sure your anchor holds and grips the solid rock. Now we move then to verse the next verse here, verse 26. And he is we are then going to he's going to mention how this truth of the gospel has been revealed. It was in the beginning of creation. It was and after the fall even, it was it was uh pretty much concealed, but now it is clearly revealed. And and this becomes a little bit complicated. It has to do with what is called progressive revelation. I was talking with somebody this week, in fact. Actually, he was a uh Roman Catholic gentleman, and he He was saying that in his church uh that he goes to there's they're talking a lot about the Old Testament and how this was something that was the Old Testament is constantly confusing. And why did why does a pastor ever preach from the Old Testament? It is something that is so so hard to understand, and I need to know what happened He's like, I need to know what's what to do with my life now and how to be kind to somebody when they cut me off the road. And I mean that that's what I need need, not not all these obscure things from the Old Testament. The truth is I've seen Christians say the same kinds of things as well. And certainly I I can understand that. I mean you Isn't it true if you begin to read scripture and you go through Genesis and then you go through Exodus, okay, I'm I'm I'm tracking okay, but you go to Leviticus and Numbers and Deuteronomy. Starts to get a bit of a bit obscure. What exactly is all this mean? And if we're not careful, we begin to not really understand and it's complicated and uh confusing and all of that. uh in in the few minutes that I have, but I think to understand this, I think an illustration would be helpful even before we read we go into the next verse. If you can imagine explaining the stock market to a child, a ten-year-old, there are some adults that don't understand the stock market. I'm not sure I completely understand the stock market. But anyway, but explaining the stock market to a 10-year-old and how someone might invest in the stock market for their retirement to a 10-year-old, that might be a little bit difficult. You you have to start with concrete things that they would understand. Uh for example, like trading baseball cards. I'm curious, kids do you do you st trade baseball cards today? Do you guys still do How many of you all out there trade baseball cards, you younger ones? No hands? You guys don't Okay, so this won't work. For you older ones who understand how back when the day when you traded baseball cards, what do you guys do? Anyway, uh well I'm not sure. Too what's that? Too old. That's too old. I am too old. Anyway, you can understand the concrete concept of training baseball cards. I mean the way it worked basically is that there would be Baseball cards you would get and you would collect them. And if you wanted a card, you'd trade it for something else, or maybe you'd trade two for one or whatever. And there were values. There were there were values on these different cards based upon how how much people wanted a particular baseball card. I mean if a baseball card if everybody wanted a particular baseball card. I remember like a Frank Thomas card one at one point when he was in his And his heyday was like $10 for one one baseball card had just come out and because everybody wanted that baseball card And um and so you it the price of that baseball card would go up if everybody wanted the baseball card. And it would go down if everybody didn't want the baseball card. And it's then you could translate over the stock market. You have these companies and if you own a little uh a stock is a little percentage of a company And when everybody wants that same stock, the price goes up, and when people don't want that stock, the price goes down. You're making a connection. You're taking something concrete that somebody would understand, like baseball cards, and you're helping them to understand a 10-year-old to understand, trying to translate that over into stocks. Two completely different things, but there's at least a connection for them to be able to understand. And that is essentially some of what God is doing in the Old Testament. And we're going to see as we go through this, some of what God is doing in the Old Testament is presenting things like the law. And the sacrificial system, these concrete things of sacrificing an animal. He's doing this because if he dumped on us his plan of redemption Like Adam and Eve, he just dumped everything on them and said, this is what's gonna how it works, arguably they would have no clue. Now, we look at it and we go, well, why wouldn't they have a clue? We get it. You know, I mean we're looking at the New Testament. Christ died. He came to live life. He died for us, took our sin on himself. We understand that. But but just imagine having no frame of reference whatsoever. And so God in his wisdom started off in the Old Testament with teaching things that people at that time would understand. The difficulty sometimes is that We don't understand what was going on in the Old Testament like they did then, and so we actually have to understand that before we can understand and the significance of it for us. That is some of what God is doing when it comes to this idea of progressive revelation. I think we need to know that before we get into the text this morning, we get into the second verse here in our passage this morning. In verse 26 it says, but now made manifest and by the prophetic scriptures Actually, uh back up a little bit. It says it says now unto him who's able to establish you according to the my gospel and the preaching of the of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery kept secret since the world began, but now made manifest, and by prophetic scriptures made known to all nations according to the commandment of the everlasting God for the obedience So we see here from this passage, as we pick up, we're going to see in the beginning of, toward the end of chapter verse 25 and 26, God's plan revealed. And we see this unfolding plan. He begins by saying that it is a mystery. God's righteousness is revealed by faith and passed on to others. It's a it's he says, by according to the revelation of the mystery. This idea of revealed or revelation has already been discussed in the book of Romans already. Romans chapter 1 verse 12, verse 17 rather says, For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith, as is written, the just shall live by faith. God's righteousness is revealed by faith and then passed on to others by faith uh and their faith. So that God has created a way for us to understand His righteousness and also to accept it. In Romans chapter 3, verses 20 through 25. we have the the really the the the pivotal point in Romans where we turn our attention to what from what is or has been to what God is ha is doing. Romans chapter 3 verse 20 says, Therefore by the deeds of the law no flesh will be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. But now, the righteousness of God, apart from the law, is revealed, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. Even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ to all and on all who believe there is no difference. We see from that text that the righteousness of God, the law was revealed first, but now in Christ, the righteousness of God is revealed apart from the law. But it is witnessed by the law and the prophets. We're going to flesh this out and hopefully understand what this means. But then also in Romans chapter 8, as we look through these themes that Paul is bringing up here, verse 19, we see that there is a further revealing in the future. For the unsects, verse 19, for the earnest, expectation of the creation eagerly waits for the revealing of the sons of the There is a day where we are going to see creation made right again, creation renewed again, the revealing of that time. as well. So there is this revelation that has occurred, this progressive revelation. Romans chapter 11, verse 25 says this for I do not desire, brethren, that you should be ignorant concerning this mystery. So there's a mystery here when it comes to it says there's this idea of a mystery here. Well what is the mystery? A mystery in the New Testament, and if you recall as we went through this, we mentioned this, but it's been a while, a mystery is not something that needs to be discovered. So when somebody's, when it's when Scripture says, well, Christ in his church, that's a mystery, it's not something that needs to be discovered now. It's something that was concealed in the past and has been revealed in the New Testament now. That's important for us to understand. So there are things in the Old Testament that were not, that were concealed, but now in the Old Testament are clearly revealed. Paul, when he says this word mystery, he uses it in Romans chapter 11, verse 25. It says that the blindness in part has happened. to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come. God blinded Jewish the Jewish people in order to allow Gentiles to be saved. But he will restore the nation of Israel once again, we see from Romans eleven. And if you're if you recall, from Romans 9 through 11, we have the idea of chosen And then frozen, chapter ten, and thawed in chapter eleven. But I think the best passage that really underst that describes this idea of a mystery And the revealing of the mystery is in Ephesians chapter 3, verses 3 through 5, or at least one of the best passages. It says in that passage how that by revelation He made known to me the mystery as I have briefly written today already, by which when you read, you may understand my knowledge in the mystery of Christ. which in other ages was not made known to the sons of men, as it has now been revealed by the Spirit to his holy apostles And so this text then describes in Romans here the unfolding of this. He says, kept secret since the world began, but now made manifest. It is right to say that the Old Testament is the gospel concealed and the New Testament is the gospel revealed. There is, though, a progressive revelation that has taken place. The prophetic how has the and it's interesting, it says kept secret, and then it almost looks like a contradiction. It says kept secret since the world began. And then notice the next phrase, and by the prophetic scriptures made known to all nations. Now, does that sound a little bit like double talk? How is it on one hand it says that the mist there's a secret in the Old Testament, it's made, it's concealed, and on the other hand It's made known by the prophetic scriptures. They're obviously referring to the Old Testament. How can it be concealed and made known at the same time? This really demonstrates the idea of it being progressive. And I want us to understand that. I'll give you an example. If you go back to Genesis chapter 3, verse 15, it's the first mention of the gospel. And if you think to yourself, just imagine having no no context, no basis, no frame of reference, and you hear these words, I will put enmity between you and the woman and between your seed and her seed, he shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. I think it's highly unlikely that Adam and Eve knew what he was talk knew that knew what he was talking about. This was certainly a prophecy. That when as you read the New Testament and you see what happened, it is verified, it verifies what he was saying in the Old Testament. So there's a a witness to what was going to occur later. But certainly it was something that was very concealed. But as you as time goes on, just as an example, you get to Isaiah 53 For example, verse 11, but there's other verses you could go to as well, it says, He shall see the labor of his soul and be satisfied by his knowledge, my righteous servant shall justify many For he shall bear their iniquities. You literally have the the work of Christ on the cross as the bearing of their iniquities, taking on our sin on himself to die for us, which is the core of the gospel message. So it's more clear in Isaiah than it is in Genesis. And of course, when Christ comes himself, it becomes exceedingly clear as he is able to verify the prophecies of the Old Testament. put forth new revelation, himself being the revelation, and then dying to pay the punishment for our sin. And then in the New Testament as you go on, you see you see even more clarity as the Apostle Paul and others Explain exactly what Christ has done. And we see that the goal of all of this is in the text the obedience to the faith We've seen this passage this before as well. In Romans chapter 1, verse 5, we saw this, it said, through him, that is Jesus We have received grace and apostleship for obedience to the faith among the nations for his name. Now, if you'll recall, the faith there is an obedience to the truth of the gospel That is what we God is God's goal is for us, for us to place our dependence on the work of the gospel to save us from our sin. So, folks, what I'm saying simply is this, as you go from the Old Testament into the New Testament and you begin to read the Old Testament, You see pictures, you see prophecies, there are different things that are completely consistent with the truth of the New Testament. And yet it becomes clearer and clearer as you get to the New Testament exactly what God has in mind. Now you might say to yourself, well, why in the world has God done this? Why has he done it this way? And I think that there are four reasons that I want to point out. And the reasons I'm pointing these out to you is to help you to understand as you go through Scripture, what I really want is you to appreciate all of it. There are times where we sort of go, well, I like that in scripture, but I don't really like that. And I don't understand this, so I'll steer clear of this and this is what you know a and and and that's too complicated so I don't wanna I don't wanna understand that and I I don't I'm not sure I can under and we get even frustrated, those kind of things. And sometimes I think if we're really honest, we read certain things in the Old Testament and some things even in the New Testament. As you go through Romans 9 through eleven, there are times where sort of caught in the weeds there as we went through that, where you sort of go, well, is this really necessary for me to understand? How does it help me be kind to the guy who cuts me off the road? I want us to really under learn to appreciate all of Scripture. The clear things and the things that are more obscure. The simple things of Scripture, the simple truths of Scripture. And those things they're not. I think there are four reasons why we have progressive revelation. Number one, to reveal God's wisdom. in stages, to reveal God's wisdom in stages. Accomp uh and and it really accommodates human limitations. Ephesians 3 says it this way, to make all see what is the fellowship of the mystery, which from the beginning of ages has been hidden in God to the intent that now the manifold wisdom of God might be made known by the church. God's desire is that when you read through Scripture from the Old Testament into the New Testament, You see the grand, amazing wisdom of God. And one thing you've got to say as you read through nine, read in chapters nine through eleven of Romans, is we if you recall back when we've studied through all that You you begin to sort of go, wow, this is really beyond me. This is beyond my way of thinking. This is truly divine wisdom. We need to realize that. Number two, To show his faithfulness through history. Progressive revelation shows that God has been faithful throughout history. Hebrews 1 says it this way. Actually, uh I skipped to prepare humanity for Christ. I'm sorry. Let's go to number number two to prepare humanity for Christ. Galatians 3. 24 says this. Therefore the law was a tutor to bring us to Christ. That we might be justified by faith. If God had not given Israel the law in the Old Testament, they would not have been prepared to understand the remedy and the solution. God had to prepare humanity in Christ. Galatians chapter 3, verse 24, therefore the law was our tutor to bring us to Christ. And then number three, to show his faithfulness through history. God is a faithful God and we see it Hebrews chapter one verses one through two God who at various times in various ways spoke in time past to the fathers by the prophets, has in these last days spoken to us by his Son. What we see in the Old Testament is are many, many prophecies. And as you read through the Old Testament, you kind of go, how in the world can all of these possibly be fulfilled? And yet when Christ comes on the scene, it is our joy to study how Christ is the fulfillment of every one of those prophecies in the Old Testament. It takes a lifetime to do that. Frankly, the more time I live, the more I study the Word of God, the more I see of how Christ is the fulfillment of various prophecies in the Old Testament. And some are yet to be fulfilled as well. And seeing those as well and knowing that because of what Christ has already fulfilled, we can have confidence in what has yet to be fulfilled. There's just a grateful there that we can just respond in gratefulness to the faithfulness of God. And number four, to deepen our worship and awe of God. to deepen our worship and awe of God. Now you recall perhaps in Romans chapter 11, verse 33, when we were there. It says there, O the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God. How unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. You know, sometimes when we are reading through scripture or we're we we want everything sort of in a nice little box, want everything to sort of fit perfectly and We we want to, it's almost like we like to control things with our mind, and if we don't really understand it completely, it's like we're not able to control it, and it frustrates us. Sometimes I think we just need to be able to say, you know what, I don't understand this, but I am in awe of it. I don't completely grasp everything, but I you can be in awe of something even without grasping exactly how it works and how it functions. I was talking about this with somebody recently, about the the joy of digging into the the the depth of the truth of the Word of God, seeing the Old Testament prophecies. and how they match the the New Testament fulfillment and all those different kinds of things, and how we we come to a place of awe when we see all of this and we see God's wisdom and his plan. And I I illustrate it this way, I don't know if it's a good illustration, but I illustrate it this way. It helps me. I I think of food, which you know, we all think about sometimes And um and probably me more than others 'cause you can tell. But um uh I think of breakfast 'cause that's how like the food I know, so uh like if I cook it. So take take take eggs. Everybody like eggs who likes eggs? Right. Everybody likes eggs, right? How who likes cheese? Who likes bacon? Alright. We have like serious majority here. Like who wants to give me a million dollars? Don't kick. Anyway. So we all like those three things. But man, if you put them together in a souffle, how much better is that even? Right? And so it's kind of like you take these simple truths of scripture, but when you begin to synthesize them and put them all together, you you It's even more enjoyable. There's there's more that we can be in awe of God for who He is. So it deepens our worship and our awe of God. Man, we need to stay in awe of God. And what God has done, what here's what here's the truth. What God has done in the way that He has revealed the truth of His righteousness the truth of his gospel, what God has done throughout Scripture, here's what we know. Ultimately, it all glorifies him It's like we we may not know exactly how it glorifies him. We're discovering that in our entire journey for our lives, but we know all of it ultimately does. Everything And how God has sovereignly worked it out, how his providence has worked throughout the ages and will continue to work, all of it ultimately glorifies God. And Paul realizes this, and so he says in verse 27 of the passage To God alone, wise, be glory through Jesus Christ forever. Amen Very short phrase, but a lot packed in here. Realizing that God alone is wise. He is the only wise God. We've seen this already as a theme in Romans. In Romans chapter 3, verse 29 through 30, it says, Or is he the God of the Jews only? Is he not also the God of the Gentiles? Yet of the Gentiles also, since there is one God who will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith God's desire is that both the Jews and the Gentiles come together, realizing that there is one God. There is only one wise God. The passage we've already alluded to on a couple of occasions in Romans chapter 11 says, Oh, the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God. He alone is wise. His ways are unsearchable. His judgments are unsearchable. They're past finding out. And because of this, Jesus Christ is glorified. Be glory through Jesus Christ forever. Amen. And that brings us to the end of the book of Romans. There are three questions I want us to ask this morning as we reflect on what we've been over this morning, and really even thinking through the book of Romans. Number one, are you firmly anchored in the truth of the gospel? As you think about the gospel, are you firmly anchored in the truth of the gospel? Now there are some things this morning that I've said that perhaps you didn't really grasp, some things that may have been confusing. And although the gospel, there is a depth to the gospel as you go through Scripture, the thing that is necessary in order to receive the gospel, the the the the the The content, the truth that is necessary in order to receive the gospel is not deep. It is simple. I mean, there's a depth to it, but it's simple. And so I want you to understand this morning, if you are to be anchored in the gospel, in other words, if you are to receive the gospel for your very own. I would imagine that there is somebody or more than somebody in this room, one person in this room, who has never actually received the gospel for themselves. I want you to understand how to do that from Romans. Three three, I tried to get this as simple as I could. Number one, your sin separates you from a holy God. What is the simpli we we talked about the complexity and the glory of the complexity of the gospel, but but there is a sense in which the what you initially need to receive the gospel is not that complex. Your sin, and all of us have it. separates us from God. You must understand this. God is holy. He can't look on sin He has to judge sin, and so your sin separates you from God. Number two, Jesus took your sin on himself and paid your punishment. Lived a perfect life, fulfilling the demands of God, went to the cross, and he took your sin on himself. And paid your punishment. Romans 5:8, but God commendeth his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And number three, your sin can be forgiven, and Christ's righteousness can be applied by saving faith alone. Christ died and rose from the grave victorious over sin and death, and because of that, he lives. And because of that, our sin can be forgiven. And Christ's righteousness can be uh can be placed on us. He we can be declared righteous by God. But it's only applied. It's not by applied by good works. It's not not applied by being a good person or having a good uh way of thinking or a good life or going to church or anything like that, it's applied through faith alone. That is, I must depend on, not on myself at all whatsoever, I depend entirely on what Jesus Christ has done for me. Romans chapter 10 says, if thou shalt confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. And I want to say to you this morning, if you don't know Jesus as your Savior, if you're not sure where you stand with Jesus, it really is this simple. It it is it is something but you must depend on what Jesus did for you to pay the punishment for your sin. And if you have any questions about this, let me encourage you, come and talk with me after the service or somebody else there comes. Anybody that was up here on stage? Somebody else you're comfortable with, and we'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure you will spend attorney with the Lord that you are in right standing. You can know for sure. You don't have to wonder. You can know for sure. These things are written, Scripture says that you might uh these things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. John 5. The second question I want us to ask is this: are you in awe of God's redemptive plan? Are you in awe of it, or do you take it for granted? It's really easy to just have this sort of try idea of Jesus died for me, that the simplicity of the gospel, the simplicity of being able to receive the gospel, may make us so that we are no longer in awe of it. And yet if the the scriptures are written in such a way that it should bring us from time to time as we plunge the depths of the truths of scripture And being in awe of God's redemptive plan. Why on earth did God not rip out the page? Why didn't He just annihilate us and start over again? Why did God allow these things to occur the way that he did? Why? Well, it was to disp Display his awesome wisdom and glory and character and grace and ability to save and all of that. And it is our joy to be in awe of the redemptive plan of God. May we stand in awe of it. And number three, will you live in light of redemption? My mind goes back to Romans chapter 12. We see a turn there in Romans chapter 12. Now, because you understand the gospel, Romans 1 through 11, now you need to live in light of the fact that Christ has sacrificed his love for you. uh his himself for you, his life for you, and it only is reasonable for you to sacrifice your life for him And then he says, don't be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Are you living out the gospel in your life as a Christian? Romans twelve through sixteen gave us Wonderful truths to help us to understand how we are to do this. How are we to do this in unity one with another? How are we to do this in the local church? There was much that was said about that in Romans 1 through 12 through 16. Are we living in light of redemption? As we close the chapter, the final chapter on this book of Romans I pray and trust that all that we have all that God has said in His word and as as we have discovered and un uh uh hopefully unleashed the truth of it. That it will continue to bless us and that we will it truly will be something that we have grown from. And I can say personally that it's been a blessing to be in this book over the last uh year plus. Let's go Father, we thank you for the truth that we have been that we have seen through this book. We thank you for how carefully your spirit inspired the Apostle Paul to write down these truths. In such a way that would be clear and unmistakable that we are declared righteous By the sacrifice that Christ made on the cross, through faith alone, not of works. And that Lord, as we realize this And we accept it by faith that we have peace with you, Romans 5. 8. We are at peace with you, Romans 5. 1. Lord, we glory in this. And the sacrifice that Christ made on the cross for us, Father, I pray, Lord, that we would Choose to be living sacrifices for Christ. That we would not be conformed to the thinking of this world, but we would allow the your word to transform our thinking, to To line up with our position in Christ as we live out sanctification and as we look to the day where we will be completely Christ-like when you come for us. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call, so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us. Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.