The Bible says in the book of Proverbs, chapter number 4, and verse number 19, the way of the wicked is as darkness. They know not at what they stumble. When I read that verse, I think of Pedro and Trina Morales as young people. Neither one of us grew up attending church. We weren't saved until the age of 18. And our story started out in high school. We met in high school and began to date. And we did what unsaved, unspiritual, uh wicked young people do. And uh Trina became pregnant our senior year of high school And I did what I thought was the best and the right thing to do. I encouraged her to get an abortion I believe because of my age, how young we were, the future that we had at planned and uh aspirations and goals and dreams that a child would just would ruin those things. Of course Trina didn't want to do that and she was living with my family and I at the time And she thought because we were of course discussing this situation and I was for abortion, she was against it, she thought that she would end up being on the streets And so she started she picked up the phone book and she started to make some phone calls and she called around to churches, she called around to Christ's pregnancy centers and uh she was hoping to find somewhere to live, somewhere to stay, uh, because she thought that we were gonna break up and she was gonna end up on the street. And so she made one particular phone call to a crisis pregnancy center. The people on the other line were angels from God. That's the only way I can describe it. They said, we don't have a place for you, Trina, but we'll look for a place. But in the meantime, do your very best. Try your hardest to get your boyfriend to go see an ultrasound. And she did. And she nagged me and nagged me and nagged me. And finally I gave in. Just to get her to stop nagging me, we went. We went to the doctor. We saw that ultrasound, we saw the image of that baby, not a blob of flesh, but that baby, that human being in her belly And the Lord convicted me. I wasn't saved, but the Holy Spirit smote my heart and said, Are you gonna be the one to kill that baby. And so I decided, no, I can't do that. That would be the wrong thing to do. And so we decided to go through with the pregnancy and the baby. And fast forward, the baby's born November 10th, 1993. Our oldest daughter, Jasmine, is born. And two weeks after that, seventeen days after that, my stepfather is reading the Bible and listening to preaching on on a tape, a cassette tape. Uh, you know, I had known him for five years, didn't know he was a Christian, didn't know he grew up in a Christian home, didn't know he was saved. Uh but he and my mom were having some real, real struggles. And he was trying to get his heart right with God And so Trina and I asked him, he said, Tim, why are you reading the Bible? Why are you listening to preaching? And so we began to ask questions. And that night, we learned the greatest truth we could ever learn, that God loved us. And God sent his son to die in our place. And he wanted to have a relationship with us and he wanted to give us eternal life. And November 27th, just 17 days after our oldest daughter was born, Trina accepted the Lord Jesus Christ as her Savior. I was a little more stubborn. I waited till the next day, and I got saved on November 28th. If I could take you to the streets of Baltimore today, you would see people of all ages, of all different backgrounds. Most Are still in the darkness. Most are without hope. Just like I was, just like Trina was. But God made the difference The gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ changed our lives. It changed our future. It changed our family. That child, that little girl that I wanted to abort That little girl now is an adult. She's married to an assistant pastor, and she just gave birth to our first granddaughter. And so we're so excited about all that God has done in our family. And we want to bring that same hope to all the families in Baltimore. The hope of the Lord Jesus Christ. Our goal is to start and launch a church in September of 2022. Before that, we're going to. move to Baltimore in April of 2022 and start weeknight Bible studies with the hope of starting up a core that we can launch the church with in September. And of course we hope and pray that the Lord will use that church. To reach as many people there in that city for the for the kingdom of God and for his glory. And will you partner with us? Will you at least pray for us? And and see what the Lord can do in and through our efforts together to reach the city of Baltimore. Wife Trina is with me. She's sitting in the back. Uh we have been married for twenty-eight, going on twenty-nine years, and uh often when I go to a church I I say all these things before we show the video, and then I say we got married when we we were ten years old because a lot of people say, Well you too you look too young to be married that that long. Uh and I take that as a compliment. Amen. Praise the Lord. So we're glad to be here. Thank you for allowing us to uh join you tonight Uh there was a little bit of a lag there in the video. I'm glad you didn't have as much lag in the video as we did on I-95. Amen. Wow, man, it was terrible traffic uh this afternoon and this evening And we did our best to get here on time and we're grateful that we were able to come and and be part of your service tonight. Thank you so much for allowing us to not only share our burden uh but minister to you uh with the world. Word of God this evening. Uh we do have a display out here. We set it up as y'all saw. Uh so we have prayer cards. We'd encourage you to grab one of those uh and pray for us uh as you noticed in the video. I mentioned uh you know we'd love for you all to partner with us, but at least pray for us. Now I used to say that, and I had one brother at a church correct me. He said, Brother, prayer is not the least that we can do for you Prayer is the most that we can do for you. And I see heads nodding, and we're all in agreement that yes, of course, prayer is the absolute uh greatest need that any missionary, any pastor, any church, any Christian has. And so we ask you to please pray for us. I told him I said you're right. support us financially. It's a joke, sorta, but it's a joke. It's funny. And uh we we understand uh not every church is able to help financially We get that. Uh but nonetheless, uh we we do know that every Christian and every church and every preacher and pastor and missionary uh we all need each other's prayers. And just as you prayed for the needs that you all represent here this evening Obviously uh we have a tremendous need, as Pastor mentioned, a great burden uh to reach that city. Uh the city where Trina and I grew up. We were she was born there. I was not born in the city of Baltimore I was born on the island of Puerto Rico, but I was raised in the city of Baltimore around Patterson Park. Anybody familiar with Patterson Park? Okay. Anyone familiar with Patterson High School? All right, that's where we met. And I, we met at Patterson High, and uh we we thank the Lord for putting us together, even though it wasn't uh the ideal way, we went about it the wrong way. Uh but I'm I'm grateful that Romans eight twenty-eight is is in the In the book. Amen. All things do work together for good to them that love God and to them who are the called according to his purpose. He took our mess that we made, and he made a message for his glory. And I'm thankful that he allows us to serve him. And it's a privilege and it's an honor, and we do not take that for granted, and we're grateful that we're counted worthy to be placed in his service. Now I I was born uh in in Puerto Rico, I was born to uh my mom and my dad. I don't know for sure to be quite honest with you if they were ever married. I I don't know. Uh they were f I was five years old when they split. Uh I don't I don't know if it was a divorce, I don't know if they were just jacking up. I have no idea, to be honest with you. Nonetheless, uh I I I was the youngest of four. I had three older sisters So I had a mom and then three other moms. You know what I mean? Alright, so uh I had a a mom and three sisters, then I got married, right, to my wife, and we had four daughters And then we had a granddaughter. And I thought, man, I have been on Estrogen Island my entire life. I I needed to get a male dog just to have some male companionship, you know And so our oldest daughter who you saw there in the video and our little grandbaby and uh she was born in twenty twenty and she's a a covet baby so to speak, right? And she was born in twenty twenty, she's almost two now and they are expecting their second child. our oldest and her husband. And so people have asked me several times throughout my life, they say, Well, didn't you want to have a boy? Well yeah, duh. What man doesn't want to have a son, right? I said, but I have no control over that, so we had four girls and then then they asked me this question now. They said, Well you think you'll have a grandson? I said, Well, it doesn't appear as if the Mer Morales family can have boys for some reason Uh and so I said, I don't know, it's probably not likely that we'll have a grandson, but a modern day miracle has happened. They went and had an ultrasound and they're Expecting a little boy. Amen. Praise God. And I thought, man, that's incredible. Now we have no clue what to do when this boy shows up, right? 'Cause we have nothing but girls, but we'll figure out as we go along. And we're grateful for him. Uh we're thankful. Uh Landon is the ch the name that they have chosen. Our our granddaughter, their their daughter, their oldest daughter is Adeline, and we call her Addie And of course we thank God for little Addy and we're grateful for Landon. We're looking forward to him uh arriving and and being here and just changing the dynamics of our family Uh one dynamic that we have not had ever, and so we're looking forward to that. Uh so we're looking forward to starting the church. It's it's interesting, the church is gonna launch on September the 18th Uh and also uh our little landing is due on September eleventh or twelfth, somewhere in there. So right a right around the same time that the church is being birthed, uh he will be born as well. And so our very second Sunday, uh that following Sunday after the eighth eighteenth to twenty fifth, uh grandma will be with the daughter and the new baby up in uh Bangor, Maine. And so I'm already losing church members. We haven't even started yet. Amen. So praise God. It's important. She needs to be there with our daughter and and her name. New grandbaby. Uh on the table out here in the foyer, I encourage you to go by the table as well. Uh we put out a monthly update letter and we let everybody know, all those that support us and pray for us, how things are going, how the Lord is blessing and the progress that we're making. If you're interested in receiving that monthly uh prayer or a prayer letter and update report, we'd love to send that to you. Uh there's a little book there with a pen. Go ahead and give us your email address and we will send you that each and every month. Uh if you don't do email, because some people I know still don't do email and that's okay. You want a hard copy, give us an an address the mail it too and we'll do that as well. I do have one simple request and that is write legibly. Okay? Write so we can read it. And so generally speaking that means man have a woman write it for you, right? Uh but if if if that's not the case, so right you say I can write it legibly, please do. Please write it so it's so it's It's neat and legible so I can read it. There's some people who have signed up for these letters that are not receiving them because I have no idea what their hieroglyphics say. Uh and there are others who will start to write and say, Oh, he said write legibly and they make they'll make a mistake. Well then they try to fix it on the same line. Don't do that. Just scratch it out. If you make a mistake, scratch it out and start a brand new one. Because again, it just becomes very confusing for us, and it would be a blessing if you could do that. Everybody okay tonight? Amen. Pastor Ganaum, thank you again for allowing us to Us to come and be with you tonight. Bethel Baptist Church, thank you for allowing us to come and share our heart with you. Uh we're so excited about all that the Lord is going to do in and through us and through Baltimore Baptist Church. church. And we're in Mark chapter number five this evening. If you'll turn there with me, Mark chapter number five. This particular message I've entitled There's No Place Like Home. Good to have my friend Joshua Zacharias here with us, a missionary to Australia, and he's here helping us out. He's already got all his support. And he's just waiting on visa paperwork. And uh he asked uh Baptist Church Planning Ministries who is working with us and we're working with them, hey, do you know of a of a uh inner city church planner that I can help while I'm waiting? They said, I know just the guy. And so he's come to help us. He helped another uh inner city church planner in Atlanta as well. Uh he's an encouragement, he's a blessing. We thank the Lord for Him and uh I'm grateful just to be saved. I'm grateful to be in church. I love being around God's people, I love being uh around the Word of God and studying it and learning from it. I hope we can be an encouragement to you tonight. Mark chapter number five, there's no place like home. And uh I won't read the text right off the bat here. We're just gonna jump right into it uh because we're gonna we're gonna walk right through the text from verse one all the way down to verse 20. But in Mark chapter 5, we see the Lord Jesus Christ traveling across the Sea of Galilee. Now, this text here doesn't tell us that it's the Sea of Galilee, but other texts do tell us, other gospel accounts. parallel passages tell us it's the Sea of Galilee. The Sea of Galilee is also it has three it has other names, has three names uh in scripture. It's referred to also as the Sea of Tiberias. You've probably seen that that uh name in Scripture. It's also referred to as Lake Gennesareth. So this sea is really not a sea like we would consider an ocean. It's more of a really large lake But this was a uh a body of fresh water that supported a thriving fishing industry uh in this Middle East region here in Israel. The Lord Jesus Christ calls some of his disciples from their fishing, their family business on the Sea of Galilee. Jesus Christ on a ship he said thrust away from the land and there was a large throng of people that he was speaking to and teaching and preaching As a matter of fact, uh another parallel passage teaches us that while they were traveling across the Sea of Galilee, a storm rose up, uh and the Lord Jesus Jesus Christ calmed and still the winds and the waves. Uh and and Mark chapter four tells us uh the l the disciples were were just enamored by this. They said, What manner of man is this? That even the winds and the sea Obey him. He's not just a man. He is the God man. Amen? And so we see this happening on the Sea of Galilee. Now once they get across They they run into or they have this conversation with this man at this country of the Gatherings, this man that's possessed with devils. And so there's three points that I want to point out to you tonight from Mark chapter five, verses one through twenty. But as we're doing this, okay, I want you to tonight think about someone In your sphere of influence that may have these characteristics that this man has. Now I'm not saying that they're possessed by a devil, but all I'm saying is consider someone in your sphere of influence that may act Even if it's just a little bit like this guy. Point number one has five subpoints. Point number two and three are short and quick. And so we'll get through it tonight. Amen. I won't keep you long because I it's I'm already starting uh late, so we I apologize again Let's look at point number one, if you will. Point number one, if you'd like to take notes, there's no place like home. Point number one is the condition of those that are bound. The condition of those that are bound. Letter A under point number one, the condition of those that are bound is this. Number one, they're spiritually dead. They're spiritually dead. Well what do I mean by that? I mean the fact that they are not saved, they don't know the Lord, uh they're not uh born again They've not been regenerated. They've not been forgiven. They've not been exonerated by God. They don't have a relationship with their Creator. They're spiritually dead. Look at Mark chapter 5 and verse number 1. Verse 1 says, And they came over unto the other side of the sea into the country of the Gadarenes. And when he was come out of the ship, immediately there met him out of the tombs. A man with an unclean spirit who'd who had his dwelling rather among the tombs. Now, verse 2 says he came out of the tombs. Verse 3 says he had his dwelling among the tombs. What is the tombs? The way we would refer to the tombs in 2022 is, well, he's spending time at the cemetery. The tombs are where dead people are placed. And so this man he dwelled, he spent much time. I mean, he he he uh basically lived at the cemetery You see, he was spiritually dead, and he he he spent time with those who were physically dead. He was spiritually dead, and the Bible is teaching us here that this man had an appetite For those things that were dark and of death. He was spiritually dead, and he had no appetite for the things of God He had no appetite for the Word of God, no appetite for the Lord of the Word, no appetite for the Son of God, no appetite for spiritual things whatsoever Because he was spiritually dead. He wanted to spend time with those that were physically dead. He was enamored by death and darkness. Think about someone in your life that you might know, not necessarily enamored by death and darkness, but they have no desire for spiritual things. They have no appetite for the things of God, the things of the Bible, the things of church. They have zero, we all know someone like that, correct? We all know someone like that. This man is spiritually dead. Now, this is the condition of those that are bound. When I say bound, I mean they're bound by their sin. They're bound by their vices. They're bound by the consequences of their their bad decisions They're bound by the devil because they're they're they love the the pleasures of sin and they love the the things of the world and the things that are carnal and things that are not spiritual, they're spiritually dead We see that this man is spiritually, he's spiritually dead. Let's look at letter B. The condition of those that are bound. Letter B. He's socially detained. He's socially detained. And by that I mean he is not wanted by the community. Look at verse number three again of Mark chapter 5. Verse number three. The Bible says, who had his dwelling among the tombs, he lived in the cemetery, and no man could bind him, no, not with chain. Verse 4 goes on to say, because that he had been often bound with fetters and chains, and the chains had been plucked asunder by him, and the fetters broken in pieces, neither could any man tain him. Notice the description of this man in verses 3 and 4. People had such a disdain for him that they put chains on him. They wanted nothing to do with him. They wanted to remove him from their presence. They didn't want their kids around him. They didn't want their family members around him. They didn't want their neighbors around him. They said Said, hey man, get this guy out of here. He's crazy We want we don't want him here. Lock him up. And they would put chains and fetters and shackles on him. And because he was possessed by these devils, he had Unnatural superhuman strength and he would burst and break these chains and these fetters and these shackles Could you imagine running into someone who's who's breaking chains and and and destroy I mean I would be a little taken aback like wait a second what's going on here? Uh this guy was socially detained Nobody wanted him near them. The community said, hey, he's wreaking havoc in our community. He's a menace to our society. Get rid of him Look at the last phrase in verse number four. Very interesting phrase. It says, neither could any man tame him. He could not be tamed. He was out of control. He didn't control himself. And he created problems for other people and they treated him like an animal. You see, the word tame, why the way I use the word tame, I don't refer to to human beings when I'm saying, hey, this needs and I don't know it, I'm a city slicker, okay, I I'm I'm I'm a city guy. I don't know too much about the the the country. I don't know too much about farms and farm animals. Uh but I do know this. I know the English language, even though I went to public school. Amen. All right. I went to public school, but I can read English. Because at some point they were teaching, you know, reading, writing, and arithmetic, and you know, they've gone off the rails now. But nonetheless Tame. When I say tame, I'm talking about domesticating an animal, breaking a horse, you know. And I don't know how to do all those things, but I understand the concept And I know that we can say that, you know, maybe uh there's terrible two-year-olds that you know that need to be tamed, you know, because they're acting like devils. Okay, I I get that too. But but this word, they're saying, this guy's an animal This guy's out of control. I mean, this guy, he needs help. We need to get him out of here. We don't want to deal with him. Now, think about this. Apply this to us There's people in our lives that we we think this. We say, man, if that guy, if that lady, if that person, if they didn't do this Man, they'd be so much easier to get along with. If that person didn't act this way, if they didn't talk this way, if they didn't participate in these things, man, I I could tolerate them so much better Am I the only one? I can't be the only one that has thought these thoughts. I mean there are people in our life we say, man, if they could just Get their act together. Manny, they'd be so much more pleasant to be around and I wouldn't have to avoid them and I wouldn't have to ignore them and I wouldn't have to, you know, busy button their phone calls, you know. Y'all ever do that, you know? Y'all know what I'm talking about? You y'all awake tonight? Everybody okay? All right. All right. Everybody still okay? Alright, praise the Lord. All right. But listen, this person, this guy, what they said, we want nothing to do with him. He he's crazy. Hey, get rid of him. Let's Treat him like an animal. Not only is he spiritually dead, not only is he socially detained, let us see. We see also that he's mentally disturbed. He's mentally disturbed. Something is wrong with his thinking. The way his mind thinks, it's not right. Look at verse 5 of Mark chapter 5. Verse 5 says, and always night and day he was in the mountains and in the tombs. Stop there for a second. Imagine this in your mind with me, if you will. This man, it says night and day, always, he's going to the mountains. Coming back to the cemetery. Going back to the mountains. Coming back to the cemetery. And it says that he was doing this day in, day out, back and forth, back and forth. Look at what else he was doing It says crying. In other words, he was shedding tears. I mean, his his situation, he understood it. He was distraught. He realized, man, this life is useless, it's waste, it's hollow, it's a waste. He saw no light at the end of the tunnel. He saw no hope for himself. And so he was crying. He was physically shedding tears. But not only that. He was also crying aloud. He was shouting. He was screaming. He was creating all kinds of havoc, going from the mountains to the tombs, shedding tears, shouting, crying. Look at what else he was doing. It says also, and cutting himself with stones. And cutting himself with stones. Listen, this is a problem, okay? This man, because he was possessed by these devils, he was not in his right mind. He didn't think right, and he did things that were inappropriate. In other words, he was taking rocks and literally lacerating his skin, injuring himself, bringing self-mutilation type uh uh uh uh uh uh as far as mutilating himself. Injuring himself, listen, there's something wrong with that. Now, listen, we're not here to judge people, and we're not here to condemn people, and we're not here to look down upon people. But listen, we have a problem in our society today with people cutting themselves. Y'all with me? It's happening. And it's not just teenagers. There's adults that are doing it. Now again, we're not condemning them, but God is telling us that, hey, we need to help them We need to pray for them. We need to encourage them. We need to share the Word of God with them. We need to bring them to the Lord Jesus Christ and say, hey, I can't help you and I don't know how to help you. But I know the one who does Let me let me bring you to him. Hey Lord, we need to help this individual. What can I do? How can I help? Give me some wisdom. Y'all with me? And so we have people that are cutting You see, for someone to inflict physical harm to themselves, that's not normal. That's not right. Okay I'll give an example. I'm 47 years old, so I'm not old, but I'm not young either. Sort of, right? In some people's eyes, I guess it's relative, right? But there are things that I cannot do at 47 that I could do at 37 And there are things that I could not do at 37 that I could do at 27. What am I saying? What I'm saying is that this body that we have, that we've been given, is corruptible, the Bible says. And it's falling apart slowly but surely all on its own. Amen. I don't have to help it. I don't want to help it. Uh you know, my our sending church pastor, Pastor John Nix, First Baptist Church in Alexandria, Virginia, he'll say things like, he'll say, Man, I woke up to snap crack on pop this morning, and he's not talking about the cereal He says, Man, this is snapping and that's cracking and all kinds of bones aching. Y'all know what I'm talking about? So why in the world would we want to inflict more physical harm to ourselves? Because we're not thinking right. Something's not right, something is off. Now again, I'm not saying that the person who does this is possessed by a devil, although that could be the case But it's probably not always the case. There are some people who are genuinely saved and they can't be possessed by a devil, but they're not handling their problems correctly, and they resort to this. And listen, that's exactly what the devil wants them to do Injure themselves, hurt themselves. They're influenced by the devil, they're influenced by Satan. They're at least oppressed by Satan If they're they're behaving like this. Alright, let me let me give you an example. In uh 1 Kings chapter, I believe it's chapter 18. 18 or 19. Uh where Elijah and the the the false Baal the the prophets of the false god Baal had this duel. Y'all know what I'm talking about? Where they had this fight, this duel so to speak, this They say, okay, we're going to put an altar here, we're going to put a sacrifice on there, and we're going to pray to our God. We're going to prove which one is the true God. And they say, who whichever God sends fire from heaven and consumes the sacrifice, that will be the true God. Y'all know what I'm talking about, that story? It's it's the the the Mount Carmel and all that. And so Elijah says, Fine, y'all go first. And so the prophets of Baal, they start praying. Praying and praying. And Baal is a false god. He's not real. He doesn't exist. So guess what? They got no answer. And Elijah starts making fun of them. He says, Hey, you know, maybe he's asleep, you know Maybe he's running errands, you know, maybe you got to talk a little louder, you know. And they said, Oh, they start to pray even more fervently, more fervently, and with more genuineness and more sincerity. And man, they said, fail! And you know what they started to do The Bible says they took lances and they started to cut themselves to prove their sincerity to their false God. Listen, someone is cutting, they're not thinking clearly. Something's wrong. They're being influenced, at least influenced Now, of course we know the story. Elijah he prayed to the one true God, the God of Israel, Jehovah God, and God consumed that that sacrifice And then the people said, The Lord, He is the God. The Lord, He man, that's the true God. And praise the Lord for that. But notice the parallel, the comparison here. Devil's cutting. Devil's cutting. There's something wrong. Look at what else proves that this man was mentally disturbed. Look at verse number 10 of Mark chapter 5. Verse number 10. The Bible says, and he besought him much that he would not send them away out of the country. Now there was there nigh into the mountains a great herd of swine feeding, and all the devils besought him, saying, Send us into the swine, into these pigs over here, that we may enter into them. And forthwith Jesus gave them leave, and the unclean spirits went out and entered into the swine. First time you see in Scripture the mention of deviled ham. Amen. Okay. I think we got three people get the the the silly joke, sorry. You know you know it's like a dad joke, but a preacher dad joke, you know, that's pretty bad. Anyway. It's it's worse Anyway, uh sorry. Alright, so uh they entered into the swine and the herd look what happens now. The devils go into the pigs and look what the pigs do. And the herd ran violently down a sleep place into the sea. They were about 2,000, and they were choked in the sea. Notice what the pigs did. As soon as the devils entered into them, they did what? They committed. Suicide. Amen. They committed suicide. Sorry, sorry. Okay, I'll stop. I'll stop. Sorry. You never know what kind of reaction you're gonna get when you say these things, so I'm glad you're all at least laughing, all right? So but they committed suicide I would venture to say again, Bethel Baptist Church, that we have an epidemic in our community, in our society, in our country, in our world of people committing suicide. I grew up in the 1980s in Baltimore City and you hardly ever heard of anyone committing suicide. It was rare. Now you hear about it all the time. I mean you got these football players that got the CTE, you know, the the the trauma to their head and and and probably that's one of the reasons why a lot of them are committing Suicides. Then you got people to say to you to us, well, you know, it's the pesticides that we, you know, spray on the foods and you know the things that they're feeding the animals that we eat. And I don't know. I don't. It's possible, I guess I know this, whether it's CPE or it's pesticides or what they're feeding, I don't know what it is, but I know this. The devil's happy when people take their own life The devil, let me prove it to you. Okay? Person that's unsaved and they take their own life, they're damned for all eternity. You think the devil likes that? Oh, he likes that Someone that is saved, and they're not damned for eternity, they're saved for eternity, but yet they take their own life. You know what makes them happy about that? Their testimony's gone Their witness is gone. Their service to Christ is gone. They have no influence for the Lord Jesus Christ and for his kingdom. They're out of the way. So the devil's happy if someone takes their own life, listen, if someone is committing suicide, there's a mental problem Not only is there a mental problem, there's a spiritual problem. And we see that this man had these characteristics. Is there someone in your life that you know of that might have a little bit of this? Or maybe a lot of it it is. I don't know. Only you know. You and God. We see number four. He's spiritually dead, he's socially detained, he's mentally disturbed. Number four, letter D. He's emotionally defeatful. He's emotionally deceitful. Look at Mark chapter 5 and look at verse number 7. Mark chapter 5 and verse number 7. Pastor, you wouldn't happen to have a water anywhere around here. Oh Awesome. Thank you. Mark chapter 5 and verse number 7. The Bible says there, and cried with a loud voice and said, What am I to do with thee? Jesus, thou son of the most high God. Now stop reading right there. Alright. The devils are talking to the Lord, and they call him thou Jesus, the Son of the Most High God. And at that point I say, Amen. Yes, he is the Son of the Most High God. He is God in the flesh. He is the second person of the Trinity. He is the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. He is the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. He is the Lamb of glory. Amen. Yes. Amen They're telling the truth, but they don't keep telling the truth. Look at the rest of the verse. The Bible says in the last part of verse 7 The devil's talking to the Lord, I adjure thee by God, that thou torment me not. Do you see what they're saying here? The devils are saying to the Lord Jesus Christ, you are tormenting us. You are the problem. Everything was fine until you showed up. Thank you so much. I appreciate that. Thank you very much. much. Everything was fine until you showed up. You see, everything was okay. You're tormenting us, but now wait a second. Hold on. Me in my public school education, I can read English and say, no, that's not what was happening. As a matter of fact, the devils were tormenting this man whom they possessed, and this man as a result was tormenting this community. And they were the tormentors, and yet they were accusing the Lord Jesus of being the tormentor. Kind of like what we have in our society today, people saying, Well, you Christians. If you all would just take your laws and your Bible and just get out of here, you know you all keep shoving that religion down our throats and you keep Bible thumping us and make- If you you're unkind, you're ungracious, and you're not loving, and then it's you're the problem, you're the problem, you're the problem Have have we not seen this? If we go visiting people, we go knocking doors or putting stuff on on on doors, man, uh we've been doing that canvassing in the area over there in 21224 and 21231, the two zip codes that we're targeting. Man, I've gotten some nasty emails. I mean nasty. People threatening. They don't want nothing to do with God. Because in their minds, we're the problem. You know, Christianity is not the problem. That's a lie of the devil. That's a lie from the pit of hell. Christianity is the reason that we have public school systems. even though they're kind of going down the toilet. But nonetheless, they are helpful. Christianity is the reason why we have hospitals. Christianity is the reason why women have the rights that they have today because of Christian people and Christian beliefs and Christian principles. And yet We're the problem? No, no, no, no, no. I don't think so. The devil would love nothing more than to lie, steal, cheat, rob, destroy you and me and our test That's what he does. Amen. That's what he does. Now look at verse number 8. Verse number 8. For he said unto him, Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit. And he asked him, What is thy name? And he answered saying, My name, now he's speaking in the singular, my name is Legion, for we are many. The deception continues. Listen, he's saying, it's not just me in here, it's a legion of us. And I've read, I've heard that a legion is thousands of troops in one company. So there's thousands of devils dwelling inside this man, but yet they're trying to speak as if there's one You see, the devil is the father of lies, and he will do anything to steal, kill, and destroy if that means cheating, lying, deceiving, backstabbing. Hey, by the way, you know someone that might have some of these characteristics? Stealing, lying, cheating, backstabbing. Hmm. I'm not saying they're possessed by a devil, but they're at least acting like the devil. They're acting like the devil, and guess what they need? They don't need judgment. They don't need condemnation. They don't need condescending spirits. They need love, grace, prayer, and help from the Word of God and the Lord of the Word. Y'all with me tonight? So we see that this man, he's spiritually dead, he's socially detained, he's mentally disturbed, he's emotionally deceitful. And letter E, and fifthly, under point number one, the condition of those that are bound, we see that the people are financially dumb. The people are financially dumb. Look at Mark chapter five and verse fourteen. The people are financially dumb. Verse 14. And they that fed the swine fled. Now these were either the farmers that owned them or the stewards, caretakers, I don't know, ne needless to say, the people that cared for these pigs. And they that fed the swine, fled, and told it in the city and in the country They said, hey, y'all got to come out here and see what's happening, man. Something big is taking place out here. And they went and told it, and they went out to see what it was that was done. So they gathered a crowd. People from the city, people from the country. They came to see what was going on. Verse 15. And they come to Jesus and see him that was possessed with the devil and had the legion, all past hence, now he's sitting. And I believe he's sitting at the feet of the Lord. He's sitting, and he's clothed, because at some point he was naked. And he's look at it now and he's in his right mind. He's in his right mind. I believe, I propose to you, Bethel Baptist Church, that this man got saved. This man accepted Christ as a Savior This man went from darkness to light. He went from death to life. He accepted the gift of eternal life through the Lord Jesus Christ. And he's in his right mind, and they were afraid. And they that saw it told them how it befell to him that was possessed with the devil, and also concerning the swine. So the people rehash the story, how it all happened, uh to those that came to see. Now, Bethel Baptist Church If you were there, and if I were there, and we saw this happen, we would say, glory to God. Hallelujah. Praise the Lord. Amen. Man, this is awesome. Now, I'm an excitable guy, okay? All right, I get it. I know not everyone is as as goofy as I am, all right? Some people are much more dignified and saying, Well, glory to God. Hallelujah. Praise the Lord And that's okay, whatever. However, you do it, you do it your way. I'll do it my way. Amen. Glory to God. Hallelujah. Praise the Lord. This is awesome. This guy who was a medicine society, he was wreaking havoc. Now he's not going to do that anymore We don't have to hide our kids from them anymore. We don't have to lock them up in chains anymore, man. This is great. We would have at least had the same sentiment, right? We would have said, man, this is great. This is a good thing. Correct? All right. That's not what these people did. Look at verse 17. And they, the people who had come to see what had happened and had been told, began to pray him, the Lord Jesus Christ, to depart. Do y'all see this? To depart out of their coasts. They said, You gotta get out of here. Hey, you're not like us. You're different than we are. You don't belong here. Hey, get out of here. And I read that and I say. Face Palm moment. What's wrong with these people? I mean come on now. He's the one that gave he brought peace to this man. He's bringing peace to this community. He's bringing restoration to this man. He's bringing restoration to this community, this neighborhood, and yet you're saying he has to go No, no, no. No, no. He's not the problem, folks. I feel that this is a similar spirit, a similar attitude that our community, our culture, our society has toward God. When they try to kick God out of the public school systems, when they try to kick God out of the court systems, when they try to kick God out of everything, separation of church and state, kick God out of everything. They're even in some cases trying to keep God out of their communities. Y'all with me tonight? Listen, God, the Lord Jesus Christ, he is the answer. He is the cure. He is the help. And yet these people are treating him like he is the problem. I proposed to you that they were financially dumb. Why were they financially dumb? Because I propose to you that they cared more about the pigs that were lost than they cared about this man who was found. Let me let me repeat that. They cared more about the financial loss to these farmers that man, that was their livelihood, man, that was their resources, and that was their money. How could you, how could you, man, how could you? And listen This man over here was born again. This man over here was made peace with God. This man over here, this human, this never-dying soul, they cared more about the animals than they cared about the person. We got people in our society today that care more about animals than they care about people. And let me tell you something. I love animals. We've had pets Forever and ever and ever. And we've recently lost several of our pets in the last few years. And man, it hurts. They're like family. Man, we love them, but they're not human. They're not the same. And we thank God for them. But there are people today who will who will say, hey man, you can't touch the eggs of an eagle's uh an eagle's nest and the eggs of man. That's a federal crime, that's a federal offense. And they'll say, man, you can't mess with these sea turtle eggs and man they're they're they're and they're trying to fertilize and man don't touch them, you'll be fined But that there are people who have no problem killing 63 million plus babies in the womb since 1973. And I'm not going to say it's the exact same people, but in many cases it's the same people. Kill the babies. Something's wrong. Something's wrong. They care more about the animals than they care about The people. You know anyone that has some of these characteristics? You know anyone that maybe behaves a little bit like this? Again, I'm not saying they're possessed, but they're at least influenced by the devil and his ways. And they're doing his bidding to some degree. And so we see the condition of those that are bound. Let's look at number two. Number two, the cure for those that are bound. The cure Look at Mark chapter 5 and verse number 6. Mark chapter 5 and verse 6. The cure for those that are bound. Verse 6 says, But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped him. Notice Bethel Baptist Church what this man did. He ran to the Lord and he worshiped the Lord. Now I understand in the context of the story, in the order of events, in verse 6, he's not saved yet. I get that. He's not accepted the Lord yet. I understand that. But nonetheless, the answer to his problems was running to the Lord Jesus Christ and bowing, humbly bowing before him and worshiping him. And I say to us tonight that the answer to our problems is running to the Lord Jesus Christ and humbly bowing before Him and worshiping Him. Worshiping him. You know, we have corporate worship, there's personal worship. We also have the word of God that's been given to us, that's been uh not only uh inspired, it's been preserved for us, and we we have it here. And listen, we we we try all kinds of things to fix our problems. And then when we can't fix them, we say, okay, Lord, help me. I need your help, Lord. And you know what we need what we need to do is immediately the first thing we need to do is go to God. Go to Him first. He's not our last resort. He should be our first option. Uh he he's not in in in football terms, you know, yeah the dump off man, you know. You got uh uh in football, you know, snap the ball and You got a receiver over here. That's option number one. He's covered. Option number two is covered. Option number three is covered. Option number four is covered. Hey, everyone's covered Okay, and I got this dump off man around, I'm just gonna sow it to him, maybe hopefully he'll get some yards. That's kind of how we treat God As our dump-off man. Yeah, I tried this over here, Lord, it didn't work. I tried this, I tried this, I tried this. Well, if it none of my ways work, let me try yours Everybody with me? I'm not the only one that's done this, right? I can't be. I know I'm not. Uh because I've I know people and we're all the same for the most part. We have the same tendency And so we see the cure. You see, because life is short, death is sure, sin is the problem, Christ is the cure. It's not a you know not a flamboyant preacher. That's not the cure. It's not a fantastic church, and all these things are good, but that's not the cure The cure to your ills and my ills, whether it's relational, whether it's financial, whether it's uh whatever it is, emotional, the cure to all of our ills is found in this book at the feet of our Lord and Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. That's where we find the cure. That's where we find the answers. We see the condition of those that are bound. We see the cure for those that are bound. And then lastly, we see the compassion for those that are bound. The compassion And this is where it becomes a little bit more practical for us. Look at verse number 18. Verse number 18. Verse 18 says, and when he was coming to the ship, stop right there for just a second. In verse 17, they said, Get out of here. Depart from our coasts. The Lord Jesus was asked to leave. You see what he's doing in verse 18? He's leaving. Hey, guess what that teaches me? The Lord Jesus is a perfect gentleman. He will not force himself on these people, and he will not force himself on you or me. If we say, I don't want you right now, God will say, okay. If we say, I don't care how many times Pastor Danae says it, I don't care how many times uh you know mom and dad bring it up in the Bible, I don't care how many times I read it, I don't care how many times the Holy Spirit convicts me, I'm gonna do what I want. God says Okay. Have it your way. I call that Burger King Christianity. You remember Burger King used to have that slogan, have it your way? That's Burger King Christianity. Have it, I want it my way God says, okay, I'll be standing here waiting for you with my arms wide open, like the prodigal son's father, saying, when you're ready to come back, I'm ready to take you. Amen. Thank the Lord. So he's leaving because he was asked to leave. Verse 18, and when he was coming to the ship, he that had been possessed with the devil This is more evidence that this man was saved. Prayed him. He's praying to the Lord. And you say, well, he's just requesting. He's just asking. Yes, that's what prayer is. It's communicating with God and saying, Lord, I have a need. And Lord, please, could you provide this? He's asking. He's praying to the Lord. Evidence that he's saved. Look at the next evidence. He prayed him that he might be with him. He wanted to spend time with the Lord. He wanted to serve the Lord. He wanted to work side by side with the Lord. That's evidence that this man was saved. By the way, if you're saved And you're not serving, and you don't have a desire to serve, however old you are, however smart you might be, however much Bible you know, listen, it doesn't matter. We need to be serving the Lord. All of us. Everyone can do something. And so look at verse number 19. Howbeit, Jesus suffered him not, but saith unto him, Go home. This is the verse that God used to convict me. Go home to thy friends and tell them how great things the Lord hath done for thee. and hath had compassion on thee. The Lord said, I'm glad you want to be with me. I'm glad you want to serve me. I'm glad you want to follow me and travel with me, but I need you to stay here. I need you to go home. I need you to tell your parents, your siblings, your extended relatives, your neighbors, your co-workers, your friends, anyone who will listen. Here. Hear. Tell them. How much I've shown compassion and love to you and help them receive that same love and compassion. And listen, God says to Pedro Morales, he says, go home to the city of Baltimore. Baltimore. And help those people know the compassion that I've given you. This is where he he convicted me. I'll talk about that here in just in just a minute. But look at verse 20, and we'll be done looking at the passage. Verse 20 After the Lord told him to go home and tell his friends or tell his family, look, he departed and began to publish in the capitalists how great things Jesus had done for him and all Notice what verse 20 does not say. Verse 20 does not say, and he departed and went to Bible college. There's nothing wrong with going to Bible college. But that's not what he did. It doesn't say he departed and started memorizing the Romans road. There's nothing wrong with memorizing the Romans road. But that's not what he did. It does not say he departed and he learned all the ologies of Christianity. You know, eschatology and you know uh soteriology and angel ology and all the other ologies, you know. And there's nothing wrong with learning those. But that's not what he did. He immediately, instantly, he went and he started telling people. You see, because you don't need a Bible college degree, you don't need to know all the verses and know all the ologies of Christianity and Bible doctrine, you don't need all that to tell people how good God's been to you. You know what you need? You need a testimony. And if you're saved tonight, guess what? You got one. And you know exactly how it went down because you were there. God says, take your testimony and sell other people Yes, and in the meantime, learn more verses. Learn the Romans Road. If God calls you to go to Bible college, by all means. But all those things. But listen, don't stop. Don't stop telling people because you're busy learning all those other things. All of us need to be telling people how good God has been to us. And God has been good. We're done with the passage, but I do want to share this with you. In 2011, so uh let me let me backtrack. In 1994, Trina and I, we had gotten married, we got saved in 93, uh, we had our first daughter And we decided, hey, we're not going to raise our kids in Baltimore City for obvious reasons. I don't want to be there because man, all the nonsense that I had to deal with, I don't want them to deal with. So we left City. We went to Ethnex Y'all know where Essex is, right? East Baltimore County. We went to Essex and we stayed out in East Baltimore County for the next who however many years. I mean long time. Our all our girls, four daughters were born, uh they were raised up out there. We became members of Rosedale Baptist Church. Excuse me. We were there for sixteen years. I was on staff for eight. I mean, things were going great, but you know what? I did not step foot in the city unless I had absolutely no choice. I would avoid the city. As a matter of fact, uh if I had to go from East Baltimore County to West Baltimore County, I'd take 695 and go around or around this way. I did not want to go through the city. I would avoid it. I hated it I treated the city like the Jews treated Samaria. And so our girls know nothing of the city. They know nothing. As a matter of fact, now that we move back to the city and They they kind of come to visit here and there and we'll travel around. My daughter says, How do you know uh how do you know your way around here? I said, I grew up here. I like I walked these streets like It it's like nothing has changed basically. Yeah, I mean some things have changed of course but the schematic of the the s it's all the same. And so we raised our kids out there and then Uh we were at Rosedale Baptist Church and we were ministering. I mean great things were happening. I was this uh the an assistant pastor, one of the three assistant pastors at the time, and uh I was a Spanish pastor. I was doing weddings and funerals and counseling and And all kinds of stuff. Had an adult Sunday school class in England. Man, things were great. It was awesome. We owned two homes. One we rented out, one we lived in, had an in-ground pool, two-car garage. I mean life was good And people kept saying, God's calling you to be a pastor, have your own church. I said, no, I don't want it. Because I saw the headaches of the senior pastor. Pastor has to deal with. The assistant pastor, he does all the fun stuff and he doesn't have to deal with all the headaches. And I said, No, I don't want that. Well, finally, God got his way. Because you know, God has a way of motivating us. Amen? And he motivated me. It was 2011. I said, okay, alright. I'll go. We left the state of Maryland. And now, God was telling me to go to the city. Just like he was telling Jonah to go to Nineveh. And you know what I did? I went down to Florida We went down to Orlando. Just like Jonah, instead of going where, you know, God said, I went the opposite direction. Nope, not going. There. So we went there. I thought, well, we'll plant a church. I'm gonna obey. I'm gonna plant a church. And that didn't work out. Uh, we went to Eastland Baptist Church there in East Orlando. Uh we became members, got hired on staff there. I told the pastors, Hey Eventually I gotta plant a church, got a plant a church, got a plant church, and after three years, God said, What are you waiting on? I said, All right, all right, all right, all right, we're gonna plant a church. So I went over to West Orlando. I said, We'll plant a church there And uh in West Orlando's where all the rich people live, like Tiger Woods, right? And we went over there to kind of do a survey, kind of check it out, and and I went over there and I looked around, I said, uh, this ain't gonna work. First of all, I grew up as a welfare kid. I mean I grew up poor. I'm short, fat, and Puerto Rican. They don't want nothing to do with me. I don't, I don't, you know, we just we don't relate. I said this isn't gonna work And so we we went back to the drawing board. We ended up finding a church that needed a pastor in upstate New York in a town called Parrishville. It was like 20 minutes south of the border of Canada, right? And we were like way up there in the Adirondack Mountains. It was a town of 2,000. There were farms everywhere, cows everywhere. I think there were more cows than there were people And I said, well, it doesn't matter. You know, they need a pastor. God's called me to pastor. I'll go there. It doesn't matter. I got there, and I said fully matters. It matters. I'm like, oh, this is I'm not used to this. The convenience store closed at like seven. I said, that's not convenient. That's inconvenient. We need to call it the inconvenience store, right? I'm used to stuff being open, you know, late at night all night, you know, and just and so we we ministered there for three years But man, I felt like a fish out of water. I felt like a square peg in a round hole. It was so uncomfortable. I mean, you know, but the church doubled in size. People were getting saved, baptized disciples, but the whole time I was like This ain't it. I can't do this for the next 20, 30 years. I had several epiphanies, as I call them, while I was there. One of them was I went to visit the dairy farmer that was a member of the church. I followed him around his dairy farm with all the cows everywhere and hay all over the place. I'm following, following we were talking, talking. Finally after an hour I said, Hey, I'm going back to the parsonage. I gotta study, I'll see you Sunday. Went back to the parsonage, I sat down at my desk, I said Oh what oh I couldn't work. I had to go upstairs in the the bedroom and change everything. Like it smelled like the barn. It was uh right city slick Amen? So it was horrible. And so that was one of those times I sat back down at my desk and I said, Lord, is this your perfect will for me? Is this really where I'm supposed to be? And of course God's in heaven saying, No, you dummy You idiot. You're supposed to go to the city. And I'm like, nope. So anyways, so we left there. Right, we left there. We ended up going to Cleveland, Ohio. We were there for a time. We had a ministry friend there. He said, Why don't you come here, kinda, you know, hit the reset button, you know kind of recalibrate and you know take a little sabbatical type deal, right? So we went there. Uh we joined Cleveland Baptist Church. You know, I sat you know for like a month. I said, I can't sit. I gotta do something. I can't I gotta serve. Anyway, so we started serving. There was a church there that was in between pastors. They asked me to come and fill the pulpit. I did. Finally they said, Hey, can you just, you know, keep filling the pulpit until we find a pastor? I said sure. And so we did that. In the meantime, I'm looking for another church to pastor, but not in the city. Amen. Not in Baltimore City. So we found a church in a town called Watchula, Florida. So now we've left Baltim, Maryland, gone to Florida. Now we're in upstate New York, gone to Ohio. Y'all with me? Y'all following this? Now we're we went to Wachula, Florida to candidate. I got there, I said, I hope they say no You know, I hope they don't vote me in because it was just like upstate New York except down in Florida. Rural, country, farms, cows everywhere. The the church was out in the woods somewhere, like I mean, I thought like, you know, some kind of Freddie Krueger was gonna come out and get me or something. It was scary out there, right? So we candidated and they voted yes And I said, No, I'm not going. Because I thought, hey, it's gonna be the same thing. So uh the the community uh the excuse me the the pulpit head the pulpit committee rather head he kept calling me kept calling me and uh just telling me give me updates, you know, so and I'm like, yeah, that's great, that's nice. Uh-huh. God bless you, love you, bye bye, you know, stop calling me, you know. I didn't say all that, but I thought it. Right? And uh so he kept calling me. Finally I looked at Trin and I said, Trin Am I being selfish? Like, you know, they need a pastor. I'm called a pastor. Uh, you know, am I just thinking of me? And we we talked and we discussed it. We we even did a line item list, you know, pros and cons, right? And then we prayed And we said, okay, we're gonna go. I called him back. I said, hey, is that position still available? He said, yes. He said, okay, I'll take it. So we went down. We moved down there to Watula, Florida from Cleveland, Ohio. And uh this was bivocational. I was working a full-time secular job, pastoring the church at the same time, and I and I was working and and and pastoring and it was hard and I was building sheds. The first job I had was building sheds. It was labor, it was hard labor, it was physical labor. Man, I was worn out. After about six months of that I said, man, I gotta get another job. This job's gonna kill me And I got a second job. God has a sense of humor, folks. Guess where I got another job? Fertilizer plant. Close fertilizer plant. That smell that I wanted to get away from in New York, now I'm working around it. Like eight hours plus a day. And not only that, it was midnight shift, ten at night till six in the morning Man, there were times I didn't even know it was Sunday. And I was like, oh, today's Sunday. I guess we should have church. I couldn't figure out what day it was, what time it was. It was a disaster Now this particular fertilizer plant, uh what they would do is they would take the fertilizer and form into small pellets. Those small pellets they would cover them with the polymer. The way they would do that is they would shoot the the pellets into this drum. Y'all seen the drums the cement trucks have that spin on the back We have three of those. They would shoot them in there, thousands of them. Then they would shoot the polymer in and as it's spinning, right? It's uh it's coating all of them. After some time they all get coated, they take them out, send send them to the next department with their bags and ship and all that. I worked in the department with the drums. Now, this is more of the Jonah story. Because every week, once a week, we had to clean the inside of the drums. We, the employees, had to clean the inside of the drums. So we would, you know, put all the ropes down, stop it from moving, and all that, make it all safe, get all our safety gear on, and we would climb inside the drum In inside the drum. Right? And so we would take a pneumatic chipping gun and we would chip away at all this stuff that was stuck on the walls of the inside. And and and one week I'm there, it's like three in the morning, I'm chipping away, I'm chipping away. It's sweaty, it's nasty, it's stinky, it's dirty, it's Disgusting. And I had another epiphany. I said, Lord, is this where I'm supposed to be? Is this your will for my life? Now, mind you, I'm in the belly of the drum. Just like Jonah was in the belly of the whale. Mind you, God had told me to go to Baltimore City, and I went to Florida, just like Jonah. And you know what God did while I was in the belly of that drum? He took his anthropomorphic finger, stuck it in my chest, and he says, Now are you ready to go to the city of Boston? And you know what I said? I'll go. Alright, Lord. If that's where you want me to go. And listen, at this point, I was getting scared. I said, man, God's gonna kill me if I don't submit to him now. Said, I'll go. And I came out of the drum just like Jonah came out of the whale, and I started heading in the direction of the city of Baltimore. I went home that morning at 6 a. m. I went to Trin. I said, Trin, we're going to Baltimore. So she's like, yes, we're going home. Great. I said, hold on. We're going to the city. She said, whoo. Her demeanor completely changed. She said, are you sure? I said, I've never been so sure of anything in my life. That was in 2019. 2019 we made that decision and we've been planning and preparing to launch Baltimore Baptist Church. Since twenty nineteen. We left Wachula in two thousand nineteen, like November, somewhere in November. And now we're four weeks away from launching Baltimore. Baptist Church. So I ask you, Bethel Baptist Church, pray for us, please. We need your prayers. If you can help us in any way, whether it's canvassing, we'd love to have you come and help us do some canvassing. Canvassing. If you can help us financially, obviously that would be a blessing as well. Any way that you can help us, definitely pray for us. Definitely. But listen, that's what God used for me. Verse 19, he said, go home, tell your friends, tell everyone there. What about you? What does Mark 5 verse 1 through 20 tell? you who in your life needs your counsel needs your prayers needs your help needs your christianity needs your spirituality who is it that's whom God is telling you tonight you need to go home And tell them. You need to go home and be an encouragement to them. So let's make sure we all. It may not be the city of Baltimore for you, it is for me. It may not be for you It may be your workplace. It may be in your home. It may be in your neighborhood. It may be in some other place that you frequent. Whatever the case may be, let's make sure we decide today we're going to submit to God. And we're going to honor Him and help those that are bound by their vices, by the devil, by their own bad decisions. Let's do our best to help them. Amen. Let's bow together for word of prayer. Father, we love you. We thank you for tonight. Lord, we pray now that you would please cement your truth from your word in Mark chapter 5. into our hearts. Help us, dear God, to be sensitive, to be yielded, to be submitted to you. And Lord, we pray for those individuals that you have allowed into our sphere of influence that need this that need the cure for all the ills of their life. And Lord, we know that we can't cure everyone and we can't cure everything. But Lord, we can do better than what we've been doing. Help us, dear Father. Help us, Lord, to look for those people that are bound, that are influenced by the devil and by his demons, and help us to do our very best. To bring them to you. Lord, bless Bethel Baptist Church, bless Pastor Ganaeam and his family. Thank you, dear God, for allowing us to be able to gather tonight and worship you together. And hear from your word. We love you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Pastor. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.