All right, Matthew five We were looking at the first Beatitude last week, which was, or Sunday night rather, which was: Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And we said that the poor in spirit in that passage refers to someone who understands that he or she is spiritually destitute before God, that there is nothing that they can bring to God, that because really it's because of their sin, because of their sinful state that we are all born into that that we are we are really spiritually destitute before God and it's something that we realize something that is that is that that is true about us. And if the gospel is truly working in our lives, that is going to be our That is going to be our response. Our response is to realize that the gospel is so powerful and we are so weak that actually it's the gospel's work in our life is all about the gospel and not about me. And I am in total need of the gospel because I am poor in spirit. I am utterly spiritually destitute before God. God. And it's a place where God brings us through His gospel. Now I'll remind us, and I think the best illustration I can give to you is soil. And it's a biblical illustration, so I'm on pretty good footing there. But if you think of soil where where uh uh uh a seed goes into soil, well the seed penetrates the soil. But also the soil has to be a certain way in order for the seed to be able to grow. And then the seed actually, as the roots grow into the soil, it actually cultivates the soil. So the go the And so there has to be certain conditions for the seed to work. And actually it's the gardener that actually, and we could take this illustration this way, it's actually the gardener that actually has to cultivate the soil enough to get the seed in there at least. And then it's the work of the seed that gets that goes in and and and actually cultivates the soil. Well, what does that look like when the gospel is working in our hearts? When the gospel is cultivating the soil of our lives, what does that look like? And it looks like our realization that we are poor, we are truly poor in spirit. And we talked quite a bit about that. Well, let's then move now to the second one. And the second one here that we're looking at tonight is blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Now we said before that there are three parts to each of these beatitudes. The first part is blessed Okay? Everybody all of these are, if you are this way, if your soil is this way, you are happy. You are blessed. You're not happy necessarily in the sense of giddy or in the sense of I have some sort of uh euphoric experience like a roller coaster, but there is a contentment and a general happiness that we can experience when when our soil, our heart are being cultivated by the gospel this way. And so we're happy when we really go through this. And also you've got this Condition. The first one is poor in spirit. The second one here is mourn. And the third is shall be something. And in this case, it shall be comforted. The word comforted comforted is a very interesting word. It is the word uh that we find it actually is mentioned of the Holy Spirit that we just a few weeks ago talked about in the book of John and I actually think and Joe Josh brings a mess message and preached on and mentioned this a well a while back even further um the word pl parakletos. This is the way this is the same word. The word comfort here is the same word where it says about the Holy Spirit later on in John, I bring you a comforter. It's the same word. And we said before, and it's still true of course even in this context, that this word has is so multifaceted that you you can't there it's really hard to translate one way. So it means several different things. It means to comfort is certainly a good translation. Exhortation is also a good translation to exhort and encourage. Advocate. Go to somebody's defense, that's this word as well. All of these things are in this word, all these different facets are in this one word. And God says, really, really, what it's actually saying here, and we said this about the Holy Spirit, but but what it's really saying here is all of All of what is is true of a good friend. What is a good friend? It's someone who comforts you, right? It's also somebody who exhorts you, who says, hey, by the way, you're not quite going the right direction here. That's a good friend. The Bible says faithful are the uh wounds of a friend. uh deceitful or the kisses of an enemy. A good friend will actually tell you when you're going the wrong way because they love you. Okay? So so a an advocate, someone who will come to your defense Come to your come to go go to bat for you. That's a friend. Well, the Bible actually says there is a way that the that God becomes our friend where we are truly comforted. Now there is in our world today, there is there are a lot of There's there's a ton of anxiety and sadness and extreme loneliness and depression, a c a lot of of psychological issues. that you and I deal with, that the world deals with, and you hear about it all the time now. This is very, very, very common. And I'm going to suggest to you that there is one primary root problem that the world does not know how to handle. And they find every way to handle it possible, but they really actually don't know how to handle this problem. Well, what is the problem? The problem is the problem of guilt. It's the problem of guilt. Now, we all have guilt. Is that true? Of course it's true. We know it's true because we all are sinners, right? So all of us are born sinners, so that means we all have guilt, every single one of us. Every single one of us have guilt. We're all born guilty, and we all are born having to deal with guilt. The this causes the the world knows that the world doesn't know that part of it. The world knows that people feel guilty for things naturally. But their way of dealing with it, and actually individuals' way of dealing with it, is much different than God's way of dealing with it. The world thinks that man is basically good, that individuals are basically good, and it's actually society that corrupts individuals. It's actually society that makes that makes people sinful. It's not it's not them. Individuals are sinful, are not sinful. They're good. They're born good and society makes them sinful. And in the way that the world deals with this, a psychologist or psychiatrist typically will deal with this by saying they'll find the area of society, they'll find the area of guilt in the person Once they've identified the area of guilt in the person, they'll take soci they'll say, okay, well where in society does he get that you know okay he's done something wrong causes it's caused him guilt. They have no way of dealing with this right And so they say, okay, well it's society's problem. I've got to find somewhere in society to be able to shift that that guilt. What do we call that? It's blame. And that's exactly a very typical way of dealing with in secular therapy, a very typical way of dealing with problems. And they will find in in your childhood something. And and the truth of the matter is child childhood things, abuse and things like that, they do contribute. There is contributions to the to the problem. But they don't consider at all the fact that we are sinners and that we actually are guilty for things and that we actually do have to take responsibility. uh for some things. And then to try to alleviate those those guilt issues, they will usually try to find, to shift the blame over to somebody else. else. That is a very, very typical way of doing it. And when that doesn't work, they will then usually medicate you. And they will Now I want to say as a as a disclaimer to all this, there are legitimate there are legitimate uh mental illnesses. That require medication. And there are legitimate chemical imbalances that require medication. So I am not at all saying that every time somebody goes on medication that they shouldn't, and it's a sin problem. I'm not saying that. I'm also not saying that there is no mental illness problem that shouldn't be treated with medication. So I want to be very clear about that. And sometimes people have uh surgeries or they have other things that cause chemical imbalances and it's perfectly and And it's a physiological problem and they've got to deal with it. So I'm not at all so there's a disclaimer in there, so don't let your mind wander and say, okay, he's just saying everything's sin. I'm not saying that. There are things like that. However Not every problem is like that. Not every time somebody has a problem with their guilt, it does it need to be dealt with either through blame or medication. And there is another way of dealing with this problem that really brings true spiritual comfort that we've got to consider and got to Keep in mind. The other thing, just as a just as a disclaimer as well, is that there is something called false guilt. And so somebody can feel guilty for something that they actually shouldn't feel guilty before. guilty for. And I I would just say this, if you're struggling between the between guilt and false guilt, and you don't know whether or not you should feel guilty for something, that is when you must get help. You sometimes it really feels like you ought to feel guilty for something when you don't. The Bible says our heart has the ability to be able to condemn us. Okay, and the Bible says God is greater than in our heart and knows all things. You've got to go to somebody that you trust. You've got to go to somebody who knows the Word of God. uh you know a pastor somebody somebody somebody that's spiritually mind spiritually mature you've got to go to them and help and let them help you sift that out whether it's whether it's false guilt or biblical or true true guilt Now, with all of that in mind, then we want I want to deal with what the passage is actually dealing with. When it says mourn, less are they than mourn, what is it talking about? Well, I want to suggest to you that it's not talking here about mourning over s the loss of something. Now there are other times in the New Testament that the Bible tea talks about mourning over the loss of something and how to deal with that. someone how to deal with that. But in this context, I don't think we're talking about that at all. Why? Well the first the first beatitude, remember all the beatitudes are facets of the same thing. And the first Beatitude told us that we were clearly spiritually destitute. Why is that? Well, because of our sin. So we're in the realm of talking about an individual, we're mourning over our condition. That's what's going on here. What are we mourning over? We're mourning over our sin. That's the issue here. The issue is that we are mourning over sin. And mourning over sin, the Bible says if we will do this the right way, then actually we will be comforted. In Luke chapter 4, verse 18, it says this: The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised. And in Isaiah 61, verses 1 through 3, just listen to what it says here. That you have that you have the same, it's quoted the same thing Uh you have the same thing Luke four eighteen says it's quoted here again and it says a little bit more and I I I'm gonna read the whole thing. Isaiah sixty one verses one through three He says, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me because the Lord has anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives. And the opening of the prison to them that are bound, to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord and the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all that mourn. To appoint unto them that mourn in Zion, to give unto them beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise. for the spirit of heaviness, that they might all be called trees of righteousness, and planted of the Lord, that he might be glorified. God says that there is God desires for for us to be able to be comforted, to be encouraged, to be lifted up. God desires that of us. But there's actually something that must happen first. And that is we must learn to mourn over our sin. Now, the in the uh we as individuals will do everything we can to keep from doing this. And when we feel guilty or feel bad about ourselves, we'll find all kinds of ways of dealing with it. Sometimes people turn to drinking or drugs or maybe just TV or or texting a lot or or social media or browsing the internet or anything we can get to distract us. And there are a lot of ways in this world that can distract us. And those distractions distract us from really dealing with the problem. And the problem, often but not always, I have water here, sorry, Sweetha, thank you. You guys are so awesome about bringing me water. I do have it, I just don't drink it. Sorry, I'll I'll go ahead and drink it. So You all feel a little better. I'm okay, it just it is what it is. Um speaking of drinking, that's not anything I'm not I'm not I'm not demonstrating uh anything. That's water. That's not anything can mask the guilt and distract us when what God really wants. He wants us to mourn over our sin. Now you say, who are you talking about here? Are you talking about unsaved people or are you talking about Christians? And you know what the answer is? Yes. It's both. The unbeliever to truly come to Christ must mourn over his sin. It's called repentance. If a person says that they have come to Christ and have not really understand that their sin is an offense against God and mourned over it, then they are not truly coming to Christ. The same true thing is true about a s a Christian. If a Christian goes through his life and sins and he is still, he is still, if he is genuinely Christian, he is a child of God. That doesn't change. But if he doesn't mourn over the same thing that God is mourning over, and God does mourn over our sin, doesn't he? The Bible says, grieve not the Holy Spirit of God. The Spirit of God grieves over our sin. And when we don't grieve over the same thing that the Spirit of God is grieving over in our lives, Then we are not going to get the Spirit of God's comfort in our lives. Those two things, clearly from this passage, go together. In order to get the Spirit of God's comfort, we must get We must mourn over our sin. That's why this passage tells us, blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Now this is clearly taught in Scripture. In James chapter 4, verses 7 through 10, it says, Therefore, submit to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Well, how do you do that? Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. Lament and mourn and weep, let your laughter be turned to mourning, and your joy to gloom. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and He will lift you up. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom. And then it says, humble yourself. In other words, what are we supp what's the condition of the soil? Well it's humility. What does humility look like? It's realizing that we are destitute of humility. before God and learning to mourn over our sin. And the gospel, if the gospel is really working in the life of the heart, in anybody's life, that is something that's going to happen. It's also the right response this morning is the right response when other people sent. It's not judgmentalism. Or I'm too good for you, or what's wrong with you, or how could you ever do that kind of thing, or those kind of things. It's not just it's not that. It's actually mourning. In first Corinthians chapter five it says it it actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you, and such sexual immorality as is not even named among the Gentiles uh that a man has his father's wife, it's a very severe, very uh severe sexual immorality. He says this, and you are puffed up. They weren't handling it right. In fact, what they weren't doing, they weren't dealing with the problem. They said, And you are puffed up, and have not rather mourned that he who has done this deed might be taken away from among you. Do we mourn over our sin? And do we mourn over the sin of folks around us? Other brothers and sisters in Christ? Do we mourn over the sin? of family members and do we mourn over the sin of family members in our church, of our spiritual family? Do we do that? That is the biblical and right response because the Bible says if we will do that, then we'll be comforted. When somebody comes to Christ, They understand that Christ has paid for their sin and they have mourned over it. They have understood that it has grieved God. They realize that Christ has paid for it. And and the response sometimes the response is going to vary based upon the personality. I've always uh you know it's interesting that some people have said to me, you know, um They've come to Christ and they said, you know, I don't really feel any different. And I I said, well, okay. Well it depends on you know uh on sometimes you don't feel any different. It's not like you necess it's not a f it's not about a feeling. Sometimes people have this euphoric experience and they actually never were really saved. It's just something they've got this sort of excitement that's kind of gotten up into their into their lives and they actually never really and I'll tell you the the difference. And there people then there are others that have gotten very relieved And felt freedom from their sin. Now I'll tell you the difference. How much did they mourn over their sin? If somebody comes to me and says, hey, I'm saved, well, I'm going to say, praise the Lord, that's wonderful, right? But I I do want to know how much they've mourned over their sin. Have they actually s had any kind of idea That their sin has really grieved God, and because it grieves God, it grieves them. It put Christ on the cross. It killed the Son of God. And do we come to that realization? We understand that that is the effect of the gospel in our lives. Now, I want us then, on a very practical note, to turn our Bibles to 1 John chapter 1. Spoken about the unsaved person, how he comes to Christ. But let me just ask you this question. How does someone Or let me put it this way. How often should a Christian mourn over their sin? Well, let me ask you another question. How often does a Christian sin? Is it at least daily? It's at least daily. Right? I mean there's nobody does any can anybody sit here say they can they can look back on their whole day today and they have not sinned? Be careful because you might actually have a problem if you say, No, I haven't sent anywhere. Now you may say, I can't remember, I need to think about it. And that's by the way, often the problem. We're not thinking enough. We're not being still enough to really actually think and and spend time with the Lord and really actually meditate on our interactions and our thoughts. and and what we're doing. Every morning we ought to spend some time just in quiet before the Lord. Lord, is there any wicked way in me Is there anything in my heart that needs to be dealt with? Is there anything in my motives that, you know, there needs to be quietness in our souls. A lot of times the reason that we aren't actually realizing our sin is there's not enough quietness in our soul. That's why God says, a broken spirit and a contrite heart he will not despise. And he says in another place, the psalmist says that a that uh that there is a that is is you know to be quiet, to be still, and to know that he is God. So in 1 John chapter 1, I just want to review a couple of things. This is very basic, but I think that it's important for us to understand when we're thinking about this whole concept of mourning. And that is and we're gonna pick we're gonna pick up and what I'm gonna do is I'm just gonna read through this, and I want you to see some things here. Picking up verse one, it says this. That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled concerning the word of life. So that's talking, by the way, about Jesus Christ. He's saying we've experienced Jesus. Verse 2. The life was manifested, that Jesus life was manifested, and we have seen and bear witness and declare to you the eternal life which was from the Father and was manifested to us. That which we have seen and heard, we declare to you, that you may have fellowship with us. And truly, so we're talking here about fellowship. Truly, our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. These things we write to you that your joy may be full. This is how to have fellowship, the same kind of fellowship that the Spirit has with the Son, and the Son has with the Father, the Father has uh with the Spirit. All that's the same fellowship that you and I are invited to join into. What comfort, by the way? What friendship? What assurance? What advocate, what an advocate we have, which is actually in 1 John as well. This is the message that we have heard from him and declare to you that God is light and in him is no darkness at all. If we say we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, We lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another in the blood of Jesus Christ, his son. Cleanses us from all sin. So what are we supposed to do? Well, if we know Christ our Savior, we are to walk in the light. And as we are walking light, pursuing Christ in fellowship with him, when sin comes, when we sin and we And you know, it may be that when we're sinning, we don't even realize we're sinning. And then the Lord convicts us about that. The Spirit of God convicts us about that. And we we need to stop Stop and not put it out of our mind. See, like we know there's guilt. And we know there's guilt, and what it doesn't feel good. And you know what the fleshly response to something that doesn't feel good? Get rid of it or distract yourself from it. I don't like to feel bad. In fact, there is there is something, we talked about this I think on Sunday night, there's something about us That tries to make ourselves feel feel good about ourselves. And so when guilt comes in, we don't want to feel good. We we it doesn't make us feel good about ourselves. But what God says we have to do is stop and go ahead and acknowledge the sin. In other words, feel guilty for a few moments. Acknowledge the sin. Understand your guilt. Realize you sinned against God. The word confess means To say the same thing God says. Homo, leto. Legu means word, and we all know what homo means, unfortunately. Okay? So homo, legheto, you put them together, all right, and you have the same. Okay? So so when when the Spirit of God is grieved, what should we what should happen to us? We should be grieved. And when we say the same thing God says about something When that happens and we truly confess, then we don't stay in our guilt, right? Because blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be what? They're going to be comforted. Notice what it says in the text here. He is what? If we confess our sins, he is what? He is faithful and just. Why is he just, by the way? Who died for your sin? Christ did. That's why he can be just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. This ought to be something that is a daily, how do you live out the gospel on a daily basis? This is how you live it out. You live it out by understanding that as you sin, you want to stay in fellowship with God. Take a moment and stop and recognize you sin. If you're going days and days and days without confessing any sin, there is a problem. Now I'm not suggesting that you sort of, you know, like You start coming up with all kinds of things, you know, like let me imagine some stuff up. No. Walk in the light and and And focus on the Lord and then realize that there are going to be sins in your heart, in your mind, and your thinking, and when you when there is, confess them. Just say, Lord, I I I grieve I grieved you with that. I'm wrong. I confess this to you. And then recognize God's forgiveness in your life. You know, I I would just imagine That that if the world, if the w you know, if an unsaved person did this, of course they would come to Christ. That's what would happen. They would get saved. But I mean, how what would happen if our world started doing this? I mean if we actually st do you realize, I'll just say this, do you realize that some of the atrocities that are happening right now, did you hear about the um mother who killed her kids in Baltimore? For two young children, like six years old. Okay. Happen to get dated in Baltimore. How does that happen? How does a mother do that to her children? That is unnatural. There there is nothing natural about that. There are many, many it's well she's not saved. Well wait a minute. There's a lot of unsaved people that won't kill their kids, right? It's not just that she's unsaved. How does that kind of thing occur? I'll tell you how it occurs. There's a bunch of different things, but here's part of the answer. It's a Romans 1 thing. What happens is that when someone when anyone does not accept responsibility, they don't accept guilt. For their sin. They don't recognize their own sin. What happens in any person's life when they don't accept their own guilt for their own sin? They get deeper into sin. Romans 1 is very clear about this. They get deeper and deeper and deeper and deeper. If you don't accept responsibility for your sin, you will keep getting deeper into sin. In fact, did you realize that the consequences of sin are a grace from God? Did you know that? That when you sin against God and there's actually an immediate consequence that shows you you sinned and you realize, oh, I did wrong there, that's actually God's grace from keeping you going deeper into sin more. And what happens is that there is a line somewhere where you go from natural to unnatural. Okay, where some a a mother can actually go so far as to as to doing this kind of sin. Why? Because now the the the natural affections of of the image of God in man The image of God and man is life. We want life. Even if you're unsaved, you usually want life, right? I mean, you you know, you might find ways of rationalizing it, but even if you're unsaved, the unsaved person usually is going to think life is good and death is bad, right? Okay, that's normal. But when someone goes so deep into sin And then there's other there's often desperation involved and probably drugs involved as well, but when someone goes so deep into sin like that They're over, they have actually gone into unnatural things. The very goal of God for them as an image bearer has actually been turned over and reversed. It's a very s that just tell but here's what it tells you. It tells you how far sin can take you. So what should be the response for us Understand this. God has a way of dealing with this. God has a way of you dealing with your sin. Mourn over it. Realize it grieves God. And accept God's forgiveness through Christ. And those who do that, they will be what? They will be comforted. That's what we want to see. If you look at the text here, then it says this. Skip down to chapter 2, verse 3. Now, by this we know that we know him. That's the assurance of being in a close relationship with him. There's you can know him without knowing that you know him. You c y you know that? You can actually know him. That is, you have a relationship. You are his child, but you don't have the assurance now of knowing him. Hereby we have the assurance of knowing him why? When? If we keep his commandments. He who says, I know him and does not keep his commandments is a liar and the truth is not in him. But whoever keeps his word Truly the love of God is perfected in him. By this we know that we are in him. He who says he abides in him ought himself also so to walk, even walk just as he walked. together. Father, we thank you, Lord, for your word. We thank you that this text teaches us and reminds us of such an important truth. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us to mourn over our sin. Help us to catch it at its earliest movements. Help us to not. It's so easy in our flesh. We are all guilty of this. I am certainly guilty of this. There's an evasion. That happens when we sin and we don't you know we don't we don't want to uh own up to it. We want to blame it, we wanna shift it, we wanna uh do everything we can. Lord, instead of just owning it and realizing we sin against you and And mourning over it the way you have, and then and then experiencing your comfort through Christ. So I pray, Lord, that you'd help us to do that in our lives. so that we can not only be be accepted by you as a child of of you, but experience and know um with assurance the comfort of your friendship Um and all that is involved in that, uh we ask Lord that you would rem you would help us to have that kind of experience in our lives. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon. able to go in and do all the training uh through that. Um you should be able to go in and pick your particular department and and uh your And then do the training. Let me give you a little hint on this, because I don't like wasting time. And I know you don't either, I'm sure. Uh nothing wrong with watching the whole training, but if you're really in a rush You can watch the training and kind of if they if they elaborate more than it's like, okay, yeah, I get there I get it. Skip a little bit and keep going. Skip a little more and keep going. And we go to the end, there's an assessment. Make sure you do the assessment so you know if you've gotten it, gotten the information. If you can't answer the questions, go back and look at more You can save about, you know, a few minutes on each video if you do it that way. Um and I don't have any I mean I just want you to get the information. I don't care if you like Like watch everything. Of course it's a lot easier than when I was when I was in Iwana, when I was a Wana League years ago, like over twenty years ago, they had to go for we had to go for a whole day of training and on Saturday. The whole day is b basic training. And and we went through the whole thing and we had to take a test at the end and we were graded on it. And uh it was it was a big deal. They changed things a little bit and hope and it's a little more user. friendly now so that's good. It is very involved though the the ministry. It's not something that you could just pick up easily. But uh this training is going to help you. It's I think it's like a couple hours long per, you know for what you're you're gonna need. Um so let's start with this. Um let's talk about the three the three major groups. You've got the game time, large group time, and small group time. The core of what we're doing is the small group time. That's the main thing, actually. Alright? The main thing is the small group time. That's where your core discipleship is happening. And I'll just point a couple things out here. In every department you're going to have at least three main materials. So you'll see this if you look up, this is called an entrance booklet. Alright? Or an entrance exam, or in this case, the truth in training, it's called the start zone. This is every person, every kid gets one of these. They don't have to pay for this. The church will pay for this. Okay. There's another book they'll have to pay for, but they don't have to pay for this. That means that anybody coming off the st anybody who's coming off the street, anybody gets one of these immediately You don't have to worry about whether they've register uh paid, you know, I mean they got to register for child protective reasons, but they don't have to you don't have to worry about they've paid or anything like that. They just get the This has uh all of them have verses in it that they have to memorize and sections that they have to sign. It gets them used to it. Once they finish this, they'll move on to a book like this. Oh no, that's not it. A book like this. Okay? That's the teacher's book. And they'll say this they'll go through the sections in this book. There are different rules for each video. Watch the video and you'll appreciate Each group, watch the video and you'll see them. For instance, the truth in training, they do not have to say them uh they can they don't have to stay conc concurrent with the lesson. They can can keep they can go ahead, they can they they can do a lot basically. Uh the other groups I think they have to stay concurrent with the lesson. So that's that's so every group is going to have this uh entrance booklet this booklet now this is called the handbook you all some of you all or one people know that this is called what they did though they didn't have this when I was a kid This is called Handbook Essentials. This is your pared-down version of another handbook that you can get that's more involved. Okay? For the most part, I got all essentials because we're just starting this. But if your child wants more, if you want your child to have it have the more fleshed out version that gives more explanation of the verses and all that kind of thing, we can order that for you. Once they finish this. Okay, and some of the church kids will want that. Your kids are going to be coming in just um uh and and Rick's gonna have a clipboard and just when the clipboard comes, sign your clip. So they have the entrance booklet. They'll have the entrance booklet. They can look at that. They'll go through that. Once they finish this I'm giving you just the basics. Once they finish this, then they're gonna get their book and that's also when they can get their uniform And that's when they're sort of really enrolled in the program. They're kind of committed at that point. Does that make sense? That's when they pay their $35, all of that. Everybody following here? Okay. So uh once they've done that. Uh uh and they go through this book and then they can go through the next book and the next books and and all that kind of thing. The other piece the other material is each small group is going to have this, something like this. which is a teacher's manual and what it has in it if you look at it it's actually the same thing as the handbook it's just got notes on the side and what you're going to do it's kind of simple you're just in the small group When you you're going to actually just talk through the section. They're going to have the section in front of them, and you're going to talk through it and explain it to them. Answer any questions they have So really no big deal. Okay? And then during the small group time you need to need to let leave enough time for them to save sections and work on their sections. Okay, so you have a half hour and they're going to be able to say sections and work on their sections. So they're going to work on their sections and um You know, while you have some people saying sections, other people they'll need to study a little bit and that's fine. I have no problem with that. And then they'll be able to hopefully say to them, you need to have all your sections done in that half hour time time frame if at all possible. Alright. So that's um that's the small group uh time. It used to be called handbook time. Now it's called small group time. So those of you who are how many of you all have done a wana of of any kind before? Okay. Oh really? Okay. So I should use the old ling lingo too to connect it from had quite a few of you have done that. Okay. So that's the small group time. It's called the handbook time. The difference, by the way, with the handbook time, uh I don't recall the handbook time ever including a manual where the where the at the time it was What do they call them directors? Where the director actually taught through anything for us. Okay? That's a change. They're that's an improvement by a lot. What they're doing is they're now explaining the verses really well. Okay? And actually, this is really good because this is really good discipleship. This is you're going to have groups hopefully of three, four, five, six, maybe, whatever, that kind of that kind of group. And you're going to be really able to to work with them in that in that way and you know on a smaller a smaller level. Okay. That's that's that that's the small group time. Um