And then right before somebody would get to me I'd wake up and this was a a reoccurring thing. And these are all very common nightmares. You'll see it in chapter in verse 2 of chapter 15. And if he was going out to put a lockup, I'd go and try to beat him to it. How many of you have had a had a had a one about teeth falling out? and a sense of security and all of those things that go on with an utter complete dependence on Christ, then the result is in the passage, it's fullness of joy. fellowship that I went to of uh uh we were on technology actually. And realizing how important it is that we understand how vital it is that we abide in Christ. Anyway, maybe all of us are gonna have that's a nightmare just thinking about that. I looked up different kinds of nightmares. Like that's just a a reoccurring dream. If anyone's work is burned, he will suffer loss, but he himself will be saved yet so as through fire. And then in verse 4, branch cannot bear fruit of itself. And then verse 8, by this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit. that the secret is dependence in verses 4 through 8. Jeremiah 2, 21, Jeremiah 12, 10, Ezekiel 15, 8, Ezekiel 17, 1 through 21, Ezekiel 19, 10 through to the plants, to the branches, so that they will produce fruit and much fruit. uh the the fruit that he wants them to bear. In verse 12, it says this, most assuredly I say to you, he who believes in me, the works that I do, he will do also. And we find in this upper room discourse, in John 1334, you have the fruit of love. and giving in Romans 15, 28, and Christian character in 5. We go through trials and tribulations and difficulties and struggles and problems. Here. And he says to Moses, he wants it him to take Israel into the promised land. I think that's unlikely. I think they're talking he's talking about their uh their continuing and abiding in Christ. in the New Testament has to be held. I think what Christ is saying here is that we run the risk of being utterly, completely useless, as though we can be thrown into a fire just like a branch that is disconnected from the vine. Prayer is an expression, is the expression of dependency on Christ have become Christ's desires. at UPS and one of the the trainer, there's only one trainer for the the entire morning crew, about fifty people, and he's really the heart of the entire crew. Think of your own parents. I also have loved you. He says, I have declared to them your name, I will declare it, that the love with which you loved me may be in them and I in them. And we're abiding in his love, and there is a sense of identity and a sense of stability and a sense of comfort And that, folks, brings us strength. So that they could sing in the prison, for example, in the book of Acts. And I'd be glad to tell help you take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with the Lord. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. We can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. This helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. We thank you and praise you for who you are, the blessings you bestow upon us, the mercy you show us each day, your patience with us, your kindness and your grace. And we thank you, Father, for the relationship we have with you through your Son, Jesus Christ. what we are learning from your word, and we will thank you in Jesus' name. To set aside all the cares and concerns of this week and all the preconceived ideas that we may have this morning. And every branch that bears fruit, he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. and that your fruit should remain, that whatever you ask of the Father, in my name, he may give you. I'm going to be starting a new series next week on the book of Ecclesiastes is where we're going to go. You have pressure or you're doing new things, sometimes nightmares come up. being late or unprepared. being late or unprepared. So what is the criteria? You may have noticed in your text, there are repeated things in this chapter. Verses 1 through 3 it says, Jesus says, I am the vine, and my father is the vine dresser. That your fruit should remain. Fruit he takes away, and every branch that bears fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. Christ starts off and he says, I am the vine. Uh you can he says I'm the vine. But that is the source of everything from the roots up through. Christ is saying, I'm the source. In the Old Testament, you actually have Israel as described as the vine many times. Let your hand be upon the man of your right hand, upon the son of man, whom you made strong for yourself. It is burned with fire, it is cut down, they perish at the rebuke of your countenance. Being Jewish was a source of identity. And then he says this. It says the branch bears the fruit, the branch, so the branch, it bears the fruit. spiritual results. Because I go to my Father. The greater works, the things that God has called these disciples to do, they will do because of the work of the Spirit and the work of Christ. So that walking in the Spirit or being filled with the Spirit is really the same thing as abiding in Christ and having fellowship with God. That's possible. But we see clearly that the goal for us is to really truly produce this spiritual fruit. And the Spirit. He is really reminding them that they are truly Christians. And this is an important assurance for them. Then we move on. If anyone does not abide in me, he is cast out as a branch and is withered. stops being a child of God because they're not abiding in the vi in Christ. He is cast out as a branch and is withered. who is not abiding in the vine and never has abided in the vine and isn't going to abide in the vine is actually never a branch in the first place. at the tree and there is actually a branch, a large branch stuck up in there separated from the vine. And we are light, in that passage it says that we can become good for nothing but to be thrown out and trampled underfoot by men. Who are not remaining in him and connected to him are Christians who will live their entire lives in uselessness. That apart from him we will get to the end of our lives and realize that we were utterly useless in our lives, living only for ourselves. But I want us then to move into verses nine through eleven, and I think this is a critically important, because what we have to understand is that our service to the Lord And if it's not in the context of a relationship, we will suffer burnout and disillusion and ultimately end up useless before the Lord. Taking our comfort from it, our strength from it, knowing that he loved us the way he does That you being rooted and grounded in love may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the width and length and depth and height to know the love of Christ We are part of that plan and part of what he is doing. which passes knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God He was called a friend of God. Back to the classical Greek period, it's used three different ways. He satisfies my mind, my emotions, he satisfies my every desire. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call, so we can walk you through this helpful resource. Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. uh many opportunities for service and I'm thankful for your folk, your people that are stepping up and serving. To be working in our hearts and minds as we hear your word proclaimed this morning. I am the vine, you are the branches. And you are my friends if you do whatever I command. He reminded us in John chapter 15 of the importance of body in Christ. And so we come back to John chapter 15. Um how about being chased? If anyone builds on this foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw, each one's work will become clear, for the day will declare it. When we stand before, as Christians, when we stand before the judgment seat of Christ, Christ will not be evaluating us on how many buildings we built or books we wrote. Because it will be revealed by fire. Paul warns the church at Corinth, you are saints, but you are not guaranteed to have spiritual, eternal rewards in heaven. Fruit are eternal results that occur from a walk with Christ. If we are going to have lives with any spiritual results whatsoever, any eternal results whatsoever, any fruit whatsoever, it will only be as we learn to abide in Christ. As they listened to Christ speak, their minds, I think, very likely would have gone to an olive tree. Psalm 80 verse 7 says, Restore us, O God of hosts, cause your face to shine, and we shall be saved. You have brought a vine, that's Israel, out of Egypt. Now later on that passage, it says this, verse 14, return we beseech you, O God of hosts, look down from heaven and see. And visit this vine, and the vineyard which you which your right hand has planted, and the branch you made strong for yourself This is a prophecy, essentially, that that explains that because Israel over and over failed to be the light that God wanted them to be to the nations. I'm the vine. Connected to the idea of prayer. And verse 16 says the same thing. We know of Galatians chapter 5. Joy, peace, long suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. It says, Every branch in me that does not bear fruit he takes away, and every branch that bears fruit he prunes it, that it may bear more fruit. It's interesting. So that they will bring forth fruit. For they indeed for a few days chasten us as seems best to them, talking about parents chasting their children Now no chastening seems to be joyful for the present, but painful, nevertheless. He will do this for his children. A. And he says, you are already clean. but is completely clean, you are clean. Our role is constant dependence on God. Abide in me, and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it abides in the vine. And he wants to remind them that you do have union, actually, in verse 13, chapter 13, he says, but some of you aren't, speaking of Judas. I am the vine, you are the branches. For what we cannot do for ourselves. through us. All of our efforts, our work, our diligence, our service is wood, hay, and stubble if it is not on the foundation of Christ. And then verse 15, Moses says this. What he is talking here about is communion, not union. Uh it was thrown into the fire and used for fuel. And I think that's really all he's saying. The passage tells us those who are not connected to the vine are withered. I think what we're talking here then is a warning to Christians. keeps everything there. These things I have spoken to you, that my joy may remain in you, and that your joy may be full. In John 17, verse 26, just realize how much God loves you. So that we are abiding in this relationship with Christ, this intimacy with God. If you do whatever I command you. For all things that I heard from my Father, I've made known to you. No partnership. How do you abide in the vine? For the love of Christ compels us, because we judge thus that if one died for all, then all died. And when we are in this synergistic, if you will, relationship where God loves us and we love him, and challenging to hear somebody who'd lived a life of decades and decades of faithful service, his own sons standing up and explaining the consistency with which he lived from the inside of his home to the outside of his preaching ministry. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community here at BBC. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. on that I now can bring to Christ with what I have done in this life, that I would suggest is a Christian nightmare. rises from the grave and he meets goes to meet with his disciples for a little while afterwards and then goes to send his ascends to his father before he goes to the cross. on how to live and how to serve when he is no longer with them. We have huge large oak trees and things like that. describe Israel as the vine. Now these disciples who were Jewish they would have thought to themselves divine. desire is that every every branch connected to the vine bear fruit. If you endure chastening, God deals with you as with sons. Required the presence of God. Paul is Paul. So much easier to do something for someone that has that you that you know cares about you because it's a relationship. And the way that you express your love for him is by serving him And that we would come to the end of our lives, and that Christ would be able to say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. And to abide in Christ. I've read many, many, many, many times, and yet I have to constantly be reminded of this. If anyone does not abide in me, he is cast out as a branch and is withered, and they gather them and throw them into the fire, and they are burned. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. These things I have spoken to you, that my joy may remain in you, and that your joy may be full. But I have called you friends, for all things that I heard from my father, I have made known to you. that is just one that I constantly want to return to. That there was no eternal value. Or uh drowning is a common one. Or how much how popular we were, or how much money we made, or how much education we had, or how much experience we've had. In 1 Corinthians 3, verse 11 through 17, it says this. That is greater than the matter of learning to abide in Christ because of what will occur one day when we stand before the Lord. And fell over and over into idolatry. I'm the vine. The essence of the idea of fruit are results. The flower from the bud, those are results. The spiritual results of our lives are intended ultimately to bring glory to God. That's the goal of the gardener. fruit yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. God uses the word of God to do this. We're talking about being a child of God and then being in fellowship with Christ. There are some that say, well, actually what it's talking about in this passage, it's talking about the work itself, the works. Well that branch is of no use whatsoever except if I want to take it and cut it up for firewood, which I might. You you it's it's completely useless. It is a matter of delight, not just duty. I found myself, I knew he cared about me, I found myself wanting to to please him, wanting to to to do what he wanted me to do. It must be in a relationship with Christ. Am I utterly dependent on Christ resulting in prayer? Father, we come to you and we praise you and thank you for your word. Abide in me and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me. If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, you will ask what you desire, and it shall be done for you. That you love one another as I have loved you. Even how diligent we've been, or how hardworking we've been, none of those things will be the basis of our evaluation At the judgment seat of Christ. God says here, Christ says here, if you are not in communion with me, we're not talking about being a child of God. Now that's this is one of the most debatable verses in this passage. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love. If you struggle with your service the Lord, if you struggle with having the motivation to live for God, Friend, go back to the love that Christ has for you. Is Christ my source for this? Number two, am I utterly dependent on Christ? Something happens in your life and you're sad. um up to it and even afterwards. I am the true vine, and my father is the vine dresser. By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit, so you will be my disciples. You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit And yet, there are people that will experience this, genuine Christians, but they will come before the Lord one day at the judgment seat of Christ, and they'll have nothing to give. All of these things are fruit as we abide in Christ. Throughout the New Testament, this word fruit is used. W. Then Jesus goes on to explain and to remind them of something that he has told them before. He says verse 3, you are clean, you are already clean because the word which I have spoken to you. Do you know without a doubt that you will spend eternity with the Lord if you were to die today? If you don't, then that is this is that is really all the farthest farther you can go here in this passage. Because this passage assumes that its listeners are truly born again. I I I think it's a helpful way of illustrating it. For how then will it be known that your people and I have found grace in your sight, except you go with us? If anyone does not abide in me, he is cast forth as a branch and is withered. And when we realize our own utter complete dependence on the Lord, that without Him we can do nothing. You have another boss that has a relationship. We we're not just, we certainly are servants, but we're not just servants where we have no stake, we have no um Or an employee that is paid in full, completely paid, it's done. Is your joy full? That is what it means to abide in him. Um I watched the entire memorial service of John MacArthur. individually do some introspective introspection this morning as we really think about am I right now as a Christian abiding in Christ? And then I would say this, if you know, don't uh I mentioned it before, but if you are if you're not sure where you are in your relationship with Christ, again, I would just a let me encourage you, come and talk with me. Would you help us to know your love? In the strength of Christ as they are abiding in him. It is only as the Word of God abides in us that we abide in Christ. Except for the Bible. And is that resulting in a fullness of joy? And so often we we are so de we we so easily depend on self. And God the Father uh is involved in making the branches pr uh bare the Verse 6, we see it says this, if anyone does not abide in me, we have a warning here. This word full or fulfill or full, it's a word that's used if you go to the period before the New Testament. We're dependent on our own talent. We are going to be in the Gospel of John this morning, and we're going to be looking at verses 1 through 17. It clearly cannot be saying that God removes people's salvation. Many of you have yards with trees and you have branches that fall from the trunk. And that's why Jesus then says this, if you, if you, if you, if you abide in me, and my words abide in you, there's a really important thing. And he has the respect of every in the everybody on that crew. It's obvious. For somebody to say, yes, I'm dependent on Christ and never praying, that makes no sense. The ev the more the greater the evidence is that we are dependent upon Christ. So what does it mean to abide in Christ? The Bible tells us this as we look at it. Tozer said this, it is doubtful whether God can use a man greatly until he has first hurt him deeply. Now I want to pause before we go any further and just give this application. You cannot produce fruit. That is the the abiding life that Jesus is talking about here And it says in John 14, 13, when we have that, if you'll ask in my name, that I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son, and that's the ultimate goal. And this love for Christ, because of the love that Christ has for us, it's compelling. And uh the the amount the things that they described are are a description of one who was genuinely abiding in Christ. Or is Christ my source for these things? But there have been many throughout church history that have described times of great distress, and yet at the same time there was fullness of joy. He says, I am the vine, you are the branches, you must abide in me. And he will prune in order for that to take place. Heavenly Father, we are grateful this morning and thankful for your goodness and your kindness to us And to know that you're a Christian, but to come up end empty-handed with what you can offer because you've lived your life entirely for self. I think we're not talking about salvation at all. And that's why he could say later on in verse 14 of this passage, You are my friends. Fullness of joy. Um let me ask you a question. Every branch in me that does not bear fruity takes away. But he for our prophet, that we may be partakers of his holiness. Are we abiding in Christ? Am I finding my sense of of worth from Christ? on the other side of eternity. Because we see in verse 8, the ri the purpose of these these is to glorify God. division of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. He's not actually the the top leader, but he he's definitely the one that keeps us all together, keeps us on the same page. I think of people in the Old Testament who were called friends of God. For spiritual, eternal dividends. When that is the case, it brings us, folks, doesn't it true isn't it true? Am I resting in it? We must pray and ask what we desire. Ephesians 3. And we ask the question. And then there are many that say this is a professor but not possessor, and that's certainly a possibility. This is the kind of this is what it means to abide in Christ. If you have a good relationship with your parents, I had a good relationship with both of my parents actually, but I remember my mom being a very loving person and I wanted to do things for her because the love she had for me. Would you you need to remain in my love, constantly be reminded of the love of Christ, knowing his love for you, abiding in it, remaining in it. Or wine that is a vessel that is full. To come before the Lord and to realize that my life was for myself But I want to get more serious and I want to ask you a question. I'm the source. Every modern translation actually does translate it, I think at least the major ones do translate it as takes away No, we are we are in partnership with Jesus. What is a nightmare for a Christian? Whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it you, give you. And uh I I you y you may not agree with everything John MacArthur I don't agree but with any with with everything anybody says on anywhere. He says that the father is the gardener. They are cleansed by the Word of God. These examples help us to understand how critical it is for us to abide in Christ. We need to be dependent upon him. Uh losing control of a vehicle. You're familiar with that passage, as we walk in the Spirit. And if he doesn't do this, we are not his children, according to the passage. The water of the Word and the Spirit goes together. The dependency of our lives as we are abiding in Christ is going to be communicated and result in a prayer life. Being late or being unprepared, it's very unlikely I would have nothing to say ever. It was a source of stability and comfort and strength and all of those things. Trust me for strength. Verse 7, if you abide in me and my words abide in you, you will ask what you desire will be done for you. I've been in Romans too long. We are so close to him, we are remaining in him, we're dependent on him. Our service to the Lord has got to be in the context of a relationship. And that causes us to be able to serve Him and to bear fruit that Christ is the source of. I'd like you and myself to ask this question. There are some common nightmares that many people have. We put forth our efforts, but it is God who must give the increase. It hurt it you're hurt or sad or whatever. I have this ma I have this dream every once in a while that I'll have of I'm getting I stand in the pol I'm coming up to the pulpit standing and I'm like totally have nothing to say. And whatever you ask in my name, that I will do. He said, You must go with us, or if you don't, I'm not, don't bring us out from here. And I actually think that's what he's talking about here. It is when you realize the love that Christ has placed in you Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. What how can we be assured of knowing that we will stand before the Lord and have our lives count We see this clearly from Hebrews chapter 12. 17, the Apostle Paul says this: that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. Lord, as we look ahead to many fall ministries coming up, uh He's talking about the you would we would think a tree trunk, but realize that the trees over there were not like the trees around here. They need to understand that you, before you can have communion, you must have union. When I came in, it was obvious he cared about me. Moses in Exodus 33, it says this, the Lord spoke to Moses face to face as a man speaks to his friend. Am I settled about it? I I used to have this nightmare about being chased and I was and then I would get caught on something. And the fire will test each one's work of what sort it is. Hebrews 4. Now we have to ask, we know we understand Christ is the source. The August of 2023. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit, he takes away. He who abides in me, and I in him, bears much fruit, for without me you can do nothing. In that sense, it's like salvation. Then he said to him, If your presence does not go with us, do not bring us up from here. No longer do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is doing, but I have called you friends. We're going to learn three things in this passage. And we know from Matthew chapter 5, for example, that it is that even though we are salt I am the source of what you need. Back in John 14, this is the same conversation that Jesus is having, this discourse with his disciples. And so it is in our lives as the branches. Okay, we have have one. We talked a little bit about fruit already, but we need to flesh out a little bit more what this fruit is. And of course, Christ isn't speaking here of physical results. Or am I depending on other things? But the truth of the matter is, uh it's just it was just encouraging We're dependent on something outside of Christ. How many of you all in the last week have had a nightmare? Even a sense of purpose is going to be found in Jesus as divine. It's used to to depict filling of the lungs, filling of breath uh in the lungs. 12 tells us that the word of God is living and powerful and sharper than a two-edged sword, piercing even the divine. Are you this morning abiding in Christ? But there was extreme grief, but there was on the other side, there was a sense of joy in the midst of it as well. Last time I preached this, I think, was in the twenti on um, I think it was August 23rd, something like that. Well, we know what he means because back in John 13, verse 10, a couple of chapters back, he says this, he who bathes needs only to wash his feet. Being late. We see this clearly bearing out here in verse 4. God is talking to Moses. This is absolutely, utterly critical. Christ, before he goes to his father, he goes to the cross before he goes to the cross, and then he I I love the example of Moses in Exodus chapter 33, verses 13 through 16. He who abides in me, and I in him, bears much fruit, for without me you can do nothing. And if you look at that tree, it's got like a trunk, but it kind of looks a little more like a vine, actually. It's used of personal witnessing in Romans 1. Actually, changing the metaphor, so to speak, in the middle in order to do that. Is and it says in that passage, is it useful for any work? Am I am I it is do I know that the love of Christ is in me and I in Christ? Yes, I know the Lord, I'm saved, but there there is no significant eternal value What happens when somebody gets gets saved? So what is it talking about here? Just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love Is it full like an employee that's completely paid? But anyway, um how about being trapped? They failed to be the source that God wanted them to be. Trust me for stability. And he says here in verse fourteen of Exodus thirty-three, he says, My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest. Or whatever. We are his friends. May the Lord richly bless you. Greater love has no man than this, than to lay down one's life for his friends. And then we're going to see the synergy. Of course that cannot possibly be what it's talking about. Strength. Certainly all of us at one time or another have had a nightmare of one kind or another You have cast out the nations and planted it. 22 in Galatians 5, and good works and service in Colossians and worship in Hebrews 13. This is of course a very familiar passage to to many of us. Um and I was reminded of by a pastor's I want us to understand we see here in verse 2 And we actually know from John chapter 3, verse 5, that he told Nicodemus that you need to be born of water and of the Spirit. Their sins are forgiven. Notice what it says, verse 9. Amen. Results. The word takes away. As a Christian, we think about a nightmare scenario, a something that we just we would never, we hoped never would happen. And I want to suggest to you that a terrible nightmare for a Christian would be to stand before the Lord. How many of you had a lot had a nightmare about that? In verse 5, you I'm the vine, you the branches. And uh but before we t we learned about different kinds of ways of using technology in ministry How about well this is this is interesting. God's goal for you and God's goal for me, if we are Christians, is to prune us in such a way that we will produce the fruit of righteousness. These things have I spoken to you, that my joy may remain in you, and that your joy may be full. Number one, is Christ my source of identity, strength, and purpose? We thank you for the reminder. Uh I've not had a nightmare about teeth falling out, but because I brought this up I might When Christ says this to his disciples, what does he mean by that? How much Christ loves you. Abraham was called a friend of God, 2 Chronicles 27, and actually later on James 2. Later on in verse 16, you did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit. Those Christians who are not in fellowship with the Lord, who are not abiding and dependent upon Christ. Remember just how much God loves you. Should war come, should the atomic bomb descend, should I be thrown into a concentration camp? And may we learn day by day to walk with you. No longer do I call you servants, for servants does not know what his master is doing. It was very, very helpful, just a devotional, but it prompted me to think about all these fall ministries that we are starting up, all the different things that we're doing. How many of you want some of you are like, that's a reality. It is called The Exchange. It's not the source of the fruit, but it bears the fruit. I mean if you think of a tree, it produces fruit. If you are not in fellowship with Christ, if you are not remaining in him, dependent on him, abiding in him And so I don't think he's referring to their salvation at all. I think we've got to get that. Joy is not the same thing as happiness. Am I resting in Christ's love, resulting in fullness of joy? For no other foundation can anyone lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. I want you to notice what it says in Psalm 80, verses 7 through 17. I can talk about him because he's not alive anymore. Now I'll tell you how you know, because you're praying a lot. It says verse 6 in that passage, for whom the Lord loves, he chastens and scourges every son who he receives. And they gather them and throw them into the fire, and they are burned. Now that is better than the first option, but not a great option because it actually says We understand that Christ is the one who must work for the It's like in Ezekiel 15 when it says in verse 4 of that passage, uh it instead it is thrown down talking about Israel and the fact that they were a branch not connected. You ever had a boss that that that just tells you what to do, pulls rank all the time, and you've got to do what they said? Jesus is divine. For what son is there whom the Father does not chasten? Do you have have you been cleansed by the word? Pray that for all of us. We're going to see the source, and that's Christ himself in verses one through three. What is it talking about here in this passage? Motivation to serve God. Do I find my purpose in Christ, my strength in Christ, my identity in Christ? What happens when somebody comes to Christ? It brings us to our knees He doesn't know the Lord, he's not a Christian. He cares about people. We know what He wants he's doing. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit he takes away. He's the vine dresser. They are the word hasn't come, hasn't happened yet, that's in the book of Acts. And why is it that we can ask what we desire? He wants us to understand that our role in this is a matter of dependence, utter dependence on Christ. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. Trust me for identity. It could be translated, lifts up. Why? We are we are there is a relationship there. Lloyd Jones said it this way: it is a state of complete satisfaction May you give us understanding and give us the ability to apply And one of the repeated themes in this chapter is the idea of fruit. That's his goal. Remember that he has already said, you're clean, verse 3. Am I looking to some other thing for my sense of identity or my sense of security? But there is this undergirding satisfaction. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. It's a loving relationship in verses 9 through 11. We hope to see you soon. He is the source of all of this, of our of identity and purpose. A friendship with Jesus. We are in John chapter 15, verses 1 through 17. It says in verse 22, the fruit of the Spirit is love. Against such there is no law And then it moves and switches to the illustration and it says, and men gather those kinds of branches and throw them in the fire, and they are burned. The word of God is in us so much that we want what he wants so that when we pray, we are praying what he wants and we have answers to our prayers. And number three, am I resting in Christ's love? Especially when we're praying in the Lord's will and we are delighting in Him and wanting what He wants. Okay. And the answer is abiding in Christ. It's what brings the source, what brings the sap to the branches so that they can grow and bring forth fruit. That can't be what it's saying. The Father's role in our lives, his goal for us, number one, is to become more Christ-like. How many of you have trees like that? Or having poured wine into a vessel until it is completely full to the brim. Go to the Old Testament and we'll be doing a series there. Am I finding my sense of comfort from Christ and his love for me? If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us Father, we confess before you that we are prone to wander. Some have had a nightmare about falling. They are cleansed. In that passage, he's praying to his father at the very end of the passage. How many of you would say, Yeah, I had a nightmare last week? So lots of pe these are obviously common nightmares. God's desire is for us as Christians to bear much fruit Afterward it yields the peaceable, what is it? This is something that the Father does. They know or at least care about you. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. How many of you had nightmares about being trapped before? And he says in chapter 15, you must abide John 15, 8, by this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit, so you will be my disciples. 13 and personal holiness and obedience in Romans 6. He must do the work And every and and I have three questions. And as we come to your word this morning, Father, we ask that you would help us He says, now you are clean. But I would just say this to you today. There are too many very clear passages that explain that once you are truly a child of God, you cannot lose your salvation. The branches are no longer us, the branches are the works. Let's pray together. But anyway, um There is no, I would suggest for a Christian that there is no other critical matter You are already clean, which because of the word which I have spoken to you. And then he says this. And sometimes when we see the word fire in the New Testament, we immediately think it's hell, but there's no reason to actually believe every time the word fire is used. I noticed it why? And so we want to come to this passage this morning before we head over to Ecclesiastes. So that the branches, when they are pruned, the goal is that they are able to produce more fruit. If anyone's work which is which he has built on it endures, he will receive a reward. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit of the Olive trees were very plentious back then. He's the one that has the plan. As the Father loved me, I also have loved you. This is a passage that most of us are familiar with. We depend on our own experience, our own education, our own intellect. But I think also he's saying he's reminding them of something else, or he's saying something else here. What is something what happens when somebody comes to f to Little weak there. Every branch in me that bears fruit, he prunes it. If you have a family The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide. I pray, Lord, that they would be strengthened. Israel, I think, likely, they would have thought of Israel as divine, and Israel was that place of id that source of identity. He realized that he Because there's a relationship there. Nehemiah, do you remember what he says? And we pray these things in Christ's name. That the Father may be glorified in the Son. And Well, I want to go back to the illustration. He is made in the image of God and he genuinely cares about people. The love of Christ compels us. I like to talk about people that are dead and been faithful and now I don't have to worry about them doing something. I'll just give you the list real quickly. That's the results of the tree. That's his desire. Catch this Do you know for sure that you your standing with God is that you are truly a child of God? And you are already clean because of the word which I have spoken to you. He's obviously then talking here about ultimately eternal results. I was uh just finished a job, a part part-time job working in He says, the fathers love me. Do you know you can be joyful and sad at the same time? That's not even a reality anyway. What does he mean that I am the vine and you are the branches? It was Christ, as a prophecy of the Son of God, the Son of Man, that would take over as the vine. So the Father's role in our lives, we have things that happen in our lives and Neither can you unless you abide in me That somebody who is As we learned in Romans, they are declared righteous by God. And I I I actually noticed the other day I've got uh in one of my trees, I looked up He's doing all the training. He's we know his plan That's the role of the Father He's talking about the word being a cleansing agent for them. Because our desires Uh teeth falling out. They are cleansed by the cleansed of their sin You will, notice what it says, ask what you desire, and it shall be done for you. And we see actually in the text as we look at this idea of fruit that it comes from prayer. And then in 1511 you have the fruit of joy. But here's what we know. Help us to set everything aside. And as the Father loved me, I have also loved you. And God the Father will prune his children. Have care about you know have respect for you. Lord, would you draw us to yourself? Because all the leaves are dead on it and everything else is fine and the leaves are dead. If we are to live lives that are fruitful, that are ultimately fruitful. And I put these in the first person because I want us to really If you don't know Christ as your Savior, come and talk with me after the service. That's the only use for it. But he has the respect of everybody on that crew because he genuinely cares about them. He is giving his disciples at the upper room discourse a whole lot of information instruction. He realized he needed the presence of God. It wasn't a chore, it was I'm happy to do it. The more we are praying, And before we go there, let's uh go to the Lord in prayer. You think of a think of a plant in the garden, it produces whatever it is, or a flower produces the actual fruit. Well, there are a few ver a few views. These things I command you, that you love one another. It was a recurring thing with a I think it was like a teenager. 14 Hosea 10 1 2 All of those passages And greater works than these he will do. He's the one that But we really would love to meet you in person. The producer of the fruit is Verse 8, by this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit. I last yesterday How many of you have had a ever had a nightmare where you're falling? He does all the meetings and uh everything. Or like a breath that like a like breast that is lungs that are full of breath? And he's the one that tends. Then I don't want you to notice what verse 10 says. Imagine it. The joy of the Lord is your strength. Okay, got a a few of you. There's a picture of one there. This is my commandment We've pulled the audience and What we know is that the God is that the gardeners We're going to see And that's a possibility. Amen. Psalm 80, which we're going to look at, Isaiah 5. It's useless because it's not connected to the vine anymore. But um I this is a passage If you ask anything in my name, I will do it. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you Good morning. And I in him, uh he who abides in me, and I in him bears much fruit. Do you remember that passage? As Christians, And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. And Jesus is saying to them, No, I am the source. Things that really matter Lord, we feel it. What is our role? Jesus, the bearer of the fruit is the vine But they are truly born again. I remember, I'll be honest with you, I remember when my my dad died. And we pray for your Spirit. I know that um sometimes when you're 15. Let's think about what Christ is saying. 23. And in 1427, you have the fruit of peace. But I think there's another another view here that we ought to consider. What is he talking about there? 22 He was an older man, a little bit older. And so those people will do anything for him. I'd get caught on something. Okay, many. Do you have that assurance this morning? One view is that this is a loss of salvation, that somebody I'm like, what is that going on up there? It is a possibility. Think about it. And we see this in verses 4 through 8. It is a It's almost indescribable. There you go. I'd be glad to help you with that. I think that there is talking about the word My joy must remain full. Such a vital, important passage. Abide in my love. Abide in my love. I couldn't get away. And I realized, oh, it's not connected anymore. It's oppressive and difficult. Certainly in the first century Anyway.