The more twisted you realize it is, the more problems you realize there are, and the more frustrated you become because you realize that all of your knowledge and wisdom is not sufficient to solve the problems Now he already tells you the beginning. Because he's going to use his God-given wisdom. And Solomon's desire, which he wanted to do. They didn't have TV back then. Now in that text where it says the revealing of the sons of God is talking about the fact that we will one day be glorified, Christians will. 'Cause it's constantly sh it's unpredictable. If it's a bad song or something, I I really don't know what the rest of this is. And Heman and Chalkol and Darda and the Sons of Mahol and his fame was in all the surrounding nations. Th it might have been slaves back then he's talking about, but slavery was not uh the same as it is it was in our nation's history, but also it wasn't as prevalent as it was in the first century. and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. And I did not plan that. But there's a sense in which all the illustrations are right there. And so we'll be able to go through the book of Ecclesiastes in a much faster pace, I think, and still be able to get the meaning of the passage. It could be translated preacher or teacher or professor. We know exactly who wrote it. He said to his son, my son, and you see that throughout the book. And you're going to see that throughout the book. what the text is saying, but we also need to see it in light of the whole Bible. That's not this word at all. And have eaten from the tree of which I commanded you, saying, You shall not eat of it. What profit has a man from all his labor in which he toils under the sun? that there's almost a hint that of what his answer is going to be. Th you have this constant one generation after another after another. You eat food, you watch TV, you go to bed, you get up the next day, you go to work, you come home, you eat food, you watch TV, I'm just making this up as far as the food and TV. The wind whirls around about continually and comes again on its circuit. The rivers are constantly running into the sea. If you're a carpenter, there's a lot of them carbers out there. And so we move, and we see then in verses 12 through 18, the ambition changes, and now the ambition is the ambition of wisdom. Thus Solomon's wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the men in the on the east and all the wisdom of Egypt, for he was wiser than all men, than Ethan and Ezrahite. In 1 Thessalonians chapter, I'm sorry, 1 Kings, I don't know why I can't get my authors and my references right. concerning all that is done under this under heaven. He said it was a burden. He said, I have seen all the works that are done under the sun, and indeed all is vanity and grasping for the wind. I thought to myself, this is like that's the most, out of everything that these guys said, the most compelling thing is that this guy is living a meaningless life. You can have all of the wisdom in the world, and Solomon had it, and yet there were things he simply couldn't straighten. And I set my heart to know wisdom and no to know madness. The word mirth means self-indulgent pleasure. the four rows of cedar pillars and cedar beams and on the pillars. and sheep and you gotta figure out how to dig the rocks and shoot the sheep to eat the sheep to I mean and then you're building something and then there's all these you get We create machines and you build this entire whole system and before you know it it's like been forty-eight hours and and you know Here you're probably talking about um uh not really sure, but maybe twenty, thirty percent of the people were were enslaved on and probably wasn't talking about Jewish people. Judah and Israel were as numerous as the sand by the sea, and the multitude eating and drinking and rejoicing. Or gaining more pleasure. And has eternal significance with God. you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. so we can walk you through this helpful resource. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. Morning, Lord. applied in our lives and that in all things you would be glorified and lifted up. And the wind whirls about continually, and comes again on its circuit. I set my heart to know wisdom and to know madness and folly. I built myself houses and planted myself vineyards. Yes, I had greater possessions of herds and flocks than all who were in Jerusalem before me. And the special treasures of kings and all the provinces. three or four verses and you probably thought to yourself, in Ecclesiastes, how are we to get through all of that? Have you ever been tempted to ask what I would call a dangerous question? Life is a dirty trick, a short journey from nothingness to nothingness. But when you come to Ecclesiastes, you find that, you certainly find what looks to me pessimistic. the the first words of the book and it says, the words of the preacher, the son of David, King of Jerusalem. It's the same as when Exodus or Deuteronomy says under heaven. Apart from what is above the sun, apart from God. Another word that you'll see if you read through the text is this word that sometimes translated advantage or profit you know, does these poses. In Genesis chapter 3, verse 16, we begin and we see this here. In pain you shall bring forth children. till you redo return to the ground, for out of it were taken for dust you are, and dust you shall return. In relationship to his age, you could almost see what we're going to see here as chronological. Okay, well let me move on to wisdom. And that didn't work. Our earthly fallen ambitions bring us no eternal advantage And we look, we're going to look at the first one, verses 3 through 11. He says in verse 4, one generation passes away, and another comes, but the earth abides forever. Trying to figure out how to attack in which direction to attack was kinda hard when you couldn't tell where and it would change. Seven, he starts off a new idea, and that is that labor does not satisfy. There's more to be seen than can ever be seen, more to be more to do than can ever be done. S why? He says, I the preacher was a king over Israel. of Lebanon, even to the hyssop that springs out the walls, he spoke also of animals, of birds, of creeping things and of fish, and men of all nations, from all the kings, from the earth, and had Because when you have wisdom and knowledge of things, there's a sense of which you feel a sense of responsibility, and there's frustration. Some of you remember this when Ken Ham and Bill Nye had a debate. Grasp it all. You see, the more you know of this world, the more experience you have, the more wisdom you have, the more you understand of this world, the more crooked you realize it is Verse 3. Now in this experiment that Solomon is going to do here when it comes to pleasure, he is not doing, you know, what some of the these young kid rock stars do, like Britney Spears and you know that kind of that that those kind of people. Gardens were very common back then to to show your wealth and to reproduce your wealth as you had gardens of fruit trees and vegetables and all kinds of that things like that. Vineyards and he said I made verse six I made myself water pools, aqueducts, b irrigation systems, elaborate things to to to supply all of these gardens. Not I've actually never done that before. Can you do how many hours you could spend playing Minecraft? the pastures and one hundred sheep, besides deer, gazelles, roebux, and fatted f fatidfowl, for he had dominion over all the region on hi on this side of the river from Nishp Nis The conclusion. In Romans chapter 8 verse 19 it says, For the earnest expectation of the creation eagerly waits for the revealing of the sons of God. The creation in futility. That's why in Genesis 3. hope. One of the wonderful things about having your sins forgiven and being in right standing with God is that He does this for our good so that we are able to have a purpose worth living for. We are not going to be able to solve every problem this side of heaven. So that our lives aren't vanity, aren't futility, that we don't come to the end of our lives and realize that we've actually wasted our lives. At the judgment seat of Christ, and he will be able to say, Well done, a good and faithful servant. The choice for living for ourselves and living for what is under the sun, which is going to be utterly futile Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. according to the Bible. His working in his presence. To set our mind on things above, not on the things of this world, because we realize just how futile that is. to be able to worship together and Lord to study your word and proclaim it. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. hear your word, but we would be doers of it, that we would meditate upon it and thoughtfully think it through, and Lord, that you would guide us and direct us that we could be The words of the preacher, the son of David, King in Jerusalem, Vanity of vanities, says the preacher. What profit a man from all his labor in which he toils under the sun? The sun also rises and the sun goes down and hastens to the place where it arose. Yet the sea is not full. I have seen all the works that are done under the sun, and indeed all is vanity and grasping for the wind. What is crooked cannot be made straight. For in much wisdom is much grief, and he who increases knowledge increases sorrow. All things are full of labor. This burden task God has given to the sons of man, by which they may be exercised. Look, I have attained greatness. Till I might see what was good for the sons of men to do under heaven all the days of their lives. I made myself water pools, from which to water the growing trees of the grove. So I became great and excelled, more than all who were before me in Jerusalem. Then I looked on the works that my hands had done, and on the labor in which I had toiled, and indeed all was vanity and grasping for the whim If I think about my life, is anybody going to even remember my life a hundred years from now? And we actually see throughout history there have been different times where different people who wrote literature was were quite pessimistic. And that point is to help us to understand, to experience, to think with Solomon who wrote this book. As one dies, so dies the other. And in the very beginning of the book, he tells you the conclusion. Isn't there's no profit. the result of sin. Both thorns and thistles it shall bring forth you for you, and you shall eat of the herb of the field. And what we see in the book of Ecclesiastes really is just how far-reaching the curse of sin really is. is it affects everything under the sun So Solomon, a very ambitious man. Our earthly fallen ambitions bring us no eternal advantage. All the work, the labor, the vocation, the things that we do, the things that are under the sun, ultimately it's purposeless. And then he moves to the sun. Now some of you are sail uh not many of you, but a few of you are sailors out there and you know you know how to pick up the wind well. Anybody know that song? That's never enough. There's no new work, there's no new labor, there's no new, it's just one thing after another after another in this endless cycle of futility. Labor is just simply not new. Have a roof over your head and you can eat and you can have the m money that you have and then you will eventually die anyway as much as you keep trying to survive more defined than can ever be found. Um and somehow we ended up watching it anyway. And then he says, you know what? Had heard of his wisdom, came to hear the wisdom of Solomon. He wants to know everything. Now we know from Scripture that Solomon was exceedingly wise. And God gave Solomon wisdom and exceedingly great understanding, and largeness of heart like the sand on the seashore. He spoke 3,000 Proverbs, and his songs were 1,05. And then he says in verse 15, why this is the case. And during that debate, I think one of the things that was most telling about that debate is when Ken Ham asked Bill Nye, who was a scientist, he asked them, What is the purpose of life? world and it can't be made straight by wisdom. But have you ever met somebody that like can't doesn't seem to ever stop laughing? Building buildings. So he also built the house of the forest of Lemet Lebanon, and its length was a hundred cubits and w in width and fifty cubits, it's a big house, and its height thirty cubits, and But that's not it. But it did show the amount of wealth that he had, and all of these different servants were supplying all of the different things that he was doing, um keeping everything going. They brought tribute and served Solomon all the days of his life. Then all who were before me in Jerusalem. gone before and had had since since then. This is why when Jesus came to the earth, he said this, you are from beneath. That Paul references what happened what happened to Solomon essentially in Ecclesiastes. Because the creation itself also will be delivered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God So that life in a cursed creation longs for freedom from futility And restored. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope. Not willingly, but because of him. This is my life. What is far more biblical is that when we are truly heavenly minded, that's when we become earthly good. the great truth that will help us be able to come to the end of our lives and not look back and go, it's all vanity. There was no profit under the sun. Um and I I didn't know that a lot of pastors haven't preached through Ecclesiastes. I think sometimes we avoid those kinds of questions because they're too depressing. Paul uh uh um uh Koalith is asking, or Solomon is asking, what does this mean? undiscernible purpose, lack of real pro uh when we're when real progress can't be found. Work is hopeless. Everybody pursues. Rises, stays in the sky, and then sets again. Everybody's gonna show me on the way out their bunny fingers and see I worked hard. You ever gotten, you know, that gotten kind of proud of your work? Everybody's done it and lots of everything's been done and and um it leaves you in a place where there's really nothing to there's no real game. It's all been done before. I did. He is gaining he is gaining more and more pleasure at this point. Sa, even to Gaza, namely all the kings on the side of the river, and he had peace on every side all around him. The more things seem futile under the sun, the more it begs for freedom and liberation from the bondage of futility. Number three, the truth of Ecclesiastes lifts us above futility for earthly good. under the sun, but in light of one day being above the sun. understand and realize that our life can be purposeful. So that we are thinking on things that are that are eternal, that we set our mind, Lord help this book You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community here at BBC. uh maybe difficult or negative or pessimistic that actually what it's showing us is h just just the choice that we have We're thankful that you have given us your word, your great and precious promises. That which has been is what will be, and that which is done what will be done. Therefore enjoy pleasure. Whatever my eyes desired, I did not keep from them. For my heart rejoiced in my all of my labor, and this was my reward from all of my labor. Vanity meaning emptiness? Other than the Lord and people in heaven, but at this side of heaven, the earth, there's probably not going to be many people. This is really in contrast to Solomon's other wisdom book, Proverbs, whom he wrote specifically to his son. or gain or benefit. In fact, one particularly poignant time he uses this word of advantage is in Ecclesiastes 3. From what perspective does Solomon come? And there are consequences as a result of the sin. He was an extremely ambitious man. And you you almost could see it, I'm not sure the text really says this, but you could almost see it as uh as moving from one thing to another Always wanting something more to feel good. For someone who labors. Solomon pursued knowledge and wisdom. Did you catch catch that? That would be just foolishness. Maybe I just ought to live it up. He says, what does it accomplish? So he goes into some examples of pleasure, verses 4 through 6. And he adorned them with gardens. It's first Kings an interesting passage which actually explains more of what was going on here. There was no prophet under the sun. As we go through the book of Ecclesiastes, we see all of this vanity, we see all this futility, we see all of this, and we go, there's something more. Solomon is describing is utter bondage. To glorify him. Is there anything of which it may be said? I searched in my heart how to gratify my flesh with wine, while guiding my heart with wisdom, and how to lay hold on folly. Or what does it matter? Or does it really matter at all? And we're going to see that this book does generally apply to everyone. Is there anything that really matters? For all is vanity. Vanity. Under the sun, our fallenness, our earthly on our own And King Solomon was probably greatly disturbed by this. You remember watching this the Lion King? Circle of life. As he tries to pursue and yet he's so excited about discovering what is not yet known It's not labor, that doesn't work. Um he doesn't do that because he's too wise for that. And he says, uh it's kinda like, uh by the way, if you uh you know none of us ha most of us here don't have the ability to build all kinds of buildings and then gardens and watercourses and all this kind of stuff. He accumulated wealth of every kind, and then he didn't stop there. And folks, we need to understand that life under the sun, life without God, life without the gospel, without his grace, what we see in this text begs for something more. Earthly some people are are so are not any earthly good because they're so heavenly minded. And Ecclesiastes actually we're going to find what it looks like to bring God in view, to recognize his sovereignty, to recognize About the fall, about living in a fallen world, what does that actually look like? You begin to ask, what is this book about? Wisdom and pleasure. Up and down. Constant cycles, constant same thing over and over again. Um they wanted to be a creator of something or a founder of something. There is no remembrance of former things, nor will there be any remembrance of things that are to come by those who will come after. This constant circle of life. First Corinthians 3. And the purpose of life, he said, was to discover more. But it's kind of like um the old d old uh thing SimCity how many of you have played that user old com computer game? Number one Ambition and work, wisdom and pleasure ends in futility. Because of him who subjected it in hope. Or living for Christ. That was a great work too, I'm sure. And mirth or fun, if you pursue fun, if you just go after fun, it's called hedonism, if you go after fun or Epicureanism. Male, female singers, and delights of the sons of men. This is really speaking of the entertainment that he had. He says, first of all, in observation, he says, Then I looked on all the works that my hands had done, and all the labor in which I had toiled, and indeed all was vanity and grasping for the wind. And if you are here this morning and you might be listening to this and you might be saying, boy, I pfft this kind of this is me. And aren't you glad? There is no remembrance of former things, nor will there be any remembrance of things that are to come by those who will come after. Notice what it says in verse 7, all the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea is not full. This endless cycle of labor. You know, laughter is kind of fun for a while. He's he's making sure that he goes right up the line of consequences and doesn't go over the line with consequences, but he is just in every single area he possibly can. He said, it says, yes, I had greater possessions of herds and flocks than all who were in Jerusalem before me. Now what can we do in taking away all uh as we look at all of this? As we mature, as we learn, as we get older, there's more and more that we're going to understand, and it's going to be, there's a sense in which it will be a burden to us unless it points us to the hope of Christ. But if you will if you will put your faith in what Jesus did in dying for you and paying the punishment for your sin This is the curse of sin that is on the world. Verse 9, that which has been is what will be, and that which is done is what will be done, and there is nothing new under the sun. Look at what it says in verses, the beginning of chapter 2, verse 1. And yet, what we see in Scripture from Romans is that this earnest expectation of the creation, it eagerly waits for the revealing of the sons of God My hope is Jesus. We're grateful for your goodness and your kindness to us. All three of these he is going, these are all pursuits that are under the sun. That is our constant pursuit, isn't it? Gaining more and more and more and more knowledge isn't all it's cracked up to be. Paul said in 1 Corinthians 3 19, for wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For in much wisdom is grief. Folks, under the sun, if our ambition is our work or gaining more wisdom Because in Romans chapter 8, we actually, we've studied this quite a while ago. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you for your word and your truth. And so he decides he'll take all the labor that he's had and and and and all the work that he's put into, and you know what? This is an uh gr adult man and what's fun for him might not be fun for a you know a kid or a child or a teenager. The Lion King gives us some wonderful wisdom. He's going to set forth a test now. I, the preacher, was king over Israel in Jerusalem, and I set my heart to seek and search out by wisdom concerning all that is done under heaven. What does it mean? It has nothing it really has anything to do with this. It's never feel completely accomplished because there's more to learn. And so he says in verse 16, I commune with my heart, saying, Look, I have attained greatness and I've gained more wisdom than all who were before me in Jerusalem. He said, I searched in my heart how to gratify my flesh with wine. But in verse 20 it says, for the creation, notice this, was subjected to futility May we set them aside and may you work through the power of your Spirit in our hearts and our minds as we hear your word proclaim. Ecclesiastes chapter one verse one as soon as I get my spectacles out Verse 8, labor leaves you speechless. Literally, that's what he said. Solomon realizes this is this is futility. Is your hope Christ? Then we can say to the end of our lives, I've lived for Christ. This this jacket has long pockets and them things get down in there you just can't get 'em out. Words uh it's not things that don't last, passing away. He said, verse fifteen, what is crooked cannot be made straight, and what is lacking cannot be numbered. He wants to build he says, I've built myself houses and planted myself vineyards. He decides to build wealth or more wealth. And back then, kings would often really try to make their mark. You ever seen somebody doing that? Let me let me pursue wisdom, pursue learning, pursu let me become an erudite. There are those kinds of literature that that have this sort of negative, pessimistic tone to it. So that we can one day die. A building's been built before. 15 we have the very beginning of the gospel. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. I just think I just wonder if the Lord has like a sense of humor or something with some things that sort of occur at the same time and um just find it sort of interesting that that's the case. There's a debate as to who wrote it. Maybe it's not about work. If if those are the things we are living for, all of it is worthless. They didn't have movies. It's vanity. Look at the sun. Bony fingers. This is actually ends up being vanity too. What is this word vanity? You'd think it'd fill up sometime. 19, that the wisdom of the world is foolishness with God. But how do we do that practically on a day-to-day basis? We we see nothing but vanity and futility in this passage. And that's depressing, isn't it? A piece of literature called the Dialogue of Pessimism, it was a Babylonian work, 14th century B. You just don't it's it's but it's here and it all goes north and but you know if it goes north then it'll come south and it'll go north again and If you try to laugh as much as you possibly can, um that's would you look pretty foolish, wouldn't you? And what does he end up realizing, verse 10? Over and over and over again. I d I don't I don't I don't have that kind of attention span actually. I'll tell you what he's going to do. Another phrase that you're going to see throughout the book is under the sun. What is twisted or crooked can't be made straight. It is because of the gospel, is because of Christ and what he has done for us that we can All is unreliable, frail, futile, it's all meaningless. But the consequences are far-reaching and practical. I was told as a young as a child like when when that movie first came out there was uh a lot of bad bad evil things in there and that we should shouldn't watch it. And so when we read this what it ought to and when we live our lives as Christians and we see this world and we see it helps us to understand, we look forward to the hope. It's futility. In fact, we see that in John 17. And so he goes on, you can almost sort of think of it as a as a time of testing different things. Is there anything of which it may be said, see this is new? I don't know why they think that's so positive. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. People pursue their work. But the sun rolling high through the sapphire sky keeps great and small on the endless round in the circle of life. That's vanity, that's emptiness. Very encouraging. Your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you. Then he moves on to wisdom and pursues Okay, well that's not the that's not where it's at. Verse 14, this burdensome task God has given to the sons of men. This is a a very elaborate system. And you see repeated words in the books, the first couple of verses, you see this word vanity mentioned several times. Up and down. It could be just translated fun, actually. In other words, when he cursed the world because of Adam and Eve's sin, when he did it, he did it in hope. To the place from which the rivers come, there they return again. Surely they all have one breath. The sun rises, stays up in the sky, and sets. Well, Ecclesiastes is written in the con in a time where there was actually a lot of literature written, and it was it was considered pessimistic literature. It's funnier than actually watching on Facebook. And so you're left realizing this: wisdom ultimately results in hopelessness. I have gained more wisdom than all of those who were before me in Jerusalem. Well it doesn't mean, you know, somebody who, you know, does a lot of selfies. That's what my my dad used to say all the time. Any pretty much any vocation you do, there's a lot of them out there. But um and actually there are some evil things in there. He said, also, my wisdom remained with me. What is lacking cannot be numbered. But but I mean you just work and work and work and you get bony fingers as a result of working. We like to laugh. You're not going to accomplish it. Who subjected the creation to futility? But surely this also was vanity. Like I don't have to come up with a lot of outside illustrations. Particularly if you're thinking about life itself. But he asks the question. I mean, like, it's actually a pretty depressing movie. He's going to search out everything. Very close, maybe not literally, but very close. It doesn't make any sense. And so, Lord, I pray that this look at Ecclesiastes would remind us of what is truly important, would align our priorities. It doesn't, it never fills, it just constantly goes into the sea over and over again. Anything if you know anything about Solomon, you know that Solomon did a lot of stuff. The ambition of pleasure is what he's looking at. I made myself gardens and orchid orchards and planted all kinds of fruit trees, he says. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. Man cannot express it. So this weekend is Labor Day, and the first eleven verses of this passage is on labor. You see that in the first, uh in verse 3, what profit has a man from all his labor? It's talking about emptiness, um futility And his conclusion is labor is ultimately useless. Maybe I need to learn some more. He's going to use his God-given wisdom to actually try to find out how he can get more pleasure. Now Solomon's pro provisions for one day was thirty cores of fine flour, sixty cores of meal, ten fatted oxen, twenty oxen from If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. We know who this is in Jerusalem. And all Solomon's desire, which he wanted to do. He says, verse seven, I acquired male and female servants and had servants born in my house. I think we need to understand this, and this is always the case when we come to Scripture. Hours upon hours upon hours, starting from from just rocks and land and I don't know why. What's the reason why this is so burdensome? Word madness is the idea of foolishness. But let me let me explain how this works. He didn't do that where they just go off the deep end and they go crazy and uh their whole lives are a wreck after that. No, he had the biggest screen servant you could pop no biggest screen singer you possibly could have. Grow our faith, Lord, stretch us. Ambition of labor or work. See I don't my fingers aren't that bunny, I don't know. These are probably dancers and people that were that were dancing in front of him. Have you ever considered your life? This book is different. It says, all things are full of labor. I acquired male and female singers, the delights of the sons of men, and musical instruments of all kinds. The verb form of that has to do with someone who speaks to an assembly of people. It's good to laugh. So this is not unfettered pleasure in the sense that it's going to actually cause him harm. It doesn't there's no profit. The Epic of Gilgamesh, maybe you've heard of that, the lowercase g god in that, Shamash stated bluntly, the life you pursue you shall not find. What does it look like to be under the sun? And the answer it seems to be no. And that brings us to the word vanity. Notice the consequences. Verse 6. All the way over to chapter two, verse eleven. See, this is new. It's all been done before. Maybe I ought to just do whatever I want to do because maybe that's where it is. The earth is here and there's this like never-ending cycle of people living, giving birth and dying. You guys remember that? We're not going to be able to deal with every problem. It's right there. Fun is just fun and you're pursuing more fun. He says, I made my works great, and I built myself houses and planted myself vineyards. We're grateful for your son Jesus and what he has done at the cross on our behalf. I made myself gardens and orchards, and I planted all kinds of fruit and trees in them Somebody asked me last week, why are you going to preach on that book? He says wisdom is a burden. And then later on in 1 Kings 9 1 it says, And it came to pass when Solomon had finished building the house of the Lord and the king's house It says to the woman, of course, you remember that the passage in Genesis where Adam and Eve both rebelled against God, they ate of the forbidden fruit, they sinned against God. He he raises the question, what gain, what advantage, what profit is there? You get the idea. Like it's not funny. He is bound, he's enslaved to this vanity, this emptiness, this burden. We constantly are laboring. I perceive that this is also grasping for the wind. He says, Vanity, vanity, all is vanity. And it seems as though he he works extremely hard, works long and hard, and comes to the realization that It just simply doesn't satisfy. Um, you know, if you're a plumber, there's a lot of plumbers out there. That's basically what you're doing. This is what Jesus does when he is accepted by faith. He wants to know everything that is to know under the sun. And he says this, and he who increases knowledge increases sorrow. And we can come one day, we can come before Christ. The sun also rises, the sun goes down, and hastens to the place where it rose. He said, I might I made myself water pools from which no water uh from which to water the growing trees of the grove. We are saved to glorify God, to live on below the sun, for above the sun. It is called The Exchange. And he's going to explain that that it's essentially purposeless. He sing that song all the time. God had given him an understanding heart. He says, Till uh I'm gonna lay hold of folly till I might see what was good for the sons of men and do under the sun all the under the heaven all the days of my of their lives. There is a hope that in the future the head of Satan will be crushed. Because, folks, that is our I did not withhold my heart from pleasure. That's that's something I hadn't really didn't think of one way or the other. Well the the Ecclesiastes is written differently than Romans. This book is generally, this applies to everyone. The wind blows back and forth and back and forth. It would go from here, like, okay, I got a good pass, and then suddenly it changes the other direction. But then there's another reason, this is, and you might relate to this a little bit. And pursuing wisdom, that leaves me frustrated and burdened down. And so what we're actually going to learn is that on our own But notice what the text says. How many of you remember that that debate? And he says, so I became great and excelled more Cursed is the ground for your sake, and toil you shall eat of it all the days of your life. People pursue learning and academics and wisdom and knowledge. This is the question he asks. I'm going to die and nobody's even going to remember. It's the words of the preacher that Solomon, Solomon, and it's it but specifically it says the preacher, the Hebrew word is coalesce here. You know, you see it on Facebook and you see people doing that. There are problems to solve that can't be solved by wisdom But anyway. He had entertainment. In the midst of all this, my wisdom stayed with me. We ask in Jesus' name. There is a burden to gaining knowledge. It's talking about this world. Whatever my desire, whatever my eyes desired, I did not keep In that sense, we're going to be able to experience through this book of Ecclesiastes The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing. And the three ambitions of his life that you're going to see are labor, work. Laughter does good like a medicine scripture says. You go to work, you come home. Says, from the day we arrive on the planet and blinking, step into the sun. And he says, I set my heart to seek and search out for wisdom concerning all that is done under the sun. It's like 2 Timothy says, always learning and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. That was the purpose. I said in my heart, come now, I will test you with mirth. Therefore, enjoy pleasure, but surely this also was vanity. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. And Solomon finally says he's probably older here, comes the end of his life, and he's sort of like, what's the point? Solomon was a scientist, a historian, a writer, a philosopher. He built and built and built till he could just till he could build no more, because that was what his desire was. A dangerous question might be something like, is it worth it? Fourteen times in the book, you'll see the term under the sun mentioned. In one word, sin is cursed. The ground is cursed There's far too much to take in here And he said, I also gathered for myself silver and gold and special treasures of kings and of provinces. That has to happen just as far as the order of things before the creation is dealt with. It can be worth something. They're all right there in the passage, which is why we can go through this passage much quicker. They're kind of pessimistic. Man has no advantage over animals And I think a very important thing to think about is what happened after sin entered into the world. To know foolishness and folly, I perceive that this also is grasping for the wind. And they're still laughing. But we're going to see the hope and we're going to begin, we're going to learn how to live in I communed with my heart, saying, He said, first of all, wisdom gaining all of what you need to gain is ungraspable. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call One generation passes away, and another generation comes, but the earth abides forever Here's a man who worked hard, had a lot, and worked hard, and tried to put things into place that as he worked. Uh really weird stuff. And so, verse 2, we pick up here and he says, I said of laughter, it's foolishness. Three takeaways. What a great, great thing to end. Anyway When God subjected You have eternal rewards. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. I acquired male and female servants and had servants born in my house Thirty-one times I counted in the book of Ecclesiastes, you have this word vanity. That's one of the things that frustrated me about sailing. And he spoke of trees from cedar tree. You can't really grasp. But sometimes uh we were in in a place where there was a lot of land around us, we were kind of in a bay, and sometimes you couldn't even figure out where the wind was. They try to leave some sort of lasting historical achievement. Pursuit of wisdom is a burden. And then notice what he does. End that's it for that section. And I pray that not only will we Work your finger to the bone and what do you get? And we see that in 1 King Kings chapter 7 verses 1 through 2. God did But that's not very biblical. All the rivers run into the sea You can almost there's almost a hint since he's already said all his vanities. Understand and and then we see in verse ten We're constantly working. And he says, I will test you with fun and therefore enjoy pleasure. And Father, this morning I pray that you would help us to set aside all the cares and the concerns, all those things that we came in with this morning. It has already been in ancient times before. Also, my wisdom remained with me. Let me let me really get into understanding everything about everything. These are things that everybody And then he moves on and he say he explains in verse Solomon comes to the conclusion that this is vanity. How do we live And Father, we're thankful that we do have the ability and the freedom in this country. Like he's like, the great purpose of life is that we don't know the purpose of life, and we need to discover more of what the purpose of life is that we don't know. And I thought to myself, what futility! And what is lacking can't be numbered. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. Comes back around Several of you So Solomon reigned over all king kingdoms, from the river to the land of the Philistines, as far as the border of Egypt I am from above. I said of laughter, madness, and of mirth, what does it accomplish? The earth is here, but people die, people are born, those people die. To the place from which the rivers come, there they return again. Man cannot express it. Verse 8, I acquired male and female singers. Is your life really making a difference? But there's a real important point to it. I need to accumulate more wisdom, accumulate more knowledge. Um it's that kind of those kind of unreliability, brevity, frailty, futility. Then to Adam he said, Because you have indeed you have heeded the voice of your voice of your wife They're gonna take a little bit longer than most takeaways take. There's going to be sense as as we grow and as we Isn't it a depressing book? First Kings chapter 4 verse 20 it says We actually see that Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Anyway, 1 Kings chapter 4, verse 29, it says this. I remember a couple of years a few years ago, actually. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. I said in my heart, Come now, I will test you with mirth And he picks up here and he says, verse 3, he actually gives you the conclusion, the beginning. You're living and you're working and so that you can He doesn't directly reference it, but he talks about the futility of the earth. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes Or now Minecraft? Amen. The wind goes towards the south and turns around to the north A hundred, certainly two hundred, get into three hundred, four hundred years, certainly n absolutely not. Well you open up the book of Ecclesiastes and you come to the As you continue through the book That's this word vanity. That's not what's important. You can work as your favor work your finger to the bone, and you know what you get? It has already been uh it already has been in ancient times before us. What does it accomplish? I I'm going through this and I'm going And there is nothing new under the sun. I also gathered for myself silver and gold But when they're they're out in public and they're like this and then like that all the In the sweat of your face you shall eat bread. And and there's some people that seem to like laugh their way through everything, and it's just laughter, laughter, laughter, laughter. He says, there's some guidelines here. We thank you that even in books like this that come across as When you're learning, there's more to learn. You ever thought about life itself and you said, what's the point? What advantage is there? We're working to make a living. The text says that this pursuit, he says, I set my heart to seek out and search out my wisdom. This world Genesis chapter 3, verse 16, to the woman he says, I will greatly multiply your sorrow and your conception. They're glorying in the circle of life, and I'm like, I'm actually watching it. As we read Scripture, we need to understand Solomon, the expanse of the kingdom went farther than it ever had That's not what the word is talking about. What are you to brag about? C. In the history of Jerusalem, he had greater possessions and flocks. And let me ask you this question this morning. That's the way you're thinking. I made my works great Isn't it all about vanity? 19 where he says, For what happens to the sons of men also happens to animals. It's burdensome. It ends in futility. Probably not. Cursed is the res- or I'm sorry, um, uh the world is cursed. Bony fingers. It's never full. If you're a mechanic, there's a lot of mechanics out there. That's He's just going to live it up. It is not meaningless. He had a lot of stuff. Someone has said, you can't be, you can't be um My heart has understood great wisdom and knowledge But um this whole idea of a circle of life He couldn't make right. And he gives some illustrations of this. I I took sailing in in college. You know what he's saying? Hemingway said this. Vanity, vanity. Eat, drink, and be merry before tomorrow we die. Boy, you're just blessed right there. And there's a lot there's a long list of people have done that. All is emptiness. , concluded that suicide is the only answer to the problem of life. You gotta readjust everything. I have no idea what the rest of that song says. He says, While guiding my heart with wisdom, He said, I I had s servants The word there, the idea of not expressing it there is essentially, man can't really brag about it. I mean nobody's ever done what you do before? Musical instruments of all kinds. You are of this world. Does it really matter whatsoever? It's a good thing to laugh. It's weighty. What's fun for him is building stuff. He's going to he's going to pursue pleasure. But folks, not only accepted by faith, but when we live for him, Vanity of vanities. It's not speaking of somebody who does all these selfies and There's never enough to learn. What gain is there? He's saying that we're living in a crooked world. Understand that there is a hope in Christ. Verse 6: the wind goes toward the south and turns around to the north. We're working to survive May that be our prayer. Let me begin by ask asking you a question He did a lot of stuff. There were problems that were utterly unsolvable. All is vanity. That was his first pursuit. And in fact it will be e it is eternal. It brings weight. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. You all go home now. Father, we're grateful this morning I didn't give that up to do all of this. All is But Solomon took thirteen years to build his own house, so he finished all his house. Living, giving birth and dying. Is your hope Jesus? First century over half of peop of people were slaves Or what's the point? I apologize. People pursue pleasure. I mean if you remember Romans, we're like It's utterly hopeless. May the Lord richly bless you. What benefit is there under the sun? That's the pursuit. Yes, there is something more. There's always more to grasp, and you can't Now you thought you were going to see roller coasters in the air Let's pray. My heart has understood great wisdom and knowledge. He says uh there were there were uh Verse eleven that is I am not of this world. All is vanity. He says But we really would love to meet you in person. I don't know what you do. I thought to myself, what is the point? That's the ambition of my life Boy do they ever people ever pursue pleasure. He's enslaved to it. Living, giving birth and dying The word madness there is foolishness. We're living in a twisted world. Amen. One thing befalls them. Cursed is Here's why. We hope to see you soon. Nobody's gonna remember the life of Jim Ganan. And Look at verse 18.