Father, we thank you for the time we've spent together this evening around your word and singing your truths. And we pray, Lord, that you would just be with us this evening and help those who are still recovering from sickness, the those families that are. Thank you for those who have recovered and uh so we ask Lord that uh you keep us all healthy and uh help us tonight as we worship you to uh be able to really um learn from your word as as we look at Matthew chapter five and all that it has for us and in these beatitudes, understanding the real heart of a heart of a Christian, heart of a disciple of Christ. We pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen Alright, take your Bibles and turn to Matthew 5 this evening. Matthew chapter 5. And we will look at verses 6. through eight. Matthew five, six through eight. Let's do this. Let's go ahead and be pick up in verse one and we'll just read through verse eight to get our bearings on um this whole concept of um these beatitudes. Matthew chapter five, picking up in verse one it says, and seeing the multitude he went up on a mountain and when he had when he was seated His disciples came to him. Then he opened his mouth and talked them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. And then our text for a night, blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain Mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. What we've said before is that Christ in the Sermon on the Mount is helping us to understand the heart of a true follower of Christ. What does the heart of a true follower of Christ look like? I was thinking about this this week, and I wanted to back up for a minute and just make a couple of connections for you. Let me ask you this question. Is there a difference between a Christian and a follower of Christ? Is there a difference? Okay, the answer is no. There is no difference between a Christian and a follower of Christ. If you are a Christian, you are a follower of Christ. If you are a follower of Christ, you are a Christian. And if you think you're a Christian and you are not a follower of Christ, you are not a Christian. So trying to say that somebody well I'm a follow I'm a Christian but I'm not a follower of Christ, that is not they're they're they're they're that's that's a non starter. It means, I mean Christian means to be a follower of Christ. Now that's simple, but it's important to understand that. So then the question becomes, well what What is a follower of Christ? What does it mean to follow Christ? Well, some people think it had to do with your outward behavior. Some people think that when you become a Christian, your outward behavior is going to change and suddenly you will do this and don't do this and do this and don't do this. Jesus said, no, that's not primarily what happens. It will happen from the inside out, but it doesn't happen from the outside in. It should not happen from the outside in. He said that the Pharisees who had external righteousness, he said, your righteousness must exceed the righteousness of the Pharisees. So Jesus says that the that that the follower of Christ The main thing is what is in the follower of Christ's heart. Even if he complies and does everything right on the outside, A person may not truly be a follower of Christ. And that was what was really the case with the Pharisees. He said, You're white at sepulchres with dead men's bones. You follow everything you know to do. on the outside and ex and and you conform to all kinds of external behavior, but you are not right. You're sinful on the inside And what Jesus is now going to teach his disciples, just his disciples here, they come to him, and he's going to teach them, he's going to teach them what the true heart of a disciple is. A true heart. Let me ask you another question. Is there any difference between a Christian and a disciple? And the answer is no. A disciple is a Christian, is a follower of Christ. A follower is a disciple is a Christian. They are all three the same thing. And you are either all three of those things, which are really all just one thing, or you are none of them. So what is the heart of a follower of Christ? Well, let me ask three questions to kind of get us started in our minds. Number one, let me ask this question. What is the primary objective of a follower of Christ? What is the goal? What is the goal of a follower of Christ? Let me ask you another question. What is the motivation? What is the motivation of the follower of Christ? Well, those two questions are going to hinge on another question. And this is an important question. What is the desire? What does a follower of Christ really want? Ephesians chapter two We find in the beginning of that chapter that the world system, which is controlled by Satan, has its own mind and its own will. And that own mind and that mind and that will is against Christ. And it's expressed in people that want certain things like power or money, greed. Or lust. Those kinds of things are desires that come from the world. How much of the world is really in the pursuit of money and wealth? Its primary pursuit. How much of the world is primarily in pursuit of power, of lifting self up, of doing what self wants to do. How much of the world is in pursuit of just pleasing self? That's hedonism. Just, I just want to do what I want to do when I want to when I want to do it. A follower of Christ is different than that. The heart of a follower of Christ is very, very different. And what I hope to show you as we go through these different characteristics of a of a heart, of the follower of Christ, what I hope to really show you. is just how different it is. This ought to so contrast with the world. For example, blessed are the pure for example, blessed are are the uh Let's actually just look at the first Behavior. Blessed are those. Actually, let me flip over a page here. Blessed are the poor in spirit. For theirs is the kingdom of God. Is that the way the world sees things? That a happy person is poor in spirit. A happy person, the word blessed means happy, remember. A happy person will see himself as utterly spiritually destitute. You ever heard somebody say, well, I'm not religious, I'm just spiritual? The world says it all the time. I'm not a religious person, but I'm a spiritual person. And they sort of lift, they sort of ex you know, think well of themselves because they are a spiritual person. The Bible says, blessed are those who are destitute in spirit. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are those who mourn. Mourn over what? Well we discussed this. Mourn over their sin. Blessed are those who mourn over their sin. That's the heart of a follower of Christ. When a follower of Christ sins, he mourns over it. It grieves him because it grieves God. That's a true follower of Christ. And a true follower of Christ is is meek. Blessed. Happy are the meek, those who have are gentle, who have strength under control. Well, we look at three more today, and it says this: blessed are those who hunger and thirst after what? Blessed are those who hunger and thirst after things that I just want to make me happy to satisfy me. All kinds of pursuits, whatever I can figure out to make me happy, that's what I'm going to pursue. No, blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. Now he just got finished saying, blessed are the poor, the destitute, the hungry, if you will. Blessed are the destitute. And now he's saying, Blessed are those who hunger to be satisfied with the right thing. What? With righteousness. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. Martin Lloyd Jones said this. This is up on the I have this up on the PowerPoint. I do not know a better test than anyone can apply to himself or herself in the whole matter of the Christian profession than a verse like this. Can we get that up? Or is it? Oh really? Okay. I'll just read it again. That's fine. I do not know of a of a better test than anyone can apply to himself or herself in this whole matter of the Christian profession than a verse like this. If this verse is to you one of the most blessed statements of the whole scripture, you can be quite sure you are a Christian. If it is not, then you'd better examine the foundations again. Is it a blessed statement? When you hear the words, blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they will be filled. Well, we better figure out what this means. If it's that important Then let's figure out what this means. And we're going to unpack this by first of all looking at this word hunger. What does it mean to be hungry? Well, this is not, oh, I need a midnight snack. This word is to be absolutely starving, to be really in a place of starvation. to absolutely realize the complete necessity of something that's completely missing, that I'm void of, it is to be absolutely, completely starved. Starve for what? Well, to be starved for righteousness. And I'll just I'll just say this up front. That most people know that something in their life is missing. If you talk to the average person on the street, if you get drill down enough if you're able to do that you're going to find that they're not really that happy. Most people actually are not that happy. It's actually pretty sad. And people that are, it's usually fairly temporary before they're not happy anymore. And they know there's something missing. There's some sort sort of void in their lives. And even for the Christian this can happen, where there is something missing. It's like, it's like, you ever been hungry for something and you didn't know what you were hungry for? You ever had that problem before? You know, you know you're hungry, but everything you think of, you just it's like, nah, I'm not really don't really want that. But you know you're still hungry. And you're that will drive a mother crazy. Right? What do you want for dinner? I'm really hungry. What do you want for dinner? I don't know. You want this? No. You want this? No? You want this? No. Well, my mom al always solved that problem. She just put whatever you know she put made the meal and that was what I got, regardless of what what I wanted, frankly. That's how she solved that problem. Many people have a void in their lives and they're looking to fill it. They want to fill it with one thing or fill it with another or fill it with another and they're and they're constantly pursuing different things to try to fill that void. And and God says that the right thing, that what you're really hungry for, what you eat ought to be really hungry and thirsty for, is righteousness. So what is righteousness? Well, let me first explain what it's not. It's not just happiness. It doesn't say blessed are those who hunger and thirst after happiness. It's not just happiness. Don't replace happiness there. It's not morality. Did you catch that? It's not morality. It's not saying that somehow you need to conjure up in your own mind or in your own Some ability to be as moral as you possibly can, of your own strength. It's not equivalent with just morality. I need to be a moral person. It's not just morality. And it actually isn't just positional righteousness here. It's not just, okay, I'm saved and therefore I'm declared righteous by God, and even though I sinned, Jesus, God sees me as righteous. I mean, there that word is a very important word in Scripture, the word righteousness when it's used that way, and it's a and that doctrine is a very important doctrine in Scripture, but that's not what Jesus, not all of what Jesus is talking about here. He's talking, there's something more he has in mind here. What does this word righteousness mean? Well, let's look at a couple of passages and I think it'll help us. Would you flip back, we're going to be in Matthew, but would you flip back to Matthew chapter 3? for just a minute. Just a couple of chapter coup a couple of pages back. This is when Matthew when John uh the Baptist is speaking to Jesus and Jesus says, would you please baptize me? And John the Baptist says, I'm not worthy to do that. You could imagine being in John the Baptist shoes, couldn't you? I can't, gee, I don't have to baptize Jesus. I'm not worthy of that. What does Jesus say to him? He says, verse 15, Matthew 3. Jesus answered and said to him, Permit it to be so now, for thus is fitting for us to fulfill what? To fulfill all righteousness. To fulfill all righteousness, what does Jesus mean by that? Jesus said, you need to baptize me in order to fulfill all righteousness. That tells us that this is a really, really big concept. Of all the words that Jesus could have used at his baptism, he said to John. You need to do this so that I can fulfill all righteousness. That means that this is an extremely important term. Of course, we're in Matthew chapter 6, or Matthew chapter 5 and verse 6. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. But again in Matthew chapter 5, verse 10, it's going to say, Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And then look at chapter 5, verse 20. It says, For I say to you that unless your righteousness exceeds The righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you will know you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven So now we're clearly talking about internal righteousness. We're talking about something that has to do with internal righteousness, something that has to do with a really big concept, and something that has to do actually it looks like maybe something with the kingdom. And we find that even more in Matthew 6. Look at chapter 6, verse 33. Flip over one more page with me. Chapter 6, 33. You know this verse, but seek first the kingdom of God and his what? Did you know we k we we almost skip over that? We say this verse, but seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things will be done unto you. And we sort of say, you know, we've got to seek God's kingdom. Well, it actually says, seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added unto you. What does this mean? Well, um Hold on and just think of those verses and we're going to move to the next phrase here and then we're going to come back to this idea of righteousness. Then we see here, we see the reward. You shall be filled. We're going to come back to this concept of righteousness, so hang tight for a minute. You will be filled. What does that word filled mean? Well, it's translated, in some translations, you would see the word satisfied. In fact, it's very in the numeric standard, for example, it's it this word is translated ten times as satisfied in the New Testament. And in Matthew chapter 14, verse 20, for example, it says, So they all ate and were filled, and they took up twelve baskets of full of the fragments that remained. The same kind of thing is said in Matthew 15, 33. Remember when remember when they when Christ fed the 5,000? Remember that? And everybody was um and there was an abundance, there was more than enough? So what happened? It says they were filled. So much so, you ever uh so much so that there were 12 baskets left over. They had all they wanted to eat. You ever eaten just a really good solid meal and afterwards you just feel satisfied? That's this word. And God says that there is one way for us to really be satisfied. It is actually when we hunger and thirst after righteousness, righteousness is the thing that is going to result in true satisfaction. Okay, well then we really need to understand what this term righteousness means. So what does it mean? It means two things. Number one It's talking about personal filling, personal righteousness. It is it is It is to want to do the will of God. It is a desire to hunger and thirst to please God. It is to know that you are pleasing God. It is to everyday walk in a way that I know that I am fulfilling the will of my Father. There is a personal righteousness where I am constantly In fellowship with the Lord and wanting Him to be satisfied with my life, with my heart, with my motives, with my being. He is satisfied, and so therefore I am satisfied. It is a personal righteousness. It is a desire for no longer to have the problem of sin. To look ahead one day and to realize that when we see Christ, we will be completely free of sin. The Christian longs for the day where he will be free from sin, where there will be no more struggle with it. Where he will not face the consequences of it anymore, where there will not be the corruption of sin and the problems that sin brings The Christian longs for that day. He wants it. He loves it. He hungers and thirsts for that day. That's the heart of a Christian, the heart of a follower of Christ But also there is a he there is a desire in the heart of a believer, in the heart of a true follower of Christ, to not only have that satisfaction of being right with the Lord and being in fellowship with him and being in uh uh following his will and being freed from sin. That's the prospect of being freed from sin. Not only that, but in Matthew chapter rather than Zechariah chapter 14, it's an interesting chapter In the Old Testament, in Zechariah 14, Zechariah prophesies of a future time, the day of the Lord, a future time when everything is going to be made right. He's really describing the kingdom of God. And in verse 16 of that passage, it actually says, and it shall come to pass that everyone who is left of all the nations Which came against Jerusalem shall go up from year to year to worship the King, the Lord of hosts, and to keep the Feast of Tabernacles, and it shall be that what whichever of the la families of the earth do do not come up to Jerusalem to worship the the king, the Lord of hosts, on them there will be no rain. If the families of Egypt will not come up and enter, they shall have no rain, and they uh shall receive the plague which the Lord strikes the nations who do not come to keep the Feast of the Tabernacles. This shall be the punishment of Egypt and the punishment of the nations that do not come to keep the Feast of the Tabernacles. In that day, it says this, and there's this word, this Hebrew equivalent of this word, holiness, or you could say righteousness here. Holiness or righteousness to the Lord shall be engraved on the bells of the horses. The pots in the Lord's house shall be like the bowls before the altar. Yes, every pot of Jerusalem and Judah shall be holiness or righteousness to the Lord of hosts. Every one who sacrifices shall come to take them and cook in them. In the day that there will be no longer a can uh be a Canaanite in the house of the Lord of hosts. This is describing a time in the future where the God sets up where Christ sets up his kingdom and the one word to describe Christ's kingdom is righteousness If you had to choose one word to describe the kingdom of God, what is God wanting to do? What is he setting up? What will the millennial kingdom ha uh will happen in the millennial kingdom? If you could choose one word, it would be the word righteousness. And righteousness includes justice. It includes those who are truly oppressed being set free and the oppressor being chastened. It includes the lion being laid lied down with the lamb. It includes True peace includes all of those things of the world that we look at we look at now in the news and we go, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's w And there's a lot of that right now. And to one day have it all set right. See, righteousness, the Christian longs for that And because he longs for that, he longs for the coming of Christ. It's in his heart. He wants to be free from sin. He wants to do the will of God. He wants to please his Heavenly Father. He knows that if he will please His father, he will truly be satisfied. And if he knows all this to be true, he knows one day he will be freed from sin. He will be in a righteous kingdom where everything is set right. And the Christian, the follower of Christ, longs for that. He hungers and thirsts for it. Do you hunger and thirst for that day? Lloyd Jones got it right. This can help you determine whether or not you are truly a Christian. If you have no desire for this, if you do not hunger and thirst for this, If you say, no, I really, I really don't want that day to come. No, I can't I really dislike my sin. No, I really just want to do what I want to do. If there is absolutely no desire within you of any kind to hunger and thirst after righteousness, then you can very much say, I am not truly a follower of Christ. That new heart is not placed within me. But if there is a maybe there maybe there's a maybe there is a desire, maybe there is a hunger and a thirst, but it's small It's been stuffed out by selfishness. It's been pushed out by pride. It's been pushed out by those things. So that my desire for self is large, and my desire for God and righteousness is small. Well, in that case, you know the Lord. But my friend, you are going to live a very unsatisfied life. Now, what God promises here when we hunger, truly hunger and thirst for righteousness. When we starve for it, when we realize that that is the thing that we really need. Well, he promises here is not that we will have all of our problems fixed. It's not that we will never have a trial or never have an issue or never have any kind of thing going on. But but there is a sense in which the Christian in his can be fulfilled in in spite of the problems, in spite of the the struggles. Why? Because he's in the will of God. That's why Jesus said over and over in Scripture, I come to do the will of my Father. He's going to the cross. He's put to death. He's in pain and agony. He's in every kind of situation. He was homeless. He was in every kind of situation imaginable. And yet he was one who had joy He was totally a joyful person. He was a man of sorrows, acquainted with grief, and yet he had the joy of himself, of Christ. Why? Because he was satisfied by righteousness, by knowing constantly that he was in the will of his father. And the Christian longs to be in the will of the Father. He wants it. And a Christian, and a person who doesn't really care about being in the will of the Father. Is really not a Christian at all. And so this helps us to see the heart of a true disciple. Now immediately We move from righteousness. And when you think of righteousness, if you're not careful, you can think of something that God does not at all have in mind. Righteous, a truly a person who's really hungering and thirsting after righteousness, a person who really understands and is starving for righteousness, is not one Who is concerned about everybody else being righteous? He's not over, he's not preoccupied with whether or not he is being treated right rightly. A person who is who realizes that he hungers and thirsts thirst for righteousness is not on the defense all the time, is not trying to get back at the other person. is not trying to make sure that he has his just slice of the cake, slice of the pie. It's not a it's not a Christian. The other facet that really goes along with this is that those people that hunger and thirst after righteousness, they're merciful. That's what it says next. Chapter 5, verse 7. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. The heart of the disciple shows mercy because it will result in the received mercy. Now remember that we said this, that these are not individu separated, isolated characteristics. That these are all different facets of the heart of the follower of Christ. These are all different ways to look at it. One facet is that those who mourn over their own sin, that's a facet. Those who are poor in spirit, that's a facet. Those who are meek, that's a facet. Those who hunger in right hunger righteousness, that's a facet. And now those who show mercy. See, because when you're really poor in spirit, when you really understand your own destitution before God And when you are satisfied by his righteousness, you realize how undeserving you are, and you are ready to show mercy to others. The follower of Christ, who is following after Christ and in the will of Christ, will be ready to show mercy. And that person who shows mercy is also one who is truly merciful as well. Would you take your Bibles for just a moment and turn over to 2 Timothy chapter 1? 2 Timothy chapter 1, and you'll see A little bit more about what this is talking about when it comes to so mercy here is both the quality and the reward. 2 Timothy chapter 1. And we pick up in verse 15 it says this. Be diligent. To present yourselves approved to God, a workman who does not need to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. That's the Iwanamato verse, by the way. But shun provane and idle babblings, for they will increase to more ungodliness. And their message will spread like cancer, Himenaeus and Philetus of this sort, who have strayed concerning the truth, saying that the resurrection is already passed, and they overthrow the faith of some. Now, what's interesting is that this word, and we'll we'll look more at this next week because I want to leave time for prayer, but what's interesting is that this word is is has to do with trust. And when it says overthrow the faith of some, it's talking about the fact that they no longer trusted in the Word of God. This mercy, this idea of mercy has a connection with the idea of trusting the Lord. And so a person who is who has a heart To be merciful to others. Why can he be merciful to others? Here's the connection. Why can he be merciful to others? He can be merciful to others because he is trusting in God. A person who trusts in self is not merciful. A person who trusts in self- Always tries to get as much as he can. A person whose trust in self is going to try to make sure that he gets what he deserves And he doesn't he isn't slighted. And nobody's gonna be uh be you know no he's gonna be on the defense But a person who trusts in God is a person who is ready to show mercy. Why? Because he can leave it in the Lord's hands. And when he shows mercy, there is a sense in which he will receive mercy. Now, the question is, when it says he receives mercy, the uh uh blessed are the merciful, they shall uh they shall obtain mercy. From whom? Is this talking about mercy from God? Or is this talking about mercy from people? Well, if you show mercy to people, will people be merciful in return? Sometimes But I think what it's really m pointing out is not so much that that God's mercy is contingent upon our mercy. Like like, okay, we God will only be merciful for merciful to us if we're merciful to him or to others. Although there is a connection there because we have later on next chapter, Matthew 6, he says, forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us. There is a connection there. And here is the connection. The connection is that this is not saying that God will somehow have eternal retribution on us if we don't show mercy. But there does seem to be in life, in general, a sense in which those who are merciful do not really get the full weight of their consequences of their own wrongdoing, of their own sin, just generally. Doesn't mean they never get any consequences. Doesn't mean that they don't have you know it doesn't mean that that that is an absolute rule. Well, I was merciful to that person. Why did God chasten me? No, no, it's not absolute. And but but it does seem as you look at scripture This is not saying that a Christian will not receive any mercy from God, but what it is saying, uh if he's not merciful, but when a Christian is has a heart of mercy toward others. It does seem to indicate that there is going to be a lessening of consequences of his own sin. Do you want that, Christian? I know I do. And so it's important for us to obtain mercy. I don't have time for the na the the the the next one. Verse 8, Chapter 5. This is to me, well, they're all so important. I can't, you know, you can't put one above another, I don't know I don't think But blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. What does it mean to see God? How how are you going to how how how does this work that if we are pure in heart, we'll see God? Well, you'll have to come back. sometime when I speak again on this, which is probably soon. So let's go ahead and pray and then we will we'll go into a time of prayer together. Father, we thank you, Lord, for the day that you've given to us and thank you for your word and your truth. We thank you for the for this this section is very convicting I think of the passage in Hebrews that says, your word pierces even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intent of the heart. That's this the sword of the word here is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of our hearts. And Lord, I pray that if there is somebody here today who really doesn't have a desire, a hunger and thirst for righteousness I pray that you help them understand they don't really know you. They're not really a follower of Christ, and cause them to get help from your word. And Lord, for those who do know you, but perhaps selfishness and the flesh has gotten so much in the way that we're just preoccupied with what we want instead of what God wants for us. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to foster, to grow. to cultivate a hunger and thirst for righteousness. Help us to realize that when we feel unsatisfied in life, what we really need His righteousness is to know without a doubt that we're in your will. And we can only find that as we know you and know your word. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.