Here preach from God's Word, let's go to Him in prayer. Father, today we come to you and we thank you, we praise your name for your goodness, your greatness. Your sovereignty, your control and direction in this world and in our lives individually. We praise you that there is not a thing that comes into our life that is not ordained by your hand as we sung just a few songs ago. We praise you that we do not have to worry and be concerned about the things that we cannot control. We can give those to you, who is in control of all things. And Lord, as we consider what we have just sung and the various ways of how we can have joy unspeakable, how you are a thrice holy God We thank you, Lord, that this life is one that you have given to us, that we can live it for your purposes, your glory, your sake. We ask now, Lord, that you would help us as we give attention to your word. May our thoughts be directed to your word, your truth. May other thoughts be Place in the back of our minds as we focus wholly on what you have to say from your word. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Reading from the book of Ecclesiastes, the text today is Ecclesiastes chapter two, verse is twelve verse twelve. Now I have through twenty-six is Yes, that's correct. Okay. We're going to read from verses twelve through twenty-six. Encourage you to read along with me. Ecclesiastes two, verse twelve says. Then I turn myself to consider wisdom and madness and folly. For what can the man do who succeeds the king? Only what he has already done. Then I saw that wisdom excels folly, as light excels darkness. The wise man's eyes are in his head, but the fool walks in darkness. Yet I myself perceived that the same events happen to them all. So I said in my heart, as it happens to the fool, it also happens to me. And why was I then more wise? Then I said in my heart, this also is vanity. For there is no more remembrance of the wise than of the full forever, since all that now is is will be forgotten in the days to come. And how does a wise man die? Has the fool. Therefore I hated life, because the work that was done under the sun was distressing to me For all is vanity and grasping for the wind. Then I hated all my labor in which I had toiled under the sun, because I must leave it to the man who will come after me. And who knows whether he will be wise or a fool Yet he will rule over all my labor in which I toiled, in which I have shown myself wise under the sun. This also is vanity. Therefore I turned my heart and despaired of all the labor in which I have toiled under the sun. For there is a man whose labor is with wisdom, knowledge, and skill, yet he must leave his heritage to a man who has not labored for it. This also is vanity and a great evil. For what has man for all his labor, and for the striving of his heart with which he has toiled under the sun? For all his days are sorrowful, and his work burdensome. Even in the night his heart takes no rest. This also is vanity Nothing is better for a man than he should eat and drink, and that his soul should enjoy good in his labor. This also I saw was from the hand of God. For who can eat, or who can have enjoyment more than I? For God gives wisdom and knowledge and joy to a man who is good in his sight. But to the sinner he gives the work of gathering and collecting, that he may give him to This also is vanity and grasping for the wind. A few years back, a Well known song was uh debuted in June June twenty thirteen. It became the best-selling single in 2014 in both the United States and in the UK There were 13. 9 million units worldwide sold that year. It gained an Academy Award nomination and a Grammy for Best Music Video And it also was m the most played song on British radio in a decade. This song, first aired at on Despicable Me Two, is the song Happy. Some of you like oh yeah that's okay I've heard that before. The song goes like this. It might seem crazy what I'm about to say. Sunshine, she's here, you can take a break. I'm a hot air balloon that could go to space, huh? With the air like I don't care, baby by the way, huh? Clap along if you feel like a room without a roof. Clap along if you feel like happiness is the truth Clap along if you know what happiness is to you. Clap along if you feel like that's what you want to do Here comes bad news, talking talking this and that. Well give me all you got and don't hold back. Yeah. Well I should probably warn you, I'll be just fine, yeah. No d no offense to you, don't waste your time. Here's why. Because I'm happy and the song continues to go. Now, other than the song distorting the nature of truth and making happiness relative which is truth, I mean the song has serious problems and actually making zero sense in the beginning of the song. Clearly what the song does not do is present any philosophy whatsoever on how you're going to gain happiness. This person's like a hot air balloon. He's just happy. I'm not sure how that goes together. But anyway. Now, if you look at throughout history, there have been theories about how happiness is gained in life. There are three major theories in history. One is hedonism. That's the idea of pleasure as happiness. And actually, pretty much Solomon deals with that last week. We saw that in the pursuit of pleasure. Another is called Eudaimonia, which is a flourishing or ver uh in virtue and ethics. Aristotle was one who believed in that. The other one, Epicurius, was the one who uh was a proponent proponent of hedonism. Aristotle was a proponent proponent of this eudaimonia, is the idea that true happiness found is found in a life of virtue, purpose, and fulfillment. And then Stoicism. Stoicism is the idea that joy comes from accepting what you cannot control and cultivating inner virtue, wisdom, and resilience. Uh men like Xeno, Seneca, Epictetus, and Marcus Aurelius all believed in this kind of theory of how to gain happiness. Interestingly enough, Seneca was Nero's mentor. So that tells you how that went. But the reality is, as you look at history, the theories on how to come to happiness are many. And you can go into psychological theories on happiness, which you won't take the time to do. And there are lots of theories on happiness there. But they all fail to really ensure and guarantee happiness in this life. In fact The idea of pursuing happiness is something that really very few people have any idea of how to do it. And and by the time you get to midlife, you realize there is no guaranteed way to have happiness. And maybe by the end of your life you look back and you go, boy, there really isn't any way to be truly happy. I think Solomon was kind of there, as we learned last week. He pursued labor and work, and he realized that's utility under the sun. And he pursued wisdom, and even wisdom was futility and vanity under the sun. And certainly pleasure was unprofitable, and that too was vanity under the sun. And what we're going to find in this passage is that there is a change. Because we're going to see in this passage and we're really going to see this clearly that the key To having happiness under the sun on the earth for an individual has to do with their view of the providence of God We're going to see this later in the passage, but I want to set it up this way. I want us to understand clearly what the providence of God is. Some people get sovereignty and providence confused. They're similar and they're related. Sovereignty is the supreme independent power or authority. You could think in terms of God being in That's sovereignty. Sovereignty, the supreme independent power or authority. And God truly is sovereign. Providence is the wise, purposeful exercise of that sovereignty. It's the idea That God purposefully arranges the events of this life to fulfill his plan. And Though we can think of God being in control, it's very important that we are actually constantly thinking about how the events of this life are arranged and orchestrated. By God Himself to bring about the ultimate end of glorifying Him. And He is going to say in this passage that the difference between despair and delight. The difference between these two things is whether or not you have providence in view or not, whether or not you view the events of life through the lens of God working the way he wants to work, to do what he wants to do, very purposefully, the exercise of his sovereignty, or you have given no consideration to that whatsoever. Now what we find in the text then is that that Solomon is going to talk more about the subjects of wisdom and labor. He's kind of off the subject of pleasure for the most part. Now he's going to re r come back and recover these concepts of wisdom and pleasure. Now just remind us wisdom and labor. I'll just remind us that the conclusion of the pursuit of both labor, work, wisdom and pleasure, all those pursuits under the sun, on this earth, in of itself, with no with no looking into eternity, with no thinking about how this can affect the e eternity. Ultimately, the Bible says in verse 11 of chapter 2, the conclusion is this: then I looked at all the work that my hands had done. And on the labor in which I had toiled, and indeed all was vanity and grasping for the wind. There was no prophet under the sun Ultimately, Solomon's conclusion is that if you simply look at this world and what is here and give no consideration to To the Lord, to heaven, to God's working, to what he is doing. If you have no consideration of that, then there is no gain. There is no advantage. There is no profit whatsoever on this earth. And we remember you remember from last week We we saw when it came to working and labor the constant cycle of over and over and over again. You work and then you come home and you do whatever you're gonna do for a couple hours and you sleep and you go back to work again and this constant cycle of monotony ending in vanity and emptiness Solomon's going to come here and he's now going to, we're going to see really just two points here today. We're going to first see that life without providence is despair. We're going to see that in verses 12 through 23. And then we're going to see a very distinct shift from 23 to 24. In the middle there, we're going to say we'll see verse 24, where life with providence is delight. Life without providence is despair. Life with providence is delight. And we will see the difference as we go through this text. So Solomon now in verse 12, he's going to come back to this concept of wisdom. And I find it interesting that after the message uh I had several people make small comments about my description, or really the scriptures description, of wisdom last week. I had somebody walk by and they said, well God there's a there's a difference between God's wisdom and worldly wisdom. I had somebody else that said to me there's a difference between wisdom and knowledge. Several people I think they're a little uncomfortable with saying that wisdom, the pursuit of wisdom is just vanity. It's futility. Well, we're going to see a further explanation of that here. And what Solomon is going to say here is that wisdom does have a limited advantage. Because he's going to compare now wisdom to folly. Notice what the text says. He says, Then I turn myself to consider wisdom and madness and folly. So folly is really just foolishness. He is now comparing wisdom with foolishness. And notice what he says in the text. For what can the man do exceed who succeeds the king? Only what he has already done. Notice what verse 13 says. He says, Then I saw that wisdom excels folly. He admits it. He says Being wise is better than being foolish, even under the sun. Foolishness excels folly. And here's why. Here's what he says. As light excels darkness. Now, this is a very helpful illustration to help us understand what wisdom is and actually its limitation as well. Wisdom is like light that excels darkness. Wisdom is to foolishness as light is to darkness. And of course, light is better than darkness. But doesn't that remind you of John 319 that says this, and this is the condemnation that light has come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light because their deeds are evil? The Bible actually just describes people, the majority of people, walking in the darkness of this world. And he says in the passage that wisdom is better than foolishness, even if it's under the sun, because you're living in wisdom rather than foolishness. In other words, it sheds light on your situation. Wisdom is like a light, like a flashlight, and it shines It shines out so that you could see what's in front of you. You could see the path that you're on. You're aware of what is going on more if you have wisdom. Now, if you remember from last week, the problem with wisdom was that Solomon found, as gr as wise as he was, that wisdom had its limitation and that it could not solve every problem. And the reason it was so futile was that it actually made you more aware of the problems you couldn't solve. By the way, do you ever feel that way? You ever see all the problems and whatever situations that you're in, any the the the the situations in the world you turn on the news, all these problems everywhere? and you want to fix the problem, and the more knowledge and even understanding you have of the problem, the more you realize you are totally unable to fix the problem. There is a frustration to wisdom, but there is an advantage. And over, if you're going to be foolish or wise, it's better to be wise, he says. Then he gives us a description of what wisdom is. He he explains why wisdom is like a flashlight. Notice what it says here. He says, the wise man's eyes are in his head. Now that look sounds a little funny. The wise man's eyes are in his head. You could read that and go, well duh, they're not in his feet. I mean his eyes are in his head. That can't but that's not what it's talking about It says, the wise man's eyes are in his head, but the fool walks in darkness. Here's what he's saying. He's saying that there is a a mind have you ever heard the term mind's eye? The ability to be able to think and to imagine and to reason, to extrapolate, to look ahead, to see what is not on the surface That's what he's talking about here, where someone has the ability uh to question and to imagine, to meditate on. They have insights into what really is going on, what is really happening. You see, there are some people that all they see is what's right in front of them. And they're not they don't look ahead. This is a problem with with new drivers. New drivers very co very very often are so focused on what is right in front of them and what is and maybe what the speedometer is, a few things right there. And what they have to learn to do is look far ahead to be able to see what's coming. That's a wise, experienced driver looks ahead to see, not just looks what's right in front of them. And what that's what wisdom does. Wisdom shows us what's ahead of us, not just what's right there. It shines on us. And the way that someone becomes wise to some degree is to really think. To meditate on things, to think through things, to try to figure things out. Not just to you know there is a difference between intelligence and wisdom. Did you know that? Intelligence is the ability to compute something quickly But wisdom is the ability to take time to mull over something and to think through it over time. And it allows you to meditate on it. Ideally it's God's Word, but you can take it in terms of circumstances with God's Word, and you begin to be able to apply truth to a situation Which is what wisdom is, the application of truth, as you think over it in your mind. This is how you get true wisdom. Proverbs 8. 14 says, Counsel is mine and sound wisdom, I am of understanding, I have strength. Proverbs 1023 says this about a fool. To do evil is like a like sport to a fool. To do evil is like sport to a fool. But a man of understanding has wisdom. And of course, Ephesians 5. 8 in the New Testament, for you were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. Now, with all that said, there is still a very serious limitation to wisdom. And we find it in verse in the second part of verse 15. It says there, yet I myself perceived that the same event happens to them all. Did you catch that? To the foolish person and to the wise person, the same event happens to both. You know what he's saying here? As wise as someone is, it does not mean they can control things with their wisdom. Wisdom is a great flashlight, but it's not a great steering wheel. Wisdom is a great headlight, but it doesn't give us the controls to be able to direct something. It shows us what's there, but we have, we still really have no control. In fact, we are foolish to think that we are in control because of our wisdom. There is really only one that is truly in control, and we're going to get to that in a few moments. The result, he says, is so I said in my heart, as it happens to the fool, it also happens to me. And why was I then more wise? He said, and then he's actually talking then about this ultimate ultimate leveler in verse 16. He says Then I said in my heart, this also is vanity. For there is no more remembrance of the wise than the fool forever Since all that now is will be forgotten in the days to come. And how does a wise man die as a fool? Now no matter what the advantage of wisdom is, he says, Death levels everything out. Because a wise person dies the same way a pool foolish person dies. And in eternity, a wise person is remembered the same way a foolish person is remembered. They're not remembered, essentially. And so even though wisdom in this life is better than foolishness, because it at least shines light on your predicament, It limits it's limited in that you cannot control anything and actually can end up in great frustration. And that's what we see in this passage. There is a kind of frustration that occurs when we're not considering providence and God's working in our lives the way we ought to. Now, before we move into 17 through 23, I want us to um uh I I want us to point something out here. In Genesis chapter three, uh we mentioned this last week. There is a kind of cr uh it explains explains what the curse of sin is And I want you to notice this. It says in the text in Genesis 3. 16, to the woman he said, I will greatly multiply your sorrow and conception. In pain you will bring forth children, your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you. Then to Adam he said, Because you have heeded the voice of your wife, and have eaten from the tree of which I have commanded you, saying, You shall eat Not eat of it, cursed is the ground for your sake. Notice what it says, in toil you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Both thorns and thistles in it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat the herb of the field, and the sweat of your face you shall eat bread till you return to the ground, for out of it you were you were taken For dust you are, and to dust you shall return. I want you to notice what is really cursed in this passage. Of course, the entire world is cursed, earth is cursed. Childbearing is cursed so that there's pain in that. But what we see in the passage is that your toil that you eat of, the very toil of your life, the very labor, the work that you do. is cursed. The ground itself. Think in terms of most people being farmers back then. The ground itself is cursed. Your work is cursed. And so with that in mind, Solomon goes back to this idea of work. He's uh uh discussed wisdom, and now he goes back to this idea of work or toil or labor. And when he comes to this, he loathes it He is an utter, well, you know what? Utter what? We'll see. Let's look at the passage. Verse 17. First of all, he says, Therefore I hated life. He hates it. He is experiencing the work, the labor of life, and he hates life. And then we see there's these personal reactions hatred of life is one, distress and work is another. It says in the passage, because the work that was done under the sun was distressing to me. I looked at my life. I looked at my work. I looked at my labor. I looked at all of this. It distressed me. Could we even say this? It stressed him out. Has your work ever stressed you out? Nah, never. Work by its very nature stresses us out. Labor stresses us out. And we see in the passage actually that this kind this kind of approach where we are not seeing what God is doing in our work and in our labor is going to cause us to hate life and be distressed by our work. We see in the passage, we continue, he says, for all is vanity and grasping for the wind. And then he says In verse 18, that I hated all my labor in which I had toiled under the sun, because I must leave it to a man who will come after me. Verse 19, And who knows whether he will be wise or a fool, yet he will rule over all my labor in which I toiled, and in which I have shown myself wise in the Son, this also is vanity. He says, I have no control over who gets all of the fruits of my labor. He he has no idea, and actually he's almost a prophet here because Because if you think of what happens after Solomon in the splitting of the kingdom and what happens with Rehoboam and all that, which we won't get take the time to get into, exactly what he was afraid was going to happen happened. Where his kingdom was entirely misused by the people that came after him. Then we see there was despair in labor. Verse 20, therefore I turned my heart and despaired all of the labor in which I had toiled under the sun. He turned his heart and despair. For there is a man whose labor is with wisdom, knowledge, and skill, yet he must leave his heritage to a man who has not labored for it. This is also vanity and great evil. It's like I've worked so hard for everything I've gotten, and I'm gonna leave it to somebody who won't work. They're just gonna get it and they're gonna be spoiled with it. This is vanity I love the contrast. When I read this, there was a contrast in my mind that came to me. And the contrast, I can't help but bring this out. The contrast is in 1 Corinthians 1558, which says this, therefore, my beloved brethren, now we're obviously talking to Christians, Paul says, be steadfast. Immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. Why? Knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. And what a distinct difference. One who sees under the sun it's all vanity and one who realizes But Paul says, be steadfast, be faithful, knowing that your labor will not be in vain in the Lord. But I'll return back to this and uh he's we see more sorrow, continually sorrowful days Is another one another one of his personal reactions. He says, For all my days are sorrowful. And heavy burden. And his work burdensome. And it end and finally, the final one is that he ends its an unending restlessness It says, even in the night his heart takes no rest. This also is vanity Someone who works and works and works for those things that are under the sun is has distress and hatred and And despair and sorrow, and they're restless, they can't sleep at night. This is in stark contrast to what we're going to see in Ecclesiastes chapter 5, verse 12, where it says, the sleep of the laboring man is sweet. Whether he eats little or much, but the abundance of the rich will not permit him to sleep. And you remember Christ, Christ had no problem sleeping. Jesus in Mark 4. 38 and other places, he was in the midst of a storm in the bottom of the boat, and what is he doing? He's sleeping. Even in Acts twelve, six it says, and when Herod was about to bring him out, then that night Peter was sleeping, bound with two chains between him two soldiers and the guards before the doors were were keeping the prison. Peter's sleeping in between two guards in a prison. Because God gives his beloved sleep. There is a massive change here that we're going to see in the passage. The massive change is now life. We see life without providence. And then I want you to notice life with providence in view. Now, really to understand life with providence in view, which is going to result in delight. We need to understand a particular word that we're going to see in this passage, and that is the word good. And I want our minds again to think back to Genesis and think of that word in Genesis. In Genesis chapter 1, verse 21, for example, it says, And God created great sea creatures, and every living thing that moves, with which the waters abounded according to their kind, and every winged bird according to its kind. And God saw that it was what? Good. Remember what it's saying there. Then in Genesis 131, it says again, when God saw everything that he had made, everything. And indeed it was very good. So the evening and the morning were the sixth day. Now, with that in mind, would you look at what verses 24 through 26 say in this passage? Nothing is better for a man than that he should eat and drink, and that his soul should enjoy what Good. And joy, good in his labor. This also I saw was from the hand of God. For who can eat And who or who can have enjoyment more than I? For God gives wisdom and knowledge and joy to a man who is what? What does it say? Good, who is good in his sight. But to the sinner he gives the work of gathering and collecting that he may give to him who is there it is again good before God. This also is vanity. and grasping for the wind. Now here's what he's saying in the passage. Now we see just by just by reading through that, you begin to see God's interview. You see things like, I see it's from the hand of God. There's a total contrast here now. And what we see though is that what we're seeing then is that the th we begin to view things as from the hand of God, and what it causes us to do is to be able to see it's what? It's good. Why? Because even though we may not know why God is providentially doing what he's doing and why he is skillfully bringing the events in our lives that he is and why he actually takes the fallenness of the world and use it for our good and his glory. Even though we don't know how he's doing that and why he's doing that, we begin to trust him and we see That ultimately those things that I loathe, like my work, it's actually, I can find the good in it. Look, if you want to see the good in your labor, The good in wisdom, the good in your work, the good in the things that you do, you've got to see it as coming from the hand of God. And that's actually what you see in the text. And as we work through the text, there's three things that you're going to see. First, verse 24 is satisfaction. Nothing is better for a man, it says, than he should eat or drink. That eat or drink, there's different theories on what that means. It's not just talking about, well, you know, nothing's better than just to eat. It's not really what it's pointing out. It's using this as an illustration of what it means to be satisfied by something. I mean it's true that a good meal is pretty satisfying, right? Um and and and and the idea, he's what he's saying is nothing is better for a person to be than to be satisfied. This is in stark contrast to being distressed and hating life and all the other things that we saw before. Now he's saying nothing is better than for a man to be satisfied. Um and then number two, enjoyment. Enjoyment. And that his soul should enjoy the good in his labor. I mean, the very thing that he thought he loathed and thought was horrible and distressing and worrisome and burdensome, now he says, there's good in my labor. I can enjoy my labor. Ecclesiastes 8 15, so I commanded I commended enjoyment because a man has nothing better under the sun than to eat, drink, and be merry, for this will remain with him in his labor all the days of his life, which God Gives him under the sign. The perspective is totally different. Now, why is it that this man goes from going from despair to delight? Why is that happening here? It's ultimately, I think, in verse 25. And we'll use the word gratefulness. The word isn't used in the text, but I think it's there. It certainly implies it. Gratefulness. Notice what it says in the text. This also I saw from the hand of God. That man is good uh that man who is good in his sight. I I saw it from the hand of God Now he begins to see his work, his labor as coming from God's hand. He sees it as a gift of God. He's going to say that later in chapter three. It's a gift of God. He begins to see Life in terms of what God has given him instead of what it's so such a distressing drudgery. It's a totally different look on life entirely. He begins to see his work and his labor as something that transcends this earth and this world itself, that God ultimately Gives him the things that he has, and he's able to find the good in them and enjoy them. Why? Because it is through the lens of God's providence that he sees the good. This man who is but notice though this is something that is interesting Who does he give this to? Who does God give this gift to? Verse 26. For God gives wisdom and knowledge. Notice what it says there. And what? And joy. He gives all these things. Now he's giving wisdom. Wisdom was had its limitations, but if it's from the hand of God. Now it accompanies other things. It accompanies knowledge and joy. God gives joy. But notice there's a condition. He says, to a man who is good. In his sight, in God's sight. Now I think those are very important words. Because if we think of the very beginning when God called his creation good, And when he called, he made man and he said it was very good, what has happened since then? Sin, right? The fall. So that the reality is, isn't it true, that none of us are good? Right? None of us are righteous. All our righteousnesses, Romans 2, are as filthy rags to God. So we have a problem. I mean, who is God going to give these things to if everybody is bad in his sight? And this this is not in the passage, but it begs for this. And this is the way the Old Testament is. The Old Testament doesn't give us all the solutions. It presents the problems. And then we're sort of forced to expect the New Testament to give us the solutions. And of course, what is the solution? There is only one way for someone to be good in God's sight. See, we can be good in our own sight, but that's not what the passage says. There's lots of people through self-righteousness they think they're good in their own sight. But I guarantee you, those people that are good in their own sight are not going to be seeing all the things that they have as coming from as gifts of God. You know why? Because a person who thinks that they're good in their own sight are going to think that they deserve everything they've got. They'll never see it from it as a gift from God. That's actually part of the problem. When someone is working and they get what they have and they are self-righteous, They just think that they are completely, utterly deserving of that, and it ends up becoming loathsome and stressful and distressing to them because they never can get enough To do what they think they deserve because they're constantly putting more and more labor in and wanting more and more. But this is those who are good in God's sight. And frankly, the only way is to be good in God's sight is what we see in Romans, and many other places in the New Testament In Romans chapter 3 it says this, but now the righteousness of God apart from the law is revealed, being witnessed by the law and the prophets Even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ to all and on all who believe, for there is no difference. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Being justified, that means declared righteous. freely by his grace, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God set forth as the propitiation by his blood through faith. to demonstrate his righteousness, because in his forbearance God passed over the sins who were previously committed. You see, we go to the New Testament and we see that we can be made good in God's sight, or we can be declared righteous in God's sight. It is only by faith in understanding that Jesus died to pay the punishment for our sins He took our sin on himself so that he could give us his righteousness. And when we trust in that alone, God declares us righteous. And then we begin to see things from a completely different light. We begin then to see how God is the giver of life and gives new life in Christ. And he begins to we begin to see even our jobs as gifts from God and our situation as gifts from God. And we begin to see God working. Providentially working so that we could see the good in his creation that would otherwise be just looked like be complete cursed So it is so critical. So Christians have this this in the sense that they have it automatically And yet, so many Christians, isn't it true folks, that so many Christians struggle in their lives, they live as though they're not Christians They they live in the world and they are distressed and hate life and frustrated and all of those things as though God is not working in their life. And God is not doing things in their life. And God is and you're not they're not able to see the good. Why? Because they are not seeing their lives through the lens of the providence of God. That's ultimately the problem. When Solomon sees his life through the lens of the providence of God, he sees that God is the giver of gifts. He gives wisdom, he gives knowledge, he gives joy. And Solomon is going to go on to explain wisdom as something that is extremely good when he sees it as given by God. In Ecclesiastes 2. 14, we already saw it enables man to walk without stumbling. In 1010, it gives success in seven It preserves life in 712. Again, it protects in 221 and enables a successful work. In 723, it discri it discriminates judgments. In 915, it requires uh it's required for all great human endeavors. In seven nineteen and nine sixteen, it gives strength. And in 8-1, it gives joy. Everything changes when we begin to see things as coming from the hand of God. So that what we actually see is what Is what um Jonathan Edwards said, and that is that God is most glorified in his people when they are most satisfied in him. Now Solomon goes on in this passage and he reminds us of this that this is not going to be the case for what he describes as the sinner. Notice in the text it says, but to the sinner, this is one who is not viewing things in light of who God is, in light of the providence of God. They're not good in God's sight. And what we see in the text is this, but to the sinner, he gives the work of gathering and collecting. Here we go again. You remember last week? Constant cycle. Work, gather, collect. He's kind of alluding again to this, uh, this idea of this constant cycle. And so it says in the text, but to the sinner he gives the work of gathering and collecting that he may give to him who is good before God. He it actually says in the text, this is interesting, that ultimately all of this the economy of gathering and collecting and profiting from gathering and collecting will ultimately all go to those who are declared good by God. And it's a little fuzzy what it means there until you just think about the end of the age, the end of time. And you begin to realize and you think about what Christ said in Matthew chapter 5, where he says, the meek shall inherit what? The earth. And we come to the end and we realize that Christ, who declares Christians righteous, will rule and reign with him. We are heirs of Christ. Ultimately, those who will accept Christ as their Savior, ultimately all of what is good in the old heaven and the new and the and the and the old earth and the millennial kingdom, and then the new heaven and the new earth earth after the millennial millennial kingdom is of benefit to those who are Christ's and is of no benefit to those who are not. And so your mind is of this. You have two clear options here in the mind of Solomon. You are like the sinner who is foolish. who doesn't see the providence of God in his life and he's going to end in distress and despair. Or you see the person here who is good in the in the sight of God. who is who is wise, who sees the providence of God in his life, and he is able to enjoy life. He's able to delight in life. It doesn't mean that there's no hard times. I mean, it's still toil. It's still work. But he could see the good in the work because he sees it from the hand of God. We have three things to sort of summarize all of this as we think through all this. Number one Without God's intervention, we bear the full weight of Earth's curse What this text is telling us is that without God's providence, without his intervention, without his working, and without our viewing his working in our lives, we bear the full weight of earth's curse. Number two, wisdom guides our way, but cannot control our circumstances. In that way it's limited. Now it's not saying that we shouldn't pursue wisdom. Proverbs told us to make sure that we we pursue wisdom. We need to work hard for wisdom. Proverbs chapter 2 is very clear we should speak we should think of it as treasure But wisdom aside from God's providence and his working, wisdom aside from understanding that God is both in control and skilled in doing what he wants to do in this world. Wisdom, aside from that, might shine light on our circumstances, but will never control them. Number three. Seeing all things as from God shifts us from despair to delight. Now I just encourage you, Christian, this week, put this mindset on. Begin wake up in the morning on Monday morning and begin to think my my job is a gift from God. I'm gonna wake up and I'm gonna put coffee on and the coffee is a gift from God. We all that's not hard for us. And breakfast is a gift from God. And putting my clothes on is a gift from God. And Getting in my car is a gift from God. And if it doesn't start, it's a gift from God too. And if I have traffic, that's a gift from God. It's all it's all not gift in the sense of I yippee, I love traffic, but God is going to use it all in my life. So I see it all from the hand of God. I may not understand why that traffic is there. I may not really grasp why God would put traffic in my way. You know what? I can trust that God has a reason for what he does. And when I begin to live my life that way, it's joy. I begin to see the good in all of it. I see the joy. It's a totally different way of living, a totally different way of thinking. Now you may here be here today this morning and you may be saying to yourself I am not sure I have a relationship with God. Let me just encourage you to be honest with yourself about that. Just be honest. Maybe you thought to yourself, I I I didn't even know you could know for sure. Like I thought it was just kind of guessing like, you know, you just throw a dart at the wall and hope you hit something or you know, just sort of Do the best you can and hope God loves you and cares about you. That is not that's not the God of the Bible, actually. And the Bible actually says these things are written that you might know that you have eternal life. If you're listening this morning and you're thinking to yourself, I don't know where I stand with God. I'm not sure I have the relationship with God that that you talked about, let me encourage you that it has nothing to do with your own works. The Bible says, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us It has nothing to do with our own self-effort. It has everything to do with the work that Christ already did on the cross and dying to pay the punishment for our sin. And when he did that, see, our sin separates us from God. That's called death. And Jesus went to the cross and died. paying the punishment for our sin so that we could have our sins forgiven. And what we must do is trust in what Jesus did on the cross. And when we do that When we understand our sin, when we recognize our sin, we repent of our sin and trust Jesus to pay the punishment for our sin, when we do that, depend upon Him that He saves us, He gives us a new life in Christ. And that's the life we're talking about. You say, I'm not really sure about that. Let me encourage you. Come and talk with me after the service. You can say, hey, I just want to know about Jesus. I just want to know about eternal life. I want to make sure that I know Christ. Come and talk with me after the service. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you are going to spend eternity with the Lord. And for the rest of us, may we understand the text, what it says here, and understand the importance of the providence of God in our lives. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the truth of your word, and we pray, Lord, that you'd help us with this. We confess before you, Lord, that so many times we are frustrated, we are in despair because we look at life in terms of our own efforts bringing about futile results and knowing that ultimately it's an endless cycle. And Lord, we admit that out outside of you, we're going to hate life. Ultimately. We might have temporary happiness, but ultimately we're going to hate it. Lord, I pray that you'd help us as Christians to view, to view life in in terms of your working so that we could see that despite of living in a cursed world and having everything cursed, including our jobs and what we do, That we could see the good in it knowing it's from your hand. And that we can have joy that comes from you, that is a gift from you. And we thank you for that. We thank you for this passage. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.