Welcome everyone. You can take your Bibles and turn to Ephesians chapter two. We'll be looking at verses nine through 22 in a few moments. And this is uh the after the introduction, this is our first um first lesson. So it's our second lesson. I think it's really important for us to to really think about this because um and almost to sort of rediscover what this is um because it's so easy for us to be You know, it's one of those things where you can you can do something all your life and not really think about its true meaning, what it really, really is, and uh and this will help us to do that. It's of extreme importance uh that we understand what the church is. A lot of times, um, well, let me ask you. We'll start by just by our introduction, let's ask this question. If you ask Let's start with the unsafe person. If you ask the average unsafe person, average unsav, I'm not sure there's any average unsafe. But if you if you ask uh uh an unsaved person what church is, what kind of of comments might you get? What kind of ideas might they tell you? Have you ever had a discussion about this? Okay, you might get something very derogatory like a building of hypocrites. Okay. It's organized religion. Yeah, good point. Both of those are are comments that you might get from an unsafe first and then How about somebody who's not antagonistic toward church? How about somebody who's sort of indifferent toward church? What might they say? Okay, yeah. They might see it as it's a community, it's a good thing, but it's a so it's a club. It's like a yacht club or a golf club you know, a club for golfing or uh or uh you know some other kind of club like that. Chess club. Uh n you know, I you're part of the church club and I'm part of the chess club and we all have our different spheres of social clubs. Okay. Do church do Christians ever treat it that way? Sadly. Yeah. Sadly, Christians sometimes treated that that way. If you think for example of a a gym membership, you get it, why do you go to the gym? Yeah, so you so when you're evaluating a a a gym to to to uh to go to a gym uh and you maybe you're looking at different gym if you do this, w uh what are you evaluating? Well you're evaluating probably the cost of it and what they can offer you. Okay. And many people, unfortunately, evaluate the church that way. Okay, what am I going to have to do? And um and what does it all what will it offer me? And they really have a very uh really difficult, a really uh unbiblical view of what the church is. Yeah. So that's that's uh uh uh certainly a problem. Um sometimes now we sort of have what do you think the general consensus about the churches among The average if you had to con if you had to this is our opinion, you know what whatever your opinion is, just generally in our country, what would you say the genu genuine the general consensus about church is? Yeah. Yeah, I think Cheryl hit it on the head too. Uh it's probably what you're gonna say. It's it's it's doesn't there's it's not useful. Okay. Yeah, it's just not a really a useful thing. anymore. Okay? I don't see the point of it. All right. That is a ver I would say that may be the general consensus. And unfortunately, here's here's the reality. Culture teaches It it does. Culture the the one of the major instructors of individuals in the world is the culture. And if we're not careful as as Christians, culture teaches us too. It can arrange our our sense of morality. It can arran arrange our values and so and so we have to really understand biblically what what what the biblical value is of things. in order to actually not be be taught by the culture when it comes to these kinds of things. Yeah. But don't you think maybe on a bigger group of views, especially with older people, that maybe like during natural disasters and stuff like that, it can be seen as place that helps people. Not not um not certainly for what the church really is. But but as So let's take I think you're right. I let's take my feeling of the a of the average person right around here in Ferndale as they view Bethel Baptist Church. They are not antagonistic toward this church. I've actually met just about nobody that doesn't want us here. Okay? That's actually a good thing. That wasn't the case in the other building. I don't think through any fault of our own, it just was uh I don't know if it was just I don't know why, but it did not seem that they really wanted us there to be honest. We took up their parking their ro side side road parking, you know, and stuff on I I I don't I don't really know. Anyway. Um So so um but but but no I think generally people are glad we're here at our uh as I've just rubbed shoulders with people in the church. Now they don't They don't they're not glad enough to come, you know, m many of them. But they're fine with us being here and they say would they would say generally um that uh you know were a good thing. I actually picked up I some of you know I have a side business doing mattresses, I picked up a mattress right down the road from here, like literally walking distance from here the other day day and uh talked to the guy and um I you know how is he gonna get inside people's houses in this area in this area. So I was literally inside his house and and started you know wrapping up his mattress and while I'm I'm talking about w you know I actually this Oh yeah, we've gotten some of your stuff in our in our uh uh in our in our house. Yeah, and and I mean our you know our door or whatever. And uh just act really very positive and glad, you know, glad we were here. I said you should come see us sometime and and and we'd love to have you and that kind of thing. Um nice thing about being an individual I can say what I want, basically. So anyway, but uh but yeah, he was perfectly fine with us being here. So so some people are sort of like, yeah, it's fine. It's But they don't really see the value of it. And unfortunately, Christians can sometimes feel that. Like, yeah, it's good, it's fine, but it's sort of like the side thing I do when I feel like it. And so we really want to understand biblically what the role of a church is. This is the imp how important our study is. Martin Lloyd Jones said it this way. There must be real agreement concerning the doctrines by which a group of people are bound together and for the extension which for which they uh are working of which they are working. If there is uncertainty in such matters, there cannot be real fellowship. It is our being clear about what we all stand for, which gives unity and confidence. In any case, it is important to notice precisely that for which the Lord actually prayed. He asks that they all may be one, as thou Father art in me and I in him, that they also may be one in us. And the oneness that Christ prayed for in John 17 really takes takes um It really becomes what the church becomes. It's what the church is supposed to be. This is, Charles Ryrie says this, the importance of the church can scarcely be overstated. It is that which God purchased with the blood of his own son. It is that which God loves, nourishes, and cherishes. and which he shall present to himself blameless in all her glory one day. Building his church constitutes Christ's principal work in the world today. That's pretty pretty strong. It constitutes his principal work in the world today through his giving of spiritual gifts, thus the exercising of those gifts by the believers aligns us with what Christ is doing today. Do you do you know what the r the implication of what Ryrie is saying here? If a Christian is not not intricately involved in the local church, He cannot really be fulfilling the purpose that God created him. And God saved him. It is absolutely it is absolutely necessary. It is the principal work of the world in the world today. The nature of the church. So it's somewhat a little hard to define the church. I'll give you a very simple word association, and that is assembly. If you see the word church in Scripture, it means assembly. It even means that, by the way, when Christ says in the very beginning, I will build my church. And the gates of hell will not prevail against it. He says, I will build my assembly. Now, we know that there is the universal body of Christ. And it's expressed in local assemblies. But the word means assembly. Okay, well, what is the nature of this assembly? It's not a club It's not just an organization. What is the nature of this assembly? Well, we really get our answer in Ephesians. So I've asked you to turn to Ephesians chapter 2. There are actually a lot of metaphors that Ephesians uses. Ephesians is really the book in the Bible that we get the clearest. um and the most thorough really understanding of what a church is in its very essence. Like you you you turn to first Timothy and first and second Timothy Timothy and Titus, and you're going to find how the church functions. But the essence of what it is, you're going to find in Ephesians. So Ephesians chapter 2. Verse 19 says this. Now therefore you are no longer strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints. And notice what it says here, members of the household of God. So we see it says it's a household. having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ being the chief cornerstone, in whom the whole building fitted together. Now we have another metaphor. He has all of these metaphors. And you know, in in English, when you're writing a paper, you you shouldn't use mixed metaphors, okay? Because it confuses things. Why does Jesus do that or why does God the Lord Paul, but why does the Lord use all these different metaphors Because you can't contain the nature of the church in one metaphor. It requires multiple metaphors just to really get the full meaning of the thing. And so he, of course, uses it here. In whom the whole building fitly joined together grows into a holy temple. Okay, there's another one, a holy temple. I said, uh, what is the temple? Well the temple is that Is it talking about a physical temple? No, it's talking about God's the habitation of God's dwelling. Um holy temple in the Lord in whom you also are being built together for a dwelling place of God in the Spirit. The church is the dwelling place of God in the Spirit. All right, let's just summarize what these are. Well the word means assemble or gathering, as I said But what is the church and its very essence? Well, the church is God's special habitation. It is where God dwells. Now, we're told as Christians that as individuals, we um the Holy Spirit comes and indwells us when we get saved. When we come to Christ. And that's true. But did you know that there is just as much, I think, just as much emphasis on the Holy Spirit indwelling the body? of Christ as there is on the individual. That is rarely taught. In fact, the in scripture where it says the body is the temple of the Holy Spirit Which ye have of God. Remember that passage? That is plural. It is actually not talking about the individual It's talking primarily. Now it applies, okay, because the Bible says if you do not have the Spirit of God, you're none of his. So it's I'm not saying that there is the Holy Spirit does not indwell the individual. But I'm just simply making the point that that uh that that even that passage which or verse which we tend to use to talk about the indwelling of the individual is actually in its first application is talking about the indwelling of the body of the of the church. And so when the church assembles together in its lo in a location It is really representing the presence of God there. The church demonstrates God's wisdom. It demonstrates the wisdom of God and it the church is intended to bring God glory. And we see a lot more in this that we're gonna we'll flesh out a little bit here, and you really we don't We don't have enough time to flesh this out completely. But you see, I mean just how special and important and valuable uh the church really is. And there is no, by the way, there is no visible universal church today. There will be one day, in a sense. Right? When Christ comes and sets up his kingdom, then you have sort of a I mean it sort of a visible I mean that's a visible representation of of Christ and that kind of thing. Okay, but right now it's invisible. So the only visible church that you have is the local church. The only m visible manifestation of this that you have in the world on a on a practical basis, on a weekly basis, on a day-to-day basis, that kind of thing, is the local assembly, not to diminish the value of the universal assembly at all. In fact, the New Testament actually describes the universal church, probably you know, it mentions it probably more than the local church. But you c it you can't it can't find application. Unless you uh it can't there are some general applications, like for instance when you run into an un when you run into another believer that you don't even know, a lot of times you you connect with them in a way where this where you just kinda know that they they they know the law you know you y you sort of suspect that you've run that before and then you're just there's just this even if even if they're not um you know not uh maybe there's a lot of differences even doctrinally but but you know they they know the Lord. There's sort of this connection that happens. And I think that's probably an application of the the universal church. But but j but mostly the applications of the universal church are going to take place in the local church. Charles Bridges, this is archaic language, okay, but what he says here I think is so valuable that I include it. He says the church is the mirror. Well now we understand that, right? Okay, we know what a mirror does. It reflects someone's uh someone's You know, appearance. The church is a mirror that reflects the whole effulgence. That's the word we don't usually use. That's the fullness of the divine character. It reflects the whole effulgence of the divine character. It is the grand scene in which the perfections, it's the attributes of God, the perfections, the moral attributes particularly of God, of Jehovah, are displayed to the universe. The revelations made to the church, the successive grand events in her history, And above all, the manifestation of the glory of God in the person of Jesus Christ, furnish even the heavenly intelligences, that's angels, fresh subjects of adoring contemplation. I mean, you're talking at the church, that's what the angels are looking down at this thing called the church, and they are amazed at the wisdom of God. Do we see the church as this important, as this valuable, as this essential? So the church universal and local The Universal Church we've mentioned already there's many references in the New Testament refer to the Universal Church made up of all regenerated believers, and the local church are groups groups of the universal church visibly assembled. So let me just sort of talk about this a little bit, the whole idea of God's kingdom, because I think it this this helps us understand another aspect of the kingdom. Kingdom of God, of the church. Right now, when you think of the word kingdom in the Old Testament, I'm sorry, in the New Testament, well, both, you should think generally about God's rule. Okay, at the most basic level, what is a kingdom? Well, you have a ruler, and you have those who are ruled, right? In the Old Testament, the nation of Israel, what did you have? Well, what God was was was wanting to do was to set up a theocracy where God was the ruler and there were the ruled. And of course by the people's own desire uh there became a king who ruled and the people um and the people people followed after the king. So, but you have in general the idea of a kingdom is rule. Okay? And there are three, basically three kinds of king kingdoms mentioned in scripture. Scripture. The one is the universal kingdom. That's that is to say that God rules everything. He rules it all. So in in and sometimes when you see the word The idea of a kingdom in Scripture, it's really just saying, like the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, the world and they that dwell therein. That would be like a description of the youth that God is in con God owns it all, he is ruling all, and everything is under that kind of kingdom. And so that includes unsaved people, that includes everything. And God truly is ruler of everything. It's the universal kingdom. You have a His mediated kingdom in Scripture, and God has chosen to mediate his kingdom different ways throughout Scripture. That's what really And so you have in the Old Testament, for example, he mediated his kingdom through Israel. And prior to Israel, he mediated his kingdom primarily through a family. Prior to that, he mediated his kingdom through through Adam and Eve and their lineage. Okay, so he's mediated his kingdom throughout throughout throughout the the history of the world on some level or another. Is God mediating his kingdom now? Very basically he uh technically he's not. Okay. He's not mediating a s physical kingdom now, right? And really any in any in any respect. There's there's no I mean, look at the world. There is no kingdom on this earth. There's no nation on this earth with which God is saying, Okay, that's my nation, I'm ruling through them. Okay, right? I mean that's not that that is not to say that God will not again use the nation of Israel in the future in the millennial kingdom. He will, but for now, he's not mediating his kingdom on earth. However, there is another kind of kingdom in the New Testament, and that is a mystery or spiritual kingdom. Christ said, the kingdom of God is within you. We have examples of the fact that he has said that there is a spiritual kingdom. Well, what does that mean? It means that there is, on a spiritual level, a desire for there to be a ruler. Alright, so that's the spiritual kingdom of God. Well, okay, how is the spiritual kingdom of God being um I don't use the word media mediated because I just said it's it doesn't have a mediated kingdom now but how's the spiritual kingdom of God working out now? Well it is through his church That's the connection. The church is to be under the rulership of Christ. So what are some of the attributes of the church? Well, if you look at Ephesians which we won't take the time to do in in detail, but we have done before years ago. The church is one. What uh by the way, what we find that in Ephesians 4. We I think we mentioned that last week. It's one, and what is its oneness based on? What's its oneness based on? Yes. Yeah, okay. Um particularly it's based upon God's God being one. The Godhead being one. The trin we God is a tri-unity. Remember it says endeavor to keep the unity of the spirit and the bond of peace, for there is what? One God. If you're going to reflect God, which is exactly what the church is supposed to do, then you've got to, why are we to be one? Why are we one? Why is God making us one? Why did Christ praise that we'd be made one? Because it reflects the character of God. We are also very diverse. We have all these different gifts and all these backgrounds and all these different In fact, in Ephesians you find that it says that there was this middle wall partition between the Jews and the Gentiles and the gospel and Christ destroyed that. It's diverse. It is holy. It is a truth protector. The Bible says it's the pillar and ground of the truth. These are some of the ways that it is described. And then you have how it functions. I'm sort of just kind of going through this, but how it functions. Well, it says it functions as a building, as a body, as a flock, as a family, and as a fellowship. Now, here is what I'll just say about all those. What God clearly intends, what God clearly intends is for the church to be more then let's come in once a week and sit through a service and go home. It's got to be more than that. Right? I mean, all of these different things show us that this is something that really is our we're really supposed to center our lives around Christ and his church. We're supposed to center our lives around this. This should be the center. The build body, the building, the flock, a family, a fellowship. Okay, so let's talk about fellowship for a minute. We're supposed to be a fellowship together with each other. So a fellowship, uh uh the basic uh basic idea of what fellowship is, is sharing. We're to share with each other Okay. So what are th what are some things of the church, before I list them, list some things here, what are some things of the church that we are to share together? That we can share together? Time? Good? Yeah. Spiritual gifts, those yep, definitely. Yes. Yes, our cares, right. Good. We're to bear one another's burdens. We're to bear one another's burdens. If nobody shares their burdens, how are we supposed to bear them? Right? So yeah, our cares? What else? Yes. Our needs? Yeah, we can we can meet each me know each other's needs, meet each other's needs. What else? All right, that's a good good group of things. I'm just going to throw a few up here. Monetary giving. Christ. Christ we share together in. Okay, we have a common bond in Christ. Ministering to the saints and service to the Lord. Uh truth. We share the truth together. We w the Lord's table is something that we share in together. We pray together. We share in our desire to be distinct from the Word. We share the Holy Spirit. We're sharing in that the gospel. A welcoming attitude. There are all kinds of things that we are as a body of Christ to be sharing in together in fellowship one with another. And that means we've got to be together. And it's got to be more than just, you know, one time for a morning service. There's no way you could do all that if you're just being together one time in a morning service. Or certainly not streaming. There's no way you could do all of that. God desires for us to be together in fellowship with one with another. And and and we really can't be aligned with his will unless we are really making the ch giving it giving the church its proper uh value and place. Okay, let's I'm going to switch gears here a little bit. And we're going to now make some application to practical practically. How do we now make, how does the church make decisions? based upon who it is and what is the role of the congregation in decision making. Okay, so we're that's that's where we're going with this. And it's based on who the church who the church is and there's very specific places in scripture that tell us what the church is what what the role of the church is in decision making. Okay, those two things. So let me ask you this question What you have okay, so in the church decisions are made. You've got uh you've got uh pastor and elders. Um you've got deacons, you've got the congregation, s you know you've got different different you know, roles that they differ they play. And part of the problem in the local church oftentimes is that that the roles are there's confusion about what role the different parts play. So one of the reasons we have to go through the class is to make sure we're all on the same page. Okay, let's think really biblically here either by direct statement or clear implication. What does the Bible say specifically the congregation should do as a whole when it comes to making decisions. What role does the Bible give to that? Any ideas? Okay. Some of you are like, I'm trying to think back to that lesson. This is not new, okay. But we will go we will go over it again. All right. Let's uh is it should the congregation I'll give you I'll give you an example. Should the ch congregation choose which vacuum cleaner to buy Okay, this was a this was a congregational uh vote in this church many years ago. Right, Jimmy? Remember the car remember uh that that was a n the it was a it was a discussion many years ago as a congregation he's laughing because he anyway and and they and they were all deciding whether to you w whether to buy Oric or What was it? Uh Dyson or Oric or something like that? And there were the whole congregation was is that the role of the congregation to decide what that what vacuum clear to buy? Well if that's the role of the congregation you're you're gonna have very long congregational meetings and and you are not gonna get a whole lot done very quickly and it's going to become anyway that so the answer to that is no. Okay That it really is I'm not saying you couldn't do that if you want to, if you want to raise that as a but it really is probably not a so if you're trying to determine what what vacuum cleaner to buy, it could go different directions. The deacons could figure that out Or maybe even just a ministry leader could figure that out. In our church, last vacuum cleaner I bought, I saw it I saw it at Costco. It was cheap we needed a vacuum cleaner and I bought it because we I knew we needed a vacuum cleaner. I mean it was just that simple and we had it in the we had money in the budget to do it. uh I you know went to Costco and and bought it. Um and it needed to need definitely needed to happen. So so what role of the so so okay so let's let's kind of go through this. Christ was tasked with the congregation with the responsibility of corporate moral purity. The Bible says in Matthew 18, 15, that if somebody somebody trespasses against someone else in the church, that there is there is an accountability within the local church that for moral purity, that there needs to be what's what needs to happen. If there is if there is a trespass one against another in the local church or some sort of trespass that would a moral problem that needs to be dealt with. What is the goal? Okay, yes. Restoration. How do you get to restoration? Repentance. Repentance. Okay, that's the goal. The goal is repentance. Once there's repentance That's where the line the chain stops. Because you most of you know Matthew 18, you go to the fur go to him and him alone. And then after that, you take two or three witnesses, and then after that you take it to the church, the church, the congregation. Okay? Christ has tasked the congregation with responsibility of doctrinal purity. First Timothy 3. 15 says that we are that the church is the pillar and ground of the truth. The assembly is the pillar and ground of the truth. That means that every member of the church is responsible for doctrinal purity. It's not just, okay, well, the pastor knows what he's talking about, so I'll just trust him. No, we all need to be good Boreans and we need to be discerning about what's being preached. We need to be discerning about whether it's really biblical what's being said. This is absolutely extremely important. I'm I'm listening to a series right now that is uh on on a a chur a huge mega church out west that that has recently well not real recently but fallen basically just kind of crumbled And the major I I'm I'm still trying to understand and discern how what happened with that church. And it's it's you're they're basically kind of doing an autopsy on what happened And I'm listening through it and thinking through it and everything like that. But one of the big things is nobody challenged the guy. He was he was the he was the main pastor of the church and whatever he said and he got into some things he said some things. He I mean I mean and uh very public and and nobody was challenging him on anything. And uh and it shouldn't have necessarily he he had elders in the church actually. church. It shouldn't necessarily be, okay, well I'll let the others take deal with that. No. If there is a biblical problem with what the guy, what the pastor or the preacher is saying Um s it is the responsibility of members to to to deal with that. Now there's an appropriate way to deal with it. You don't the the Bible says don't rebuke an elder, so it's not necessarily that you're standing standing in the middle of a service and say, You're wrong and unless it's really heretical. But you're not usually going to do that. But at the same time, there is There is appropriate accountability that needs to happen in every church member if there's a biblical problem with what's being preached, there needs to be that there need to be brought under accountability for that. Another one is the is is exit of membership and then by implication entrance of membership. So the Bible says that last in Matthew 18, that last Um well let's go ahead and turn there for a minute. We've been referring to it. Let me re let's return to it. Let's turn to it for a minute. Matthew eighteen. And pick up in verse fifteen there. Um It says, Moreover, if your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he hears you, you have gained your brother. But if he will not hear you, take him with you one or two more, that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. And if you if he refuses to hear them, tell it to the church. If he refuses even to hear the church, let him be to you as an heathen, as an unsaved person. and a tac and a and a and a publican. He was using that as an illustration. They understood exactly what that meant. It wasn't like let him treat someone who who you know collects taxes. Um uh he's saying let him treat treat him as a um as someone whom you're used to you know has uh who who is not part of you. Tax collectors back then were were were if they were Jewish people um they really began to work for the Roman government. and they were viewed by the Jewish people uh as not part of them anymore. Matthew is an example, Levi Matthew Matthew was an example of the text. Okay, and they were yeah, they were collaborators and they're not really part of them. So Matthew who wrote this, who penned these words down that Jesus wrote, knew exactly what he was talking about. Uh knew what he was talking about. He's saying don't don't consider them to be part of you anymore. That's the very final step that you don't want to take, if at all possible, to church discipline. But that's the role of the congregation as a whole. You pray and hope that in church discipline you never get there. Now you do sometimes, but hopefully you're getting through the first, you're, you know, that you're you're dealing, you're praying for repentance, hoping for repentance. Working toward repentance in the first steps in the beginning. But at the end, whose responsibility is it? Well, it says, tell it to the church. The most normal way to read that is tell it to the assembly. The assembly is the one that's that's going to make that that determination. That's the most normal now, hopefully they're going to take direction from the leadership of the church. Hopefully they're going to trust the leadership of the church as they present that and all that kind of thing. But ultimately there's a there's a balance, there's a check there that the congregation has that responsibility. I like to say it this way as an illustration because I like car illustrations. I actually have two car illustrations in my sermon that I'm coming. coming up. And I was like, you know, I when I when I'm meditating on messages, I just come up with illustrations. I'm like, why two car illustrated anyway? I don't know what it is with me, but in cars. But anyway, um so so I like to say that the church is i that the congregation serves as an emergency break. So the church leadership is steering the thing. Christ is the driver. But Christ is steering the church leadership. The church leadership is trying to discern biblically the direction the church should go and staying on discipleship. Remember our illustration and ultimately glorifying God. What is the role a congregation makes? Well it's like that that emergency break that if if it gets if it actually if everybody's buying into this, you know, if the congreg if the if the all the leadership is buying into this and still something doesn't smell right It is the congregation's responsibility to say, okay, well, something's not quite right here. Um we had we had that situation a few years ago when it came to our budget and we missed something something and the car and somebody in the congregation, I think it was somebody in the congregation that said, Hey something something didn't add up here. It wasn't a moral problem. Numbers didn't work right. And a couple people noticed it that kind of thing. So um or noticed it after it was in simultaneous with us noticing it or whatever. But that's good. That that needs that's a role that that needs needs to happen. And then of course, uh it just makes sense that if they're responsible biblically for the exit, it just makes sense for the congregation to vote them in as well. Um if they're gonna have to respond to take responsibility if there has to be a a church discipline matter, well then the congregation should be voting them as well. There's accountability in the congregation, the congregation can get to know them a little bit, uh ask questions that they want, grill them doctrinally if they want, which I don't think happens that often. And and which is okay unless you have a question about it. You could grill them, that's okay. But um and then they come into the church uh and their their the congregation votes the men. Uh so That's kind of the process. So those are the things that biblically now it's also wise for a church uh to um You know, that's why why we have a budget where the church but uh votes on a budget. And there's actually one other thing in here that I don't think I I don't know why I don't have it here. Um and that is they vote on leadership in the in the uh in in scripture. Okay. So you have the deacons that are voted on in Acts chapter six by the congregation. So you have leadership that's voted on as well. But those are those are the main responsibilities of the local church when it comes decision making. We also have an annual budget every year that we vote on. We report to the church quarterly. The church provides general accountability. It's not, okay, now the ch the congregation is going to steer the exact direction of church. That will never work. Okay. But there is accountability and transparency so that people can see what's going on. and um and provide that. Any questions about the role of the church? Well um I'm kidding. But any questions about the role of the church, what the church is, the nature of the the church. Hello, my name is Jim Gunam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon