We are going to be back in Ecclesiastes this morning, chapter 3, and we're going to be looking at verses 1 through 15. And before we begin, let's bow our heads together and go to the Lord. Heavenly Father, again this morning we come with such grateful and thankful hearts. We are thankful, O Lord. I am so thankful for the Him that you will hold us fast. So many times we try to wander off, well, but you will hold us fast. And for that I am grateful and thankful this morning. We're thankful, Father, for your word this morning. And as we come to the time to sit under your word and your teaching, I ask that you would help us to to set aside all the cares and all the uh clamor and noise that we've been hearing all week, as sad as it is, Father. Yet we know that you are sovereignly in control of all things, and you are providentially working in all of our lives. And I'm thankful this morning that we can come freely here together. And I pray as we sit under your word that Father we would not be just hearers, but we would be doers of the word And I ask for your spirit to work in each of our hearts. And Lord, remind us and encourage us through your truth. And Lord, as we leave here today, may we be changed a little more into your image. May we think through what we're learning and Lord apply it to our lives this week. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Ecclesiastes chapter three, verse one. To everything there is a season, a time for every purpose under heaven. A time to be born, time to die. It's a time to plant, a time to pluck up what is planted. There's a time to kill and a time to heal. A time to break down and a time to build up. There's a time to weep and a time to laugh. A time to mourn and a time to dance. And time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones. A time to embrace and a time to refrain from embracing A time to gain, time to lose, a time to keep, and a time to throw away, a time to tear, and a time to sew. It's a time to keep silence and a time to speak. A time to love and a time to hate. It's a time of war and a time of peace. What profit has the worker from that in which he labors? I have seen the God-given task with which the sons of men are to be occupied He has made everything beautiful in its time. Also, he has put eternity in their hearts, except that no one can find out the work that God does from beginning to end. I know that nothing is better for them than to rejoice and to do good in their lives, and also that every man should eat and drink and enjoy the good of all his labor It is the gift of God. I know that whatever God does, it shall be forever. Nothing can be added to it, and nothing can be taken away from it God does it that men should fear before him. That which has already been, and what is to be, has already been. And God requires an account of what is past. We begin by asking a question this morning. How do we make sense of the events of life? It's really this passage answers this question. And if you think about the events of this life, You will realize this past week that this is exactly the question we need to answer her I'm always amazed, I'm very frequently amazed anyway, of the of how expository preaching as we go through books of the Bible and go through chapters of Scripture how God seems to providentially work things out that we're we're we're in a passage that that directs our attention to exactly where it where our attention needs to go in a given situation that either our nation is going through or that our church is going through or that we I know of lives that are going through these things. And in this case, God has providentially brought us to a passage on God's providence in Ecclesiastes chapter 3. And I think you're going to see that in this passage. This past week has been a tumultuous week for our country. It is the twenty-fourth anniversary of 9-11 last uh last week. And then on the 10th of September, we w we witnessed the, or at least witnessed the news of the assassination of an apologist and activist and and a genuine Christian, Charlie Kirk. And of course, if you haven't seen that, then you're not watching the news at all, which is a nice life for you, but not really reality. And um as you think through the different situations of life and the different circumstances and You can look through life with one of two lenses. You can look at the events of life, and you can look at it from the lens of self-sufficiency. And if you are looking at life through the through the lens of self-sufficiency, You look back at the events of this past week, and frankly, the many events of life, and you don't know what to do with them. You'll know how to make sense of those things. And frankly, what we've seen from from Ecclesiastes is as you look through the lens of self-sufficiency, the ultimate end to that lens, the result of looking at life through that lens is despondency and despair and vanity and futility. God did not make us to be self-sufficient. He made us to look through a different lens entirely. He made us to look at the lens of God's control. That although we don't understand how the events of our lives ultimately and the events of this world ultimately God will use in a in a way through his providence and his control to bring out a beautiful end We have been looking at the at Ecclesiastes chapter 2 last week, and we came to Ecclesiastes 2, verse 23. If you have your Bibles open there, you'll see them see it there. And we realized as as Solomon reviews the issue of vocational work labor or the issue of wisdom. Or the issue of pursuing pleasure or material blessings, we see that his conclusion of all these things under the sun, outside of God in view, is There are days are sorrowful, and his work is burdensome. Even the night, his heart takes no rest. This also is vanity. But we see in verse 24 of chapter 2 that there is a change. Now Solomon puts on the different lens. He now puts on the lens of providence. And we see in that passage, verse 24, picking up verse 24 there. Nothing is better for a man than that he should eat and drink, that his soul should enjoy good in his labor. This also I saw was from the what? From the hand of God. For who can eat or who can have enjoyment more than I? For God gives wisdom and knowledge and joy to a man who is good in his sight. But to the sinner he gives the work of gathering and collecting that he may give to him who is good before God. This also is vanity and grasping for the wind. We see a change from the perspective that he's put on this lens, okay, God's in control. God is doing stuff. things. And we looked at the idea of providence being God working in a personal and purposeful way. in the world and in our lives to take the events in our of our lives and and bring them to a place Where he is glorified, and as servants of him we are satisfied. Now we come and we Solomon really settles in on this theme as we come to chapter 3. And we see as we live in a sin-cursed world, and we have seen that already in Ecclesiastes. That we can still live lives of purpose and meaning when we live under God's control. We must see ourselves as being under the control of God We must see the events of this life, our world, the things that happen in the world, all being under the control of God. And we're going to see three uh three ways that uh you know we asked the question, what does it look like? For us to be under God's control, to live that way, we're going to see three things in this passage. One, we need to realize the divine purpose in everything. We'll see that in verses one through eight. Then we need to trust God to carry out his purposes. It's 9 through 11. And then we need to live with God's eternal purposes in view. That's 12 through 15. Verses 1 through 8 we pick up and we need to realize the divine purpose in everything. Verse 1 says this: to everything there is A season. Now that word everything means exactly what you think it means. It means all, the totality of. And the word season means an appointed or prescribed time. For example, in Nehemiah chapter 6, the king says to Nehemiah, he sends them and he sets It says, I set him a time. This is a an appointed or prescribed time this season. So to everything, there is an appointed, prescribed season or time. And then it says a time, or you could say an appropriate time for every purpose under the sun You see the all-inclusive nature of this verse. For everything there is a season And there's appropriate time for every purpose under heaven. And we've seen this phrase over and over again. Under the sun, under heaven Now understand that why is Solomon realizing this? He's realizing this because he is now seeing what is under heaven From the perspective of what is above heaven. He is seeing that God is sovereignly in control and providentially working through all of the things that are under under the sun, things that are in heaven. So that we what we saw before is that all things under the sun are vanity. If you don't have the right lens on, that's what it looks like. But now when you see that God is working You have a different lens entirely. And then be he begins, we begin we get we begin to see what this looks like We actually just see this word time means a an occasion or a suitable moment, and I want to flush that out a little bit more. The Bible uses, the Old Testament uses this word to mention to mean like rain. mentions rain in Leviticus 26. 4, or the downfall of God's enemies in Deuteronomy 32. 35, or even the conception of a child in 2 Kings 4. 16. And it says in 1 Chronicles, an interesting verse in 12, chapter 12, verse 32, the sons of Iskar who had understanding of the times, there's our word. to know what Israel ought to do. It's not talking about a single event that has no meaning. It's talking about seasons and times that are full of meaning And it actually tells us that the wise person has some insight as to what to do during certain times. But a godly person does what David did. A godly person does what Psalm 31, 15 says, my times, there's our word again, are in your hand. My times are in your hand. Deliver me from the hand of my enemies and from those who persecute me. Brothers and sisters in Christ, folks, what we need to remember and just to Uh settle in our own hearts when we go through the difficulties of life, through seasons that we can't control, through events that we don't understand, and we're trying to make to make uh Sense of everything, we've got to come to the conclusion that my times are in God's hand. If we will pray that to God, That tells us then that we've got the right lens on. And you have this word purpose, and the word purpose is an interesting word. It actually means desire or pleasure. Sometimes it's actually translated as pleasure. In Ecclesiastes chapter 5, verse 4, for example, it says he has no pleasure. What this is then telling us is that God sovereignly and providentially takes the events and fits them in such a way that He is pleased. that it accomplishes his ultimate desires. And then we have some examples of this in verses 2 through 9. There are 14 couplets here in this passage. 14 different couplets, and they show each, they show the totality of things. First one, a time to be born and a time to die. The implication would be, and everything in between. And there are some that say that there's really no rhyme or reason to or order to these different things, and that may be true. I Just to help our minds grasp them, I put them in four different categories. And we'll go through those categories. The first category is creation and destruction. So he says, a time to be born, and a time to die, a time to plant, and a time to pluck that what is planted. A time to kill, a time to heal, a time to break down, a time to build up. And later on, a time to cast away stones, a time to gather stones. Now, most of these are readily familiar with what they're talking about. We know what it means to be born, we know what it means to die, we know what it means to be plant. We know what it means to pluck up what is planted, and certainly if you're a farmer, you can understand that there are certain time there are certain kinds of annual plants that they bear their fruit, and then it's time to just rake them all up, throw them in the trash, and you're You're preparing the soil for the next season. There's times and seasons for all of these different things. Now, what is going to be interesting in this passage as we go through this is to understand a couple of things about the different examples that we have One is that the emphasis is on what God's going to do with all of these things or what he does with all these things. And the other thing is that we are going to see human agency. But when some people come to this passage They think this passage is for us to figure out, okay, well now I've got to figure out the appropriate time to do things. And this passage is Okay, I've got to figure out the appropriate time to do this. I've got to figure out that it's the appropriate time to do that. And then you know, that's not what this passage is talking about, actually This passage is saying that there are appropriate things that occur in life, and God superintends over all of it to providentially bring about these events. For his purposes and his pleasure. The time to cast away stones is an interesting one. There's all kinds of views on that. The time to cast away stones, the time to gather stones. I I think we're talking there about to to cast away stones, you're going to do some sort of destruction. You're throwing them at people like in a in a battle. You're doing destruction there, you're throwing them at a barn and doing destruction there. Pretty much when you throw a stone or a lot of stones, you're doing destruction with something. And Then you're when you're gathering them, you're preparing something. But probably what Solomon has in mind has it has to do with making war and defending oneself and all of that. There's times for those things. And then we have human reactions. There's a time to weep and a time to laugh, a time to mourn, and a time to dance, a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing. And if we've lived any length of time, you know that these are all these are all true. Usually people don't weep on purpose. I know sometimes Certain people have said, well, I just want to get alone and cry. Like they purposefully make themselves cry. I'm not sure I grasp that But there are other times where it just kinda comes, right? Most of the time that's the way weeping is. It's something that just comes and laughing is the same thing. Like unless you're gonna make laughing gas. I mean I think most people don't like say, okay, I'm going to sit down and laugh right now. It's a little bit strange. No, these are all human, these are rehuman reactions that occur. Time to mourn. Well, there's got to be an event that takes place in order for there to be mourn. Or a time to dance. Obviously, it's talking there about being joyful, and we're showing it with our bodies. A time to embrace, a time to refrain from embracing. Then material possessions we see here, a time to gain and a time to lose. If you guys are look at your 401ks, right now it's on a gain. Tomorrow it might be on a loss. And it might be on a gain again and a loss again. We're all hoping it goes like this. But there is a time to gain and a time to lose, a time to keep, and a time to throw away, a time to tear, and a time to sow. Tearing a garment or sewing together a garment. And then human reactions. A time to keep silent. A time to speak. A time to love. A time to hate. A time of war. A time of peace. All of these things have human, or most of them, if not all of them, have human interactions involved. Human agency is involved But what it says in the passage is that God takes all of these things, everything, and then gives us 14 couplets of examples of things for us to see that in in in this world under heaven God is in control He will do what he chooses to do. And it will ultimately be for his pleasure, his glory, his purposes. Then he moves back to this idea of work. It's always coming back to work. It's always coming back to labor. You feel like that, guys? Men? Women? Boys, girls, schoolwork. Monday's always coming. My daughter said this morning, she's like, she's thinking to herself right now, man, I should need to stop talking on Sunday morning. My daughter said this morning, I won't say which one, but one's at college is not her. Um she said this morning, uh, man, I wish it was a three-day weekend. Everybody goes, Amen. That was the most amen I heard today already. Because Monday's always coming. It's always happening. There's always work. And Solomon's like, there's always work. But I want you to notice, he says, what profit has the worker from that which is which he labors? Now remember what he said before. If he go go back to Ecclesiastes 2. 17, it says, Therefore I hated life Because what? Because of the work that was done under the sun was distressing to me, for all is vanity and grasping for the wind Then I hated all my labor in which I had toiled under the sun, because I must leave it to a man who will come after me But now, when he asks the question, what profit has a worker from that in which he labors, verse 9, verse 10, he says, this: I have seen the what? The God-given task with which the sons of men are to be occupied. Totally different lands. He sees now his work, his labor, his vocation. He now sees his work as a God-given task. What a difference the right lens makes. And as we look at this lens, it says He made everything beautiful in its time. Can you, Christian, can you, can you look back it with me at past events in your life? Events that you that that may in the middle of it you're going, uh uh how is this going to be beautiful? I don't see it. It's kind of like Bob Ross. He has does a painting. In the middle of the painting, it looks like a beautiful painting and he takes this black thing and he goes through it. You like that noise? That didn't that came out a little bit different than I thought. Anyway. And uh and then he makes this happy little tree. And it looks beautiful. But when he puts that line through it, you're sort of going, man, what did you do that for? Why did you mess it up? And there are times in our lives we like think everything's going fine and then it's like God messes the whole thing up. And yet God has a plan for those black lines he puts through our lives. He makes beautiful everything in his time. The word beautiful usually is meant in terms of aesthetic beauty as you go through the Old Testament. Genesis 12, uh 11, uh the uh this is a woman of beautiful countenance, talking about beauty throughout the Old Testament when he uses this word. But here in the text, I think he's talking about the idea of something fitting beautifully, a beautiful fit. Think of a tapestry. a beautiful tapestry that all of the colors and the threads and everything just fit together perfectly and any individual thread of and of itself and the vi and the individual color wouldn't be that beautiful. You put it all together and it fits together and it's beautiful. Or a puzzle. You're working on a puzzle and you're starting a little starting on the corners and you work around the edges, it doesn't look too great. I mean if you just do the edges of a puzzle and you say, well, that's beautiful. Nobody goes to change the edges and say, whoa, that's gorgeous. Nobody does that, right? You've got to put all the little puzzle pieces together. And if you're really good at puzzle puzzle putting together, there's probably another way to say that. Uh actually uh you don't you you don't look look at a box, right? You don't look at it, you just put it all together and see how it all comes out. I look at a box just so you know Or Legos. I used to we used to love to do Legos with my kids and uh Christmas time usually. And um we we put the get a Lego set and and you're putting all these different pieces and we we try to get some pretty complex ones, the most complex usually we can find. We try to put 'em and and you know, you're putting the thing together and you're going, Why are they doing that? Why are they putting that there? The whole time. What's what's going on there? What's going on there? Until you actually at some point you go, Oh, I see what they're doing Well that makes sense. That's all going to work together. It's all going to fit together perfectly. I like the cars. You could tell I like cars because used cars illustrations all the time. And and uh my kid one of my kids will they they'll actually buy me a Lego set of cars. We actually have one that's not built yet. It's been sitting there for a long time because I'm busy. But um But uh you know the gears all work together, everything works right. I mean that's the idea here that everything fits beautifully in its time Or you think of keys, when my dad passed away he had a ring of keys he ha and it was like I had no clue what these keys go to He knew, I had no idea, so I'm trying to fit I still to this day I'm like, there's a lock. I wonder if there's a key one of these ring of keys go in this lock. And you're going through all the keys and trying to fit it in the lock. Why didn't you label this keys? And you're going through and you finally go, oh, it fits. That's this. That's the idea here. With the right lens, um You realize that God ultimately will fit everything beautiful in His time. But there are limitations to this. This is interesting in the passage. He says next, and it almost looks like you're like, well, why is he saying that? But he has a very Important reason for saying this, he says, also he, God, has put eternity in their hearts Now what does that mean when it says he put eternity in their hearts? Well, if you look down at verse 14, the word's used again, it's used, it's translated there forever. Whatever God does, he does forever. So it says also he put eternity or put forever in their hearts. And there are different ideas as to what this means. There's one translation actually that means exactly the opposite of what it actually is saying. But it means exactly what it's saying there. It means eternity or forever. I think it reminds us of the fact that we are actually made for eternity. We were made in the image of God, Genesis 126, and then God said, Let us make man in our image according to the likeness of our likeness. Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, over the cattle, and over every uh and over the earth and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. God originally created us to have with the capacity for the eternal. Genesis 3. 22. Behold, the man has become like one of us to know good and evil, and now lest he He put out his hand and take also the tree of life and eat and live forever. God intended us to be made in it, he is, we are made in the image of God and to live forever in eternity. And there is the sense that God has put, Romans 1 says this. It says in Romans 1 verse 19, because what may be known of God is manifest in them. That God has put something in us, because we are made in the image of God to realize that there is something more than just what is under the sun. There's something more than just this earth. There's something more than life is hard and then you die and you're done. There's something more than that And that's why you have all over the world various religions, various faiths that try to make sense of the afterlife. But there's just a sense that you know there's something beyond this life. There's something beyond the material. And human human beings, we know that And we know that there should be meaning and purpose beyond this cycle, this endless cycle of activity and working, eating, and sleeping and fun and just this endless cycle. There must be something more which which creates for us Actually creates for us some frustration. Because the next part of the passage says this: except that no one can find out the work that God does from beginning to end. So God has put within us eternity so that we have a knowledge of things beyond this life, at least an intuition about the things beyond this life. We know that there is more meaning and purpose than just what we what we can see and touch and feel in this life, and yet We don't know the end from the beginning. We don't know what God is doing While we're in the middle of it. Except that no one can find out the work that God does from beginning to end. And that's why we get pretty frustrated. I mean that's why there's frustration for Solomon. You remember remember what it says in Ecclesiastes 22, verse 20? Therefore I turned my heart and despaired of all the labor in which I had toiled under the sun. And then verse 23, for all his days are sorrowful and burdensome, even in the night his heart takes no rest. It's vanity. There's frustration and despair ultimately. Why? Because I know there's more, there's more mean, there's more purpose, and yet I don't know what that is. I don't know what God is doing. And that's why I actually put as a heading for this that we've got to trust God. It's not in the passage. The passage doesn't say to trust Him. But I think the implication has to be that if we are going to have the lens of God's providential working, we are going to have to do it as we trust Him. Like Proverbs 3:5 and 6 says, Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways, acknowledge Him, and He shall direct your paths. You can't lean on your understanding because you don't understand. And so I must trust in the Lord with all of my heart So the lens of God's providence and his working requires faith because I can't see what God can see. And God's got it all figured out. It looks like chaos to me. It looks like a jumbled mess to me. It looks like a problem to me. And yet God ultimately, in his time and in his way, will make it fit beautifully. You say, but what about the curse and what about the fault? God's got all things, He's sovereign over all that. Even a fallen world, a sin-cursed world with death and destruction and everything in between and all of that, God has it all figured out. And ultimately we trust him, and he's going to make it all fit beautifully in his time. See, ultimately what this shows us is that we are not made for self-sufficiency. We're not made to be dependent on ourselves And I I want to mention that here. This is really important. It's important for our lives as Christians, but perhaps you're out there this morning and you you don't know the Lord as your Savior. You don't you don't you're not a Christian, or you're not sure if you're a Christian or not The the biggest problem most with most people that keep them from becoming a true Christian is that they're trying to depend on self. They're trying to be good enough to do what they want to do, or to to be good enough to get to God, or to for their good to outweigh their bad. And yet the Bible says Ephesians 2. 8. 9, for by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. The Bible tells us in second 2 Corinthians 15, it tells us that if Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, that's what he did. He died for us according to the scriptures. He died to pay the punishment for our sin. He took our sin on himself, died on the cross, so that he could give us his righteousness, and then he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. And then Romans tells us this, if you will confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you'll be saved. Doesn't say anything about being a good person. It doesn't say anything about that. Wait, wait, wait a minute. Don't you have to go to church? No, you don't have to go to church. Wait a minute. Don't you have to be like like have a good upbringing or you know, have a good heart. You've got to have a good heart. No, actually the Bible tells us their heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. All you have to do is trust in what Jesus did in paying the punishment for your sin and dying for you. You trust Jesus in what he did for you on the cross and dying for your sin. You embrace him as your Lord and Savior, and you're saved, the Bible says. You then have a life of purpose and meaning. And I'll just say this, if you're not sure where you s where you will spend eternity, you're not sure about your relation with God, come talk with me after the service. I can't think of any more thrilling thing that I could possibly do. Than to show somebody from the Bible how you can truly be a Christian. Well, the passage is now going to continue, and we're going to learn in very practical terms how to now live. with the lens of God's providence. How then should we live? We don't have to live in in despair and frustration. We trust the Lord to do what only He can do. We're not trying to control what we can't control. We're going to trust God to control what only He can control. So how do we live? Ecclesiastes really helps us, verse 12. I know that nothing is better for them than to rejoice. And to do good in their lives. And also that every man should eat and drink and enjoy the good of his labor. It is a gift. It is the gift of God. I know that whatever God does, it shall be forever. Nothing can be added to it, and nothing taken from it God does it that men should fear before him that which is, has already been, and what is to be has already been, and God requires an account of what is past. What I did is I took this and I put this into two different categories to help us. I want us to first sh show see that embedded in verses 12 through 15 are assurances of God's providence. He is now, Solomon is now reflecting on the realities of the presence of God And so we see five things here. We see, first of all, that God gifts us responsibilities. What's it look like to have the lens of God's providence? Okay, our responsibilities are now gifts from God. Their vanity and vexation of spirit prior with the wrong lens on, with the lens of self-sufficiency. But our responsibility is become gifts of God. And I'll tell you why. That's how we get plugged into God's working. That's how we get to be a part of the tapestry of the plan of God. God gives us responsibilities. We fulfill those responsibilities, and by doing so, we get to be a part of God's Working in this world. So now our responsibilities that God gives us, our work, our our families, our church responsibilities, all those things are now gifts of God. Number two, God's work is forever. He says, I know that whatever God does, it shall be forever. God's work is forever. It's not vain anymore. What God does, it's forever. Number three, God's work is guaranteed. Nothing can be added to it and nothing taken from it. It's guaranteed. It is as though it is done God's work is guaranteed. And number four, God's accomplished work is secured. It's secured. That which has already been, and by the way, these are in the back of your bulletin. You don't have to write all these down. These are in your bulletin. Good reason to get a bulletin and read it. God's work is uh God's accomplished work is secured. That which has already been and what is to be has already been And number five, God inspects his work. Isn't it amazing? God, all these guarantees, he's actually going to inspect it too, to make sure it gets done right. This is the amazing work of God. We don't have to do, look, you know what the bottom line is? You don't have to worry. God's got this. You don't have to, you don't have to be you don't have to worry about it. We already know worry is sin, but it's like, why worry? Because God is in control. And that's what and this mo this mindset, this knowledge, these assurances Then bring us to a place of four things that we can do to live in light of this. Four things in this passage. Number one. We need to rejoice. Four ways to live under God's providence. One, we need to rejoice. The passage says there's nothing better to do than to rejoice. I know nothing is better for them than to rejoice. God calls us to rejoice. Rejoice because God's in control. Rejoice because your work is meaningful. Rejoice because you have responsibilities that are given to you by God that you get to be a part of God's work. Rejoice because when things go wrong, God's going to make it beautiful. You get to rejoice. Number two, do good. There's a there's a freedom here. You in our work, a lot of times we're working to make money and we're working to make more money and if it's all but depends on us and we're self-sufficient, it's all about what we can do to make more and do more and We always want more and there's gotta be more and we're never content, we just want more. But when we know when we're depending on God, when He's in control, when He's gonna carry it out, when we do what He wants us to do and we're fulfilling His our responsibilities for him, then we're free to rejoice and to do good. To please God, knowing that God will take our good and use it for his eternal purposes. Number three, we get to enjoy. And that's great. Enjoy. God's provision. And also that every man should eat and drink and enjoy the good of his labor. You know, it's really it's really okay to enjoy life. It's really okay to enjoy what God has given. I remember a time when I was in college, there was in my mind I just thought that, you know, enjoying anything with sin. It's really a weird thing I got into Not really usually a college student's problem, but anyway. Um and and and I I had this sort of and I I I actually had somebody somebody preach from the pulpit that the school I was at. you know, like something about loving life and enjoying life and what scripture says about it. I was like, oh, I can actually enjoy God actually wants me to enjoy the the things that He provides for me. So we can enjoy God's provision, and also that every man should eat and drink and enjoy the good of his labor. But I think verse 13 is really where we ought to live. Verse 13 says this, and we're going to see this again in Ecclesiastes. And also that every man should eat and drink and enjoy his labor, of the good of his labor, is the gift of God, not verse 13. Verse 14. At the end it says, And God does it that men should what? Should fear before him. And that word is to be in awe. God wants us to live in awe of Him, to just be in awe Now how do you do that? The amazing thing is when you put this lens of God's providence on, you begin to see how God's working And you'll see everything, and a lot of times you're like, man, I do not know, Lord, how you are going to make this work. But what happens is there are then other things that you begin to see fit together. And you see how God is fitting together things a certain way, and you go, and you you're you stand in awe. I am in awe of the message I'm preaching this morning, very frankly. Because God providentially had me preach Ecclesiastes 3, verse 1 through 15, on a time where this is what, frankly, I needed. I think kind of our world needs, and I think this is what our church needs. I'm in awe of this. And when you have that kind of lens on, you do begin. There's a lot of things you don't understand because God doesn't tell us the end from the beginning But, but, there are a lot of things that we do. We begin to see, oh, oh, that's why you did that. Oh Lord, now I get it. Okay. You fit that together. That makes sense. I didn't understand that for five years, but now I get it. And there are some things, folks, frankly, that we will never understand this side of heaven. That we have to get to the other side before we realize why God how God was doing what he was doing. Or we have to come to the end of this world and be in the new world, new new heaven, new earth to realize what God is doing. But we do see we begin to see the beauty of what God is doing in our in our lives, in our world, and we are in all What a difference. Do you guys see the huge difference between this and what we saw with Solomon when he's going trying to do everything under the sun himself? When he's going through and everything is just vanity, everything is it's just a cycle of monotony and even if all the pleasure that he took himself and yet And yet it meant nothing. It was all futility. Rejoice. Do good. Enjoy and stand in awe. Again, if you're here this morning and you don't know the Lord as your Savior, you're not sure whether you're a Christian, you say, well, that's not my life. By the way, being a Christian does not mean everything goes great. Notice it doesn't say become rich up there or have no more problems or have great health. Those are not up there. But as a Christian, we are able to just walk through life step by step Rejoicing, doing good, enjoying God's providence, and staying in awe who God is And if you say, well, I don't know where I stand with the Lord, can I encourage you? Come and talk with me, or you say, you know, you're big and ugly and and and intimidating. Talk with somebody else that you're comfortable with. Doesn't have to be me. And I'll be glad and either I or someone else that you're comfortable with. We'll we we don't want you to leave here. without knowing for sure how you can spend eternity with the Lord, how you can be in right standing with God. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you because you are in control. And we are living in a world that is that from our perspective looks entirely out of control And every time we think things are getting together or things are starting to go right, they go wrong. And we confess, Father, that we we want control. We confess that our flesh wants to do it our way and to do it our own through our own self um self-effort But Father, I pray that you'd help us to live the way that we see in this passage. to rejoice and to do good and to enjoy what you've given us and to stand in awe And Lord, through the difficulties of this life, this past week has been a difficult week on many levels And yet, we thank you that you are in control of all things. We look forward ahead to what you have for us as individuals and as a church. And Lord, we're we you're in control. We thank you for that. We look ahead to how you will make, you will fit all things beautifully together in your time. May we live that way with that lens. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide This helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.