All right, Matthew chapter five. Matthew five. And we are looking at the Sermon on the Mount and uh particularly this section in is the Beatitudes. And I hope that this every time I I go through this and study through this myself, I am you know, pretty convicted. Uh it's a it's it's a pretty convicting um area of of scripture that really helps us to understand what should What should be happening in the heart of the follower of Christ? Every single one of these beatitudes have application for someone who has passed who's who's passed from death into life, that they're coming to the gospel, accepting the gospel. And every single one of these Beatitudes also have the uh have have clear gospel application. Let me put it this way. Perhaps you've heard the term we need to live or the phrase we need to live by the gospel. How many of you have ever heard that before? Is it true? It absolutely is true. How do you live by the gospel? We know how to come to the gospel. We know how to accept the gospel. We know how to be saved according to what Scripture says, but how do you live by the gospel And the answer really is in these beatitudes and how how you how the gospel affects the heart and should continue uh to daily affect the heart. We've been going through the Beatitudes I actually was intended to hide these. I I guess I gotta check this neck next time. Yeah, all these should this should be hidden. Uh that's alright. First beatitude and then uh then then that's good. That's fine. Um what happens is I I set it all up and then I put it on a thumb drive and give it to Pat and sometimes when it it doesn't convert over, it's not his fault. It's it's just the way it's a good thing. way it converts. I need to actually put it on the computer and then and then set it up right. Anyway, um so the first beatitude that we had is that we talked about was blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And we noted that that poor in spirit means to be to realize that we are utterly spiritually destitute before God. That is the first beatitude. The beginning change of the heart is when the heart realizes that it is poor in spirit. It is destitute before God spiritually. The second beatitude that we look looked at is it it goes right with the first one, and all of these are interconnected. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. And we talked about this, that was talking about being mourn mourning over sin. Why is our heart spiritually destitute? Why is it poor? It's poor because of sin, because we have inherited Adam's sin nature. And and it is it is the heart where the gospel has truly the got when the gospel has truly affected the heart. The response is a mourning over sin. This is a distinctive difference between someone who doesn't know Christ and someone who does Someone who doesn't know Christ does not even know how to mourn over his sin. The person who doesn't know Christ may be upset when he gets caught in his sin. He may get be upset over the consequences of his sin. He may not be happy that he has to, that he keeps sort of failing in his own personal agenda, but he's not mourning over sin. The person where the gospel has been affected is mourns over his sins. He grieves God the same way he is grieved because God is grieved. I think in 2 Corinthians chapter 7, the godly sorrow that leads to repentance, that's the idea of mourning uh mourning over our sin. And it says, those who mourn will be comforted. And it really is true. There are people Saved and certainly all unsaved, but saved as well, who have never really mourned over their sin, and so they've never been able to actually receive the comfort of Christ of really realizing the forgiveness of their sin. The the problem of guilt Both in the life of the unbeliever, which is obviously there, but in the life of the believer as well, is a problem that is initially dealt with when a person mourns over his sin. When he grieves, not pushes it away, not says, I don't want to think about that, that makes me feel bad. No. When he he looks at sin the same way God does and mourns over it. The word there is used sometimes to be mourning over s mo mourning over the death of someone. And the truth is, until you have really processed the death of a loved one, until you have really mourned over them you're not going to be able to get past it. And it's the same way with our sin. For us to just allow sin to reside there. And to not mourn over our sin, to not agree with God about it, to not acknowledge it, is going to is going to for uh cause us to forfeit the comfort that God wants to give us That he has forgiven us of our sin. He has cleansed and forgiven us of our sin according to 1 John 1. 9. The third beatitude is, blessed are the meek. For they shall inherit the earth. This word meek is sometimes translated gentle. It is not talking about weakness, but is talking about bridled strength strength that is under control. It is actually in the classical Greek, which is the period right before the New Testament period, there the word the word is used to describe a a uh a stallion that has been that has been uh has been tamed. It's not the stallion has become weaker, no. It's it's the tamed strength. that it's there. And that's that's what the word meekness means. The fourth Beatitude, blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. For they shall be filled, the Bible says. The word filled means to be satisfied. Blessed are those who who who they mourned over their sin, they've realized that they are poor in spirit, but they don't run to all kinds of other things to satisfy them. They don't run to money to satisfy them. They don't run to uh status to satisfy them. They don't run to just fun to satisfy them. They run they they they know they hunger and thirst for righteousness. And we said that righteousness is being in the will of God, is being aligned with God. He is righteous, and therefore when I am aligned with his will. When I'm hungering and thirst after that, I'm aligned with his will. That is the only way for us to truly be satisfied That's the fourth beatitude. The fifth is blessed are they that are blessed are the merciful, for they have obtained mercy. When we understand that we are poor in spirit, when we are comforted by the Lord, when we are full satisfied with his righteousness, When all of that is taking place, it places us in a position where in our interaction with others, we are now merciful. A self-righteous person is always demands righteousness of other people. A person who experiences the true righteousness of God is merciful. He doesn't want the full consequences of everybody else to get what they deserve. Um that doesn't mean that he doesn't want justice, okay? But it does, but there is a mercifulness to his spirit. to r be restored back to the Lord. He wants He doesn't want people to get the full consequence of their sin. He wants them to be forgiven and restored from their sin. Blessed are the merciful for they shall obtain mercy. And this is all stuff that should have been hidden as well. The sixth beatitude is blessed are the poor in spirit, for they shall see God. We talked about this yesterday or Sunday night. Blessed are the poor, I'm sorry, the pure in heart is what what I should say. Blessed are the pure in heart, sorry, for they shall see God. The only way that you can truly experience God is is if you are pure in heart. And then now we are at this uh at verse 9 of chapter 5. Blessed are the peacemakers. for they shall be called the children of God. And so now we have it most of the beginning Beatitudes have all been about the heart of the believer. And now we have moved and we're going to talk about what kind of effect does this kind of heart make on others. What does it look like on the outside? Well, let's contrast what we've been contrasting in a long, let's contrast this with the with the Pharisees. What did what were the Pharisees peacemakers? No, not at all. The Pharisees were constantly picking battles, actually. And wanting to everybody to own up to their mistakes and they're very legalistic and trying to get everybody to do what they wanted them to do and putting themselves above there was sort of a self-righteousness about them. They're anything but peacemakers And Christ says, blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. What does this mean? Well the word peacemaker is this is the only time it's used in the New Testament. Which actually makes it sometimes a little hard to interpret. When you have a word like this throughout the New Testament, most words in the New Testament have the Greek words have multiple uses and you can look at the different uses and you can really get a full understanding of of what the word means. In this case, you don't have, there's no word, this is the only time it's used, but there is a word that is part of this word that is used extremely frequently in scripture. What is that word, you suppose? Well it's the word peace. Peace is used all over the Old Testament and all over the New Testament as well. And to understand how what a peacemaker is, I think we first need to understand so what does this word peacemaker mean? In the Old Testament, when we think of the word peacemaker, this word, or the word peace, rather, the word peace is mentioned 280 times in the Old Testament. That is a lot. It carries the idea of tranquility. The word peace is translated shalom. You know the word shalom, right? That's the greeting that Hebrew that Jewish people will say to each other. What are they saying? Well they're pronouncing they're they're they're desiring peace on the other person. It means to be well, complete, safe, and sound. I might have I think Pat might have it up here for me. Yeah, great. To be well, complete, safe, and sound. It is the state of being of being who lacks nothing and has no fear of being troubled in its own in its quietude It's a euphor euphoria with security. It's to be at peace. It's almost, when you read in the Old Testament, you almost, you read this word, it's almost a like you're living in another world. Well, that's actually kind of true, isn't it? Think of the way the world was before the fall. What did you have? You had peace. What caused the world to no longer be at peace? Sin. And now you live in a fallen world and everything people people are at enmity against God and there isn't peace. So peace is something that has been taken away from us because of sin. And peace is also, according to Isaiah 45 and other places, a gift of God. We see that in the Old Testament. Peace now becomes a gift of God. So it's a very common phrase in the Old Testament. It is extremely desired. It's something that the Jewish people wanted. It's something that God wanted to give Israel. It's something that he kept saying to Israel, I will give you my peace. He promises when they go into Babylonian captivity in Isaiah that I'm going to bring you out and I will give you peace. That's the Old Testament concept concept of peace. It it really is, I guess I could say it this way, if you think about the pursuit of a pr uh if you think about um what our what our goals would be in life. Well, our goals, um, you know, a lot of times are to, you know, raise raise a family and or um make a lot of money or people have different kinds of goals. But if you take away all the uh if you take away things like greed and take away things like wanting power and all those kind of sinful things. You take all of it out and shove it out. Okay? Throw it out of the picture. What is it that we all still really want? And if you really think about it, I think we all want peace. In fact, even the world wants what? World peace. There are people that they live for world peace. Is world peace ever going to come outside of Jesus Christ? Never not completely, it certainly won't. But it seems as though the human spirit knows that Things are not at peace, our hearts are not at peace, and we want peace. Well, let's go to the New Testament. What is the New Testament concept of peace? In the Gospels, we have this word peace, and this idea of security carries over into the New Testament. security, but now it applies to Jesus. He is the one who guides us in the way of peace. In fact, um in in Luke chapter I think I I have it written here. Um maybe maybe I didn't spell it out. But in in Luke chapter uh chapter one verses seventy nine uh Verse 79. It says that Jesus will lead Israel in the way of peace. Now Jesus is actually going to lead people into peace. When Jesus makes his entry into the into the Jerusalem, and his disciples sing from Psalm 118-28, they exclaim, The King who comes in the name of the Lord, peace in heaven and earth, and glory in the highest places. in Luke 1938. You have uh if you think of just just what the pronouncement was, on earth peace, good will toward men with when Christ came. Christ becomes He becomes the way of peace. In Colossians 1, verse 20 it says, and by him to reconcile all things to himself, by him, whether things on earth or things in heaven, having made peace through the blood of his cross. Christ makes peace through the blood of his cross. James 3. 17 says, but the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then what? Peaceable, gentle, willing to yield, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality and without hypocrisy. Full of peace. Jesus is the way uh the way of peace. Now, as you go on, just think about peace being for the unsaved. And it is. The gospel says, how beautiful are the feet of them that bring the gospel of peace. Peace to the unsaved person. What is their problem? Well, their problem is sin. The unbeliever's problem is sin. But what is the problem that they might be able to identify? They might be able to identify the fact that they have no what? They have no peace. And Jesus is the only one that can really bring inward peace to the person. Then you have peace to the saved. The Christian. In Ephesians chapter 4, verses 1 through 6, we'll just read verses 1 through 3, actually, it says, I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you to walk worthy of the calling with which you are called. With all loneliness and gentleness with long-suffering, bearing one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the spirit in the bond of what? And the bond of peace. God desires that His people are at peace and unify with each other, at peace with each other. Because in the next three verses, which we won't take the time to look at tonight, the next three verses say there is one God. All of this is based on the character of God. We are to be unified together and at peace with one another. Why? Because it exemplifies the very character of God, because God is completely at peace. The Father is always at peace with the Son. The Son is always at peace with the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is always at peace with the Father. They're always At peace with each other And God wants us as His people to the world to show what does it look like to be at peace as a people? The church is the one to show that to the world. We're actually the ones to be able to demonstrate what peace looks like. uh to the world. I want to mention something else to you. If you if you follow it all the way through the the Old Testament or the New Testament into Revelation chapter twenty one, if you think of the new heaven and new earth, the word peace is not mentioned there in in Revelation twenty one particular particularly. But it says in that passage that he will wipe away every tear from their eye. There will be no more sorrow. There will be no no more pain. And then it says the old things will pass away and Jesus will make all things new. And we know from Ezekiel 38 and other places that things like the picture like the lion will lie down with a lamb. And Christ will conquer and then there will be peace as a result of conquering the millennial kingdom. Those kinds of things, what is it all moving toward? It's all moving toward God making the world into a place of peace. So what does it mean when it says, blessed are the peacemakers? God desires for you and I as Christians to be involved in the kingdom work of bringing peace to the world. Isn't that wonderful? Have you ever thought of your job that way, of your role as a Christian that way? That God has called you to bring peace to the world. How do you do that? Well the only way an individual can have true inner peace is through the gospel. It is the gospel of peace. And so it is our responsibility to show people, hey, there is an inner peace that you can have from the fact that your sins are forgiven. Inner peace. We can also be peacemakers in the way that we interact with people. Are we the Bible says that we are that the wisdom of God is pure and peaceable. and and willing to yield, there is a peaceableness about about the heart of a Christian that comes out in his or her behavior. He is one who fosters peace. He's the kind of person who in the midst of a fight, in the midst of a difficult time, is able to diffuse a situation so that peace can come. Now that doesn't mean at all that that we compromise orthodoxy, that we qu compromise gospel doctrine. We do not do that. And there are times where we just have to typically take a stand for what is right. And that really brings us to the next beatitude. The next beatitude is the eighth beatitude. It says this, those who are peacemakers are actually going to be persecuted. Does that sound to you a little bit like those two things shouldn't go together? Why would you persecute a peacemaker? Well, because we are first and foremost people who are to be people that are living for righteousness' sake, right? In fact, remember that we are to hunger and thirst after righteousness. So let's look into this. What is it talking about when it says Persecution here. Someone, blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake. Well, it's very important for us on us to understand, first of all. that when we're thinking about this, it's not as though righteousness, uh it's not as though we are persecuted um uh we are persecuted for for our our rough personality. Or because we're just really cantankerous, or worse, we are self-righteous. Folks, are there Christians who have actually been persecuted in their lives, not because they have the righteousness of Christ, but because they have been self-righteous. Does that happen? Unfortunately does. And that is not the persecution that Christ is talking about. That is not the kind of persecution. In fact, we as Christians ought to be extremely careful about not being persecuted for self-righteousness' sake. We have to be aware and on guard. This is particularly the case as we live in a world that is extremely sinful. And corrupt, and you feel like you're fighting on every side. And if you're not careful, you can actually meet the problems of the flesh with the flesh. And if you try to fight the problems of the flesh with the flesh, you will find yourself in the middle of self-righteousness. All of us have been there, I think. All of us who have been Christians for any length of time. So the Bible tells us that we are to be persecuted for true Christ-like righteousness. So it's not about talking about objec uh the fact that somebody's upset about our objectionable personality. It's not some talk about somebody that's that that's upset about uh our self-righteousness And by the way, this is, I hate to say this, in my opinion, this is a somewhat legitimate complaint of the world when it comes to Christians sometimes. Certainly not all the time. I don't mean to overblow this, but sometimes unbelievers, when they when I've talked when I've interacted with them and they have an objection about a Christian, sometimes They really do have a point that what we have come across as self-righteous. Folks, there is no righteousness in of ourselves. None. Zero. Nothing Any righteousness we have is the righteousness of true righteousness that we have is the righteousness of Christ. All our righteousnesses are as what Filthy rags. So we ought not interact with non-believer, or a believer for that matter, but we should we ought not act interact with non-believer And somehow have this air of right, we're righteous and you're not. That could not be further from the truth. We are all unrighteous, and any righteousness we have is because of Christ. However, it does say that we can be persecuted for righteousness' sake, despite a peacemaking disposition, despite a humble heart. Even though we are merciful, even though all of those other characteristics are true in our lies in our lives A Christian may very well, in fact, will at some time or another come under persecution for righteousness' sake. Christ said, expect it. He said, They persecuted you, or if they persecuted me, expect that they're going to persecute you as well. And we went through the entire book of 1 Peter and we saw over and over again that the unbeliever is going to we we we ought to expect persecution. Well, what does it mean? What kind of persecution are we talking about? Well, there are three types of persecution. Let me see if I put this on here. There are, and they're varied. Sometimes when we think of persecution, we only think of the first type, and that is bodily persecution. And of course, throughout church history, there have been people that have been persecuted bodily. The most famous example probably is Nero as he burned Christians and lit he he literally uh would put them in tar and oil and lit them on fire to light his gardens. That was the kind of thing that Nero did. They were burned at the stake throughout history. All of the apostles, with with possibly the exception of John, were very likely martyred. according to uh according to church history. Bodily persecution is something that has alwa that nearly has always been a part of of uh of church history, with the exception of the last couple of hundred years. We have not experienced a lot of bodily persecution in this country. However, in other countries they have, even now. The next one is ostracism. In the first century they were unsynagogues. Many of the many of the b you know the the the first Christians were Jewish people. you know, the two thousand Jewish Christians w Jewish people that became Christians at Pentecost, uh many of them as time went on and they and and Jewish people realized that they were really uh you know the the the high priests and the um the uh uh the different religious leaders realized how different they were, uh they they would be excommunicated from the synagogues. And sometimes it would be first for 30 days and eventually for their entire lifetime until eventually it seems from church history that they were the Christi all the Christians were just quote unquote un synagogue, they were they had uh it was a public rebuke. And this, if you think of being a Jewish a Jewish person growing up Jewish, um, this kind of thing, even though they were not identifying as Jewish people anymore, it still would have been a difficult thing for them to accept that their family members The people around them that they cared about, they those people were going to they were being ostracized by those people And you still have the same thing today around the world. People come to Christ and then they are their family turns their back on them. Particularly when they're baptized. That tends to be when it happens. And all over the world, people will get baptized, and when that happens, their family will turn their back on them. And will ostracize them. That's a form of persecution. And then there's verbal persecution. The Bible says, talks about reviling and accusing, all manner of accusing falsely This is also a kind of persecution. Now, in the first century, for example, they were accused falsely of cannibalism. So cannibalism. Well that it was said it w through the through the rumor mill it was said that they ate the body and blood of Christ. Of course, we know that's not the case, but that's what the r that that's what they assumed, and so they were accused of being cannibals. Um they were accused of immorality because they had what they called love feasts, but it had nothing to do with anything that was immoral. They had uh Uh there were there are other other kinds of accusations as well that probably Nero drummed up uh and um and to try to to to These are some of the things that we see throughout uh throughout church history. And the truth of the matter is the question is, do we still do we experience persecution today? And uh even in this country, here's what I would say about that. There are some people that immediately say, Oh, we don't know what persecution's like. No, we don't really know what it's like. Well, I understand what people are saying when they say that. They don't want to compare themselves to someone who has been burned at the stake or has been stoned or has been uh you know um or really been bodily persecuted in other countries. But this persecution does have to do with with reviling and those kinds of things. Think of the person who sits at his desk for thirty years, a Christian, who's who works a desk job for thirty years and what and gets passed up for promotion after promotion because he doesn't do some of the things that would otherwise be necessary in order for him to be promoted. That if he knew if he did those things, maybe they're just a little unethical. Maybe they're just a little shady. Maybe it's just A little bit flattery and those kinds of things, but he's steady, he lives for the Lord, he's pleasing the Lord, and he's getting passed up for promotions Does that happen? It absolutely does all the time. What about a person who stands up for right, who says, I'm not going to lie when they're asked to lie in the work in the workplace? or chooses to do the right thing. Not he's flaunting it and not trying to force the whole world to follow his standards, but simply when he is asked to do something that is wrong, he has to quietly say but firmly, quiet quietly, but firmly say, I I'm sorry, I am not willing to do that. And that person loses his job because of it. Or more likely he doesn't lose his job because he refused to lie, but somehow he ends up getting worked out of the job. You know, through some other they find a loophole or find another way to get him out eventually. Because he doesn't he doesn't comply. That person is persecuted. So how, what response does Christ say to the person who is being persecuted on any one of these levels? What response Should a persecuted per Christian have. Rejoice and be exceeding glad. Does that sound strange to you? Well you know the verse, so it doesn't sound strange, but think about it. This is he is saying that you should be this is the the the most superlative terms he can think of. Rejoice and be exceeding glad. Like it's not just be happy or rejoice He says, rejoice and be exceeding glad. On every level, if you are persecuted for righteousness' sake, this is saying that you ought to be ecstatic. Wow. Why? Why would you be ecstatic when you are truly persecuted for righteousness' sake? Well, he gives two reasons in the text. Notice what the text says. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven. That's the first one. The first reason is our reward in heaven. Now, he doesn't say anything about what the reward is. He doesn't really describe it, but here's what he says that is actually extremely telling about the reward. He says, it's great. It's a great reward. Now, let's put this in perspective. If a four year old comes up to you And says, mommy, daddy, or just says to you, this toy is great. Well, what is it to you? Yeah, okay. All right, kid. I'm glad you think it's great. a toy. It's not great. It's great to you. It's not really great to like the whole world. It's not that great. It's just great to you. And you can be really excited for them and happy for them. And yeah, that's wonderful and everything. But you're not thinking to yourself, this is so great. Right. Well, a teenage guy gets his first car, and that's a little greater. But and and and you ever notice a sixteen year old y young man, maybe maybe girl too, but I've seen it more with young men. Sixteen year old, seventeen year old, eighteen year old young men. They'll get a car and uh and they'll drive and it's like the best like they think they think they own the world, man. Like like they own it all. Like it It's it's I got this. And it's really great. And they really think it's great. How many of you all have been driving for like twenty years think it's all that great that you can drive? Like it's not that great. Like it's it's like we all do that, right? I mean it's not really that great. Why? So you go on in life and as you go on in life you're uh here's my point. When Jesus what what is what the ex the the the level of greatness when somebody says something is greatness it depends on their level of experience A little four-year-old who says something is great, or a 16-year-old who says something is great, if a 60-year-old says something is great, then it's going to be more mean more than the 16-year-old or the four-year-old, right? Who just said the reward is great? Jesus did. Who experienced all things. He has experienced everything there is to experience. He has experienced the great the greatest of the great He left his glory of heaven. He is the great Jesus experienced greatness of every kind imaginable as the God of the universe. And he says The persecution to the Christian is their rewards are great. That must be something. And if you think about it, think of the Apostle Paul when he was he was uh uh in a vision to the third heaven and spoke of uh and and and saw things that he couldn't even speak of And John in Revelation, who saw things that he could only grasp at a few illustr uh human illustrations to sort of give us an idea of what was there, but it was so great The persecuted Christian, that's the level of reward that he is going to receive. It's that great Great is his reward. That's why he can be truly exceedingly glad. What are you going through? Are you have you been have you suffered for righteousness' sake? I know many of I know all of you. Some of you better than others, but I know all of you to some degree. And I gotta tell you, some of you have been through a lot for righteousness' sake. Rejoice. And be exceeding glad, for great is your reward. The second reason is your identity. Notice what it says in the text. Rejoice and being be exceeding glad, for great is your reward. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before them. He says, you're in good company. Why should you be exceeding glad? Because you're in really good company. You're along, you're you're you are in the same category as Abraham and Moses and Paul and Peter and All those faithful men that we sang about. You're in those, you're in that kind of company. That's a reason to be exceeding glad. It's like when in the book of Acts, when they underwent persecution, they they were they rejoiced because the Bible says they saw that the Lord had counted them worthy. to be under that kind of a persecution. And for those reasons we can look ahead and if we see persecution, what should be our response? Well, I'm not saying any of us should invite it. Not saying man let's go out there and find some persecution somewhere. That would be weird and uh like not right. But If persecution comes, just realize the greatness of the rewards that will come with it. And you have to we have to believe that. These are the total of the beatitudes. Now, if you really think of all of these beatitudes that we've gone through, all eight beatitudes. This really is a totally different way of living, isn't it? This is a new and different way of living completely. That's why the Bible says, if any man be in Christ, he is what? A new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. This is a different kind of heart, a different kind of motivation, a different kind of interaction, a different kind of outlook, a different kind of pursuit, it's all a different kind Out of hunger and thirst, it's all different And it's wonderful. But it's something that we need to just be mindful of. This is why we as Christians every day of our lives ought to be considering and thinking about how the gospel is affecting our hearts. And is the gospel affecting our kids' hearts this way? Is the gospel of, are we content to let our kids pray a prayer and be done with the gospel? Are we content to pray a prayer and be done with the gospel and think to ourselves, okay, well I'll be I'll go on my merry way. No, no, no. That is not the life of the follower of Christ. That is not a true disciple. A true disciple has this kind of heart that's working throughout his life. And this becomes what God wants us to be. I hope that this has been a helpful study for us and the Beatitudes. We are next going to move into um the salt and light passage in the in the in the uh next time we meet, uh Lord willing. But uh hope hopefully we will not hopefully we will not leave this behind in our thinking. That this really would be part of our thinking in Delhi. That's why I kept reviewing these. And maybe I'll review them again in the not too distant future as well. But let's let's keep these in our minds. This will be a measurement for us to know how, if the God, if we're really living by the gospel, this is a measurement for us to know whether or not the gospel is really working in our hearts. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you, Lord, for the time we could spend this evening together. Thank you for your word and your truth. We pray, Lord, that you would uh help us. as we as the gospel works through our out our our hearts, Lord, would you help us to Give us discernment to know when the gospel is really working in our hearts and when it ha isn't and what's going on and what's wrong. Help us to use these things in our lives to To truly have spiritual assessment. And Lord, I pray that if there is anybody here that they would look at this and they would say, I've never had any of this. I've never really mourned over my sin. I've never really seen myself as poor in spirit. I've really never really um I've never really hungered and thirst after righteousness. Lord, would you would you cause them to realize that what they really need is Christ? And uh Lord, for those of us who know you, may you help us with this. and continuing to grow in the gospel. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.