All right, please take your Bibles, turn to Matthew chapter seven this evening. Matthew seven. I'm sorry, that's how I said seven. Matthew five. Matthew five and I'm thinking five through seven probably because that's where the Sermon on the Mount is. But Matthew chapter five. And I want to just review a few things when it comes to this section of the Sermon on the Mount. We're going to go through the entire Sermon on the Mount in the coming weeks ahead. But uh right now we're within the Sermon on the Mount, the first section of the Sermon on the Mount uh are the Beatitudes. And I want to review a couple of things about the Beatitudes as we've kind of been going through them either on Wednesday night when I have a chance to speak or on Sunday night, either one. But I wanted to sort of reiterate a couple of things that I think are going to be important for us as we really get a grasp on what these on what this is. It really is a description of the disciples' heart of the true disciple of Christ, his heart. And so the purposes of the Beatitudes are to show the character of a follower of Christ. What is the character? And we noted on many occasions now that the character of the follower of Christ is not external. The righteousness is not external. That was the Pharisees' measure of righteousness. And Jesus says in Matthew 5 later on, verse 22, that your your righteousness has to exceed the righteousness of the Pharisees So it's not external, it's internal, and it demonstrates the true nature of righteousness. In fact, one of the beatitudes that we w learned on Wednesday night was that righteousness is something that we ought to hunger and thirst for. The disciple of Christ, the heart of the disciple is to hunger and thirst after righteousness. And then to show the eternal rewards of the disciple. And we noted that there are three parts to each of these beatitudes. The first part is the word blessed, which means what? Means happy. The second part is a present characteristic. And then you have a future reward. You have blessed. Happy is the person who is whatever it is. uh pure in heart or um poor in spirit and then you have the future what is what is the reward of this and some of the rewards have immediate uh immediate results with continuing results in the future and other of the rewards are going to be much more much more future but I I think probably all of them have some immediate immediate um advantage which which we will see as we go through these. So to show eternal rewards of a disciple. You wonder what the rewards of the believer are? Well it really understanding that really begins with this first major discourse in the book of Matthew, which is the first m book of the Bible that Christ pro preached from. I mean this is a very, very important passage of scripture. In fact, if you think of Matthew twenty-eight where it says that we are to make disciples, teaching them to observe all things that we talked about this morning in Sunday school, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I commanded you. Well, where would you start? Well, if you the logical place to start with the with observing the commands of Christ would actually be the Sermon on the Mount. That's the very first discourse in the book of Matthew And so Matthew 5 has is a very pivotal um this for this discourse 5 through 7 is a very pivotal discourse about the gospel, about the heart of the the one who is who uh who the gospel is working in, the disciple, and we see the beginning un a beginning understanding of what these rewards are Christ gives us the right tools for spiritual assessment in these beatitudes. This is not talking about just morality. It's not a code of conduct or externals. Morality grows from uh grows out of the uh morality grows out of the character inside. It manifests itself itself by outward conduct. So I mean true morality is what I'm talking about there. It's in go of course from the inside out, not the outside in. It's different and can and uh distinct from other kinds of character. I love what what Martin Lloyd Jones said here. It's a long quote, but I want to just he really he in reference to this passage of Scripture, he says this. In a sense That really our main concern for considering the Sermon on the Mount, we are concerned about the state of the life of the church at the present time. Now pause there for a minute. He is concerned. Are we s are we concerned about the state of the life of the church now? I think we some of us are, and many, many are. I've heard many pastors talking recently about the state of the life of the church Well, all the way back then, under David Martin Low Jones' day, he was concerned too. What was his answer? He says I have no hesitation again in asserting that the failure of the church to have a greater impact upon the life of men and women in the world today is due entirely to the fact that her own life is not in order. To me, there is none nothing more tragic or short-sighted or lacking in insight than the assumption made by so many that the church herself is all right and all she has to do is ev evangelize the world outside. Every revival proves clearly that the men who are outside the church always become attracted when the church herself begins to function truly as the Christian church. And as individual Christians approximate to the description here given in the Beatitudes. What David Lart Mort Martin Low Jones is saying is if you want to reach the world, the church has to get straightened up first. And if the church is going to get straightened up first, it's got to be the heart of the individuals that make up the church. So it isn't accurate for us to try to fix the system of the church without looking at ourselves and our own hearts as individuals. And Jesus starts with the very core, the very heart of everything. What is our heart attitude? Well, we talked about in these Beatitudes that they are not separate distinct characteristics, that they are really one major, one character, one sense of virtue, the heart of a Christian, the heart of a disciple of Christ. And these beatitudes are various facets of that one character, one virtue of the heart of the disciple. And so the first facet is this beatitude, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And we said Several uh maybe a couple weeks ago now, maybe three weeks ago now, blessed are the poor in spirit is a ref re uh is a reference to the fact that a person who is truly affected by the gospel understands that he is completely, utterly destitute spiritually before God. That he there is nothing in his hand that he brings to the table. It is only by the cross of Christ that saves him from it, saves his soul, that he is able to be of any value for the kingdom of heaven. That he is completely poor and destitute. Well, what makes him poor and destitute? And the answer is sin. Our sinfulness, starting from Adam and Eve and working its way all the way down to us, that is why we are completely poor in spirit. And if we understand this, we are going to truly mourn. The person who is affected genuinely by the gospel mourns for they mourns over their sin. Blessed, the happy person, mourns. And when we truly mourn over our sin, that is the first step to realizing that Christ has forgiven us from our sin. But if we do not mourn first, we will not experience the forgiveness of our sin. And there is a application for the unbeliever to come to Christ as well as the believer who has lived in sin. Or is has unconfessed sin in his life. Both, there's application for both. Blessed are they that mourn, that they shall be comforted. The third is blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. The word meek is not the same thing as weakness, it is bridled strength. In fact, it's used as a reference to a bridled horse. Blessed are the meek, the bridled strength. It's also translated in the New Testament as gentle. The heart of the follower of Christ, of a true disciple of Christ, is a gentle heart. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. A person whom the gospel is truly affecting day by day, living out the gospel in his life. He mourns over his sin. He realizes his spiritual destitution. And he hungers and thirsts after righteousness. The hungering and thirsting is the idea of looking to something to be satisfied. In fact, a couple of times it's actually translated satisfied. They were satisfied. Actually, the the word filled later. And they shall for they shall be filled. The second part of that, that's the word filled is satisfied. Blessed are they that hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. They shall be satisfied. And we as Christians and as well as unbelievers, we can get very easily deceived into thinking that many other things will truly satisfy us, whether it's power or money or sexual fulfillment or an or all kinds of things or relational fulfillment or just uh uh just the desire to please self, all those things will truly satisfy. We could be deceived by that But the heart of the true believer understands that the thing that will really satisfy is righteousness. And we said basically that righteousness is being in the will of God. Understanding that we are truly in God's will. When we have the assurance of knowing that we are in the will of God, then we will be fulfilled. It's like Romans chapter 12, verse 2, it says, and don't be conformed to this world, but be what? Transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may what? Be able to prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God And that brings us, and then finally also last time we looked at blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. This now becomes this and then the next the next beatitude that we're going to look at tonight and the next one well uh the the next one not so much but this one. This one has sort of a sense of of uh behavior now. Everything else so far has been pretty much a heart issue. But now it says, blessed are the merciful, that implies that the heart of a person who mourns over their sin and hungers after righteousness and and uh it realizes spiritual destitution, that kind of person How does he interact with others? Well, he's gentle, he's meek, but he's also merciful. The prideful person is not merciful. The person that is full of pride, full of his own will, full of what he thinks he deserves, will be really ready for retribution. And will be ready to try to bring justice to every situation he comes along. When a person is really humble and realizes that he is deserving of nothing, But everything that's good comes from the good hand of God. Every good and perfect gift comes down from the Father of lights with whom there is no shadow of turning. The person who really understands this and realizes how blessed he is of God because of his own, in spite of his own sin and because of Christ's grace in his life When he looks at others and he sees the heart the the sin of others, he sees the problems of others, he sees the and people wrong him and hurt him or her, he's merciful. And those same kinds of people tend to obtain mercy. They obtain mercy really on two levels. They obtain mercy from the people that they are giving mercy to. It just seems to work that way oftentimes. But also there is a sense in which they receive mercy from God. We see the same kind of thing in the next chapter in Matthew chapter 6. Where it says that we should forgive us in the prayer, in the Lord's, in the disciples' prayer, forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us. Does that mean that the Christian is only forgiven by God when he forgives others? Well, not in the sense of our salvation, not in the sense that we will somehow not be saved from our sins eternally if we don't forgive others. But there is a sense in which when we don't forgive others, we are probably going to get the full weight of the consequences of our own sin. This side of heaven. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. And then the one that we're on tonight, I have several pictures here. uh to just introduce this. I um have a bucket list. How many of you all have a bucket list? And my dream is to travel to a lot of different places. I've not like gone to any of them. I'm really, really, really far behind. It takes money and time, and I don't have either one of those uh uh in abundance. But someday, you know, I'm thinking to myself, uh, maybe in the new heaven and the new earth, if like if I don't get to all these places before I die Um maybe in the new heaven and new earth God will like retain some of these better air nicer places, you know, he'll redeem some of the because there's a there's an indication with a new heaven and new earth that uh it's going to be something something that's refurbished and now I'm going to create a whole doctrine that you should not believe because this is all based upon what I want. So this is an example of what you should not listen to. It may be that he wipes everything uh m pre fairly clean so I can never get to these places. But anyway, these are places I would love to go someday if the Lord somehow allows me to do that. One is the first one here is Israel. Another is Egypt. I would love to go to Egypt. Right, Hisham, can you take me to Egypt sometime? All right. Egypt. Another one is Paris. We had we had somebody in our star church. You know, you guys take me nowhere. I'll just let you know. We've got somebody who went to Paris, somebody's gone to Egypt, people are going all over the place. Bring your pastor, man, I tell you. Taj Mahal, not because I'm you know Hindu or something, I just want to it looks cool. The Great Wall of China Rome. And I'm not a Catholic. I just it just looks cool. My dad's trip out west. That one I might be able to be able to do. Anyway, I just threw that in there for my dad's sake. Um Those are all places uh that now let me ask you this question. How many of you all would like to go to at least some of these places? Okay, like everybody I have a the I I haven't seen that many hands up in a long time. How many of you say, well, I seen the pictures, it's good enough? Like nobody says okay, we've got one person. All right. Nobody says that. Don't put your hand up unless I can see every hand. And it's it's a small small auditorium. Anyway. The truth is, no b most of us are not going to say that. Why? Because to go there is something different than seeing the pictures. And that brings us to the next one that we have here. Would you look at Matthew chapter 5 and verse 8? And we'll see our next Beatitude. It says this: Blessed are the pure in heart. For they will what? They shall see God. What is it talking about there? Blessed are the pure in heart that they shall see God. There is something about going to these different places, visiting these, visiting various monuments, going to historic places. There is something, there is a difference between reading about them or seeing a picture and going and experiencing this. them. And this word see has the idea of experiencing God. And we're going to get into this a little bit more to see exactly what that means, but I first want us to look at the idea of a pure heart and the idea of of uh I'm gonna back up on that for a minute. Uh uh the idea of a heart general. What does he mean by the heart? The pure blessed are the pure in heart. Well the word heart is talking about the center of the personality. The very core of a person's being. This is exactly what the Pharisees were not interested in. They they had no care for the person's being. They were just interested in the externals and conformity to a certain amount a certain standards, in in making sure that they were right on the outside and that everybody That everybody perceive them as holy and righteous, and Christ deals with them on very, on very, frankly, in very harsh terms. Because they were anything but pure in heart, and they could not see God. Blessed are the pure in heart. For they shall see God. This is talking about purity of heart. How does God use this word purity? Well, in Matthew 23, 26, the word is translated clean. It says, Thou blind Pharisee, cleanse first that which is within the cup and platter, that the outside of them may be clean also. Matthew 27, 59 says, and when Joseph had taken the body and wrapped it in clean linen cloth In 1 Timothy 1, verse 5, it says this using the same word, now the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart. and of and of a good conscience, and of faith unfeigned. Second Timothy chapter two, verse twenty two says, Flee also youthful lust, but follow righteousness, faith, charity, peace with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart. Titus 1:15 says, Unto the pure are all things are pure. But unto them that are defiled and unbelieving is nothing pure, but even their mind and conscience is pure is defiled. And that tells us a little bit about what purity is. The opposite of that is defilement. It's perversion. It's a twistedness. In Hebrews chapter 12, verse 15, we have another antonym, another opposite to help us to understand what this word purity means. Verse 15 of that chapter says, Look diligently, lest any man fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness spring up trouble you, thereby many be defiled. Bitterness in the heart will cause impurity, will cause a defilement in the heart, probably more than any, I think perhaps more than anything else in the entire Bible. And the reason I say that is because it's the one sin that's identified in the context of chastening in Hebrews chapter twelve. When we have bitterness in our heart, it defiles our hearts and makes them impure. In James chapter 1, verse 27, it says this: Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this. to visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world. Why would James point those two out? Let's take the first one, to visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction. Why would James say that that is pure religion and undefiled? And I'll tell you why. Because neither one of those groups of people are going to give be able to give you of any significant spiritual benef uh any significant material benefit. The widow that is referencing there is a widow without means, most likely. Someone, a widow who has no means of their own supply of finances, anything like that. And certainly the fatherless is speaking of the same kind of thing. And God says, a pure person a person in heart Serves those kinds of people with expecting absolutely nothing in return whatsoever. That's pure religion. Do we serve others with expecting nothing in return? That is an indication of purity. Well this concept of purity, of pure of heart, is one that God says we should have of it It should be of us of great value. It is it it's the idea of it's something without a heart without hypocrisy It's not a self-deceived heart. It's not a heart that believes it's righteous even though it isn't. How does one get this kind of heart? Well I think of us the psalmist who said, Search me, O God, and know my what? My heart See if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. Psalm 86, 11 says this, Unite my heart to fear thy name. David seemed to understand what it meant to regain a pure heart after his own heart was defiled. He seemed to understand what a pure heart was. And what he did was he went to the Lord and he said, Lord, search me. Do you and I do that? Do we take time in our lives, in our devotional time, to allow God to search our heart? To just be still for a few moments. To just be quiet. And to say, Lord, would you search my heart? Would you reveal to me any wicked way? Would you show me if my heart is duplicitous or if my heart is is a is hi is hypocritical or if my heart is selfish, would you sh or prideful, would you take would you show me this Do we take time to allow God to search our hearts? That really ought to be part of our daily devotional time. Search me, O God, and know my heart. And there's a great motivation for this. The great motivation is that those who have a pure heart see God. Well, what does it mean to see God? Would you take your Bibles and turn to Exodus chapter 33 for a few moments? Exodus 33. We've been in Exodus before. We went through the entire book of Exodus. But I want to recover a few things for us when it comes to understanding what it means to see God, to experience God. Moses knew what it was to the best of human ability at that time to be able to experience God. In Exodus 33, verse 18, Moses cries out to God and he says, please show me your glory. In verse 19 of that same chapter it says, Then he said, I will make my goodness pass before you, and I will proclaim the name of the Lord before you. I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, I will have compassion on whom I have compassion. But he said, You cannot see my face, for no man shall see me and live. The Lord said, Here is a place by me, and you shall stand on the rock. So it shall be while my glory passes by, that I will put you in the cleft of the rock, I will cover you with my hand while I pass by. Then I will take away my hand, and you shall see my back, but my face shall not be seen Leading up to this interaction between Moses and God, Moses had experienced the presence of God in the cloud and in the pillar of fire. We see that in Exodus chapter 15 By Exodus 24, he is going up into the mountain and he saw more of God. And then in Exodus 34, he saw God even further. This is sometimes called the beatific vision. And it is very likely what God what Jesus, exactly what Jesus was referring to when he s used the term see God. He was referencing the experience that Moses had in experiencing God. Well, how is it that you and I can experience God? And the answer is purity of heart. What we see in the book of Exodus is that there apparently are levels to experiencing God. You can experience more and more and more of God till you can't experience any more of God because you'd be consumed. And one day, isn't it wonderful because of the redemption of Christ that we will have We will see Christ in all of his glory. There will be a full we will see the fullness of God's glory because we will s we will be changed and we will see But this side of heaven, folks, you and I Our experience of God is going to be limited to our purity of heart. Now let that sink in for a minute. How should this work out in our daily lives practically? I recently read a book entitled The Hole in Our Holiness by Kevin DeYoung. I would highly recommend that book. It's an excellent book on the concept of holiness. And in that book, he says in one place that a that he was tempted as he he was very very transparent in the book. He was driving by and there was a particular uh lady who would wash her car outside in a bikini every day as she he drove by his normal way of driving by from work, from his church from church to home. He was a pat he was a pastor. And he realized that that was a temptation for him to look over there. Seemed to be that she washed her car a lot and it was constantly he would uh uh uh it was it was a temptation for him. And he had to end up taking another route because this was a temptation. But anytime he was tempted, he said, this was the verse that really helped him. This is the verse that he realized that if he were to if he were to succumb to temptation there and to look on her, that he would be forfeiting experiencing God. That it would pollute his heart. They would cause him to no longer have a pure heart, and he desperately wants to experience God That's powerful, isn't it? And if you I wonder how often you and I would be able to resist temptation if we thought to ourselves, for me to succumb to that temptation is going to pull Pollute my heart, and then I won't be er be able to experience God. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. I think we have time well, it's always a I love to pray together as well. Let me uh I can go to the next one, but I think I don't have time to fully develop it now, so I don't think I will. The next one is going to be Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. What does it mean to be a peacemaker? Well, we won't take the time to we I can't develop it all now. I don't have time to do all that, so we will stop here and we'll take Some time to prayer, but please come back ti next time. Now it's going to be now what we're going to see is now that that Jesus has really helped us understand what the heart of the disciple looks like. Now this one's going to be coming, this is going to be how it is expressed outwardly. Blessed are the peacemakers. Now this is behavior. See how Jesus is working from the inside out through this? He mentions merciful, but now he's also going to see we're going to see peacemaker. What does it mean to have a a heart that is mournful and then pure, and out of it that person becomes a peacemaker? We're going to see this next time. I believe next Wednesday. Let's pray together and then we will uh we will also take some prayer requests and And take some time to pray to the church family. But let's let's pray in response to the lesson here. Father, we come to you this evening and we thank you for your word. It does pierce even the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. And as we look tonight at this characteristic of the disciple, of the heart of the disciple, that you desire for us to be pure in heart. I pray that you would help us on a daily basis to take time to stop and to say in our own hearts before you, Lord, Would you search me and know me? Would you see if there is any wicked way in me? Lord, may we have the honesty with ourselves and with you to identify pollution in the heart early. And readily, to not deceive ourselves into thinking that we're fine and our heart is fine. We sin every day The temptations are there every day. And surely they we need times where we are just before you, open and transparent before you. where you we allow you to simply search our hearts. Lord, may we in the in the light of the your word and your truth Which convicts us, may we not shun conviction or or twit twist the truth to make it what we want it to be. May we may our hearts not pervert the truth, but may our tr may the truth convict our hearts. So that we can be pure in heart, so that we can experience you, both this side of heaven and in heaven. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.