Father, we come to you and we thank you for for your church. We thank you that Christ said all the way back in the first century that he would build his church and the and the the gates of the grave would not prevail against it, anticipating his own resurrection. We thank you that we, by your grace alone, get to be a part of your church and what you are doing in this world. And Lord, w the church in the last couple of years have bit has become under real um uh under real trials. Um and uh it seems to not be letting up and seems to be in some ways more getting more severe. And you know what you're doing, Laura, with all of this. Um We d we don't pretend to know exactly, we know you're sovereign and you're in control. Lord, it's so important for us to be reminded again of what a what a biblically healthy church is and what your word says about it. So I pray, Lord, that as we as we go through this, that it would be something that would be refreshing to us, encouraging to us, challenging to us as we go through this. through this uh to be reminded again of the importance of the local church and the and the universal church, to be in to understand what it is. to understand how we as a local church can be healthy, to understand the right kinds of priorities. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right, in any church, people have different thinking on what church is. And um and some of this has changed over the last nine years. years, especially over the last couple of years. But anyway, they have different values, different ideas about what church is, different objectives, and different reasons for involvement. Really even a different sometimes definition of what a church is. What is the church? Some people are really even unclear about what church is. And I will even say I will even go so farther as to say, is some of the problems that we're dealing with now have to do with people not really understanding what church is prior to all this COVID pandemic stuff. And what I mean by that is that there are s there is now a movement within Christianity, they s some some pastors and some church leaders decided after during the pandemic They decided that they were going to pivot and they were going to open up what they called virtual church campuses where the whole thing would be online. It would be just become virtual church. Now, some Christians go immediately go something's wrong with that. In fact, I would think a lot of Christians would think some something's wrong with that. But there are many Christians that sort of, because they didn't really have church clearly defined as to what it is, had a little bit of hard have a little bit of hard time understand you know understanding why that would be a problem. And and furthermore, some many, unfortunately, have said, you know what, this is a great idea. You know, we move from, you know, movie theaters being public to now you Netflix everything, so why not church be that way? Now I'm I'm I'm overstating the point a little bit. I'm exaggerating slightly, but not a whole lot. Uh and I think this series, which is we're actually putting it online uh because I think this series would be helpful for people that are online that are seeing this and I'm hoping that they'll learn they'll learn some things about what church really is. and understand the importance of assembling back together and all that. Common reasons for church involvement. Habit. I've always been involved in church. Well that's not always the case anymore. People have gotten out of the habit. But anyway, remember I wrote this nine and a half years ago. Guilt. It is culturally unacceptable not to be involved in church, so I feel guilty if I'm not involved. That is, by the way, gone almost out entirely. Okay? It never was the best reason to come to church in the first place. Just because that just out of guilt. But it is interesting that that that that now has become even in rur it used to be more in rural areas. I remember when I passed it up in Pennsylvania. It was kind of culturally unacceptable to not go to church. So everybody went somewhere. Doesn't mean that everybody was a Christian, everybody really wanted to follow after the Lord. Actually what happened was many times People would go to a particular church and then they would want to make it exactly what they want it to be because they know they gotta go, so they might as well just force this thing into the mold they want so that it's acceptable. And so that's sometimes what you have the some one of the problems you have with a rural church. Um but now you don't really I'm not sure you even have that anymore. Of course we're not this is not a rural area, so I don't really know. But I but I I'm guessing it's not as much of a problem anymore. Um or a good thing. There's there's sort of pros and cons to that. There's a good thing for the culture to want to to have set Sunday aside as a day for the Lord. And there's also A downside to it if you're just doing it out of guilt. Number three, security. I find church to be a place of stability in my life. Pride, I feel good about myself, and I'm involved in church. Family, I feel it is important for my kids to be involved in church, so I am. Peer pressure. I come to church to make my spouse happy. Self-help, I come to church because it helps me live a better life. So those are some of the things that people say when it comes to why they come to church. And the question we need to ask ourselves is, why are you involved in church? Now that is a that is a more poignant question now. uh than even when I wrote this years ago. Because there are many Christians that are now beginning to say, I don't know why, and maybe I don't really need to be. None of these that we have mentioned should be the primary reason we are involved in a church. So here are some things that people commonly value in a church. And I have updated this list with an additional one. You'll see it in a minute. I want nice facilities and a place of comfort. I want nice programs for my kids. I want to get in, do church, and get out. I want to get my family member off my back. This is a this is one that I don't I haven't seen too much in this area. It's very common in rural areas. I want to be a stakeholder in the claim of the church. And by by what and what they mean by that is they sort of see themselves as a member that they're they have sort of it's like a s like a stock uh situation where everybody is part owner of the of the organization, they get to have their say. What's the major problem with that by the way? If every member says to themselves, I want my say to do what I want to do, what's the problem? Yeah, nobody's thinking about what God wants. Exactly. And a lot of people they unfortunately think of the church that way. And what we all all ought to be doing as members of the body of Christ is doing our dead level best to say, what does the Lord want for us? It's his church. It's not ours. We don't aren't part owners of the church. God is the owner of the church. Christ is the owner of the church, and what we ought to be doing is saying, in discerning the best we can from the Word of God, what What is what what pleases God? What does He want for our church? I've added a new one, a new developing cultural problem. People don't want a building at all. It used to be they wanted nice facilities and a place of comfort and all these programs and now what what seems to be happening is people don't want a building at all. So I want to read a read a little bit from a book that has just been written. It's called Rediscover Church. It's written by let me see here. It's written by uh Colin Hansen and Jonathan Lehman, and the subtitle is Why the Body of Christ is Essential. Rediscover Church. I'm in the middle of reading it. It's an excellent book, and I want to read some of the introduction of this. to update us on this is this is new information from our membership class that was never has never been our membership class before but will now be incorporated into it. He says this, the number who identify as Christians is far larger than the number who attend a weekly meeting. Even then, the bulk of the serving and giving in our church tends to be done by only a few So it's not as if COVID-19 suddenly convinced Christians they didn't need church. Millions had already made that decision even before gathering involved Online registration, social distancing, and masks. COVID-19, however, accelerated the long-trending separation between personal faith and organized religion. The shutdowns caught all of us by surprise in their sudden onset of indefinite duration. And it's hard to get back to the habit once it's been broken for more than a year. That problem is not unique to church. Try getting back to the gym when you're when you've been scared to darken the doors for months Resuming church attendance would be hard enough if our only problem were that a deadly disease kept us apart much longer than many expected. But fear of contracting COVID-19 might be the least of the reasons that con that convince many Christians to stay away from church. Debates over masks, vaccines, and much else divided church members trapped in their homes and glued to Facebook feeds filled with dire warnings and conspiracy theories. Christians like each other a lot more than social media before social media. I'll read that again. Christians liked each other uh a lot more before social media. Take away unifying experience of weekly worship together under the same roof, and the bonds of affection have frayed. But that's not all. Recent elections, for American readers, at least. might have been even more divisive. How can Christians worship alongside voters that have such different priorities? So Christians might share the same views and trinit in the Trinity baptism and even the eschatology But what good is it when we feel more in common with our political allies who might not even be Christians? The same goes for the causes of racial unrest. Why can unbelievers na uh unbelieving neighbors see the solution so clearly. We might wonder when the pe when the uh couple we used to sit behind in church every week promotes such ignorant and even dangerous views in their public postings. It's enough to make any uh make many think they could never be s uh safe or comfortable returning to the same church He goes on to say later, yes, we all have many reasons not to go back to church. In fact, many churches don't expect us ever to come back. They're launching virtual churches and hiring virtual pastors. No need to wake up early and on Sunday, no need to put on pants, no need to search for a parking lot, parking spot, no need to to tune out uh other people's crying babies, no need to make small talk over bad coffee with the person whose politics disgusts you no need to stifle a yawn from a long uh from a long sermon, no need to taste the bread and the wine He goes on to say, God does not invite us to church because it's comfortable, a comfortable place to find a bit of spiritual encouragement. No, he invites us into a spiritual family of misfits and outcasts. He welcomes us into the home that rare uh uh into a home that's rarely what we want, yet just what we need. And I think I'll stop there. I might read more of this in the future. Any impressions from what he's saying here? Do you agree with some of some of what's going on here in our Christianity? Is this kind of thing happening in our churches? It is. It's very unsettling. And many are coming to a there many are sort of saying, you know, I don't need to be in the body of Christ. I can just sort of watch online. Or I can and people would prefer it that way. I don't need to have to put on pants. And so now what we have is a real, a real concerning situation, don't we? And something that we actually need to sort of, can I say it this way, kind of kind of battle against. And there are two fronts where we need to battle this. We need to battle this in our own hearts, because the reality is culture does affect your thinking and my thinking. It does. And we actually have to realize the cultural trend and resist it with biblical truth. So that's one. And number two, we need to we need to do it on a uh on a not just internally but externally. We need to be able to to To explain to somebody, for example, why virtual church is not church at all. Can you biblically explain that? In fact, can you biblically define church and what it is? Now We we are streaming, we're streaming this. And we are streaming, we've been streaming our services. I'm not saying there has been no value to that. I think there has been maybe a measurable value when we were going through uh a pandemic and we couldn't meet together and for people that right now We have families in our church that have COVID and they're probably watching now. I I think there's uh great value to it. But we can never say that it replaces On any level replaces assembling together. So, biblically, what is the primary reasons we should be involved in church and what should we truly value? One of the biggest problems in churches today is their inability to prioritize what is truly important. And it's interesting that I wrote this nine and a half years ago, but this is still true in a totally different way. It's application is totally different now. Um Kevin, did you have something to say? Oh, okay. Um if we are to think like God thinks We must prioritize things the way God does. God it's God's church, and if we are going to think in a biblical way, and a and in a and The way God thinks, we have to know what his priorities are. And that our sole authority for faith and practice must be the Bible. We've got to go back to what Scripture says about what church is and all of that. So I I'm I some of you have been through the membership class, you're aware of this car illustration, and uh and so we are resurrecting the car illustration. And you it's funny I over the years Um when somebody new has joined uh uh and they're in the membership class, some of the older members will say, Hey, um, hey, what part of the car are you on today? you know, that that kind of thing. I'd like to describe how the church works by illustrating various aspects of the church, uh of how the church functions with different parts of a car. This will help us see how everything works together. Hopefully that is the that is helpful because we all drive cars or many drive cars are usually Please remember this is just an illustration. Every illustration breaks down. So you know you can take this too far just like every other illustration. What's that? Yeah, yeah, right. Okay. And you could also extend the illustration to incur to to make more points like that one. Okay, good. Uh first the first car the our first part of a car is not a part, it's it's the driver. And we're gonna and and and so the driver is Christ. He says in Matthew 16, 18, I will build my church and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. The word hell there is translated very frequently, if not most of the time, the grave, and what he's saying is is that I'm going to build my church, and you're going to know this because the grave is not going to hold me. I'm going to be alive again. And as long as I'm the resurrected Christ, I'm going to build my church. The building of God's church is contingent upon the resurrection of Christ, and we know he's risen again, and so we're dependent upon him. Christ is the owner, he is the builder, he is the head, he is the king. He is the one that's in charge of his church. So that's the that's what the who the driver is. We know what the car is. Now uh some of you can go back in your memory way back or maybe more recently, there's different people that have different been here What is the destination? So I I I with some of you I had a piece of paper and I made you draw or I drew a which is worse. I I drew a house and a and a road. And uh we should have done that today. I should have passed out paper. We could all done that together. Anyway, and a road and a car. So what's the destination? Uh we're gonna assume there's a road, the road's coming. What's the destination to our uh to our um our car? Where is our car going? Anyone know the destination? Yes. Good job, Tony. That's impressive. All right. To d to demonstrate God's glory. All right, that's very good. Ephesians one, eleven through twelve. in whom also we have obtained an inheritance predestined according to the purpose of him who calls us uh uh uh unto all things after the counsel of his own will, that we should be to the praise of his glory who first trusted in Christ. Unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. So, so It is the goal of the church to glorify God. Okay, so we have the church, that's the the car in our illustration. We have the destination, that's to glorify God. Somebody tell me, does anybody remember what the road is? Yeah, what's the road? How do we get there? How do we get to glorifying God? Anyone know? From way back when? Carrie knows. She just whispered uh whispered Eleanor. No? She doesn't know. It's not like you've you're you know you're in heresy if you get the road wrong. Okay, close. Thank you for for that uh suggestion. That that that that's definitely part of it for sure. What's that? The gospel close. All right. It's discipleship. Okay? So the road to glorifying God in the church is discipleship and disciple making Matthew 28, 18-20. And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. So this is the commission of the church. Couple of that couple of reasons we know that because some people would oh I can't do that with this. Huh. That's okay. Oh oh you know what I can do? I think I have a cursor here. Can you guys see that cursor up there? Alright. So alright. A couple of things uh to to show you here about this extremely important Great Commission. Number one, it says, go you therefore and teach all nations. Does anybody know, I'm gonna give, well, does anybody know what the main verb is in that first uh uh clause there. Go ye therefore and teach all nations. Yes, good. Very good. It's teach. Alright. It's not go. In fact, go is not a verb. Okay, I know it's a verb in English. It's a not a verb in it's a participant Greek, okay, which it modifies teach there. Okay? Now uh so teach is the main thing That's there. Now, what does teach mean there? Does anybody know? Alright, I actually use the King James because I like to teach on this. But if you look at the New King James or you look at another modern version, what is that word? Yes, to make disciples. And in fact, that is exactly what the word means. It's the word I'm going to use the Greek mapeteo. Okay? That's the verb form of the of the noun disciple. Every time you see the word disciple, like you know the twelve disciples and discipl it's the word mathete. So A very, very accurate translation of that word is to make disciples. Okay? So make disciples, that's different than this other word down here, teach. Okay, that word teach teaching okay is a different Greek word entirely totally different. All right, and it means what you would think of teaching, you know, giving out information. Alright. So go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father or the Son and the Holy Ghost, teaching them what? To observe all things Whatsoever I commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Now, I want to notice another word there that's important, and that is to observe. What are we to teach people to observe? It's not hard, it's right there. The commands of Christ, okay, were to teach them to observe what Christ taught. By the way, what Christ is the pivotal figure in all of the Bible, and what he taught was an explanation of the Old Testament. And what the New Testament teaches is an ex is a further explanation of what Jesus taught. Does that make sense? So, in all of that, what we're supposed to be doing is teaching the Word of God. Centered on the teaching of Jesus Christ. But we're supposed to be teaching people to what? To observe. What does observe mean? Does it just mean to know? Now it includes application. We have to know and to apply what God says. And I'm going to insert this thing. You can't do all of that online. You can't. Because what you find throughout the New Testament is that making disciples requires It requires knowing, seeing, living with other people's examples. Discipleship occurs through word and deed as we followed the examples of others, and that you can't get past that in the New Testament. So you really cannot do discipleship in the way that God intends. And we're going to go over this more in the way that God intends by doing it simply online. Does that make sense? And we're going to expla we're going to we're going to get more of this um as we go on. But you have to have a body life and be together with each other, experiencing life together, in order to be able to be discipled and to disciple others. And so, by the way, all of these different parts that we're talking about, all of these different components are going to represent or not all of them, but most of them are going to re represent a lesson. So we're going to have a lesson on what discipleship is. The next one is gasoline, and we got a hint from somebody on what this is. What is the gasoline? What powers the car that gives us the ability to disciple, which gives us the ability to glorify God? What power is the car? Carrie got it right before the gospel. Well, she got it right for the other one, but anyway. It's the gospel. That's right, the gospel. Okay? The gospel is the ability. Mark 16, 15 says, and he said to them, Go ye know all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Romans 1, 16, 17 says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is what? It is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith, as is written, the just shall live by faith. So it is the power of God unto salvation. So we're going to have actually two lessons. Well, at least one lesson, but maybe two lessons on on the gospel particularly. The next part of the car is the engine. All right, some of you mechanics out there or amateur mechanics out there. What is the engine? That's an engine. That's an engine, yeah. That's an engine. Sure. That's an engine. They pulled the head off first. You could see all the pistons. It's definitely an engine. Okay. Anyway. Um So I'm an amateur mechanic. Um my dad's a real mechanic, I'm an amateur mechanic. Um so what is the engine in this car? In my illustration that I made up. Yes? Okay, so so good. Okay, it makes the car move. All right. Well the gospel is the power that runs through the engine, it changes it it it the the the engine changes the gospel from what? Well the engine changes the gas I'm sorry, I'm mixing my elbows. The the engine changes the the engine changes the gas From what? From yeah, from liquid energy to con kinetic energy energy, right? Okay? It c i through combustion, right? And it makes the car go. It's applying the gas, right? That's what you're doing. The engine is applying the gas. Alright. So what applies the gospel? Let me put it this way. What's the first step to applying the gospel? And the answer is the preaching of God's Word. All right. The worship centered on expository preaching will have a lesson on this. It'll take a couple of it it's a it's a uh a lesson that may take two part parts. Worship centered on expository preaching. First Corinthians chapter 1, verses 17 through 21 says this: For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel. Not with the wisdom of words, so preaching is more than just the wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ shall be of none effect. And what he's saying there is that it is not just an eloquent, well-prepared, well-thought out, pithy kinds of sayings that all go together and make you go, oh, this is so nice. That's not a sermon in God's in God's eyes. What is a sermon? For after, verse twenty-one, for after that in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God, it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. The preaching that it's talking about is the heralding of the truth of the Word of God. Can I just say it this way? It doesn't matter what I think. As the preacher, it doesn't really matter what I think. It matters what God's word says. The authority of the preaching is the word of God. There are a lot of people out there that can speak a whole lot better than I can. There's a whole lot of people out there that can say things with a you know a lot of a big smile and an a a real attractive way of talking and make everybody come to like a stadium. But But are they really preaching? Are they dissecting the and unpacking the truth of the Word of God? That's what biblical preaching is. And God says there is a particular blessing that He gives to that. That is what saves people. It's the gospel applied through the preaching of the Word of God. The Bible says another place, how can they hear in Romans chapter 10? How can they hear without what? A preacher. How can the gospel be there without the hearing of the Word of God? The preaching of the Word of God is absolutely essential. And I'm actually going to go, I'm going to add something to that. I'm going to sort of point something out. You cannot have expository preaching without people in the room. You can't. You can have a lesson, but you can't have expository preaching because what happens in the preaching with the preaching this is my opinion. Part of it's not. But but what happens in expository preaching is there is an experience that occurs Where God's people are sort of saying with their expressions, sometimes verbally, sometimes not, yes, this is true. I know this to be true, or no, he's off his rocker. Hopefully it's more in our church more the first than the latter. Okay. But there is sort of a collective agreement about what's uh about the truth of the Word of God and how it's a preached and people saying amen or people after the message saying that was really convicting or that was helpful or that was not or whatever Usually that in other words, let me put it this way. When I hear a lesson, when I hear a message online. I may in and of myself say, eh, that was good or that wasn't. Okay? I I appreciate that, or I didn't get anything out of it. And that's perfectly fine for me to make that kind of a kind of opinion. But when I'm in the body of Christ and I'm walking out, and maybe, maybe the message did not strike me very particularly help as particularly helpful. It should if it's the pre true preaching of God's Word, but maybe it didn't. Maybe I was tired that day or something. Okay. But if I if somebody says to me next to me, you know, I'm walking out and say, boy, wasn't that a helpful message? Wasn't that I mean I really learned a lot there. And not just that was a great message, he's a great speaker. That's not the point at all But no, wasn't that wasn't that truth that was brought out a really helpful thing? This is how it helped me. And now suddenly you're going Oh, I didn't really get that. But you know, he's right. And now suddenly you're thinking collectively about it more. There my my point in saying that is there is something very valuable about the assembly. Uh there are a lot of things valuable though assembly. All right. The nature of the church. This is something that's so needed, and we're going to go over this. uh a lot in a day just we'll we'll go we'll at least do a lesson on the nature of the church, what it is, what its purpose is, what what is true Christian fellowship, what is church membership, what is the role of the congregation, all those kinds of things. The car itself, we need to really understand what this church thing is. This is absolutely important and necessary. The steering wheel. Anybody remember what the steering wheel is? Yeah, church leadership. Right? Okay? Good. It's church leadership. Christ is the driver. But what the church leadership is doing is it's doing its best to steer the church on this road of discipleship and you know to keep it on the road of discipleship. You know, why would we choose to have a wana? Because hopefully, Lord willing, it will help us on that road on discipleship. It will help us to improve in our ability to make disciples. Why do we change programs? Why do we do different things? Why do we make no we're all we're trying to stay on this road? So in this membership lesson, we'll look at the role, the biblical role of the congregation. The biblical role of the pastor or pastors or elders, and the biblical role of deacons. We'll flesh all of that out. That'll be a lesson that we go over. Anybody remember what the oil is? What is the oil? It's not the Holy Spirit. That's the most common answer. It's not the Holy Spirit. I mean I'm not saying that the Holy Oil never represents the Holy Spirit in the Bible, but not in our this is engine oil. What's that? It's Unity. Okay. What keeps and I know the illustration will break down, but what keeps things from W what keeps things from friction from happening in the church and from things seizing up? Well, it's the union of the body of Christ. This is part of the reason why uh chur the churches are having so much so many problems right now because there there is such a a discord that's coming from our culture. There are certain things that are happening in our culture that are really kind of they are de-unifying the local church and deunifying churches in general. They're really causing problems in our church unity because I have this opinion and you have this opinion about something that is not essential to the gospel. But because we differ, there's sort of a breach in unity that's occurring. So where does unity come from? The heart of unity is in unity in purpose, unity in God's nature, and unity that's reflected in God's Word. In fact, take your Bibles for just a minute. I don't want us to look at this. Ephesians chapter 4, verses 1 through 3. Ephesians four one through three. Says this, I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the calling with which you were called. You are called to a particular calling. What is that calling? With all lowliness and gentleness, with long-suffering, bearing with one another in love. Endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called and one hope of your calling. What's the basis of our unity? It's one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is above all and through all and in you all. Now I want us to go through that again, one more time, and I want us to think this way. What if we have online church either entirely or primarily, if it's a virtual church, read through this within mind and see how much of this you can apply. I mean just think of it this way. We'll read it again and see how much you can apply. I therefore the presence of the Lord beseech you, notice again, we are to walk worthy of this calling. We are to walk worthy of it. Okay, what are we just supposed to walk worthy of? With all lowliness of mind and gentleness. How can we be gentle with somebody when they're online? Well, actually you can be gentle on Facebook and stuff like don't be you know inflammatory, but that's not what we're how how can you, with all gentleness, with long suffering, bearing one another in love, how can you do that by streaming a service? Endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Can you do that through, you know, online? There is one body and one spirit. Just as you are called in one hope of your calling, one Lord, one faith, one baptism. Notice the care what's the what's the basis of our unity? Well, it's not this. It's not methods, it's not finances, it's not building and maintenance, it's not even organization and administration, and it I'm gonna add a couple. It's not politics. It's not your opinion on vaccines and masks. Those things are not, we do not have to be unified on those things. But we need to be unified on what? The character of God, because he is a tri-unity. This is what the passage is saying. There is one God. He is a tri-unity. And God desires for us to reflect him as a church to the world. We are to reflect the character of God and the and the to the world. That's what our goal is. That's the glory of God. We're supposed to be doing that. And the only way we could do that is as a church, and there is a, I think there is a local body application here and a universal church application. The only way we could reflect God's glory is if we are unified. Now, there is a time for disunity. What is the time for disunity? It's when they have erred in the gospel. When somebody has fallen away from the faith, when somebody has inserted error into the gospel, that's the time you say we're not part of them. Or they're not part of us. Okay. Well you try to reach them, you try to uh restore them, you do all those kinds of things. I'm not saying any of that. I'm just simply saying that if somebody says, uh, I'm a Christian and a Unitarian Does anybody know what a Utarian is? Yeah, they don't even believe that they don't believe in the Trinity. Okay? And a lot of other things they don't believe in. In fact, I'm really unsure of what they do believe in. They're like defined by their unbelief actually. Well, then they're not Christians. They're not. And we can say that publicly, they're not Christians because they don't believe in the gospel. So there is there is a place for that, but the place is not on these secondary and tertiary issues. Uh unity of methods, finance, all these kind of things. All right. Um and then in our illustration, uh X uh what what isn't important what what things need to be added and all that. Well it's church programs. They're nice to have but not essential. They should not become the DNA of the church They should be easily modified to fit the purpose and culture of the church. Members should look at ministries and opportunities for service rather than benefits to gain. So what should happen in a church is that the thing that should never change is the purpose of the church, to disciple people by glorifying God, by to glorify God by discipling people through the gospel. And the preaching of God's Word. Those things should never change. And the other things that change that should change, the building, the programs, all those things, those should change. If they're going to help us reach our goal, or they should be done away with if they're hindering us from reaching that goal. What happens unfortunately in some churches is Those things never change. The programs, the pro the the the buildings, all that kind of stuff never changes. And actually they start in they start hindering the purpose of the church, and before long the purpose is totally lost The gospel is is essentially not even it's not even preached anymore, it's not practiced, it's all about let's ha how do we keep up the building? How do we how do we uh maintain our programs, how do we feed the poor? I mean that's not I'm not saying that's not important. I'm just saying they become all these extra things instead of keeping uh instead of making sure that we understand our role in making disciples to glorify God through the purpose of the gospel by the preaching of the Word of God. Non-essential parts of the car, you don't really need them. They're like mud flaps. You don't really need them. But you might annoy the person behind you if you don't have them. So church facility. facilities, church advertising and signs, fit and finish, church decor, all these things are nice. They could be helpful. I gotta be honest with you. So uh um uh six months ago or something. I I s well, uh no, I know it was. When we had on Sunday nights we were having guys preach up here. on say nights on a rotation, I was sitting here more. And I was looking at and I was listening to the preaching, believe me I was. Uh I was taking notes and everything, but I was also looking at how ugly it was back there. uh behind them. And I don't know if you guys ever noticed that, but it was pretty ugly. And so I said, uh this is this is distracting even for me. We've got to do something about this. So now like it looks a little better back there, hopefully. Did you have to do that? No. Honestly, you don't have to do that. And frankly, and nobody should be like, well, that it doesn't look good enough. I mean, there shouldn't be fighting over this or anything like that. Okay? Um because those things aren't really important. But if you can make things look presentable and nice, then you should. But the the key is priority. Helpful tests. All right. When we get together, because I gotta I gotta finish up here. When we get together as a church family, what do we normally talk about? The building, the core, the prop the programs, or the word, the Lord, or our own spiritual needs or the lost? What are we talking about? This is a very important thing. What are we discussing together, before church, after church, in our home groups, those kind of things? What are we discussing? There's nothing wrong about talking about sports. Unless you're talking about the Orioles and then you're just going to get depressed. There might be something seriously wrong about talking about the Orioles these days. I mean I like like it's a it's a window of depression. Not quite that bad anyway. Um but no, generally speaking what what are we really talking about? What are we concerned about? Where are what our what are we occupied with? Uh when we think of the church, do we think of the building or do we think of people? Um and um and There are other things that we consider as well. All right. I unfortunately was going to hope hopefully have time for interaction. We don't have time for interaction, which does work better for those who are streaming. But anyway, let's go ahead and pray and then we'll be dismissed. If you have any questions or thoughts about this, please let me know. We will have time for interaction in the future. This will get us started. So what we're going to do basically is These different s parts of the car, these become the lessons that we're going to be learning each day we'll we'll pick a different lesson to learn uh each week, and that's how how It will work. All right, let's pray together. Father, we thank you, Lord, for your church. We thank you for um for the fact that we can trust Christ ultimately to build his church. And to know that he's the one doing it, that we're the vessels, we're the tools that he may be able to use, that he he desires to use. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us really as your people to be part of the solution and not part of the problem. And we are facing many, many difficult, problematic cultural issues today. I ask Lord that you'd help us with this. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon