So what we are going to be looking at today at uh in our car illustration, Christ as the driver. And uh we'll be looking at Matthew 16 a little bit, Matthew 18 a little bit, and several other passages as well. Let's go ahead and go, Lord, in prayer, and then we will uh we'll get started. Father, we thank you for the time we can spend together this morning. We thank you for the beautiful weather outside. Thank you for the fact that it's quite a bit cooler and not as not as much humidity and and we thank you for that, Lord. We pray that you would help us as we look at your word. And the fact that Christ is is the head of the church. He's the he's he said, he promised, I will build my church. And the gates of the grave will not prevail against it. So I pray, Lord, today, that as we look at your word and look at this truth, that it would help us to understand afresh the importance of your word or that and the importance of the church and uh how it's all supposed to work together. And Lord, we don't pretend at all that we have an angle on things that nobody else has. We have your word, and we're trying to do our best to just follow it. Help us to do that at Bethel and help us to Uh just teach us this morning and and remind us of these truths. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Alright. Christ is the driver. I have uh been uh listening uh this uh over the last couple of weeks now, I guess. to a it is now the most popular podcast among Christians in the entire nation. Does anybody know what it is? Let me know. It's called The Rise and Fall of Mars Hill. How many of you listen to that podcast? Anybody here? Okay, well you are not among the most popular people in Christian No Um uh it is it is uh I'm not sure I recommend listening to it is it's very It's gut wrenching. It is very uh it's basically Mars Hill was a a church in Seattle that became a mega church and um Mark Driscoll which is a very he's a very well known name uh and uh and how it rose and how it fell and all of what happened in that church And uh and uh I think for pastors it's i i it it's probably I mean I think it's extremely important to listen to. So I am I have other pastor friends that have suggested listening to it. Um so I'm do definitely doing it. Uh if you do decide to listen to it, I would suggest possibly Skipping lesson fi or the uh podcast five. It's it's just really um Yeah, it's just I I wouldn't listen to that one. I w I will not listen to it again, I'll put it that way. I did listen to it. Definitely do not listen to it with your kids. But many of them, it really is eye-opening to see what what can start out with good intentions and and what at least seems to be good motivation and really in some ways very good principles uh turn can turn out to become very corrupted to the point of you know c catastrophic failure, which is what happened there in that megachurch of thousands. you know, tens of thousands of of people in multi-site uh locations. And um and there's a lot to be said about you you know that you uh you can look at it on multiple levels. Um P part of the problem that I see if you listen to those, part of the problem I see with the church that there is this whole idea of a multi-site church Honestly, I'm not sure God really ever intended that. So a multi-sect church is basically where you have one preacher who is preaching and then he is essentially streaming to other congregations. Um and there are a few of them around the country and uh if you have a particularly gifted speaker, uh that's usually how it happens. Um JD Greer's doing it down in North Carolina, uh and there are other other people doing that. And um there there's just it's it really elevates one man. Which is really, really uh unsettling. And um so so there's a problem there I think and uh there was a lack of uh congregational kind of kind of being in the church. They had elders at at Mars Hill But there's a lack of congregational accountability, lack of a congregation being able to say, huh, something something's not right here, and uh they had they basically had no ability to be able to be that emergency break that we talked about last week. And I one of the other things that that seemed to be a prevailing attitude of that church that I really never want here. And I was reminded that we don't want to be this way. Well a a prevailing attitude of that church was we sort of have the everybody else is doing it wrong and we sort of have the angle of how we're how to do it right. Um that that that was the the that's kind of the attitude that came across, like all these other churches are doing it wrong, and we have the special sauce. of how to do it in a way that nobody else really knows how to do it. We know how to do it and that kind of thing. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Same kind of uh yeah, and um and unf the thing about it is is that many times they were right. Like like they it wasn't totally off base the things that they were concerned about and the things that they were uh saying about established churches and they were very uh They had a most of the ch the the the their church was able to reach people that were never church before. I mean their and that was one of their big things is we don't want to do transfer growth. We want to we want to reach out to people that are They're unsaved and or never been church before and they were very and they were very uh effective at doing that. And um and so some of the things they said was were like, yeah, I I understand where they're coming from with that. And yet the the pride that they uh that seemed to be a prevailing attitude that they got the answer to all of this Um is something I went. You know what? I w I do not want to I don't ever want to come across like that in our church. We we we are doing our best to to to be the church that God wants us to be according to his to his word. Um but we don't have an angle on anything, if I could say it that way. We're just doing the best we can to to uh to please the Lord with our church. And so we we we I just sort of say that as a caveat, and I think I think that one of the main things is that we've really got to see Christ as the head of the church. He's the g He is the one who owns it, authors it, drives it. He's it's him it's all about Christ. And um so let's let's kind of get into this. As we consider the narrative of the Old Testament, examining the kings and leaders, What consistent theme do you see? If you look at the Old Testament from Genesis to Revelation and you look particularly at the leaders There is a pr there is a consistent theme that you see that you will not usually learn in Sunday school classes of in children or in children's classes. In fact, unfortunately, sometimes you learn the exact opposite of this theme and you and you don't see it, uh but what anybody know what is that theme? What's that consistent theme throughout? Yes. Well that's definitely true. That's all of humanity for sure. But particularly leaders. And I'll give you the answer, it's a failure in leadership. Um if you go just think, just run your mind over the names of the people of the Old Testament and the different leaders. And in almost every case you can see failure in leadership. Almost I mean almost every case. There's a couple of ex uh exceptions. uh that I can think of. Uh I can think of Daniel as an exception. And yet Daniel was during a time where they were under Babylonian captivity and he wasn't leading a nation. Daniel wasn't. Okay. He was a leader in a sense, but he wasn't leading a nation, right? So Daniel was one, Joseph was was another one. And Joseph was not the head leader of his nation either. And there are the uh I can't think I mean there's a probably a few others that that are that are mixed in there and the kings probably or something, but Josiah and Uh, you know, I think of uh but there even certain certain kings they start out really good and did a lot of really good and then they flopped at the end You see that over and over and over in the Old Testament. There's a failure in leadership. One of the most concise descriptions of the Old Testament of God's plan is Psalm 2, and we won't take the time to look at that today, but in Psalm 2 you have the the fact that they're saying that all the nations rage and people imagine a vain thing and what they're what all of the leaders of nations Um desire to be in charge, they desire to leave, they desire to be sovereign. Okay? And the Bible says in Psalm 2, the Lord sits in the heaven and laughs. In fact, I think it's the only time in the Old Testament where it says that God laughs. He looks at all these nations, they're trying to be sovereign, and he's like, ha ha ha. Yeah, right. I'm not sure he's sarcastic, but he's but he is definitely laughing at the idea. that these people, these leaders of nations, can think that they're actually the ones in control. And then it says, kiss the sun, lest he be angry. What's it talking about? Well it's a it's a way of saying worship the Son of God, worship Jesus, who will be the sovereign of all nations one day. And so um so the the answer To the problem of failed leadership, the answer is Christ. He is the only one who can lead perfectly. He is the only one that one day will come again and will lead. And there will be peace and there will be he will solve all the problems and all he's the only one that can do that. Right? And I mean we we uh we s we should see we see this all the time and I mean nobody's got the answer, folks. Politics is not the answer. I mean you you know uh it's not as though You know, um we're gonna solve all the problems of the world by there there's no there's no magic formula. In fact, during the tribulation period, you're you're gonna see somebody try to have a magic formula, right? And they're not and they're an antichrist and they're not going to be able to ultimately it won't won't be sustainable, of course. Um but uh uh understanding this, that God i that Christ is the only good, only perfect, I'll put it that way, the only perfect ruler. And and here's the thing. As Christians We don't have to be under his rule. We get to be under his rule. Like we get to experience the rule of Christ now. Everyone else, those who don't know Christ, They're gonna experience the rule of Christ someday, okay? But we get to experience Christ's rule now. And so we see this in Christ's statements in Matthew 16. So in Matthew 16, look at verses 16 through 19 here. We'll read that. It says this. Simon Peter answered and said, You are the Christ. the Son of the Living God. So Peter Peter declares that Christ is who he said he was and that he is the Messiah. He I mean you could The word Christ there could be translated Messiah, or you could even say King. He is the one, the Son of the Living God. Jesus answered and said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjonah. For flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, um, but my Father who is in heaven, and I also and I say to you that you are Peter And on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. Now pause and just let's answer this. Where what What's the Rock here? Is the rock Peter? No, the rock's not Peter. What's the rock? The rock is the statement that Peter made. What is the statement that Peter made? You're the Christ, the Son of the Living God. That's the rock. The rock is the fact that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the Living God. On that rock, Christ says, I will build my church. So a church that does not believe that Christ is the Son of the Living God is not a church. I mean it's not a it's not a it's not a a New Testament church. So upon this rock I will build my church. It says, and the gates of hell, or the gates of Hades will not prevail against it. That word, Hades, can uh it's in fact it's pre it's m most frequently um it's most frequently the grave, translated the grave in the New Testament. And it and that's really the the interpretation here. It's not it's not saying that hell is going to break loose on the church and and the gates of hell are going to somehow prevail against it Um uh uh uh and and the cr uh the cr what it's talking about is that the rock who is Christ is going to build his church. And he's saying to his disciples, even the grave will not prevail against me and my work. Well what what was Christ going to do? He was going to go to the grave. He's really telling them of his resurrection here. That's really the interpretation that is the best interpretation of this passage. Uh the other interpretation comes from a sort of a medieval understanding of of Hades and all that. So so the grave here uh is i the w the cr the the the death of Christ will not prevail against God. Christ's mission to build his church. So he's associating the church with the work With his primary work after the resurrection. What's Jesus going to do after the resurrection? He's building his church. That's what he's doing So very, very, very significant here. He says, I will give you the keys to the kingdom of heaven and whatever you bind on earth will be bind in heaven. Who does he give the keys to the kingdom here? It's not Peter, it's the church. Okay, it's the church. And when it's talking about binding and loosing here, it's basically talking about recognize that the church's role is to recognize what God is doing. uh in the lives of believers. And so that's why later on in in Matthew 18, 15, where you have Where you have the go over two chap two chapters here. And by the way, what we just read is the first time the word church is mentioned in the New Testament Christ says, I'm building it, it's mine, and it's and it's going to last. It's going to be, you know, it's in a it's it's going to uh the grave will not prevail against it. And then In chapter 18, you pick up here verse 15, and next time you see church is on this whole section on church discipline here. Moreover, if your brother sins against you, go to him and tell him it's fault and him alone. And the very final step of this, of this church discipline, is tell it to the church And the church is the one who is to be able to deal with a problem of church discipline. And the problem of church discipline is always, the goal is restoration. Always. Hey, um You it's a warning. If you know the Lord, you're gonna be under God's chastening. Um so I'm not gonna get into all of what church discipline is there. We'll we'll cover that a little bit later, but um But you see these connections here going on in this passage. Christ is the king, uh he is the messiah. This authority will be mediated physically during the millennial kingdom and into the eternal state. The authority is mediated now. Oops. The authority is mediated now through the church. And we talked about a little bit about this last week. So how is Christ ruling in the world now? He is primarily ruling those who have are ch those who are following him, his followers. He's ruling us. He's ruling his church. That's who he's ruling. Now he's ruling everything else in the sense of he uh he is the universal ruler of all, God is. Okay, no question about that. But but his kingdom is not yet But spiritually it is. Physically it will be, and spiritually through his church now it is. So we live in an already not yet. time. Okay. That's actually a very, very important concept. We're we're we live in an already not yet time time period. Okay? Already in the sense that we are already citizens of the kingdom if we know Christ is our Lord and Savior. We're already followers of Him. He is already ruling us So we are already experiencing some of the benefits of the kingdom, fellowship with him, and even the church, even when we gather together, let's say, with the Lord's Supper What is that a what is that a diminished what is that a precursor of? It's the precursor of the marriage supper of the Lamb. God's intention is to i I mean it's a much m much diminished, you know, um um Not as not, you know, it's going to be much better in heaven, but God intends his church to be a to be a an appetizer, let's put it that way, an appetizer. for the main meal of heaven. And so it's very obviously very important. But in Christ is cle Clearly the head, Ephesians 122, 5515, and 523. We said last week that Ephesians is really the main book that we find with the very essence of the churches and what is included in that book is essential to the church. And what is absolutely essential to the church is that Christ is the head of the church. And he says that there very clearly in Ephesians. As followers of Christ, we must allow Christ to rule us. As disciple makers, we are inviting others to be ruled by Christ. That's what we're doing. We are following Christ as the head when our marriages run consistently with proper headship. I'll talk about that in a minute and kind of we'll put all this together. And spiritual growth means complete submission to Christ's headship. Now here's why I put that one in there on the third the third point. So it says in in 1 Corinthians chapter 11 11. But the head of the woman is the man, and the head of Christ is God. Very important passage to understand. Does it mean, does that passage in in First Corinthians chapter eleven, does it mean that um women are inferior to men? It absolutely does not mean that. Okay? Women are created in the image of God equal to men. So they are not inferior in any way. They're not inferior. Their role is different, but they're not inferior at all. No more than Christ is inferior to the Father. Who is Jesus? He is what? He's God. Who is the Father? He is also God. And yet in the passage it says that Jesus is the head of Jesus is the Father That doesn't mean he's inferior. So just immediately, and I and I'll just tell you this, sometimes one of the marks of Christianity that are unfortunate Very unfortunate actually is if sometimes it feels as though um we get we've I don't think I don't I hope it's not in our church and I don't think it is, but but sometimes we sort of get this impression Or people get this impression, or church, that somehow there's an inferiority or a superiority. And that should not be the case when it comes to um the role of husbands and wives. However What is clear in scripture is that a husband is to lead spiritually his home. That doesn't mean that he manages everything in the home. Man, I'm glad that that doesn't mean that, because my wife manages a whole lot. And I would be in trouble I would I I would never be able to have any of you over. Um and I I honestly she she manages so much all the time and I'm really glad the Bible doesn't say that the the man is the manager of the house. Because if it said that we would I would my family it would be I would be in trouble. I don't even know how to iron a shirt. This morning my wife was a little bit busy and I had brought a shirt down for her to iron and she's like um I I'm I'm a little on the busy side. I'm looking at it going, um, uh it probably doesn't need to be ironed, it'll be okay. And she's like, Give me that shirt, I'm gonna iron it. So anyway, I'm very glad that the On the other hand, we what a man sh what a husband should not be giving up in his home is spiritual leadership. He needs to set the direction in the home. He needs to set the course spiritually. He needs to teach and train his family. Spiritual training in the home is is set up in in the in uh for the husband to do. If that's possible, sometimes it's not possible, sometimes the husband's unsaved I mean cer certainly fact the church history is full of that, where the husband doesn't doesn't know the Lord, isn't leading spiritually, and the wife then has to do it. And God gives great grace, I think of Timothy. Who was lo who was raised by who? Lois and Eunice. We see nothing nothing mentioned about her his physical dad. uh and and uh and ba and and Paul takes the time to mention these two as great women that m that raised Timothy. So certainly God in his grace uh supplies, but generally speaking If the church and everybody, if everybody's going to be functioning the way it's ought to be functioning biblically, then the then the husband needs to be leading in the home. And following Christ, obviously, as well. Spiritual growth then means submission to the Christ's headship. You can't grow spiritually if you are resisting the headship of Christ in your life. We can't. And that's very important for us to understand. Alright, so Christ is the head. Any questions about Christ being the head of the church? And how that functions. Alright, he's also the owner and the builder. He says, I will build what? My church. So it's his church. He owns it. So that means, when we're thinking practically, who owns this building? Well, the corporation. Yes, we're incorporated, so the corporation technically owns the building. But who, in our minds, owns the building? It's Christ. Christ owns. He owns everything. Christ own everything. He owns us. He owns everything is Christ. He he owns He owns it. And by the way, the church prime is not talking about the building. We've gone over the last week and before. The church is talking about the assembly of believers. And I'll just remind us of that as well. He owns it, he builds it, he promises that it will endure, which we've already gone over. And the implied condition is that it must remain his So is it possible that a church would start out following after him and then no longer really owned by him. In other words, if you're driving down the street anywhere around here. Is it possible that some of the buildings that you drive by that represent some group of people and on the front of it has church, is it possible that some of those are really not churches owned by Christ? Absolutely. One thing you definitely know is if they have abandoned the gospel. If they've abandoned the fact that Jesus is the Christ. The Son of the Living God, like Peter said, that's the rock that the church is built on. And if they no lon if they deny that, then they're no longer a a church that Christ owns. In fact, we have, and we've we we've gone through this in great detail recently, so we won't necessarily quickly, but we have found in Revelation chapters 2 through 3 uh that Christ disowns his church or that he says he will, he warns these churches, these seven churches, that he will disown them if they do not if they do not make some adjustments, if they don't repent in most cases. So Ephesus, we go through these seven churches, and what you find is in sometimes it's not even doctrinal error. For example, in Ephesus, it was losing her first love, or actually leaving, it would be a better way of saying it, leaving her first love. She chose uh to leave the the the original uh motives for why she was doing what she was doing. She was faithful, that church is faithful. in uh preaching the gospel, faithful doctrinally, they hated the deeds of the Nicolaitans. They were they were absolutely um uh uh intolerant of of uh falsehood. So uh Christ commended them for that, if you remember. But but when it came to love, it came to their motivation for what they why they did, they left it entirely. Smyrna, that was a good church. Just stay faithful, he says. Pergamus, false doctrine and idolatry. Another one, Diatira, false doctrine and idolatry. Sardis, a wrong focus. There was corporate pride and self-deception. I think that would probably describe Mars Hill. Philadelphia, a church small in number and another another good, solid church. They were small. But they were strong in spirit, and Christ commends them. And then you have Laodicea, uh unusable blindness, which actually we're going to talk about in the in the morning service what this idea of spiritual blindness is So the easiest way to identify how Christ owns it, when Christ owns a church, the easiest way to identify that is if they have left The gospel. That's the easiest way. But it actually isn't the only way, according to this. There seems to be no indication that the Ephesians left the gospel. And yet they left living out the gospel. And I'm going to get into my message a little bit, but it's interesting that in Galatians it says that faith works its way through love. Faith works through love. And if it's not working through love, if faith is not doing that, which I think is exactly what was happening in Ephesus, Christ says. I I'm gonna remove your candlestick. I uh I will I will disown you uh if you don't if you don't return. If you don't repent. Interesting that Christ also gave them all opportunities to repent and Um so so it is a possibility. And what we want to do here is always make sure that Bethel Baptist Church is owned by Christ. and that we are staying submissive to his leadership. So what is our responsibility? Well our responsibility is submission and I want to say this very clearly all of us Probably I I would almost want to say it this way, me first. The pastor has to be submissive, the elders have to be submissive, the the deacons need to be submissive, everyone needs to be submissive to the authority of Christ. Uh and you definitely can see in Mars Hill that that what happened was there were some and really primarily one. the um that that chose no longer to submit himself to anyone. And he basically said it. Basically said, there's no one I can submit to Um and his his criteria was there's nobody that's ha yeah he was encouraged, this is Mark Driscoll, he was encouraged to um seek out men in the church uh seek out men um uh uh uh that are his senior other pastors and things like that that he could talk to and and And get get guidance from and he said, Well no no other church is bigger than mine, so I can't submit to anybody else. We've got real problems, don't we? When you start saying something like that So submission. Submission to God and his word. Submission to one another. Submission to husbands, submission to church leadership, submission to governmental authority All the we we you you you could say I'm submissive to God, but if you're not submissive to the people that God says we're supposed to be submissive to, then we're not submissive. And there are three institutions ordained by God, right? All right. There's three. And there is the first is marriage. That's the first institution ordained by God. The second is government, and the third is the church. And there are different roles that each of those plays. It's a different kind of submission based upon the role that it's that God intends for it. In other words, the submission to the government is actually different than the submission to leadership. One is called magisterial authority and the other is ministerial authority. So in magisterial authority, the government can say, if you don't do what I'm saying, I'm throwing you in jail. The church can't say that. There's nowhere in the Bible that says that. The church does not have that authority. The church has the authority to bind and loose according to Scripture, and that means basically that they can recognize when someone needs to be disciplined as a church. But but it's a very, very different thing. And the authority of the church is entirely based upon the authority of the Word of God. Um but the sub government authority is very different. And and we have to remember that, that we need to be submissive to all of these. I wrote this uh you know um nine and a half years ago. almost ten years ago I guess. But this is absolutely true today. We have to be careful about this. Now if Uh the if if the government says don't do something that we know is biblical, uh you know, if if if it's a matter of the I mean this is the this is the prime authority. This is the primary authority and everything else is delegated authority. So when another authority tells me to do something different, uh then what the Bible says for me to do, then I need to follow I need to follow what the Bible says. And then that's when civil disobedience is is acceptable. But otherwise, there God God really values our hearts being submissive, not not submitting to government for government's sake or the church for church's sake or husband's sake. Not submitting for their sakes, but for submitting for Christ's sake. He's our authority, and we want to stay submissive to him. So why do why do Christians fail to submit? Let me ask you before we answer, why do Christians fail to submit? Any any ideas? There's not a lot of wrong answers here. And there's more than one right answer. Pride. Okay? Pride. We fail to submit because of pride. There's no question about that. What else? Any other reasons that Christians fail to submit? Apathy. Okay, good. All right. Um apathy is another reason. Fear. Fear is Okay, good. Fear. That's another reason. Alright, you guys hit most of them. Pride, look at that. You guys remember all the way back, or it's just so obvious what why we do that? Pride Selfishness, that's apathy, that g uh that's within, you know, that's why we're apathetic, because we're selfish. And fear. Pretty good guys. That's nice. All right. Uh misplaced fear. Um The fear of God will result in submission. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. It will result in submission. But the fear of man will result in a lack of submission to God and one another. So what happens when you, the Bible says Proverbs 29 and 25, that the fear of man is a reproach and a snare. What happens when you begin to fear man? If you fear man, you're not fearing God. But what is the result of fearing man? The result is I have to depend on myself. So fear leads to insecurity, which leads to control. Okay, so people uh fear something and then they are insecure because they're fearing man. And then that leaves for them a desire to try to control. And you can't say and you can't have to be in control. Yeah, feel free to shut the windows if you're getting too cold or whatever. I we just open them up to air the you know's So nice outside anyway. Fear is uh leads to leads to insecurity, which leads to control. And so if you ask somebody, if you think of somebody, well, why is somebody so you know hard to get along with, or so cantankerous, or so stubborn, or those kind of things, what's going on there? It's not always fear. Sometimes it's just pride. The guys, you know, just fool of themselves. Sometimes it's selfishness. Or sometimes it's fear. Or sometimes it's the combination of all three of those. And often the fear and the pride go together. Uh the that it's very, very common. So so if you have a church that's full of people that are afraid You're going to have a church that's full of people that are trying to stay in control and want control. If you have a pastor that is constantly afraid, then you're gonna have a fa pastor that wants to stay in control. If you have a if you have deacons, whatever it is that that you have that they're fearful It's going to lead to a desire for control. And what do we want to do? We want to give Christ control. We want to allow him to control. He's in control. And that means we've got to trust him. Okay? That means we've got to fear the Lord, which is the beginning of wisdom. Now, that doesn't mean we're absolved of our responsibility. In fact, the fear of the Lord will allow us to carry out our responsibility The fear of man can do a lot of different things, but one thing it can do is actually paralyze us. Whereas the fear of the Lord will motivate us, and the love for God will certainly motivate us. Alright, so how can we, a couple of questions that we can always ask ourselves, how can we keep Christ ahead of Bethel Baptist Church? And how can we keep from usurping Christ as head of Bethel Baptist Church as well? These are always things that we need to be thinking about and other questions, you know, other things that uh that we need to we need to really keep in mind that that this is should be our our mentality. All right. Any thoughts or questions on or uh ideas on on this. I think we're yeah, we're going on a living living in the gospel after this. Any thoughts on this? Yes, Bailey. Okay, excellent question. Thank you for we'll flesh that out a little bit. So the fear of the Lord does not I'm glad you asked because I did not just explain it at all. Um so the fear of the Lord is not I'm scared of him. Like I'm scared of spires. Spires. Yeah, sure. Okay, we'll take spires. Thanks, parents. That's a help. Okay. Scared of spiders. Okay. Not what it's talking about. The fear of the Lord is an awe. I am in awe of the character of God. I I I am amazed by who God is and amazed by and the more we know God, the more we are amazed by him. If we look at his holiness and his love and his uh mercy and his justice and all those different characteristics we're uh we're we're amazed by God. And we look at ourselves and we go, I am not I am so Mm I am nothing like that. I am I am uh I am mm sinful and you know and I have the right kind of perspective. And then understanding that that God because and and that God so it's all, but it's also that God is in control of everything He is he is in control. So I'm I'm in awe of him and he's in control of everything. And that means that what what What we do, what God says we should do, we need to do, because what we sow will reap, Scripture says. Um uh what we uh do has consequences because God's in control. He set up the world And so we need to follow hit and so what this comes out to is I need to follow God's plan. So let's make this practical There are times, and I'm not sure I can come up with something for for your age group, but but off the top of my head, but there are times in our lives where it's hard to obey. Okay. It's hard to do what I'm supposed to do. It's hard to submit. Um and I don't want to. And the fear of the Lord helps me to say, okay, I'm going to submit anyway, because I know that God's in control and I'm trusting Him. to work things out and I know that if I don't trust him and I don't disobey then it really isn't going to it's not going to be best for me. Does that make sense? Okay. So that's the fear of the Lord. Good, excellent question. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.