This time we'll go uh go to the before the Lord in prayer before reading the text of God's Word. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for the awesome truth of your word that we have been able to sing that we have been able to reflect on. Truly Lord, you have blessed us with great pieces of music and great The music that is just packed full of truth that we can meditate on that can really impact us. And I pray, Lord, as we have considered your holiness, that we've considered your sovereignty As we've considered your justice and how you, in your time and in your perfect way, will make all things right. That that would give us strength, that that would give us confidence, not because of the Because of how crazy the world can be, but because you are in control of it all Faith is only as good as its object. And Lord, the way you present yourself and your word, you are completely trustworthy. worthy of our commitment to you, worthy of our faithfulness, and yes, worthy of our trust. I pray, Lord, that Now all of those things would be uplifted in our minds today. We pray, Lord, that you would use your word to impact us this morning. May we come away from it challenged, rebuked if necessary, corrected if necessary, but encouraged as well. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Looking at the text of Scripture today that Pastor Jim will be preaching from will be in Ecclesiastes 3, 16, reading all the way from there to chapter 4, verse 3. I encourage you to read along with me as we go through this. Ecclesiastes 3. In verse 16 it says, Moreover, I saw under the sun, in the place of judgment, wickedness was there. And in the place of righteousness, iniquity was there. I said in my heart, God shall judge the righteous and the wicked, for there is a time for there is a time there for every purpose and for every work. I said in my heart, concerning the condition of the sons of men, God tests them, and they may see that they themselves are like animals. For what happens to the sons of men also happens to animals. One thing befalls them, as one dies, so dies the other. Surely they all have one breath. Man has no advantage over animals, for all is vanity. All go to one place, all are from the dust, and all return to dust. Who knows the spirit of the sons of men, which goes upward, and the spirit of the animal, which goes down to the earth? So I perceive that nothing is better than that a man should rejoice in his own works. For that is his heritage. For who can bring him to see what will happen after him? Then I returned and considered all the oppression that is done under the sun. And look the tears of the oppressed, but they have no comforter. On the side of their oppressors, there is power, but they have no comforter. Therefore, I praise the dead who are already dead, more than the living who are still alive. Yet, better than both is he who has never existed. For who has not seen the evil work that is done under the sun Last week we were assured from Ecclesiastes three, one through fifteen that There is a purpose and a time and a season for everything, and that God is in control of all things, and He is providentially and personally and deliberately working. The question comes up as we think about the providence of God and Him being in control. When you look around What about all of the things that are unjust in the world? What about all of the problems in the world that seem to be unresolved? And that's what this passage is dealing with, and we'll be going through this. As we look, you take turn on the news, you look at the what happens in the world, and you see injustice all around you In our minds, in our thinking, we as people have this sense of wanting things to be just, wanting things to be right. Wanting particularly things to be right on our account. You think of a child who says that's not fair. That's got to be one of the first phrases that a child says as they get older. That's not fair. That's not fair And that phrase continues as we become adults. We are still saying that's not fair. Have you ever been falsely accused of something? Uh I'm curious, how many of you say yes, that there have been time one time or another I mean it would almost be almost be unanimous that one time or another you've been falsely accused of something? Ever been passed over a promotion or betrayed by friends Or suffered injustice in family life. There are all kinds of ways that we experience injustice. Have we ever accidentally, or have we ever Accuse somebody else of wrong things? Have we ever uh disciplined our children and realized, oh, they actually didn't do what I disciplined them for? Have we ever done that before? The fact is, none of us are good at this thing called justice, and yet all of us want it. We have this desire w to see things be right in the world. You could see this in our in our movies and our television programs, our comic books, and all that. How many how many vigilantes are out there? You've got an entire team called the Justice League. You've got um different people that are they're they're trying to bring justice to a world or to a city that has been corrupted. Like Batman, for example. How many of you all knew that yesterday was Batman Day? How many of you knew that? Okay, there's like really the three of you did. Okay. I didn't know it all until I happened to look it up. Yes. Uh um I I'm surprised even anybody knew that, but yes, there is Batman Day was yesterday. And it's a big deal, actually. I mean every every uh four third or fourth Saturday in September is Batman Day. And that emblem is actually these are I think power, these are actually things that have been shined. Yesterday last night, these were shined all over the place. Uh I'll give you some examples. Melbourne, Tokyo, Johannesburg, Berlin, Rome, Paris, Barcelona, London, Sao Paulo, New York, Montreal, Mexico City, Los Angeles. Th these were shown on buildings. You didn't see Baltimore in there. Anyway, uh uh all over the place in buildings on buildings last night because yesterday was Batman Day. And Batman, of course, he was trying to deal with the problem of injustice in Gotham City, a city that was so corrupt that even the government was corrupt, everybody was corrupt except for Batman. He he was kind of corrupt too, actually. But uh he would uh he would uh go and he wanted he was a vigilante. He wanted to execute justice and make things right in the city of Gotham. There's just something inside of us that wants justice in the world, and yet when we look at the world, it is certainly not a very just world. In fact, as we go through this text, we're going to find that vigilanteism is not the answer There is nowhere in Scripture that indicates that we should take on justice on our own. Of course, God has ordained and instituted government to execute justice. certainly very imperfectly, but this is actually King Solomon's speaking year. And as he as we go through this text, we're going to find that a king who to some degree had responsibility to execute justice still sees the reality that we are not living, and he was not living back then in a just world And justice of our fallen world must actually be seen through the lens of God's justice And we're going to see three movements in this passage. First, we're going to see in verses 16 through 18 that we're going to see injustice in the light of divine justice. Remember now, Koaleth, as he's been called, or Solomon, King Solomon, he is actually one now who is aware of the presence of God, and he's viewing things through that lens. And yet he is now returning in verse 16 to what it looks like under the sun. But you'll see a difference now. We saw in the first chapter and the second part of the second chapter We saw that it was under the sun and it was bleak and it was all vanity and there was nothing good whatsoever, nothing redeeming. And then we saw a change that we saw the last couple of weeks. But now he is now going to, with the mindset that there is something above the sun, there is God is in control. He is aware of God being in control, and yet As he just looks at what is under the sun, as he looks at the earth and he looks at the world, he is, we're going to see the perspective is quite different. Yesterday, or last Sunday rather, it brought us to this to the great heights of the truths of God being in control, and we can live in light of that. We can enjoy our the fruits of our labor. We can enjoy our work. And yet today we pick up into the text and he says, I saw under the sun. Verse 16, moreover, I saw under the sun, in the place of judgment, wickedness was there. And the place of righteousness, iniquity was there. So he's now looking again under the sun. He's looking at the earth, and he's seeing There should be justice. In the place of justice, there should be judgment. But wickedness is actually there. And where there should be righteousness, or you can even say accuracy, there should be things that are accurately right, iniquity was there. Now keep in mind that he understands, look, verse 15, if you'll just look back there for a minute, you'll see Ecclesiastes 3. 15, Solomon has said, that which has already been And what is to be has already been, and God requires an account of what is past. So Solomon is aware of the fact that God is evaluating the world. He's evaluating what is on the earth and he is in control of it, and yet he looks at the world and he sees wickedness and unrighteousness. And he says, there should be justice in these places. There should be rightness in these places, and yet there is not. Verse 17 says, I said in my heart, God shall judge the righteous and the wicked. For there is a time there, the judgment for every purpose And for every work. The solution that he gives here right off the bat is that God will, in the future, judge. The implication is that God really isn't executing justice, certainly not perfectly now, and anywhere, not anywhere close to perfectly now. And yet he assures his heart that one day God will set everything right Genesis 18. 25 reminds us of the good of the justice of God. It says in that passage, shall not the judge of all the earth do right? God is the judge of all the earth. He is the just one. He will do right. And he must have justice We see later on in Ecclesiastes eleven verse nine. It says, Rejoice, O man, in your youth, and let your heart cheer you in the days of your youth. Walk in the ways of your heart in the sight of your eyes. But know that for all these God will bring you into judgment. And there is a sense in which Solomon is comforted by this. And we should can be comforted by it. You know, the truth is in the world people do not like to think of God being a just God when they think of their sin and their behavior. In fact, we people people don't when they think of God punishing them, they begin to say, well, I don't believe in a God like that. But when it comes to some of the atrocities in the world and some of the some of the things in the world that are just horrible, you think of Nazi Germany and things like that, then suddenly People want a God who is going to be exe execute justice on others. And the truth is God is we we see injustice all over the place because we live in a fallen world and the world is cursed and yet there is a truth that one day Christ will judge the world. And in the New Testament, this is clearly identified. In Acts chapter 10, verse 42, it says, And he, meaning Jesus, commanded us to preach the preach to the people and to testify that it is he who was ordained by God to judge uh to be judge of the living and the dead. And later on in Revelation chapter 20, verses 11 through 15, we see that there is going to be a judgment, and the books will be open, and Christ will come again, and he will set himself up as judge. And there is a sense in which for us as Christians we look at that and we we look ahead to the hope that God will make all things right. We think of Charlie Kirk, his moral is being uh being um is going on probably right now or very soon And a couple of weeks ago he was unjustly murdered. That should be universally accepted. The few that have suggested otherwise For the most part, the United States, most part people have, whether they agree with Charlie Kirk or not, realized that that was a completely unjust killing. And that is one of many in our country and through our history that we have seen that have been unjust We live in an unjust world and we look to the day where Christ will bring all things to bring all things and all people to justice. But what about now? What a w what do we do now and why would God delay his justice? Have you ever thought about that? Why is it that if God is in control, why would he actually allow injustice to continue? Why would he allow it to delay? And I want us to think about this for a minute. There's a sense, we're going to see what the text says, but in just a minute, just to think about this. What if God completely executed justice perfectly on the earth? There would be none of us left. Right? Because we all deserve hell. And so if God were to execute justice, there would be nothing left. It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed, actually. And so and so we need to understand that. But Solomon, in thinking about the present situation, he says something that's quite interesting that sheds at least some light on why God holds off on executing his justice, why he allows injustice to go on, and also why he allows people to recognize that there is so much injustice It says, I said in my heart, verse 18, I said in my heart concerning the condition of the sons of men, look at what it says. God tests them that they may see that they themselves are like animals. God tests or he makes it clear that they see that they themselves are like animals. What is he saying there? Well, I'll assure you, he's not saying that the value of human beings and the value of animals are the same. But he is pointing, he is saying that there is no distinct advantage under the sun Outside of God's working, there's no distinctive advantage of animal of human beings over animals He's really pointing to the plight of humanity and to the cursed world that we live in. He's saying that that we're all under the curse of sin, and there is a sense in which under the sun that that There's no distinction between man and animals when it comes to eternal advantage if we're just looking under the sun. I I think the point here is that we realize that it's actually the injustice in the world that causes us to realize that we are living in a cursed world, in a fallen world. There is a sense in which that people should realize how horrible things are because of the injustice in the world. And there's a sense in which that should point people to the need for a solution to that. I mean you think of the history uh over the last two thousand years and how many over Yeah, one civilization after another have had injustice after injustice, whether it's people or nations or institutions And never has it all been solved, and there, and yet there are still people that continue to try to solve an unsolvable problem. Think back to 2020 with George Floyd. I don't think there's anybody that would question that that was an unjust killing. At least I I would hope not. If you watch the ta the video, there's no question, there's I don't think there's really any question about that. But those who try to to actually execute justice outside of the law created something that was so um swinging the other way where now we're going to defund the police and all of that on the other side We seriously don't know how to be just and fair in our world, do we? People are inadequate to be able to do this. And for Christians, this ought to drive us to realize how much we We look to the hope of Christ, and our desire should be to help non-Christians to realize that the hope is Christ. Christ is a just judge. He will judge the world. The text is going to go on to explain the similarity between us and animals. And by the way, I I can't help but r think about the fact That the naturalist worldview, the evolutionist, the macroevolutionist worldview is one that pretty much views us as an evolved animal. They're almost viewing us the way that Solomon is saying we are viewed outside of God. But there is another significant similarity that he's going to bring up here, and it has to do with our present life in light of inevitable deaths. Everybody dies the same way, animals and human beings. There is no advantage over one or the other when we think in terms of a physical death So we see in verse 19 it says, For what happens to the sons of men also happens to animals. One thing befalls them, as one dies, so dies the other. He says, surely they all have one breath. Man has no advantage over animals, for all is vanity. The Bible tells us that in Genesis chapter 2, verse 7, that God formed man of the dust of the ground. Verse 20 is going to tell us here, all are from the dust and all return to dust. Genesis 1 nineteen or three nineteen says, In the sweat of your face you shall eat bread till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken, for dust you are, and to dust you shall return. That isn't it as part of the proclamation of the curse of sin. So when we think about animals and human beings and we think about the being under the sun and not having God and the and heaven and all that in view, animals and human beings end the end at the same place. They all end up in the grave. They return to dust. Verse 21 then does give us a glimpse as to a difference. There's a dissimilarity in verse 21. It says, who knows the spirit of the sons of men which goes upward and the spirit of the animal which goes down to the earth? Who knows the spirit of the sons of men? This this word spirit, and it says the spirit of animals as well, so it's not making a distinction between animals and man when it uses spirit. Realize that in the Old Testament and actually in the New Testament as well, the word spirit can mean different things depending on what the context is. There are some people that sort of make this argument, well animals don't have a spirit, man do. Well it depends on what you mean by spirit actually. Genesis chapter 7 verse 22 says all in whose nostrils was the breath of the spirit of life, all who that was on the dry land died. And it's actually talking about human beings and animals there. But on the other hand, you have passages like Psalm 31. 5 where it says, Into your hand I commit my spirit. I think the spirit here is talking about the life, the life of someone. Who knows the life of the sons of men, the breath, the life of the sons of men, which goes upward, and the spirit of the animal which goes down to the earth? And it's asking a question, who knows this? If you're just looking at the physical, if you're just looking at the physical evidence, it's you don't know. You don't know the difference between what an animal does in going down to the ground and what a human being goes down to the ground. This is now remember this is strictly speaking of being under the sun. Now what's the point of this? Well, the point, I think, is that we're going to see in a few moments more about this, but outside of God's intervention This living under the sun is very bleak. Ultimately, this great equalizer is the equalizer of death But how do we live? Now that's interesting because we moved to verse 22, and he tells us how you what you can appreciate. Knowing that there again, I think at this point he's aware that God's in control. There's still a lot of unanswered questions in his mind. But as he thinks about how to live. And as he has recognized that God will deal with the just with justice, he will judge someday. He seems to be able to put that matter aside, and look at verse 22, it says, So I perceive that nothing is better than that a man should rejoice, be glad in his own works. He returns to this subject of work. We've seen this many times before. In Ecclesiastes 2. 4, it says, I made my works great, I built myself houses and planted vineyards. And in that context, he says it's all vanity, all futility, it's worthless. And in verse eleven it says, and I looked and all the works of my hands had done, and all the labor in which I had toiled, and indeed all was vanity, and grasping for the wind, there was no profit under the sun. But now he is at least aware of the fact that God is in control. We've seen that, and that God is a just God who is certainly not executing his justice perfectly now, but he'll one day will judge. And he is able then to say, okay, well what is, what, what is, what should I do? He says, rejoice and be glad in his own works. He said, for that is his heritage. The word heritage could be translated portion or allotment or used sometimes into like a share of booty. Ecclesiastes chapter 5, verses 18, verses 19, verses 18-19, well just in verse 19 particularly, it says to receive his heritage and rejoice in his labor, this is the gift of God. So he's moved back to this singular idea that in this life under the sun, the one thing that you can do that you should be able to do when you set aside uh your the frustration of having to have everything just Is to rejoice in your own works. But there's a limitation to it in the text. The limitation is for who can bring him to see what will happen after him. Of course, nobody can do that. And you don't know nobody's nobody can say what will happen after a person dies. And so there can be a rejoicing in the work in which we do. There can be a an enjoyment of that work. And yet that isn't it true that it's like it feels like something's missing here. It leaves you, doesn't this text leave you kind of wanting? Like, this can't be all there is And that's because you have an entire New Testament. Right? And we've learned this before on many occasions as we go through the Old Testament. Nearly every book of the Bible you go through in the Old Testament It sort of at least at some point leaves you like, okay, we've got to there's gotta be more. And there is. The Old Testament points to the New Testament fulfillment in Christ. So how what does the New Testament say about death? Because ultimately that's what we're seeing as the issue here That's the great equalizer. That's the thing that's creating no advantage between humanity and animals. And of course we know when did death occur? Death recur occurred as a direct result of sin. We know this from Romans 5. 12. Therefore, just as by one man sin entered the world, and death through sin, and thus death spread to all men, because all sinned. But aren't you glad that the New Testament says a whole lot more about this problem of death? 1 Corinthians 15 is an entire chapter about the resurrection. And in verse 26 of that chapter, it says, the last enemy that will be destroyed is death. Christ will destroy the enemy of death. First Corinthians fifteen fifty-four and fifty-five. So when this corruptible has put on incorruption and this mortal has put on immortality, then shall be put brought to pass The saying which is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is your sting? O Hades, where is your victory? And Revelation 20, verse 14, then death and Hades were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. So Christ in his death on the cross, he experienced death himself. Separation from God, spiritual death, physical death as well. He experienced this for us. so that he could one day have victory over all deaths So that what this points to is Christ, the need for Christ, the fact that death outside of Christ working and what he did, we are all just Getting ready to die. Life is hard, and then you die, and that's it. Except because of Christ and his dying in our place, and looking forward to the reality that Christ will one day completely, He will completely have victory over death. We move from this in we do see this enjoyment of work here. And by the way, I think there is an application here for us. I do think that in Cola's thinking, he set aside the issue of injustice by simply saying that God will be just And he will execute justice. He wasn't saying, by the way, that he shouldn't be involved in justice. We certainly, as Christians and as God's people, certainly Old Testament saints as well, were actually all over the place exhorted To be proponents of justice and certainly to act justly. We see that in fact it's all over the place in the Old Testament And yet, in dealing with the problem, the overall global problem of injustice, there is a sense in which that ultimately is going to have to be dealt with by God. Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord. I will repay. God is the ultimate judge. We move to chapter four. And we continue to see Coales or Solomon. We continue to see his observation of what is happening under the sun. In verse 1 it says, Then I returned and considered all the oppression that is done under the sun, and look the tears of the oppressed. Now he deals with the issue of oppression. And as we as Enrique read before, as we've read through this, we actually see utter hopelessness. There is no solution for this. Now again, we're I I took us uh out of the context to rema to remember who Christ is and what he did in conquering death. We're back in the context of looking at what is under the sun, and you see oppression. That word oppression, the idea of oppression, that's an interesting word. It's actually the concept is all over the place in the Old Testament. It means to be taken advantage of in Deuteronomy 24, verse 14. It says, And you shall not oppress a hired servant who is poor and needy. Whether one of your brethren or one of the aliens who is in your land within your gates, each day you shall give him his wages, and not let the sun go down on it For he is poor, and has set his heart on it, lest he cry out against you to the Lord, and it be sinned to you. They were exhorted, and that Israel was exhorted in Deuteronomy. uh to be fair to those whom you hire, to give wages, to not with not withhold, to not take advantage of. In Deuteronomy 2833, we see there's a correlation between being oppressed and crushed and burdened. A nation whom you have not known shall eat the fruit of your land and the produce of your labor, and you shall be only oppressed and crushed. Psalm 103. 6 says the Lord executes righteousness and justice for those who are oppressed. Proverbs 14, 31 makes the correlation between oppressed and needy. But I want us to m I want to mention this that the idea of oppression is not th not maybe not the modern idea that we think of o oppression. There is an ideology that is really prevalent today that pretty much has carries the idea that you are either An oppressor or you are oppressed. You can't be any other than anything else. You are either oppressed or you are an oppressor. But that's not what Scripture says. We don't see that idea in Scripture. We see that you could be an oppressor if you don't do the right thing. And that there are people in the world that certainly are in this category of being oppressed. But realize that Notice what's in the text that is quite interesting. He mentions twice that the oppressed have no comforter. I think that's significant. The oppressed have no comforter. It could be translated helper, no comforter or no helper. The oppressed have no one to help them, no comforter. When this text is talking about oppressed, it is talking about someone who is utterly, completely poor and destitute and has no one even to help them or comfort them. Now the truth is there are some people like that. There are people that, if you go through through the Old Testament, you peep you see people that are oppressed by kings. Uh Proverbs 2816, or a master can oppress a servant, a fluent can oppress a poor, a bureauc bureaucrat can oppress a poor person. There's all kinds of this kind of thing going on and can go on in the Old Testament. And the root problem they say we see in the text is that there is no comforter. I want you to notice just how bleak this is, just how hopeless this is, verse 2. Therefore I praise the dead who are already dead, for more than living who are still alive. Koleth observes these oppressor, these people that are oppressed, these people that are utterly destitute, completely lonely, without help, without comfort. And he says being dead is better. This is not an encouraging text This is not a text you go, wow, this is so helpful. And then verse 3, yet better than both is he who never existed. Who has not seen the evil work that is done under the sun? This is what you would call clinical depression. This is someone this these kinds of thoughts are are be are suicidal and and wishing that you had never even been born. Now, question for you, is that a reality in our world? Are there people that struggle with that? Are there people that re that that feel that they wish they never had been born before? This is a serious issue. This is something that happens. The reality is it is not as though everybody has an equal access, an equal way to get to the things that they need. We have been blessed in our country to have, I think, less of this than many countries, for sure. But the idea of being utterly destitute is a reality in our world. And those people may end up feeling as though they never want they never were Mm that didn't want to be born in the first place. Well, how do you deal with this? How do you deal with the there's no if you look at the text, it's kind of interesting. There's no answer. It's it's left h helpless. It's left hopeless. And when you really think about the the inequity, and there is, now I I'm Said before, we're not talking about the ideology that we've heard of the Marxism, that kind of stuff. We're not going down that road. We're not certainly not agreeing with that But certainly there is things are not all fair and equal in our world, and there are certainly people that are greatly oppressed and struggle and All of that. How do you how do you c how do you deal with that in your mind? Well, I think again we have to turn to the person and work of Christ. Think about Christ. Does Christ know anything about oppression? Absolutely, he does. Isaiah 53, 3 says, He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows acquainted with grief. And we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised, and we did not esteem him. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we esteem him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities, the chastisement of our peace was upon him, and by his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way. The Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was what? Oppressed And he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He was as a lamb, he was led as a lamb to the slaughter, as a sheep before his shears is silent, so he opened not his mouth. We may not be able to completely explain why there are some that are that are truly oppressed and others that are not. But one thing that we can say is that God did not withhold oppression from his own son. Christ experienced oppression and in this world, utter oppression. utter loneliness as he was separated from his father. Psalm 22, 1. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Isaiah 24, 8 says, He will swallow up death forever, and the Lord will what understand that because of what Christ did on the cross. Because of him taking on our sin on himself, because he was oppressed and afflicted, he is going to one day a be able to wipe away every tear from their eyes. I think it's interesting that talks about the tears of the oppressed here. But then Isaiah 25. 8 it says this, he will swallow up death forever. The Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces, the rebuke of his people, he will take away from all the earth, for the Lord has spoken. And then link that with Revelation 21. 4, as I'm sure you know, it says that God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be no more pain, for the former things have passed away. No more death, no more sorrow. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes. The answer again still is Christ. He is the answer. He is our hope. And when we read passages like this, it begs, it begs for us to have our minds go to the fulfillment of all of these problems. Which are truly in Christ and what he has done for us on the cross. He will, because he has taken our sin on himself, Died in our place. He he he satisfies the just demands of God Now this is so important. There are some people that believe that God can just overlook our sin. He cannot. He cannot look over overlook Hitler's sin and he can't o overlook your sin. He can't just overlook sin. He can't look the other way. He can't pretend he doesn't see. He can't say, oh no, this is you know, this is a pretty good person. No. Your sin and my sin must be punished because God is a just God. But that's why Christ came and he died, took our sin on himself, and died in our place. God's wrath, the Bible says, was placed on Jesus. So that we don't have to experience the justice of God. Otherwise, we surely will But because of what Christ did on the cross and dying for us and satisfying the justice of God, and one day he will be able to have, he will show, he will kill death There will be victory over death, over separation from God, over physical death. All of it will be done away with because of who Christ is. Christ is our only hope. And if you're living and if you're hearing this today and you're not sure where you would spend eternity if you died, do you know you could die today? You are not guaranteed another day. And I'm not saying that to scare you. We're in a passage that's talking about the inevitability of death. And the reality is any time any of us could die. But if we will place our faith in Christ as Savior, then Christ, because He died in our place, it can uh when we accept that We then our spiritual death is taken away. We are then made alive in Christ. We are connected to God so that when we die, we're with God in heaven. And if you if you don't know where you if you were to die today and you don't know where you would spend eternity, if if Christ were to ask you, why should I let you to heaven and you don't know what to say You don't know what you would say. Let me encourage you, come and talk with me after the service. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with God. And not have to experience eternal spiritual death. Now there are four takeaways that we can learn from this. Number one. Though injustice remains incurable in this fallen world, we place our hope in Christ, the righteous judge. Number two Death spares no one, yet Christ came to conquer death on our behalf. Number three True fulfillment, the enjoyment of our labor, comes only when we entrust justice fully to God. And number four, while oppression is both incurable and mysterious, we find comfort in knowing Christ endured it for us. Let's pray. Father, we come to you and we thank you for your word. We thank you that your word does not sugarcoat life It doesn't make things better than they really are. It describes the fallenness of this world and the curse of this world quite well. But it also brings us as the central figure in the entire word in your entire word to Christ. Who, because of his resurrection, conquered death. And we can now be in right relationship with you. We thank you that one day we can live in hope of Christ, who will set all things right. And we find we thank you, Lord, that we can, even in this life, we can enjoy the work that we do and the fruit of our work. Because we are trusting you to do what only you can do. And we thank you in Christ's name. Amen. Let's stand. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call. so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.