Bow our heads together and go to the Lord. Heavenly Father, we do come with grateful and thankful hearts this morning. Father. You are so gracious and so kind to us, Father, and merciful and patient. And Father, though we come through this world with lots of cares and concerns, we know we can trust you To bring us through whatever comes before us. You are always with us, you are always accessible, and we're thankful for your word that guides us and directs us, and we're so grateful for your Holy Spirit And Lord, it's working within us. And I pray this morning as we get ready to hear your word, that you would help us to set aside those cares and concerns that we might have brought with us this morning. Help us to take this time just to concentrate and listen to your word. And I pray that, Father, you would open our ears and open our eyes. And that in all things, Lord, we would be encouraged and challenged by your word, and that when we leave here today, we would be changed in some certain way. Just from being in your word. And we ask for your spirit to guide us and direct us. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. This morning we are going to be in Ecclesiastes chapter 4, looking at verses 4 through 16. Ecclesiastes 4, 4 through 16. Again I saw for all toil and every skilled work a man is envied by his neighbor. This is also vanity and grasping for wind The fool folds his hands and consumes his own flesh. Better a hand full with quietness than both hands full together with toil and grasping for the wind. Then I returned, and I saw vanity under the sun. There is one alone without companion. He has neither son nor brother. Yet there is no end to all his labors, nor is his eyes satisfied with riches. But he never asked, For whom do I toil and deprive myself of good? This also is vanity and a grave misfortune. Two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their labor. For if they fall, one will lift up his companion. But woe to him who is alone when he falls, for he has no one to help him up. Again, if two lie down together, they will keep warm. But how can one be warm alone? Though one may be overpowered by another, two can withstand him. And a threefold cord is not quickly broken. Better a poor and wise youth than an old and foolish king, who will be admonished no more. For he comes out of prison to be king, although he was born poor in his kingdom. I saw all the living who walk under the sun. They were with the second youth, who stands in his place. There was no end of all the people over whom he was made king. Yet those who come after were. Will not rejoice in him. Surely this also is vanity and grasping for the wind. We have been going through the book of Ecclesiastes and Uh in this book, I think it's helpful to think in terms of Solomon giving different perspectives as we move through the book. Some of you remember years ago using a microscope and having I haven't used a microscope in so long, I don't even know if they still use do this, but you know, having different um now you could do like twenty X or ten X and and and flipping it around. Do they still have that? Is that is that how still microscope you know now it's everything's so electronic that you probably just have something that you can put over a lens and see it on the screen. I think I've seen that before. But anyway. Um or a telescope that you could that you put at one magnification and you see maybe a a whole planet. or a star, you go even further in, you could see more detail. And what we see in Ecclesiastes is Solomon is he he starts off from a pretty wide angle. He sees we see the futility of life under the sun. And then he actually backs up a little bit more and we begin to actually see above the sun And we see God's providence, God's working. And that brings us into chapter 3. Now we move to chapter 4, and he's going to narrow it down. into what life looks like. And he comes to this issue of companionship On the heels of talking about the oppressed last week, and seeing that an aspect of being oppressed is utter loneliness, not having any comfort whatsoever. Now we come to a passage that he is now going to talk specifically about companionship, about friendship. So finish the phrase, dog is man's best Friend. What is it about a dog that makes it man's best friend? I mean, is a dog really a friend? As many of you know, I now have a dog. I've had a dog for a little while. Almost a year now, actually. And uh I actually love my dog. Um he is he is a loyal dog. He he runs with me if I want to run. He he listens to nobody. E except he does listen to me, but he doesn't listen to anybody else. Sort of funny, I um my daughter took him out a couple of weeks ago And he w he went three houses down in some neighbor's yard. She couldn't get him back. She called Dad, Dad, come out, I yelled one time or maybe two times and she He comes running back to me, makes me feel like I'm important. And um and one day um last actually Wednesday, we put we have an outside kennel for that's a pretty secure kennel, as long as you latch the thing correctly. And it wasn't latched correctly. There wasn't an additional lock put on it and the dog got out, roamed free all over the place. have no idea where she went. Um we uh saw on the way home we have cameras and we saw that the dog was outside the kennel and we were worried obviously And um we're kinda crazy. So we actually have a tracker on the dog on our collar. So we're tracking the dog and she's running all over the place. She's having a fun time. When we get back, she literally is on our front doorstep waiting for us. I mean that's how loyal this dog is. Maybe that's it. Loyalty. Is it loyalty? Is that why dog is man's best friend? When we come to the text of Scripture here and we talk about companionship, what is a biblical friend? What is a biblical companion? Is it like a dog? Can a dog be a biblical companion? Or is there something more that God has in mind? We're going to see here this text that Solomon or Koaleth as he is called in in Ecclesiastes, he is he is sees great value in companionship. And yet some of this, I think, is autobiographical, and I'm not sure Solomon experiences the companionship that he values in this passage. We're going to see why companionship is so valuable. We're going to see, first of all, as we pick up in verses 4 through 8, that ambition without relationships is tragic. Ambition without relationships is tragic. And there are four three scenarios that we see in this passage as we pick up in verse 4. In verse 4, it says, Again, I saw that for all the toil and every skillful work of man is envied by his neighbor. This also is vanity and grasping for the wind. You have in scenario number one, envy-motivated work. The skill, the work of someone uh is is envy by someone else and the pursuit of that work, the pursuit of that uh of that Toil is because they want either to be envied or they envy someone else. Envy is, by a dictionary definition, a feeling of discontented and resentful longing aroused by someone else's possessions, qualities, or luck. A feeling of discontented or resentful longing aroused by someone else's good fortune. The Bible speaks much of this idea of envy or jealousy, and Solomon speaks of this idea of jealousy quite often. In Proverbs 27:4 it says, Wrath is cruel and anger a torrent, but who is able to stand before jealousy? In Song of Solomon, it says this, set me as a seal upon your heart, as a seal upon your arm, for love is as as strong as death. Jealousy, as cruel as the grave, its flames are flames of fire, a most vehement flame. Derek Kidner, commentator on Ecclesiastes, says this: too much of our hard work and high endeavor is mixed with the craving to outshine or not to be outshone. And envy and jealousy, folks, is a real problem. There are people that live their entire lives wanting more and more and working hard for more and more But their motive is either envy, they're comparing themselves to somebody else and they don't want to be left behind or they want to ex exceed beyond someone else. Or they want to be the envy of someone else, but their motivation gets entirely caught up, or even mostly caught up in this motivation of envy. That is not a good place to be. We move on to the next we're going to actually come back to that scenario, but we move on to the next scenario, and the next scenario It's a completely different scenario, but also a very foolish scenario. It's foolish poverty we find in verse 5. It says in verse 5, the fool folds his hands and consumes his own flesh. You have one on one hand someone pursuing and a gain and having all kinds of wealth, but doing it in an empty fashion And on the other hand, you have someone who is not working at all. The bottom line is he or she is lazy. And the Bible speaks of laziness as being foolish. The this is the extreme laziness, so much so that it says a fool folds his hands, he doesn't work, and consumes his own flesh. You say, what does that mean? It's actually a fairly grotesque picture, is actually what it is. Uh it's it's the picture of someone who who doesn't who cannot eat, who starves, and if you're aware of the starvation process, what begins to happen is if uh if you don't intake food, you begin to actually eat yourself from the inside out. That's actually what begins to happen. Uh tissue and muscle and proteins from your body will begin to your body will actually begin to And this is what it's referencing here in the text, a extreme laziness will end in not being able to eat. Of course, 2 Thessalonians 3 tells us this if anyone will not work, neither shall he eat. And so in the first scenario, you have someone who is working And pursuing, but they're doing so from the motivation of envy. In the second scenario here, you have someone who is not able to eat because he's not working, he's lazy. You know, the song goes, I don't want to work on a play on the drums all day. That might be relatable, but it's not biblical We move on to the next scenario, scenario number three, and this is a scenario that's ideal. Verse 6 tells us: better a handful with quietness. Then both hands full together with toil and grasping for the wind. Better with a handful, handful of what you need, a handful of of of what is necessary. Just one handful, though, that's better than two handfuls with a different outcome. And what is the difference? The word there is quietness Quietness. How many of you all like quietness? I think some people don't like quietness, actually. But I do. I feel like the older I get, the more I really enjoy quietness. And the more I dislike things that are opposite of quietness. The word quiet means uh rest. It's translated rest in Ecclesiastes 6. 5. In Isaiah 30, 15, it's translated as rest as well. In Proverbs, it's translated as peace, quietness, rest, peace. So here's a person who has what he or she needs. They're working, but they're working in such a way their lives are in such a condition that they live in contentment. Because they are at rest and peace. You know, there there are some people in this world that seem to not know how to rest. They seem to not be able to have this quietness, this rest, this Peace, usually it's those people that are envious, that struggle with comparing themselves with someone else In fact, I think really you have a contrast here. Envy is in contrast to rest. If you're wondering why you can't seem to rest well If you're struggling with whether or not you genuinely have peace in your heart, it might be that somewhere in there is an envy or a jealousy. A comparing yourself with someone else that is unhealthy, that is keeping you from e really being able to have true rest and peace and quietness. Now, what Solomon does then in verses 7 through 8 is he that now returns back to this idea of the first scenario, this person who is an envious person. Who may have plenty of wealth, who may be greatly skillful, who may be working hard, and yet Look at what it says. Verse 7. Then I returned. I returned to that person who is motivated by envy. And this person experiences aloneness. There is one alone without a companion. He has neither son nor brother. This person, and I think Solomon is probably a little bit reflective here. Remember, Solomon had great wealth. And we're going to see later on, even more so, I think we're going to see some personal reflection in this. But either way, what we see here in the passage is that you have a person who is without a companion. See, envy is the enemy of companionship. Jealousy is the enemy of true friendship. If you have trouble with being a companion or having companions. If you have trouble with friendships, check to see whether or not the problem may be jealousy or envy. This person not only is alone, he's dissatisfied. Yet there is no end to all his labors, nor his eye satisfied with riches. He is pursuing labors and work and constantly pursuing, and he gets more and more and more, but it is never enough. And of course we know from many experiences and observing the world that people can have riches on top of riches and work on top of work and it never is quite enough. I think it was Warren Buffett who said how much isn't is is enough and he says just a little bit more. I believe that was Warren Buffett. And Solomon points this out. He points out that this person is not satisfied. His eye is never satisfied. So you have on one hand one who is content with a hand full and yet has companionship, and the other who has both hands full. And yet they are alone, and they are continually unsatisfied. We see here the root problem. The root problem is selfishness. Notice what the text says. But he never asks, for whom do I toil and deprive myself of good? He never stops. He's so busy working, so busy focused on trying to uh you know get over on somebody else, get above somebody else, move ahead of somebody else. He's so focused on being the envy of others that he never stops to say, to whom am I making all these sacrifices for? He comes to the end of his life, and he doesn't know why he has even sacrificed all of his time and attention and energy to the wealth that he has. The truth is, no one gets to the end of their life and says, Man, I wish I had more wealth. But many, many people get to the end of their life and s and wish they would spend more time in their relationships. That really matter. Solomon says about this person who is selfish. That's the root problem. He's not even asking about what he his wealth can do to help somebody else. He gets to the end of this and he says it is a grave misfortune. A grave misfortune. The word misfortune is an interesting word. The word mis means bad, that's obvious. And the word fortune there in the is a compound word in the Hebrew. It's activity or business. It's a bad business. It's actually a term that is used to get across to someone who is a business person. Who is pursuing wealth with this envy in mind, and he realizes that ultimately that's bad business. It's bad, it's a grave misfortune. The folks the the reality is envy and jealousy in our enemies. Companionship. Live your life comparing your performance to others, and you will end up living alone. Now, Solomon is going to move from these scenarios into a wonderful text about companionship This is a familiar text to many of you. I suspect that most of you in reading this text, it reminds you of marriage. How many of you all read this text or Harry read it today? We were reading together and it reminded you of marriage. How many of you would say that? Okay. Well that's not what this text is talking about. That is not probably what Solomon has in mind. Now marriage can be applied there, but there have been many people that have used this text actually in marriage ceremonies, and there's nothing wrong with that actually as long as it's done the right way. I've actually used used this text in weddings before. But but it's always important when we study a text. I've been teaching this to the teenagers as we go through how to study the Bible on for Sunday school. It's always important to understand what the author is originally intending for his text. And I don't think Solomon has marriage in mind at all when it comes to this text. Uh I think it can be applied and we'll get there, but I don't think it that's what he has in mind. And I'm not sure God has that in mind at all as as well when we go through this text. But he does have this idea of companionship. Verse 8, there is one alone without companion. Then we see the word companion later on in verse 10, for if they fall, will one lift up his companion. And the question that we need to ask ourselves is, what is this idea of companion? What is a companion here? I I think it's helpful to think through C. S. Lewis's book, The Four Loves. How many have read that book? I would strongly encourage you to read that book. Extremely helpful in dealing with relationships. He mentions four kinds of love in his book, C. S. Lewis, The Four Loves. The first is family love. The second is romantic love. The third is friendship love. And the fourth is unconditional love. Now, we all understand family love. That's the love between a father and a son, a mother and a daughter, a mother and a son, father and a daughter, uh siblings. That's family love. That is a love that is there is something innate and natural about loving family. We understand romantic love. And we understand friendship love, unconditional love is that agape kind of love that God has for us and that we ought to have and what What what what he explains, C. S. Lewis explains, is that you need to have God's love in you and your love for God to regulate all of these other loves. But for our purposes, he also points out that romantic love is like face-to-face love And friendship love is facing outward love. Here's what he means. So romantic love. When he said this in the book, I uh I was reminded of back in my days at at Pensacola. Um Uh of course they had very strict rules back then, even stricter than they are now, at the when I was uh there at at uh at college. And um you were not a touch uh anybody of the opposite sex at all, like touch them at all. Like you couldn't touch them with a pencil. I'm not exaggerating. Um and um And uh but they uh you could go up into what was called the social hall, what they which they've gotten rid of now. Good, good, good plan. And you could sit on these couches that look like a big furniture store and you could stare at each other, like like just face each other. I went up there one time with my wife if I recall. Not what of course was my wife at the time, but my girlfriend at the time. And I'm like, this is not for me. Like what is the point of this? We're everybody staring at each other, just staring, like like I did not like that environment. Uh even in the commons you'd see people just staring at each other. Uh that ru now I'm not against romantic love. Romantic love is good in marriage and uh a little bit okay outside of marriage. Wait for marriage for most of it. But friendship love, C. S. Lewis actually goes on to say that friendship love in some ways can be can be more satisfying than romantic love. Friendship love is when there are two people, if you think of two people walking together, but they are facing forward. Because they're focused on a goal. They're focused on they they have the same motivations, they have the same Um the they have the same goals, the same objectives. They're partnering together to work toward a particular goal. Now this is totally for free, but if you're in a dating relationship or in a marriage relationship, this kind of friendship love is actually quite important. Now, what why does that matter? Because when we get into the text, what we're actually going to find is it's speaking of this kind of companionship or friendship. But many people do not understand what true friendship is and able to differentiate it from family or from romantic or from unconditional kind of love. And so I think it's important for us to understand that when we think of companionship in Scripture, we're really talking about a partnership. And that's what we're going to see in the text. True friendship, true lasting friendship is a partnership of two or more people. They're going the same direction and desiring the same kinds of things. And the truth of the matter is, you cannot have a true companionship, a true friendship, if you are going opposite directions. Now, that doesn't mean that you can't have relationships with people. And there's a sense in which, depending on how you define the word friend, you can have many friends, even unsafe friends. Nothing wrong with that. But this kind what it's talking about in this context is a companionship where there is a partnership going the same direction. With the same goals and the same objectives. Now, with that in mind, notice what he says in verse 9. Ultimately, he's going to say that companionship increases reward. Two are better than one. Because they have a good reward for their labor. Now think in terms of partnership. He's basically saying that if you have a partner, There are greater possibilities. There is a synthesis, there is a multiplication that occurs where the reward is greater. Uh speaking of marriage, this text isn't specifically talking about marriage, but if you think of a marriage partnership, it's fairly well statistically um statistically demonstrated there that in the mo that in the majority of the time Those who are married and um will have greater wealth at the end of their lives than those who are not. There is a greater reward And that's usually because the wife calms the husband down and he doesn't spend as much. I think that's usually what it what's what's actually going on there But either way, I think that's uh but either way um there is a a partnership that is uh something that produces greater reward. Psalm 127. 3 says, Behold, children are inherited from the Lord. The fruit of the womb is a reward. So this isn't just talking about monetary reward. This is generally talking about thing you can produce more through teamwork than you can alone, through a partnership than you can by yourself. And then verses ten through twelve, we see three benefits of a true companion. Three blessings, if you will, of a true companion. Verse 10. mutual help. It says, for if they fall, one will lift his lift his companion. But woe to him who is alone when he falls, for he has no one to help him up. So this is a very simple illustration. If two people are walking together and one falls, the other one, the other one, there's somebody else there to help them up. Uh I started jogging again this last week. I had taken a long time, a long break from it. And I started doing it again. I did it four w four days last week. The first day I did it, I I felt like I was gonna pass out. Like I I was I did I thought I was pretty close. Felt sick to my stomach. You know, my mind can do it. I hate that. You guys hate that when your mind can do it and your body's like, I'm not doing this. So basically that's what happened. I'm doing it and I know I could do it. I've done it be you know, I've done it many times before, but I'm not in the shape I was before. And I start doing this, I get to the end of four miles and I am. sick and about to pass out and I did think to myself, my dog cannot help me here. My dog was with me. She was running with me. She was doing great. I it was nothing for her. It's actually kind of hilarious. She's like trotting as I'm She's just she'll look at me well every once in a while, kind of you you're right up you're right back there. Anyway Yeah. So so I'm run I I'm getting to the end and I think to myself, you know, I wonder how this is gonna work if I pass out. There's nobody with me. There's no I was thinking to myself, I'm not sure what's gonna happen here, but uh uh just Lord helped me get back. I I did get back. I was alright. I immediately had to lay down and and I was fine after like fifteen minutes, it was alright, but I just Just overdid it. Next day I did three miles. And I have been doing three miles ever since then. But anyway. But the point is simply this, that there is mutual help. When you have somebody with you, it's helpful. Number two, mutual comfort. Again, if two lie together down together, they will keep warm. But how can one be warm alone? Now This is not talking about you know the marriage bed. This is not what this is referring to. I know that some they immediately see things like warm and heat and bed and back lie down and and The illustration here is actually people that are traveling together and it and they're traveling in the elements and it's cold at night and they need in order to keep Body heat does a pretty good job of keeping keeping you warm. That's the illustration, and the point is actually that emotional comfort Against the coldness of this world is something to be valued. That that we as people need the warmth, the comfort of others as we go through a world that's pretty cold And so there's mutual comfort. Think back to Ephesians chapter, or I'm sorry, Ecclesiastes chapter Ecclesiastes chapter 4 last week, where the oppressed person has no comfort. Verse 1, but they have no comforter. On the one side of the oppressors, there is power, but they have no comforter. Twice. In the text, the one who is oppressed has no comforter. The person who is not oppressed, the person who has a companion, is a person who has great comfort. And finally, mutual protection. Though one may be overpowered by another, two can withstand him. just the fact that you've got mutual protection, there's mutual power, it's just sort of obvious. Um meet uh meet a r a robber on the streets and you got two, it's better than one. There are b there are there are times where I'll tell my girls that I don't really want them uh even jogging or running in our our in our neighborhood. I want them to go to a certain place. I'm fine if the two of them go. But I'm not happy if one of them goes in certain areas. Why? Because two are better than one. Well frankly there are times where I don't even want my wife going out in the dark in certain areas. Uh I'll say, hey, let's go together. Why? Because two are better than one. And so we have mutual protection here. These are obvious, right? These just make good sense that there is a value in companionship. And then he says this: a threefold cord is not quickly broken. What is it talking about there? Well, now he adds to the fact that we're not necessarily just talking about the companionship of two. It could be three or four or five, it could be more than that, and there is value in these numbers There's value, there's strength in these things. And talks about a chord here. And of course, a three-stranded chord is extremely strong. If one breaks, you got two more left. In fact, I think most like climbing cords and things like that, usually there are at least three strands. It's just a good illustration of a strong rope, a strong cord has three strands. Now, some have suggested that this the different ideas of what this third person would be in a two-person relationship. I I don't think I don't think that's what it's talking about here. But I am reminded of the fact that even God himself Before he created anyone, there are three in one. That there was fellowship among the Father and the Son and the Spirit in the Trinity. So that there was a strength and there was comfort, there was help, there was all those things among the three persons of the Trinity. That's how valuable it is to not be alone and to be with others. Now, the question then becomes, how do we apply this? And there are lots of ways to apply this. Because even though the text isn't specifically talking about marriage, certainly it applies to marriage, right? Because marriage is a partnership where you are d desiring to serve the Lord together, hopefully. There are objectives that you have in marriage. There are goals that you have in marriage. And even God says in Genesis chapter 2, verse 18: the Lord said, It is not good that man should be alone. I will make him a helper comparable to him. And of course, later on in the New Testament, we find that God gave us the church. The church is to be a place. That even if you are unmarried, and the Bible actually says in 1 Corinthians 7 that it is good for someone to be unmarried. It's interesting. In the first century, you actually have this idea that being unmarried is not desirable. Nobody wanted to be unmarried. You've got to get hitched as quickly as you can. And it's actually the church. It was actually the first century church of the apostles that said, No, there's real value to being unmarried First Corinthians seven says it's it's good for a person it's good for a man not to marry a woman. That's actually what he's talking about there. Uh why? Because Paul says, I would that you be like me, I could I can I could serve the Lord uh in a more devoted way. But he says you still need each other in the church. So God has given the church for those purposes. There is a bond. Philippians 2 chapter Chapter two verses one through two. Therefore if any if there is any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the spirit, if any affection and mercy, fulfill my joy by being like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Encouragement, comfort, joy, mercy, affection, those are all things that should be There in the body of Christ as a church is like-minded together. This is what Paul desires, and it's in the fellowship of the Spirit. Now you say you say, okay, well I see marriage there, I see I see the church there, but you know, I I I still feel pretty alone. I love what Scripture says about what we actually begin to see in the development of this idea of friendship in in the in in the New Testament. I'll remind us first of Proverbs 18, verse 24, that says, A man who has friends must show himself friendly, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother. It is possible that a friend can be closer than a family relationship. And when Jesus was speaking to his disciples before he went to the cross, he says this in John 15: Greater love has no one than this. Than to lay down one's life for his friends. Jesus is talking about himself. He says, You are my friends, if you do whatever I command you. No longer do I call you servants, for a servant does not know what his master is doing, but I have called you friends. Why Because a friend, for all things that I've heard from the Father, I have made known to you. A friend knows what's happening. Remember, friendship is a partnership. He says, I'm calling you my friend because we are partnering together to glorify God. Jesus is saying that. Jesus is our greatest friend. And in fact, Jesus says also before he goes, in the next chapter, before he goes to his uh to the death And then resurrection and ultimately to his father, he says, Nevertheless, I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away. For if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you. But if I depart, I will send him to you. Speaking of the Holy Spirit, Jesus says, it is good that I go away, because the Spirit of God is coming, and he will be And here's the word periclatos. It's an interesting word. In fact, this word is translated very different ways by very good translations of Scripture. The New King James uses the word helper, New American Standard, helper, ESV helper. Another translation uses advocate. Another translation uses counselor. Another trans King James uses comforter. Which one is it? Yes. They are all, this is such a this is such a full word. is so full of meaning, it's very hard to pick one word to translate this word. All of these things are true. Helper, advocate Comforter, counselor. This is who the Spirit of God is to us, so that we are not alone. He's the best friend we could ever have. In fact, you could almost translate that friend. That the Spirit of God, it's to your advantage that I go away, for if I go not away, the friend of the Holy Spirit will not come to you. But if I depart, I will send him unto you. The truth of the matter is that if you know Christ as your personal Savior this morning, you are never alone. You have the Spirit of God within you, and the Bible tells you that He is your helper, your advocate, your comforter, your counselor, your friend. Now we move from this on the same thing. Companionship is not. It's not the same thing as popularity or power. I really think Solomon is speaking somewhat autobiographical here. I think to some degree he is thinking about his particular situation. And there is a lot of confusion about this passage. The way it's worded, it's hard to actually lay out the scenario very clearly. We'll we'll make an attempt to do that this morning. But what he is generally talking about is the danger and the and the problem of popularity and power. Christian Chenwith in 2003 wrote a song called Popular for a Broadway musical called Wicked. Goes like this, popular, you're gonna be popular. I'll teach you the proper ploys when you talk to boys, little ways to flirt and flounce. I'll show you what shoes to wear, how to fix your hair, everything that really counts to be popular. I'll help you be popular, you'll hang with the right cohorts, you'll be good at sports. Know the slang you've got to know. So let's start because you've got an awfully long way to go. Obviously this song uplifts and exalts popularity and yet The scriptures do not. This is a real danger, I'll just tell you, in our society, that we replace likes And other co forms of comments on Instagram and Facebook and Snapchat and all of those things with true friends. In fact And I don't know if it's called this w called this in Instagram, but like in Facebook, it's you're call or you you've either friend or unfriend. Folks, those are not true friends. And if you get a thousand likes on something, that's that might be popularity, but it's not companionship. And sometimes we think that if we're just popular, it will replace the value of true companionship friendships. It will not. There is an emptiness on the at the end of the road of popularity. And there is a fullness of joy at the end of the road of partnerships and friendships. And so we pick up here and we see we're going to see actually five realities of popularity. And I think associated with this is power. In verse 13 it says, better a poor and a wise youth, that's kind of the opposite, of an old and foolish king who is not poor, he's rich. Um and obviously foolish. And notice why he's foolish, who will be admonished no more. What does it mean? He it means he doesn't listen to anybody anymore. He's been there, done that, bought the shirt, so he's not listening to anybody more. Yeah. You ever uh felt that way as as you get older? It is it is well known that as you get older, uh you have a tendency to not listen to people. I'm middle-aged, so like half of me is not listening anymore. But it's true. That is a danger of being of getting older, is that we begin to think, you know what, we just sort of lean back on our experience. We sort of just rest on our experience and let us depend on that. And we people say stuff and before they're finished we already know what they're gonna say. And um and we don't really need to listen because we've already been through that before. And uh what is defined in the book of Proverbs is a foolish person does not listen. I mean, you could define a fool by one who does not listen. And so he says it's possible to get to a place where you are a king and power and Greatness, and yet you don't listen to anybody more because you've heard it all. Now he begins he goes on to explain this, and we're going to see five different realities of this. It says, For he comes out of prison to be king. So he's Showing a contrast. He's showing the lowest. You go from the lowest of the low to the highest of the high being king, although he was born poor in his kingdom. And we learn from that, number one reality, popularity is elevating. Popularity is elevating You you you you've seen it before somebody goes from nothing and for some reason ascends into popularity where everybody wants their their new song. Everybody wants to download their new their new album or whatever. I I have no idea why some people are popular. You ever noticed that before? You're like, why? They're not even talented. Anyway, that's just a that's a different different issue. But but you see people go from nothing and ascend up to big things. But notice verse 15: popularity is easily transferable. It's easily transferable. I saw all the living who walk under the sun, they were with the second youth. Who stood in his place points out that there's a successor. He saw looks at all the living under the sun, and therewith that popularity shifts to a successor. Now it's somebody different. And that's the nature of popularity. And when you've been popular and then suddenly you're not popular anymore, there is a void, there is an emptiness. And the truth of the matter is it is very difficult for somebody to maintain extreme popularity over a sustained amount of time. Often, most of the time, popularity is a it peaks and then it goes down and it plummets Number sixteen, popularity is a burden. Verse 16, there was no end to all the people over whom he was made king. Now that's interesting, says there is no end. It's w what's he saying there? There's no end. It's he's lamenting all of the people. We know this from Ecclesiastes 4. 8, just a few verses back. Notice what he says there, yet there is no end to all his labors. He's lamenting all of his labors that are done in emptiness. And now he says there is no end to all the people over whom he was made king. He ascends the popularity, and there is great ecstasy and uh incredible you know, lifting up of the ego and all of that, but at some point you realize, man, this is a burden. I gotta maintain this popularity. I gotta be able to to to keep all these people happy. I gotta put out was put out something newer or better. And ultimately it becomes a burden because actually, isn't it true that there are great expectations of a king? Yes, there might be great power, but there also the people have great expectations, and it is of great burden to the king. Popularity is fleeting again in verse 16, yet those who come afterward will not rejoice in him. He might be king, you might have the power, but at the end of the day, the next people that come along, they're not going to rejoice in this guy. And I think uh as you think about Saul, certainly David, I think it's Solomon. You think of Rehab and Jeroboam after Solomon, you think of the you think of all the different kings, you think of Absalom in there, the things that went on in the kingdoms and everything. I I think he's taking from personal experience and he is noting the the nature of and the the fleeting vanity Of this popularity. And that brings us to the fifth one. Popularity is empty. Surely this also is vanity and grasping for the wind. So folks, let me just encourage you this way. When it comes to what this is very practical truth that we see in this text. And what we ought to pursue is companionship, partnerships with people that are going to go the same direction we are and have the same goals that we do in order to accomplish ultimately what do we want to accomplish? The glorifying of God, the service of God, the furtherance of the kingdom of God. When you rub shoulders with someone who wants to further the kingdom of God the same way you do, there is great joy in that. There is great accomplishment that can happen That's the value, frankly, of a church that all is going the same direction and wanting to serve the Lord the same way and to disciple people and to see people come to Christ. To evangelize the disciple people, to glorify God, when everybody's going that same direction and wanting the same thing. There is great benefit to that. There are two questions I have in just applying these things. Number one Do you have the greatest friend of all? You may be listening here today and you've heard about friendships and you probably agree with most of this. You you see the the the emptiness of popularity. You see how valuable companionship is. You certainly can see the sin of envy and the problems that jealousy brings in life. But what about your relationship with God? Remember, John 15 3 says, Greater love has no one than this than to lay down one's life for his friends. The Bible actually teaches us that when we are born, we are born, the Bible says, at enmity with God. In other words, the Bible actually says we are born not friends of God. We're born enemies of God. Say, well, that is hard to stomach. I mean, how can you be born an enemy of God? But the reality is it's because of sin. Sin places a separation between us and God. And so when we're born, we're born separated from God. Because of our sin and because of God's holiness. And the fact is, God must judge sin. It's very clear in Scripture. But also it's true that God loved us so much that he sent his own son, Jesus, who took, who died to take on that judgment of God for us. Took our sin on himself, died in our place, so that we could, he could then give us his righteousness. And the only thing that we need to do is accept it by faith, and we can go from being enemy of Christ to being a friend of Christ. And if you're here today and you're not sure where you would spend eternity, you don't know what you're not sure about your relationship with God. You say, well, uh, you know, it's kind of a Kind of uh you know I you know I'll do the best I can. A lot of people think that. What's your relationship with God like? Uh I'll just do the best I can. I I don't really know. Nobody can really know. The Bible says these things are written that you might you may know. You can know that you have eternal life And if you don't know right now, please come and talk with me after the service or talk with somebody else you're comfortable with. We'll take a Bible and we'll show you how you can know for sure that you are truly a friend of God because you've accepted Christ as your Lord and Savior. And then the next question I have is for those of you who have accepted Christ. Jesus is your friend. Are you glorying in your friendship with Jesus? Are you glorying in that friendship? When you sit in a hospital room alone, do you think to yourself, I am truly alone? If you are a Christian, you are never alone. When you're in a new workplace, when you're in a situation where you feel as though no one understands what you're going through, no one has experienced the things that you have experienced. Jesus has. He was tempted in all points, like as we are, yet without sin. That means that Jesus does, nobody else may know, but Jesus does know what you're going through. He is your friend. Are you glorying In your friendship with Jesus. When you lay your head down at night and you feel burdened, you can't sleep, you're worried Are you glorying in your friendship with Jesus? Do you realize that inside of you is the Spirit of God who is a helper, a comforter, a counselor, and a friend? Let me encourage you today. I I hope this is an encouraging message to you. Yes, cultivate the companions, cultivate the friends. that are really going the same direction you are going, and that are desiring to do what God wants them to do and partner with people that are wanting to live for Christ and follow after him and lead people to Christ and disciple people and glorify God, do that. We will come to the end of our lives and we will glory in that. But folks, if you're struggling in those areas, understand that if you know Christ is your Savior, that's where it starts, and you can have a genuine friendship with Christ. Glory in that friendship. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you for your word. We thank you for its truth. We thank you for how practical it is. And we confess before you, Father, that we can be prone to envy and jealousy. If we're not careful, we can go down the path of comparing ourselves with others, and our work and our labor and the things that we are doing are as a result. Not of our love for you or desire to provide or those kinds of things. Now we're just doing things because we want to see ourselves as better than others, or we want others to view ourselves as better than we really are. Lord, I pray. That you would free us from the sin of envy and jealousy in our lives. Lord, help us to be able to have true companions in this life. Relationships that will that matter, partnerships that will be for the furtherance of your kingdom, that we can take great joy in And Father, we do praise you and thank you for Jesus Christ. We thank you that He said He is the friend that sticks closer than our brother. He is the friend that died in our place. And Lord, we don't ha we it's not as though we don't know what he's doing. We know exactly what he's doing. We know exactly what we're supposed to be doing. In partnering with him for the sake of your kingdom, we thank you for the life that we're able to live because of Christ. And if there is somebody here this morning that doesn't know you, I pray today would be a day that they would understand their sin and their need of a savior and they would be saved. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call, so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for. Please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.