As we anticipate the morning message this morning from 1 Peter, I pray that you would remind us again and teach us again of how to stand In 2 Timothy 2, verse 19, it says, Nevertheless, the solid foundation of God stands having this seal. And he gives us his righteousness when we'll accept it by faith. And do you realize, Christian, that if you've placed your faith in Jesus Christ to save you from your sin and to be Lord of your life, if you've done that, do you realize that you stand in the grace of God? When that happens in our world, it is very easy to fall. And when I was in that job, I would keep telling myself I'm doing right. It's selfishness. When you can, submit. What is he saying there? But here's what this does do in our lives as we realize this. And he's going to begin by looking at verses 1 through 5 of the passage, and he's telling elders to make sure that you are shepherding God's flock appropriately. That we may run with faith to win the prize of a sermon with good and fame home As fleets of hope will wind away, repelling triumph on. Love is praise and hunger for the day when with Christ we stand in glory. And then we'll be picking up in the middle of chapter three, uh not next Sunday, but the following well, not the following Sunday either actually, because I'm on vacation. I mean it was it got bad. He suffered. in the grace, in your grace, and uh so that we can be ready for distress and pressure in this life. With Christ on every side, we know the outcome is Savior, and Christ will have Let's stand together as we stand. For the conqueror and Christians, and as the stone is thrown away, And twice the merge is from Green, This victory mark continues. Standing on the promises of God, standing, standing, standing on the promises of God wise, standing. And the cause of my Savior is that I must do the will of the master that came, then he's king and his letter. Your Holy Spirit to indwell in us and to teach us and give us understanding, to comfort us, to strengthen us. Amen. And that's exactly the purpose of 1 Peter, to equip believers to stand fast in the faith. Of course we have uh Zach, uh our intern has started a series in First Thessalonians on Wednesday nights. And I think for those who um I think for the rest of us I think it'll just act get us all on the same page when it comes to this incredible book And we're going to see how this all works in this passage. Here's what I will do. to you on a PDF. If you're visiting with us and uh if you'll register with us, then I will also email it to you as well. we'll be picking up in first in first Peter uh in First Peter, in the middle of First Peter chapter three. illustrating what Peter is happening what's happening here. in the history of the Roman Empire. And the way that they did that, the way they accomplished very tall buildings in an area w that constantly got hurricanes, was to have re uh a lot of rebar and re reinforced foundation that went down really deep into the bedrock of the of uh of where they were so that it would be able to withstand What does it mean then to stand firmly or to stand fast? Instruct believers to stand in God's grace amid the distress that they are feeling. Peter 5, verse 8. whom he may devour. It says the same kind of thing in Ephesians chapter 6 where it says, put on the whole armor of God, why, that you may be able to stand against And the actually the point is to stand in your own self-righteousness, to stand in your own self. in the grace of God. Throughout the New Testament, we have this idea of standing, and the thing that we are firmly to stand in is the grace of God. 1 Peter 5. For your joy, for by faith you stand. who according to his abundant mercy has begotten us again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. If you know Christ is your Lord and Savior, your inheritance is secure, you know where you're going, and since you know where you're going, you know what the ultimate destination is, it encourages you to be able to stand no matter what. How many of you ever been in a job like that? I want to illustrate it by using an illustration of just somebody that's experiencing distress and pressure at work That you're a pilgrim and you're passing through and you need to be the best, have the best relationship that you can with people for the sake of the gospel, but you're not going to compromise for acceptance. Read it all down. And when that happens, it even says in the book of Acts, it actually says that they gloried in the fact that they were counted worthy to suffer for Christ. And the truth of the matter is, whether we'd like it or not, when we go through times of suffering, that experience is heightened. I'm going to say number one, and we're going to move through this quickly, the blessing of right living rather than wrongdoing. When we experience distress and pressure from the world, it is so important to relate to the body of Christ right And and a lot there. firmly in and that's ourselves. the midst of suffering, God says that is a great honor. It is called the Exchange. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. You are my God, and I will exalt you. To be able to stand in a day where there is much pressure, where there is much um evil And Lord, we confess before you that so often we try to depend upon ourselves to do what only you can do for us. In the task and the responsibilities that he has given us. Many of the songs that we'll sing today show us the assurance that we have in Christ and in God, and really shows us the ability that we have to live confidently You still the day, every eye and heart shall leave him, so spirit long, with strength in every stride, every score, every word. Promises and we can't sit down for this song either, so let's go ahead and standing on the promises of Christmas. Promises of God might stay on standing, standing I'm standing on the promises of God. preached and we pray father that we would gain understanding by your Holy Spirit and in that Father through your Holy Spirit may we have the wisdom to afford However, what I wanted to do today was actually instead of just picking up where I left off on Wednesday nights, I wanted to acclimate everybody together. in First Peter chapter uh uh 1 Peter. And the purpose of the book, when it says in verse 9, resist him steadfast in the faith, that word steadfast could be translated, stand fast, stand fast in the faith. on as well, and now I do. And just do that. Coming. Christians, but he was already beginning to persecute Christians, and it was getting worse and worse, and Peter wanted these people to be able to stand amid the distress of the evil day. Secure, so that you can stand tall and be very and go down very, very deep at the same time, is that you if you are standing firmly in the grace of God. You have two options as a Christian. You will end up falling. And then thirdly, stand means to firmly establish with confidence. Not prideful because he's not confident in himself. We stand first of all clearly in God's grace. Be clear, what is grace? There is a real pull in our hearts when we are not accepted, when we feel that we're not accepted, and we want others to accept us, and we gain our acceptance by the acceptance of others. It is by faith. We should stand in God's grace by rejoicing in our identity. We're encouraged by our ultimate destination. to get into this book. identity. who are kept by the power of God through the faith of salvation ready to be revealed this last time. How many of you all have ever had a job at work and you've had a job that has caused you and it's been in a situation where you have felt pressure and distress told me this, which was amazing that he told me this, but he said I outwork him. You know. right thing. The Lord is pleased. Receive the Word of God. We can always grow in our unity. In chapter 2, verses 4 through 10, it talks about the fact that we are a peculiar people. uh coming to him as a living stone, rejected indeed by men, rejected by men, but chosen by God and precious. Believers should stand in God's grace by living out our God-given roles and responsibilities. Look at what it says, verse 11, 1 Peter 2. He says this, your sojourners and your pilgrims. When we look at this as the final destination, you're going to get real bummed out. We should stand in God's grace by living out our God-given roles and responsibilities. And when you think that way, I'm a temp, this is temporary, I've got an eternal destination, and I'm a sojourner. percent of the people were slaves. for. endure suffering. entered the world and death by sin, therefore death passed upon all men, so they all have sinned. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. To have the best experience you can possibly have. This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes. Save now, I pray, O Lord. A God who has equipped us so well, so abundantly with your grace, and you desire for us to stand in your grace. I will praise you for you have answered me and have become my salvation. Standing on the promises of Christ the Lord, bound to him eternally by lost wrong, overcoming daily by the Spirit Lord, standing on the promises of the Lord. That Father, you will guide and direct our hearts and our minds towards you and towards your word. But may the God of grace who called us to his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after you have suffered a while, perfect Yes, all of you, be submissive to one another, and be clothed with humility. You cannot, if you're going to build a tall building, you've got to go down deep in the foundation. And this entire book is going to teach us how to stand firm in the grace of God. Do you feel the pressure of the culture to compromise in areas where the Bible is clear? the hurricanes that come nearly every year of in very varying intensity. and persecution and problems in their day that are coming. And that is God's grace. to help us or to keep us from standing in the grace of God. In 1 Corinthians chapter 7, verse 37, it says, Nevertheless, he who stands steadfast in his heart the wiles of the devil. We need confidence, don't we, in this life? to gain what you need to be able to succeed in the world. It's not purchased by our good works. to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled that does not fade away, reserved in heaven for you. Romans eleven twenty wa uh says, Because of unbelief they were broken off, and you stand by faith. Now I want to, as we go through these four things in this first point, I want us to think, I want to illustrate this for us. So you had to actually stay with each other and follow each other. Do you realize even in this life it's not going to last forever? Do right. It will then put guilt on top of your stress and your pressure and your distress. for the Spirit. And be accepted by God. You have God's unmerited favor. You are chosen by God if you know Christ as your Lord and Savior. Then you're ready to relate to people in the right way. In each of the relationships that we have, Peter says, with government, submit as much as you can. And we respond selfishly, what happens? Finally, in chapter 5, verses 1 through 14, we're going to see this. Sheep. by compulsion, but you're doing it willingly. You're born separated from God because of your sin. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Or a doubtful mindset. Now, we need to really understand what this what this what standing in God's grace really means. is to be able to withstand the winds of of pressure and distress but it's okay. We're going to learn what Peter's going to say. I was doing tree removal, pruning, that kind of thing. soul, having your conduct honorable among the Gentiles, that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may by good work by your good works which they observe glorify God in the day of visitation In other words, we are purified more. We're living it out what we know to be true as a concept. And it says, when the chief shepherd shall appear, you'll receive a crown of glory that does not fade away. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. or email us at info at bbcofmd. And if you don't know, if you if you say, well, I don't really know if I have a relationship with the Lord, please come and talk to me. Father, we come to you and we praise you because you are such a good and merciful God, as the text says. understand more of how to rely on your grace today. Father, we recognize our shortcomings and our falling short, and we are grateful for your grace and your mercy. Lord, I pray that you would remove the blinders from us. Pray God your hand of blessing on them. Establish, strengthen, and settle you. And we're not going to read every passage, we're not going to read everything, but we're going to we're going to really need to just stay together. was in an area that uh down in Florida where they get hurricanes nearly every year. Sitting, but not in the Bible. In Romans chapter 3, verse 31, it says, Do we make void the law through faith? And I would get uh he would have to pull over because he was going so fast and he'd get mad at me, why aren't you going so fast and all those kind of things. Love the brethren. And then he's also going to say that we are to be submissive to fa in family roles. And when your family roles, submit as much as you can. And God is saying that when you are experiencing distress and you want to stand in the grace of God, there's really no room for selfishness. Number two, are we living submissively, not selfishly? We thank you that you are a great God and that we are able to stand. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. And then he went to the cross and he died for you and for me. stand in this day. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. And we praise you because you are a God who is just and righteous and holy, but you are also Now I can see testing calls from all God spring into children and urgent in love, my mother. the the beliefs of the world which go against the belief of the word. that is purchased by the blood of Christ for us. But anyway, please forgive me. Well, I can tell you that I I was able to endure. As long as it's consistent with Scripture, why would wives not to submit to their husbands? But you really don't understand the blessing of suffering until you're in the midst of suffering, I don't think. We don't need a despair. Because I can guarantee you, in the midst of distress, if you're standing firmly in yourself, you will fall. No, I can't. To have a relationship with God. You cannot depend on yourself to withstand the pressure and distress of the world, and you can't depend on yourself to have a relationship with God. You must depend upon God to have a relationship with God. And as God and man together, he lived a perfect life that we couldn't live in perfect accordance with God's will, in perfect harmony with God. How do you receive that? Living a good life or doing it's not at all by living a good life or doing something like that. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Resting in my Savior in my all in all Standing on the promises of God Standing, standing, standing on the promises. God never moves with our best or plan when lying is the best and holding a man give thanks to the Many have m issues, Lord, in life. Resist him steadfast in the faith, knowing that the same suffering are experienced by your brotherhood in the world. 1 Peter 5 verses 5 through 11. Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walks about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. There is in our world a pressure, a distress to accommodate That we know how to stand firmly in the grace of God. There are forces in this world, the flesh that's internal, the world that's external, and the devil that all are trying to do their best You either stand or you fall. We are to be confident, but we are to be confident not in ourselves, we're to be confident in the grace of God. What's Peter going to say that's going to help us to do just this? And I thought to myself, well, I'm not gonna stop working hard. Live right. You know, some of us just need to come to the conclusion that it's fine to be rejected by others. You really have to do right, have right behavior, love one another, remember your ultimate ultimate destination, and remember who you are My job as I pass through this world is to have conduct that is worthy of the gospel so that others can see my lifestyle and ask of me of the hope that is in me, which is going to come later in 1 Peter. When you can, and I'm definitely paraphrasing here, but when you're able to, when the Bible doesn't say otherwise, as much as you can be submissive to government. No question about that. We need to relate to God-ordained institutions, and there are three of them that we look at. He's then going to say next, be submissive to masters and slaves. the other person looks at the situation and they and they soften. Because they got a chance to partner with Christ in a way that they couldn't do previously. That would be weird. It will purify us. So that we could have his righteousness. In the grace of God in amid the distress of this evil day. I mean when you really think about your life right now, can you say that you are truly standing firmly in Christ? That Father, we would set aside all the cares of this week and cast them upon you, for you care for us. Therefore, humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time, casting all your care upon him, for he cares for you. When you are truly standing in the favor of God. In the favor of God. And uh and so I just kept working hard because I knew that's what I was supposed to do before the Lord and before the person that was em was employing me and everything, I just kept working hard. Uh it sounds almost self serving, but I I please forgive me for that. Stay, he says, stay in right behavior, in holy behavior before God. And we mentioned uh we we went through this part of the part of the book. You can boil everything down to this. Now say mysterious for this reason. I think that we see some of the truths of Scripture when it comes to suffering. Triumph over sin. But that is a conceptual knowledge that is carried out as we live life and experience it progressively. All right, we are now at the end of the book. Is your heart characterized by a submissive spirit? For Christ. And we pray these things in Christ's name. We can when we when in times of distress we ought to love the brethren more. When we come to Christ, we understand the concept that we have triumphed over sin. And depending upon Jesus alone to save you. You are worthy of praise. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preach to you, which also you have received, and in which you stand. He w he got to the point where he it was miserable. We're sojourners in this world. Why would I not want to submit? You can't have contention if one is submitting. Selfishness is going to and here's why. Believers should stand in God's grace by viewing suffering as a blessing. How do you view suffering as a blessing? You can't be uh looking at uh at yourself and the world that you live in as the ultimate destination, or you're not going to see the blessing in the midst of the suffering. Then there is a blessing of experiencing triumph over sin. This is all to come here where we're going to see this. Then they are standing on promises are gone. We stand by faith. So what does it mean to stand steadfast? I just knew it was temporary. Because and one day we're going to have an eternal destination. He's not saying that you suddenly attain sinless perfection when you suffer in the flesh. I'm ready with both hands clenched. We have blessed you from the house of the Lord. Make sure you include your email address and I'll check and I'll make sure I'm including those as well so that you don't have to copy everything down that's on the PowerPoint today. Number two, to stand in contrast to falling. 8, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walks with a about with a uh like a roaring lion. The problem is, folks, we get all distressed and all worried and all preoccupied and all concerned when this world's our home. For now the we can say that they are wrong in the break that God has given with shield of faith and well the fruit of standard. Standing, standing on the promises of God my standing standing, I'm standing on the promises. I hope this will be very helpful. By God's grace, I think I don't think we're doing that, thankfully. I'll tell you the opposite of submission. Secondly, we're going to see the blessing of partnering with Christ. And and we will show you how to do that. Open to me the gates of righteousness. amid distress in our evil in the evil evil age. Nero is in power. As there is distress and pressure in this world, you cannot be worried about whether you're accepted or rejected by the world. And Jesus said that his disciples would also suffer for righteousness' sake. To save you from your sin. I standing on the promises of God Standing on the promises I cannot call Listening every moment to the spirit's call. And I was in his care I will wear all rejoice in the Lord Amen. And we're thankful that you have given us your word, your great and precious promises. I'm doing the right thing here. Live right. Believers should stand in God's grace by relating to the body of Christ appropriately. There is a, can I say it this way, it's an imperfect way to say it, there's a silver lining in the suffering. I see the cross where love and mercy meet As the Son of God is freaking Then see his voice like cross beneath his feet Next message, uh sorry, the next uh song before the message, sing number six eighty, the voice in the Lord. It says, Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walks about like a roaring lion, seeking whom How do you know you're receiving the Word of God? The world is not your home. Aren't you thankful this morning that as we live the life that God has called us to, we don't have to do it with a defeated mindset. I shall have so I could not see through the shadows of heaven, so I thought Um I will email you don't feel like you've got to copy everything down. You must learn to stand in the favor, the unmerited favor of God. Number three, encouraged by right attitude. There is no biblical reason to fear suffering. Maybe you're listening today and you're saying, I am definitely not standing in the grace of God, because really you don't you don't really have a relationship with God. We will be reading from 1 Peter chapter 5, verses 5 through 11. Um it wasn't necessarily a right system, but it wasn't the same as to as as uh as in this country. And you have to be following all of these other things. Standing firmly in Christ is standing firmly in the grace of God. And Lord, I lift up those who are unable to be here this morning. I would we would we would caravan in vehicles and those those are the days before you ha you know had Google Google so you actually had a state with each other, Google Maps and everything. Eternal ages let his praise history Glory in the highest I will show me Standing on the promises of God There is a knowledge of a concept. The the second thing there then is this, we ought to resist the devil with humility. But the rage against the catter and with the sword that makes the rule it holds in a strength and power Heavenly Father, merciful Father, full of grace and full of love, you are the creator and sustainer of all life No, actually, we can live this Christian life in victory because God has guaranteed us that victory already Alright? Four things that we're going to see in this passage. Number three, do we realize the distinct honor and privilege of suffering? And how do you depend on him? It's not purchased by what we do. And God wants us to do that. Why, as long as it's consistent with Scripture, why would I not want to submit to my employer? It says, Therefore, since Christ suffered for us in the flesh, arm yourselves also with the same mind, for he who has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. There's no despair. Resist him and stand fast in the faith. The Christian is not someone who's to be weak and to be sort of wimpy, if you will, and just sort of passive. There's a real exhortation for elders in this. That will not work, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. Beware, the Bible says, take heed lest you wherein ye think ye stand, take heed lest you fall. For your testings, things hard, in our testing given us, always in the world. We're going to see, number one, first of all, believers should stand in God's grace by rejoicing in our identity. Almost wow. Standing standing, standing on the promises of God, my Savior, standing standing. I shall not even see it. And frankly, as there is more pressure and more distress from the world, what should motivate us is to love, it should motivate us to stick together, to love each other. So we're gonna uh so let me just encourage you to sort of just stay with us. You either stand or you fall. When you stand in God's favor, you don't need everybody else's favor. All right. We ought to love one another more. That I'm okay being chosen by God and rejected by others. I probably didn't do it right. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible Peter is writing to Christians who are looking ahead and they are realizing that persecution is coming And that is absolutely, those two points are absolutely incredibly important for us to Live holy before God. It will remove the dross from our lives. Well, it happens by faith. Standing on the promises that cannot fail When the howling swords of doubt and we are sailed By the living word of God I shall prevail And Nero was not at this point, he wasn't at the height of persecution at this point in persecuting Just about. And number four, encouraged by our special identity. And Father, we pray that uh you would be with those who are trapped and keep them safe. The opposite of standing is not sitting in the Bible. Now remember that. And as we get into this book, we're going to ask this question. Look at verse 22 of chapter 1. If you know who Nero is, he is the most evil emperor, uh evil Roman Emperor that uh that has ever in history. And he would go 30 miles over the speed limit in a company vehicle, and I just wouldn't do it. Okay? It would. Grace is God's unmerited favor. But we need to understand who we are. O Lord, I pray, send now prosperity. The message is going to be a little bit different today, but in in helping up helping us understand this book of 1 Peter. Peter is going to help us to learn how to stand against the wiles of the devil, to stand against the distress of this world, to stand against the pressure that we live in. We are Christians first. Beloved, I beg you as sojourners and pilgrims, abstain from worldly lusts which war against your Well, it's not just by saying some prayer. And Lord, we pray that you would just help us with that. I had uh Harry read 1 Peter chapter 5 um because uh that passage there because in that passage you actually find the very purpose of the book. I don't think you really and I really can fully understand the blessing of suffering until we're in it. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endures forever. Peter says that the way that you, your foundation is going to be secure. He's to be confident in the grace of God. Romans 5. Um believers should stand in God's grace by rejoicing in the believers. Like everybody working. You have God's grace. You're not doing it for wrong motives. Are you standing firmly in yourself? All of us are. I was gonna get through my s through the summer, or I don't remember if it was summer or Christmas time, but I I just knew that it wasn't gonna last forever. As long as the Bible is not telling me to do something else, why would I not want to submit to government? It is a distinct honor and privilege You are the God of our salvation. And I was in a job one time where I was under a lot of stress because my immediate supervisor really had a problem with me. It would be strange to say, man, bring on the suffering. And we find that in 1 Peter 10, where it says, Therefore, let him who thinks he stand take heed lest he fall. It's selfishness. And there are three applications that I want to make here. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Amen. God is the Lord, and He has given us light. So let's with those things in mind, let's begin by worshiping together in song number 661, O Church Arise. And our people whose cry some cry is love Reaching out to those in darkness Our calls of war to love. So to we have finished our series in the book of Exodus and um We have things that we are dealing with. This is going to be so important for us. Okay? I'm doing the right thing. You're a sojourner in this world. And that is a tall order for us as elders. Of his voice in the world, he makes no mistake, he knows the end of his heart. You're going to need two things today. It is by faith, it is trusting in God's grace, it is resting in his favor that we stand. In the midst of distress and pressure and everything, how do you know you're receiving the Word of God? And now he's going to tell us that we're going to relate to people relate to God, God's ordained institution. We get the chance to experience triumph over sin more in suffering. I've never taken lessons on punching, but anyway. There was an exchange that took place. And fight selfishness. Why? 2 says this, through whom also we have access by faith into this grace in which we stand and rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. And let your conduct be holy before God in the middle of this distressing time. But God's way of gaining confidence is very different than the world's way of gaining confidence. It's purchased by the work of Jesus Christ on the cross. We stand in grace. Two things, to stand not fall, to stand in the favor of God, and to stand by faith. Number two, number two, encouraged by right behavior. There are lots of people that will tell you various ways to gain confidence in this world, to gain self-esteem. He made me feel worthless. I will go through them and I will praise the Lord. We talked about masters and slaves and that's not the same thing as slaves in this country. Repenting of your sin. That what you do, this is so important, that what you stand in God's favor. The problem is when s when when somebody imposes their selfish will on us Suffering clearly gives glory to God. This is the day the Lord has made. But you know, we can always grow in our love for each other, can't we? Now here's what happens. Let me fight it out. And then later on it tells us in Scripture that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. When we think of the word stand, you might think stand, the opposite of standing is what? And that righteousness affords us the favor, the grace of God. It was temporary. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. The Bible says, if you do that, thou shalt be saved. To him be the glory and dominion forever. And what God wants us to do is to stand against the devil. I'm gonna keep working hard. It says, since you have purified your souls to obeying the truth Now when you have that mindset that you're a sojourner org. He took on our sin on himself, and he died for you and for me. Okay. There are far too many Christians, very candidly, that are citizens of this country first and Christians second, and that ought not be. You have a battle. God actually tells us in his word that there is almost, can I say it this way, a mysterious blessing in suffering. It must all be Him through His Son Jesus Christ and not of yourselves. Well, you look at what Jesus did for you. And he wants them to go down deep into something that is very important to stand in. I mean literally he said that. This is something that should be encouraging us as we love each other. He says you're living in a world, and I want you to notice what he begins there. I understand a concept. All right, let's go ahead then and begin our worship time together, and we're looking at Psalm 118 to begin our worship, beginning in verse 19. And Lord, unstop our ears that we will hear your word this morning as it is Likewise, you younger people, submit yourselves to your elders. You're overseers. Because we are partnering with Jesus as we suffer for him, and we are experiencing triumph over sin. This is number 4, major section. I know my my he was getting really it was really hard. Now I'm not going to get into the details, I've already done that, but let me just ask you this question by way of application. We stand against the devil, very simply. And the Bible actually says in that passage, take heed lest you stand That there is a sense in which we are partnering closer with Jesus when we're suffering. May the Lord richly bless you. How is he going to be encouraged? All right. Uh he anyway, so he said I um uh he said you you're working too hard, you're making us all look bad. Here's one reason I was able to endure. Folks, the worst thing you can do when you're under distress and pressure is do the wrong thing. As you're as God's people are experiencing distress, there is the responsibility of the elder to shepherd well, to watch for the shepherd. And that is, then you have all of the acceptance you ever need. You can't be selfish in the midst of suffering, or you're not going to see the blessing in it. We don't have to say bring on the suffering, but we could say, by God's grace alone, I'm going to be able to There's a lot there to the shepherd, to the elders of a of a church, how we ought to be leading And Jesus Christ went to the cross. If you're submitting the way you want to, the way God wants you to, not in every case, but in many cases. And those of us who've gone through suffering have some level of understanding. That's not what it's saying. Let me duke it out. And let me just ask you this question, believer. Experiencing triumph over sin. It's always a very serious problem in a church when you're fighting in here and you're loving out there When you respond, the problem in our world is selfishness and pride. Now, here's the point. And finally, suffering clearly gives God glory. The stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone Some are traveling, some are not feeling well, some cannot get out. I've got a lot on the PowerPoint this morning as well. The opposite of standing is falling in the New Testament. To firmly establish with confidence. Would you pick up in verse 3 it says this, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. And if that's the only thing you could say about me, then you The world's gonna tell you fight back. You're going to need your thinking caps and you're going to need your Bibles. That's his grace. You're just passing through it. If slaves are submissive to masters. And we have to understand that we the life we live in is temporary. This world isn't your home. And we are to be citizens that are godly in this world, in in and whatever citizenship we have Because the pull of this world All right. Now I I don't like I actually don't like to give illustrations where I'm like the protagonist like doing the right In each of those relationships Or is your heart characterized by I just want to fight everything all the time? To stand in the I guess I should point back there, just this, but to stand in the grace of God by faith. Any slight mistake I made of any kind, he was on top of me like We should grow closer together as brothers and sisters. It is by placing your full faith and trust in what Jesus did for you on the cross. And Father, we come this morning with grateful and thankful hearts. How is Peter going to encourage and instruct believers to stand? It's understanding that you are not, you cannot depend on yourself. For all of us, may we be able to learn from this book in 1 Peter how to stand. As the hymn goes, O church, arise, may we arise. We ask, Lord, that you help us with this. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. When Christ died for us, he took our sin on himself. One is government, and he says this Now this is a hard one. Certainly not. Number two, next major section of the book. Real quick. The opposite, now think about it this way. You're not doing it by force Well if you are standing in yourself it's not firmly. We ask, God, that you would help us to this morning as we hear your scriptures. We stand by faith. With your employer, submit as much as you can. And that's clearly here in the passage. And we get to experience that honor. Standing fast. Well, the Bible says in 1 Peter Anybody, don't you get my way? We will rejoice and be glad in it. All right. You must not do that because you will not stand Uh you just register, you go on go online and do that. And 1 Peter is going to teach us exactly how to do that. You can stand why? Interesting in the passage, it actually this is a passage where it says that we need to constantly Because when we suffer for righteousness' sake, when we do right in the Titus 3. For God resists the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. And so what Peter reminds them, he's going to say Is your heart characterized by submission? And we ask these things in Jesus' name. Now, let me illustrate it by by my situ by a situation I was in at work. It says We are chosen by God. And I hadn't finished my first Peter series yet, and so I decided to move that to Sunday mornings And what Peter wants these folks to do It's selfishness. The Bible says, wherefore as by one man since Let's pray together. Bind the sacrifices with cords to the horns of the altar. Second Corinthians chapter one, verse twenty-four, says the same thing. And this is the kind of situation I found myself in. We are going to be encouraged if we stay in right behavior. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you for sure n uh let you know for sure, show you for sure how you can have a a relationship with the Lord. And Lord, not only that, but you have given us your But here's what it's saying: suffering has a purifying effect. This is the gate of the Lord through which the righteousness shall enter But they wanted to build their buildings taller uh than pretty much everything else around. On the contrary, we establish. We stand then, first of all, we see this throughout the New Testament, and we stand It's too that's why the Bible says only by pride comes contention. That would be odd There is a blessing of right living rather than wrongdoing. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this We hope to see you soon. And it is it is for us then unmerited favor. Number one, we are encouraged by our ultimate destination. And so the application is for employee-employee relationships. But that was that was the call of the follower of Christ. And it's helpful if I actually have my mic on. Resist him steadfast in the faith, or by faith. And the reason I'm okay being rejected by others is because I'm chosen by God. Are you living submissively or selfishly? Trusting in Jesus. You'll be saved. Oh church, arise and put your honor on. Now my job as I pass through this world is to be the best light I possibly can I think until you are, you have to trust the Lord that there will be a blessing in the midst of it. And if we look ahead, we say there's probably suffering ahead for us as Christians. Three applications. You don't have to be accepted by everybody else. You grammarians are there going to see that I have a I have third person and first person the same sentence. Just reading that statement is hard, isn't it? 5 The title of the message today is Standing Fast in God's Grace Amid Distress. Don't feel like you've got to copy that everything down. The Lord knows who are his, let everyone who names the name of Christ depart from iniquity Watch the news. Look real quickly at chapter 4, verse 1. When you know Christ your Savior, the truth is you are a victor over sin. Children can be dismissed And Father, uh we pray this morning also that uh as we are here together And I think for those who come on Wednesday nights regularly, it will be a really helpful review Grace is God's unmerited favor. It was temporary. You realize you have sinned. The college that I went to There are two kinds of knowledge. And I pray that you'd help us to. So we are to stand. We need to resist the devil with humility We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. It's this way, in sincere love of the brethren, love one another fervently with a pure heart. Believers should stand in God's grace by relating to the body of Christ appropriately. It's not just by Help us to worship you this day in spirit and in truth. Good morning. So let's uh let's uh let's then understand what's going on here. And God wants us to stand in the favor of God. Because you know where you're going. Look at chapter 2, verses 11 through 12. We're to stand And there is a experience of that concept where I've really experienced it And Father, as I think this morning of our week that we've gone through and If you would follow along It's going to encourage He came, became a man first. You have equipped us with all with grace. At some point in the future It may feel a little bit like a fire hose. Verse 4, chapter 2. It's selfishness. Father, we come to you and we praise you for who you are. And it is extremely important in our day We have to follow all of these other things, but folks, there is a sense in which when I was miserable getting up in the morning trying to go to work, all those kinds of things. It's a different kind of a system. Do you feel distressed in our day? Let's pray together. I shall come forward as you all. Help us, Lord, in our thinking and our minds today. Because what we're going to do is we're going to actually review the entire book of 1 Peter Number three, next one. Number one, are we standing firmly in Christ? Continuing to worship now with number three ninety-five standing on the promise There's a sense in which we fight out there and we love in here. You're born into the sin. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. But we really would love to meet you in person. You are a temporary citizen. Or on your bullets in the back, there's a little QR code, use that. Romans 452 is very clear about that. You ever found yourself in a situation like this? We thank you for your word. And I want to illustrate it this way. God says when you can don't fight back. Establish is the same word stand, establish the law. So the Did you know that? I'll email all that. Now that does not mean, folks, that we suddenly say, I can't wait to suffer. I will email you on a PDF everything We see that in verses 7 through 19 of chapter 1. We are thankful this morning for what Christ has done on our behalf. And there are others, Lord, and we pray for that. In other words, it is the favor of God. That they we have dominion over your faith, but for the fellow workers Now, with but with all that in mind, Peter's gonna say several things about this. Depend on self, you will fall when the winds come. Your heart is sinful. Because what did Jesus do, folks, for us? We are to stand in the gospel, to stand in the grace. It was purchased by Jesus. Now we're ready. This is very important verses in this book. We're moving faster through the as we go. Now I'm going to contrast it with with the with the thing we so easily stand firmly. Let us bow our heads together before the Lord. Chapter 4, verse 1. You didn't even know I could I'm gonna let you know that ahead of time. What is the opposite of submission? And he was buried and he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. He is to be confident You are my God, and I will praise you. You're a temp. You have blessed us beyond anything we deserve. When you have that kind of a mentality You're born into it. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Now here's why this is important, and I'm getting ahead of myself And yet I just kept myself saying, Anyway, there's a thousand ways to register. And this book teaches us how to do this I was at I was in a job one time. It says the same thing in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Okay? Here's why he had a problem with me. We're experiencing it. And I want to I want to begin by illustrating things. The point is this. Those are the two problems in the world, pride and selfishness. You may be seated And Neither call of Christ nor cast. Number two. What's Peter going to say? Now let me just Amen.