Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we are so grateful and so thankful for your great mercy and your wonderful grace We thank you this morning that we have the privilege to have your word spoken to us several times this morning, Lord. And we're grateful that we had the freedom to be able to come together and worship you and praise you and give you glory and honor. And I pray as we consider this morning your word, that Father, you would remove the distractions, all the preconceived ideas and all that we have, Lord. May your spirit be in complete control. And I pray that you would be with Pastor Jim as he brings the message, give him clarity of thought, clarity of speech. And I pray that our ears would be open, Lord, and our hearts receptive. And we ask that you would do a work in our midst from hearing your word this morning. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Ecclesiastes chapter 5, verses 1 through 7. Walk prudently when you go to the house of God and draw near, to hear rather, than to give the sacrifice of fools. For they do not know that they do evil. Do not be rash with your mouth, and let not your heart utter hastily before God. For God is in heaven, and you are on earth. Therefore, let your words be few. For a dream comes through much activity. A fool's voice is known by his many words. When you make a vow to God, do not delay to pay it. For he is he has no pleasure in fools. Pay what you have vowed. Better not to vow than to vow and not pay. Do not let your mouth cause your flesh to sin, nor say before the messenger of God that it was an error. Why should God be angry at your excuse and destroy the work of your hands? For in the multitude of dreams and many words, there is also vanity But fear God. Last couple of messages and we've been as we've been going through Ecclesiastes really focused on our horizontal relationships and the nature of companionship. And as Harry alluded to, um Solomon is switching gears here and now he's really going to be focused on the nature of a person before God as a worshiper. When you think of worship, there are a lot of things that you can think about. Even the idea of having a worship leader may elicit certain ideas in your mind when you think of what that is. Have been, I believe, in a way that's pleasing the Lord, worshiping the Lord already this morning. But there are assemblies and churches all over this land that worship in different ways. And of course there is allowance for various styles that would all be worshipful and consistent with God's name, but there are in other cases there are things and methods that seem to really drift off of the path of actually having God the focus of our worship. I looked up some of those things. I've not really been in churches that much, although now with social media you can pick up on clips of different churches sometimes and different things like that. I I wrote down a few things here. Overly dramatic lighting you'll see in some churches. Flashing lights. Sometimes they have flashing lights for holy moments, and other flashing lights for joyful moments. and music that swells based upon the mood they're looking for, and machines that stage effects to mimic God's presence. And fog machines. You see the fog machines that that create this sort of atmosphere and the choreographed spontaneity. Think about that for a minute. Um of the spirit-led service and all of the different things that you might think of when it comes to what some would consider to be a worship service. I think uh I this was a new one for me. I was looking it up and uh theme driven driven worship services like Beach Sunday or Pajama Sunday I w I was like, Pajama Sunday? That that that sounds worshipful. I don't want to see you in your pajamas. Anyway, um I really don't want to look out and see buddy everybody in their pajamas, and I'm certainly not wearing pajamas myself. Anyway But a lot of these strange and certainly pragmatic methods Focus worship in a way that actually Christ is no longer the center and God is no longer the one being worshipped. It's like a elaborate birthday party where the person that we're celebrating the birthday for doesn't show up. And yet they're so wonderful because of all the things that are around and yet And yet are we really are we really celebrating an actual birthday of a person? Philip Riken said this for He said, more than anything else, failing to take God seriously is a problem with the contemporary church. We trivialize the holiness of God, so we end up with a trivial view of sin. We trivialize the majesty of God, so we end up with trivial worship. We trivialize the truth of God, so we end up with A trivial grasp of his word. We trivialize the judgment of God. So we end up with a trivial appreciation for the atonement of Jesus Christ. A. W. Tozer in his awesome great work, Knowledge of the Holy. If you haven't read that, I strongly encourage you to read it. Read it multiple times. It's an excellent book. He says Left to ourselves, we tend immediately to reduce God to manageable terms. We want to get him where we can use him, or at least know where he is when we need him. We want a God we can in some measure control. The truth of the matter is, it is amazing how the mind and the heart can attempt to go to worship the Lord and yet before long there is it is either ritual or it is entertainment There are all kinds of wrong avenues with which we get off instead of staying on the path of truly worshiping the Lord as he is worthy to be worshipped. And God is truly worthy to be worshipped. And he should be worshipped in a way that truly honors his greatness. So what does that look like? And I think what Solomon is going to talk about today in these seven verses, we're going to see from this passage what it should be and what it shouldn't be. We're going to begin by seeing in verses 1 through 3 the right approach, which is careful worship. And then in verses 4 through 6, we're going to see the wrong approach, which is casual carelessness. And finally, we're going to look at the right root attitude, which is the fear of the Lord, which really drives everything. in this passage. So we'll pick up first in the right approach, which is careful worship. And he says, when you go, draw near a pro uh when you go to the house of God, walk prudently. He's talking about going into the presence of God. When you go means to draw near, to approach, to present, to offer. And the house of God here in this passage, certainly in the context, the temple has been likely built at this point. Solomon's temple has been built. This is toward the end of Solomon's life. But when we think of the house of God, really we should think of the presence of God as a whole. Even Pre-tabernacle, we have this idea of the house of God in Genesis 28, verses 16 through 22. It says in that passage Then Jacob awoke from his sleep and said, Surely the Lord is in this place, and I did not know it. And he was afraid and said, How awesome is this place? That word awesome is going to come up later. This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven. Then Jacob rose up early in the morning and took the stone that he had put at his head, set it up as a pillar, and poured out uh poured oil on top of it And he cla called the name of the place Bethel, but the name of the city had been Luz previously. Then Jacob made a vow, saying, If God will be with me and keep me in this way that I am going, and give me bread and eat and eat uh and clothing to put on to put on, so that I come back to my father's house in peace, then the Lord shall be my God And this stone, which I have set a pillar, shall be God's house. And of all that you give me, I will surely give a tenth to you. So even in a setting where you don't have a grand building, the the what really is being spoken of here in Ecclesiastes and throughout the Old Testament when we talk about the house of God is be is coming into the presence of God and worshiping Him. And Koaleth, or King Solomon's words here, for the one who is coming in the presence of God is to walk prudently. To guard your steps, to be attentive, to be careful, watch where you are going. Watch where you are stepping. It's a pretty good idea in life, by the way, to do that. It's kind of amazing the kind of kind of things that you step on. I actually literally was walking out of here just a f right before the service and I won't embarrass the guy who almost did it, but literally almost tripped me as I walked there there was they had a a backpack and I walked past And I almost was tripped by the backpack because I really wasn't paying attention to where I was going. Although as soon as I felt it, I pulled my h my my foot out and I'm here before you. So anyway. It's important to step where you're supposed to step and be careful where you are stepping. And when it comes to worship, God wants us to be careful. I think this can even apply to individual worship. When we come before Him in the presence of our own time before Him, before the Lord, to be to be careful to to be thoughtful, to be uh think about what we're doing. But certainly when it comes to corporate worship, God wants us to be careful, to step carefully, to be attentive. Now the question then becomes, how do we do that? And Solomon is going to give really three guidelines here for how to do that appropriately. Before we get into those guidelines, though, I think we need to understand a little bit about the background that we find this text in. Solomon is likely wrote after this magnificent temple has been built that Solomon built, as you probably know. And all of the glory of this temple and the sacrificial system and all the practices of the temple. It was probably an incredible sight, an overwhelming sight, and something that was extremely exciting over time. And yet, it seems to be that over time, as the temple erected, and as the proceedings went on, and as the different ceremonies took place Over time there was I think likely we don't know this I don't think we know this for sure, but likely the Word of God, the reading of the Torah, those kinds of things, perhaps they moved off the scene and they were not not as important. In fact, if you think of think of the the temple and all of God did all of what was done there and then the destruction of the temple and then and then you think of the Babylonian captivity and then after the Babylonian captivity into Nehemiah Do you remember the great revival that they had when the Word of God was brought out and it was read? And so with that in mind, we get to these three guidelines. And the first one is that when we worship the Lord, when we come into the presence of God, God wants us to draw near to hear. When we want in our desire to serve the Lord, and by the way, the word worship and serve are interchangeable in the New Testament and actually in the Old Testament as well, both places. When we come to serve the Lord, when we come to worship the Lord, the very first thing that God wants us to do is to draw near to here, it says that in verse 1. I mentioned Nehemiah, and we have in Nehemiah chapter 8 a wonderful example of this. How the people of God gathered together. And in verse 3 it says in that in Nehemiah 8. Then he read from it, talking about the law of God, and it was it in the open square and was in front of the water gate from morning until midday bef before the men and the women and those who would who could understand, and the ears of the people were attentive to the book of the law. And in verse six of that same passage it says And Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God. Then all the people answered, Amen, Amen, while lifting up their hands, and they bowed their heads and worshiped the Lord with their faces to the ground. Verse 8 of that same passage, so they read distinctly from the book in the law of God, and they gave the sense and helped them understand the reading. God's desire as we come into the presence of God and as we worship God is to be ready to listen to the word of God. To be attentive to what God has to say to us, obviously from his word. In fact, it is actually from his word that we will know how to serve him correctly. It is from the precepts of his word and the principles of his word and the guidance that we have as word and the knowledge of who God is. that we are that we become aware of what kind of worship and service will really please God And so guideline number one is to draw near. Number two, guideline is avoid foolish sacrifice Notice what it says, rather than to give the sacrifice of fools. Now what is that? Well, think of what a foolish person is You can read through the book of Proverbs, and you will see time and again that foolishness is actually essentially it's basically not being not listening. I mean, over and over again, the proverb says that the fool doesn't listen to wise counsel. The fool is so full of his own thoughts and his own ideas that he's not listening to anybody else. It's different than the simple person. The simple person listens to everything. And the scornful person tries to listen, tries to get the simple person to do what they want him to do. But the foolish person is so full of his own self, his own thoughts, his own ideas, he's not listening. And if we approach our worship and service to God in that way, where we are so full of what we want, our own ideas, our own thoughts. We certainly will not worship God. It will be foolish sacrifice. And I can imagine that during that time with all of the different sacrifices, all the different rituals, that over time what began to happen is that there was sort of meaningless sacrifice that it that occurred. There was not thought and consideration and carefulness and a true heart of worship as sacrifices were brought, it became something that was either entertaining, perhaps, or maybe it was a matter of ritual. But certainly what he's saying here is that we need to be careful that it isn't foolish. Foolish people, it says, for they do not know that they do evil. This is like an ignorant evil that occurs. When we worship God in a way that is not consistent with his character, when is not consistent with his name, then we we actually do evil and perhaps don't even know that we are. I think one of the best examples of this is in Genesis chapter 4. Remember the story of Cain. Remember the story of Cain and Abel and how they brought two sacrifices, and each brought a sacrifice to the Lord. And in Genesis chapter 4, verse 3 it says, And in the process of time it came to pass that Cain brought an offering of the fruit of the ground to the Lord. Abel also brought of the first fruit of his flock of their fat. And the Lord, notice what it says, respected Abel and his offering. But he did not respect Cain and his offering. And Cain was very angry, and his countenance fell. So the Lord said to Cain, Why are you angry, and why has your countenance fallen? If you do well, will you not be accepted? Literally in the passage, it says that Abel's sacrifice was It was acceptable. It was accepted. And Cain's sacrifice was not. And the question is why? Why is it that Cain's sacrifice wasn't accepted? Was it because it was fruit instead of an animal? I don't think actually that's the reason. In fact, we find the reason in Hebrews chapter 11. It actually tells us But in Hebrews chapter 11, verse 4, by faith, Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain. Through which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts, and through it he being dead still speaks. It was because Abraham came to the sac came to sacrifice in faith. In other words, he sacrificed as a result of his faith. Abel didn't come to God with a sacrifice in order to obtain favor from God. He came as an act of his faith. But Cain came for a different reason. Very likely, in the heart motive of Cain, he came to sacrifice in order to obtain favor from God. And folks, there is a big difference between the two One coming in faith as an expression of faith sacrificing, and the other sacrificing in order in hopes to obtain favor from God. God will not, He will reject that kind of sacrifice. You see, there's only one, and we're moving now into the New Testament when we say this, but there's only one sacrifice that is acceptable to God that we can accept And then obtain favor by, and that's Jesus Christ. Christ is the one who sacrificed his life for us. And so when we give of ourselves to God, it isn't to obtain favor. We already have favor because the sacrifice that Christ already made. When we give of ourselves to God, when we give of our worship to God, our service to God, we do so out of what He has already done for us. We do it because of who we are, not to gain status with God. Guideline number three: do not be hasty with your mouth. This is interesting. He moves on to how people were talking apparently during worship. He says, and let not your heart utter anything hastily before God. What is he talking about here? He is likely, and we're going to get into this later, he's talking likely about the idea of vows, the problem of vows, and we're going to get to that in a few moments But generally he tells them first, make sure that as you come to worship God, that your words are not hasty, that you do not make rash, emotional, hasty decisions. In effort to worship the Lord. Ecclesiastes 7. 9 uses the same word. It says, do not hasten in your spirit to be angry. It's talking about doing something that is rushed, something that is not methodical, something that is not thoroughly thought out, not thoroughly considered. And saying those kinds of things. But I want you to notice particularly the reason for this. Notice the reason. He says, For God is in heaven and you are on earth. Because God is high and to be lifted up and great, make sure that you have proper weight to what you say. When it comes to worshiping the Lord, I think this could be applied to prayers. And certainly there are many prayers that were offered up in worship of the Lord back then, and certainly there are today. Thinking and meaningfully thinking about our prayers to the Lord. Whatever we see in this passage is talking about, what we should understand is that God desires to be worshipped. in a way that is consistent with how great he truly is. Job 22, 12 says, Is not God in the height of heaven, and see the highest stars how lofty they are? 1 Kings 8. 27 says, But will God indeed dwell on earth? Behold, heaven, and the heavens cannot contain you. How much less this temple which I have built? God is so great, and we ought to make an effort to worship him according to his greatness. So he says, therefore, let your words be few. Let your words be few. Don't shoot your mouth off. It almost is the idea of when you think of in terms of the entire passage, you begin to think of, come to listen rather than to speak. Come to listen to what God has to say rather than to speak your own ideas. That's what we see in the passage. And he gives this illustration. He says, for a dream and this is, by the way. wildly interpreted and many different views on this. But verse 3 says, for a dream comes through much activity. And a fool's voice is known by his many words. And there are some that would say a dream there really isn't a dream. It's talking about something else. And there are different views on this. When I look at the word dream throughout the book of uh throughout the Old Testament, it pretty much means dream most of the time. There's a couple of exceptions, but usually that's what it means. So I would take this to mean dream. And the activity there, though, I would take this to mean mental activity. So he is saying that with much mental activity, it may result in dreams. Now, we probably know that to be true. You ever had something on your mind over and over and over again, and there's something you're thinking about constantly and not really processed, and then you end up dreaming about it? Let me ask you a question. How profitable is that dream? I mean, do you figure it all out in your dream? I mean, do you really solve the problems of the world in your dream? Not usually. Okay. Or maybe not ever. And so what he's actually saying is the idea of act actively thinking that comes out in a dream that is pretty much useless is the same thing that happens when it comes to our tongue. Actively thinking that comes out in a bunch of words is also useless. So he's drawing this idea of the uselessness of a dream And and the words that we have that also are foolish. So a fool's voice is known by his many words. The bottom line is Come to listen rather than to speak our own ideas and our own thoughts. And it says, Many words mark a fool. Flippant, casual words and worship isn't what God is looking for. I think there's a few ways that we can make sure we apply these principles. One is that we need to have a high view of God that will cause us to worship God carefully and attentively. But also that God's desires are, God desires thoughtful listening. And responding more than sacrifice. Now get that. I think this is important. There are some people that all they want to do is sit, soak, and sour. You you met those people that all they want to do is come and sit and let go. They don't want to serve? And that is a problem. But there is another problem that can happen. where all people want to do is be active and do a bunch of stuff, but they're really not coming to listen and submit themselves under the Word of God. Both extremes are a problem. Both are are full one is a foolish sacrifice 1 Samuel 15 verse 22 says, Has the Lord as great uh delight in Has the Lord as great delight in birth offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord. Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to heed in the fat of rams. And then our sacrificial service should be a response to God's grace. We think of Romans chapter 12, it tells us that our living presenting ourselves as a living sacrifice to God is simply reasonable when we consider it as a response to Christ's sacrifice for us. We move on then to verses 4 through 6. And now we're going to get more into the wrong approach, which is this casual carelessness. He's now zeroing in on this issue of vows when he says, when you make a vow to God Do not delay to pay it. For he has no pleasure in fools. Pay what you have owed. Better not to vow than to vow and not pay. Now again, we need to understand a little bit about what the first what this what this is talking about in its in its historical context Throughout the Old Testament, you do see many occasions where people are making vows to show their dedication to God. And we don't have to take the time, we can't take the time to look into all this, but in the in Deuteronomy and in Numbers, you have examples of and passages that give guidance to making vows. You can think of let's think of a few common ones that we might know of. Remember Hannah's vow, which was a vow in 1 Samuel chapter 1, verse 11, a vow of of of devotion and dedication as she vowed to dedicate her son to the Lord. Or Jacob's vow and seeking favor or a Nazarite vow, which is a consecration kind of vow. Or there are different vows that are made as contracts in Numbers chapter 30. So there are different vows in the Old Testament that are made. And what and uh and apparently what occurred a lot in in worship to the Lord is that people would make vows to God to show their level of dedication. In fact, if you fast forward into the time of Christ You remember the Pharisees like to do this a lot, and they would vow according to certain things so they wouldn't have to follow them and not other things. Um it became quite a problem. Vows can sometimes be taken as penance. Proverbs 20, verse 25 says, it is a snare for man to devote rashly something that is holy and afterward reconsider his vows. And it's interesting that in Proverbs chapter 7, verse 14, this is actually speaking about the strange woman And be as she seduces the man in the story, she says, I have peace offerings with me. Today I have paid my vows. Like somehow the way to go through life is to and is to with your words, give vows of dedication to God so that you then are able to do what you want to do. All of these are they're really a misuse of vows entirely. And what the text tells us, it's very interesting how it puts it, it says, do not let your mouth cause your flesh to sin. That's actually pretty practical, isn't it? How often we we see this in James? James actually tells us like uh uses it as a uh talks about like a bit for a bridle, as a uh that can steer an entire horse or a rudder for a ship. Our tongue can steer our entire bodies toward a particular direction. And he says, do not let your mouth cause flesh cause your flesh to sin. Now it says then, no s nor say before the messenger of God that it was an error. The word messenger is often mostly translated angel, but I don't think we're talking about an angel here. I think we're talking about probably a prophet or priest. or someone in authority in the in the in the worship uh in the whole worship experience, the worship ceremonies and things like that in the Old Testament. And it says, why should God be angry at your excuse and destroy the work of your hand? So what we find in the text essentially is that if you pay a vow to God, then you must absolutely follow through on that vow. Now, I have some New Testament guidance for us this morning. I think it's important for me to describe this. In Matthew chapter 5, verses 33 through 37, Jesus says this. As we see progressive revelation unfold, we begin to see what Jesus' view of vows are. He says, again, you have heard that it was said of those of old, you shall not swear falsely, but shall perform your oaths to the Lord. But I say to you, do not swear at all, neither by heaven, nor it is nor uh for it is God's throne, nor by earth for it is his footstool, nor by Jerusalem, for it is his the city of the of the great king, nor shall you swear by your head, because you cannot make one hair white or black. But let your yes be yes, and your no-no, for whatever is more than these is from the evil one. What does Jesus say? Don't make vows. Don't swear at all. Just let your yes be yes and your no. And I think by way of application, we need to just understand that in the New Testament, uh the the the relationship that we have with Christ, where Christ has unconditionally saved us and brought us into his into his a relationship with him, there is really no need for vows of the kind that we find in the Old Testament. But do you know that there are some times where this occurs in our Christian circles, doesn't it? Sometimes where a uh an arousing emotional sermon will be preached. And a call to dedicate one's life for a particular kind of service is given And in a mo usually toward young people. And often that kind of a service evokes an emotion where somebody says, yes, I want to go and do that. I'm going to commit my life that way. I'm going to dedicate my life to that. Never considering whether they're actually gifted to do that. Never considering whether or not they actually have God's really actually moving in them to do it and they have the ability and the giftedness and the resources and all those things to do those kinds of things. Never to see if they have if they have m if they can a gain the right kind of training Not really considering the matter, but in an emotional and certainly well-meaning, but kind of foolish approach, just sort of give their lives in a promise to God in one particular way or another. I would encourage you parents teach your teens not to do that or your kids not to do that. There's only one one um When I talk to my kids, there's only one thing that I want to encourage them to do, other than coming to Christ, obviously, that's em that's key, would be if they are wanting to simply say to the Lord, Lord, I want to do whatever you want me to do. Certainly that desire is a wonderful desire, but to vow or to maybe lesser than a vow, but to like promise God you're going to do something can bind your conscience in a way that can actually cause problems for you in the future. Now it's interesting if you have found yourself, maybe you're listening to this morning and you're saying, well I've I've done that before. I've d I've dedicated I I've I've done kind of like vowels or things like that from Preaching I've heard or whatever. If if you're in that situation, I'll just I won't I won't get into go into this now, but it seems like in the Old Testament, if you were under the authority of somebody else, those vows were not binding. Just something to consider. So uh you may not be that's just something that might help you. But I would just simply say as a whole, I would really encourage you don't make vows. I remember being in a service. I've probably told the story before, but it's been a while. Uh I I remember being in a actually it was a in a um lecture kind of a situation. And uh we were all our all our heads were bowed and our eyes were closed, and and we were encouraged to promise God that we would read the Bible five minutes a day for the rest of our lives. And we should promise God that we do this. And I sit there thinking to myself, you know, what if I forget? Like I'm promising God something? Well what what happens if I forget? I uh I don't know about this. So I f I I said, well I want to kind of do this, but I don't want to so I said I I added something at an average of five minutes a day. So I I promised I would I would do a five minute an average of five minutes a day And by now I'm really beyond like like I've definitely fulfilled that that promise a long time ago, so so I really don't have to worry about it. That's really not the way to do it either though. You manipulate the promise so that you can you can make sure you get it done, you know, anyway. I really think it's better all you're better off just not making vows at all. There's really one vow that you can make and that would be up on the altar before the Lord toward uh uh uh a woman or a man. in in marriage, that is a vow that is biblical. And um outside of that, uh there is there are oaths that you can make There are things that you can do as far as like uh taking the stand at a um and there's nothing wrong with that, and I don't have time to get into all of that. There's nothing wrong with, you know, uh in a court situation or something, those kinds of things. It's not the same thing But vowing something to God, I would just suggest to you is essentially not a wise thing to do. I think as a matter of application as well, I think we can take it this way, that we ought to be very we should we should be careful not to be casual. when it comes to worshiping the Lord and serving him. It has been well said. I actually looked it up the first time it it was said. It's attributed to Gordon Dahl in 1972. He said this, most middle-class Americans tend to worship their work, work at their play, and play at their worship. And that is a great danger for all of us, isn't it? Every single one of those things, it is a great danger where we are we worship our work. That becomes our idol. We work at our play. We want to make sure we get that playtime in. And whatever is left over, that's our worship. A casual, a casual approach to worshiping God. Does not is not consistent with the greatness of who God really is. And that brings us then to verse 7. And verse 7 ties everything together by making a very clear yet very short statement. He says, for the multitude of dreams and many words, those are used in parallel with each other. So I would take that to be saying essentially the same thing that the the the futility and uselessness of dreams and words, it says there is also vanity. The dreams are there to identify to to point out the emptiness of words. So, for in the multitude of dreams and many words there is vanity. And then three words: but fear God. As he summarizes how we should worship him, we see this extremely important motive, and that is to fear God. Solomon is going to use this term, fear of God or fear of the Lord. He's going to use it four times total in his book, and it's it seems to be pretty consistently throughout it. He uses it in chapter 3 verse 14. He uses it here in 8. 12 and in 1213. All of those places he says that we need to fear the Lord. So this is really a consistent theme throughout Ecclesiastes. And for that reason, I do want us to understand in a little bit more detail what it means to fear the Lord, because I really believe that many people do not understand what it means to fear God. There are some that take it too lightly, and there are some that think it means something that it does not mean when it comes to his uh a severity of dread that is not God doesn't have in mind either. In the Old Testament, over a hundred times this idea of fear of the Lord is used. So it is an extremely uh extremely prolific statement. So what does it mean to fear the Lord? I want to give us four points on this. I tried to distill them down to four points, and this is not an exhaustive treatment of what the fear of the Lord is. But I do think that it will help us to understand what it is. What is the nature of the fear of the Lord? Number one, it's awareness of punishment. There's an awareness of punishment. Do you remember do you remember back in in Genesis chapter three after Adam and Eve had sinned They said, I heard the voice of the voice in the garden and I was afraid because I was naked and I hid myself Adam and Eve heard God's voice, and they feared God because they had sinned and there was a fear of God there. In Romans chapter 3, verse 18, it says that the problem with people, the reason they don't come to God, is because there is no fear of God before their eyes. So the fear of the Lord does include the idea of an awareness of God being in opposition to our sin and an awareness of punishment for our sin. But number two, and this is so incredibly important, the fear of the Lord has to do with a believing relationship. A believing relationship. I want you to see this this morning. In Exodus 14, 31, I want you to see that the idea of the fear of the Lord and the believing in the Lord are parallel with each other. It says in that passage, thus Israel saw the great work which the Lord had done in Egypt, so that the people feared the Lord and believed the Lord and his servant Moses. To fear the Lord is to believe the Lord, as we see throughout the Old Testament. And it is in light of a special relationship. This is shown in Genesis chapter 31. In Genesis 31, verses 41 and 42. You have a discussion between Jacob and Laban. And in that passage, it says this. It says Thus I have been, verse 41. Thus I have been in your house twenty years. I served you fourteen years for your daughters and six years for your flock, and you have changed my wages ten times Unless the God of my father, catch this, unless the God of my father, the God of Abraham, and notice what it says. It doesn't say the God of Isaac. It says the fear of Isaac. has been with me, surely now you would have sent me away empty-handed. God has seen my affliction and the labors of my hands and rebuked you last night. Well he says this to Laban, because of the special relationship that God has with my father and of Abraham and the And then says the fear of Isaac, because of that special relationship, you're treating me differently. Later on in verse 40 uh forty uh fifty-three of that passage, then God the God of Abraham, the God of Nahor, the God of their father judged between us, and Jacob swore by the fear of his father Isaac. He said it again Then Jacob offered the sacrifice on the mountain and called his brethren to eat bread, and they ate bread and stayed all night on the mountain. So so fear of the Lord involves a believing relationship, a special relationship that comes From belief and trust in God. Number three, it is an awe of God's great holiness. The nature of the fear of the Lord is an awe of God's great holiness. Genesis 28, 17 bears this out. It actually uses the same word as fear, but it uses the word awesome in that text and talking about the place of God. We had read that previously. And you think back to Exodus chapter 19. What an awesome, truly awesome passage of Scripture when you think of Exodus and when Moses went up on Mount Sinai and all that occurred there. It says in Exodus 19, 16, and it came to pass on the third day in the morning that there were thunderings and lightnings and a thick cloud on the mountain. And the sound of the trumpet was very loud, so that the people who were in the camp trembled. They feared the Lord. And Proverbs chapter 9, verse 10 says, As the fear of the Lord is the beginning of the wisdom, and the knowledge of the Holy One is understanding. It is a knowledge of the an awe of the greatness of God. And then finally, the fear of the Lord results in joyful worship. In fact, I was surprised at how many times in the Old Testament the concept of fear of the Lord and joy are linked. It was amazing to me. All the Psalms, there was many times where the joy of the Lord and the fear of the Lord are linked together. Psalm 211, for example, serve the Lord with fear, rejoice with trembling. And Proverbs 19. 23, the fear of the Lord leads to life, and he who has it will abide in satisfaction. He will not be visited with evil. And then finally, Hebrews 12, which I think is such an important passage to remember in light of all that we've been discussing. Hebrews 12, verses 28 and 29. Therefore, since we are receiving a kingdom which cannot be shaken, let us have grace by which we may serve God acceptably. How? How do we serve God acceptably? With reverence and godly Fear. For our God is a consuming fire. That passage teaches us this. That if we are to worship God in an acceptable way, if we are to serve God acceptably, Then we are going to have to do it in light of our special believing relationship, whereby we are in awe of the greatness of God. And we are joying over the greatness of God as well. That begins to shape how we worship God, how we serve Him. So that it's not foolish sacrifice. It's not foolish service. It's not mindless. It's not my own ideas. I am serving God. out of a desire to please him, but I'm serving God because I have a knowledge of who he is that puts me in awe of who he is and I serve God as an overflow from that. And I worship as an overflow from that. Which leads me to a question. Do you have a healthy fear of the Lord that drives you to worship? Do you have a healthy fear of the Lord that drives you to worship? Are you compelled by activity with your own ideas of what you think is serving God, or do you come to God wanting to listen wanting to hear, wanting to heed, wanting to follow the word. And then it drives you to serve him and worship him as a result. If you're struggling, I'll just say this, if you're struggling with burnout, if you're struggling with just feeling like you're exhausted from your service to the Lord. Check to see whether or not you've really spent time in awe of God. The reality is oftentimes we have good intentions as we begin to serve the Lord. and we do things and we get in in routines and nothing wrong with routines and but uh if it without but but it it can happen where We end up not truly spending time with the Lord, not being in awe of Him, not coming into His presence, not listening to His voice from His Word. And as a result, we get burnt out of serving him. The truth is the first way that you actually come into a place where you are truly having a biblical fear of the Lord. is if you know Christ as your Savior. See, what we see from the book of Romans is that that we we have sinned And that our sin is an offense against God. And that, and the problem is that people do not have a fear of God before their eyes. And the how truly fearing God, truly understanding that my sin is defense against God, that my sin separates me from God. Realizing that I am going to have to serve the punishment of my sin if I don't have some sort of remedy is the first step to truly coming to God. And once I realize it, once I realize that my sin separates me from God, and I am destined to a pun it to serving a punishment in hell. Because of who God is, and that God cannot just look over my sin, He's too just for that. Then I can turn to the wonderful grace of God and realize that Christ to took the sacrifice on himself. He sacrificed himself for me. He paid the punishment for me so that I could have my sins forgiven. And I would ask you this morning, are you in that place? Have you had your sins forgiven? Have you accepted the sacrifice of Christ to pay the punishment for your sin personally? And if you don't know if you're not sure where you will see where you are with God, where your standing is with God, let me encourage you. Come and talk with me after the service. I would be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with the Lord according to what God's Word says. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we thank you for the time that we have been able to be in your word, and we thank you for the truth of it. And how it directs us to worship you because you are high and lifted up and worthy of our worship and worthy of our praise. And even as we come now into a time of communion together and breaking of bread together, Lord. I I thank you for this time of celebration that we can continue to worship you by remembering what Christ has done on the cross to pay the punishment for our sin. And the shed blood on the cross and the broken body on the cross, we can remember those things and proclaim his death until you come. And we thank you for that. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gnam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.