What we're going through right now is a series on uh asking the question, what is a healthy church? And this is our really our membership class series that we could take everybody through. And today we're talking about church leadership. So we've gone through Uh we talked about what the church is, we talked about uh the the uh what who c you know how Christ is the head of the church and all that, and now we're coming to church leadership. Let's pray first and then we'll get into our lesson. Father, we thank you, Lord, for the time that we can spend this morning. We pray for those who are not uh who are not feeling well today. uh sick, several families think of the others, Lord, who uh aren't able to come because of uh symptoms, uh Lord, and I just pray that you would uh be with them and uh uh and heal them. And Lord, we pray for this lesson that you'd help us to be able to really understand what your church is supposed to be and how it's supposed to function. In a way that pleases you. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right. We're going to begin by just kind of re- uh establishing so how the basis of the of of church polity how do we how do we you have different churches functioning different ways and and doing different things Um some churches have you know uh one pastor, he pretty much runs everything. You have some churches that have elders, you have deacons, you have congregation. And it can get kind of confusing. Like what what's the right way and are there is there is there wrong ways and what's how do how do we how do we figure out how to how a church should be should function. Well, of course, here we're a Baptist church, um and uh we have that kind of polity, but I think it's important for us to sort of step back and look and say how and how do we how do we really where do we how do we get to the place where we understand the f the role the different roles of the congregation and the leadership and how that's supposed to work together. And we have a biblical basis. There's really three biblical bases for this. One is the commands of scripture and where we say the commands are required. Okay. So so if there is a command for the church, then that's something that's clearly required. It's something that we must have. The reason you have so many different church churches with different polity is a word that basically means how what the structure is for making decisions in the church. There are different different kinds of polity. Why is that? Well, there is some flexibility in Scripture when it comes to how you function. It's not all prescriptive. Okay? But there are certain things that are prescriptive. For example, a prescriptive requirement is that we fulfill the Great Commission, that we are to make disciples. That's a prescriptive requirement. That's something that every church should be doing. That we preach the gospel. That is a prescriptive requirement. There are prescriptive requirements that are there that really any church should be doing. um that really calls them self a you know local New Testament church. But but so we start off with the commands are requ uh of Scripture are required. There are other things, the statements of Scripture are expected. So there there are certain things that just simply says the church is, for example, the church is the pillar and ground of the truth. What does that mean? Alright, well well the church, that's the assembly, is the pillar and ground of the truth. That is that they are that every individu all the individual of the church are that are members of the church are really responsible to make sure that the church stays on solid footing doctrinally. That's something that should be uh clearly not just the responsibility of leadership, certainly it is, but not just. It's the responsibility of the church. So there are statements of Scripture that are expected. And then there are examples of Scripture that are ideal. For example, where do we get the idea that deacons are voted on? Well, that's not a that's not a command. There's nowhere it's commanded to do that. There's nowhere even there's a statement that that should happen. But we see, for example, in Acts chapter 6 that that's the example. And so we've so we look at that and we say, okay, well you have examples of how the church functioned in the first century, and of course you can't do everything the same, but there are certain things that you can do And we and we look at that and we say, okay, well, it's there for a reason. They they ask you know some of these things, I mean all every all of scripture is there for a reason. So so that means that we should look at the examples and Uh if possible, we should try to emulate those examples. So uh let's ask this question. If you think particularly about biblical statements in the New Testament. We covered some of this last week, but if you think of of biblical statements in the New Testament. What are the biblical statements that tell us this is what the church, the assembly, the congregation, should be doing? This is their role. In decision making particularly. Now we have like lots of one-another statements of things we should be doing for each other and loving each other and uh caring for each other, encouraging each other, discipling each other. We we know that. But as far as decision making role What is the role of congregation? And before we a answer that question, let me just tell you, I really think that this is extremely important. I've been listening, I mentioned to a podcast lately on It's called The R Rise and Fall of Mars Hill. Anybody else listen to that podcast? Um it uh it's not for young listeners and It's probably not for everyone. I think m al almost every pastor should li if not every pastor should listen to it to see to just kind of look and see what happened there in that church and that mega church over out in Seattle. But one of the things is that they didn't have any congregational role at all. The congregation literally didn't have it, in fact At one point in the church's history that the elders literally s literally scrapped the membership entirely and said you have to rejoin. They had the ability to be able to do that. And so So uh anyway, um so the role of the congregation is important. This would be essentially like a difference between us and you know, a Bible church uh you hear uh uh that would have almost uh probably all the same doctrine. But this is this is something that's different as far as that the we we see that the role there is a role for the congregation to play in decision making. It's limited, but there is a role to play. So any idea what are things, what are statements in the New Testament that tell us what the role of the congregation is in decision making. Any uh any thought any thoughts on what there might be Yes. Uh should agree on sending mission. Okay. All right. That is that's good. Okay? Um and uh we see that by way of example. We don't see direct statements about that, that that we that we you that that the church did that always that way. But we do see exam uh an involvement by the congregations in the book of Acts and in 2 Corinthians chapter 10. You do see examples of that. And so I would definitely agree that the congregation as a whole should be sending out missionaries. It's not just something uh that the leadership would do. Yeah. Oh. Either together. Yeah, that's absolutely true. Uh in fact that's one of the fur one in Acts two forty-two, which is which really kind of summarizes the essential things that the church should be doing. We are to worship. It says this they continue continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine And in prayer, that's corporate prayer. So corporate prayer is an essential function of assembling. And of course the breaking of bread, which is communion. And I think there might be one I'm missing as well. But yeah. We see in the New Testament and even in Revelation where church search the scriptures individually, not just leadership. Goodness of members really care about Yeah. But particularly in in this all of these are good. This for one particular is more on the role of decision making and guidance and and the direction a church would go. Every individual should be a Good Berean, every individual in the church, every member of the church, is a there's an accountability uh of each other and myself included in that each other. There's accountability for all of us. when it comes to doctrinal truth that I I have absolutely no I I want people to come to me and ask questions about my sir my message or say, hey, duh if they're not sure about something, I had this two weeks ago from somebody in our church. It was great. They they didn't come, you know, then there was no uh wrong way of I mean there's a wrong way to do that. There's a in a you know uh uh less than nice way to do that. But he he didn't come that way. He said, hey I'm just curious about that. What do you think about this? It was the first lesson on uh uh it was the first message on first on Second Peter when the whole book of si Second Peter really is talking about uh Peter's talking to uh churches that within those churches there are people that are leaving the faith and somebody come and ask me, well can you really actually leave the faith as a Christian? I think that was a great question. And I said, you can temporarily, or you can anyway I I went through that. I don't want to get on a rabbit trail. But I thought that was a great question. So the role of the congregation, particularly decision-making, let me list them for you. This is one Kevin mentioned, the Bible gives the congregation the responsibility for doctrinal purity. It is not j it is certainly the pastor and elders and deacons their responsibility, but it's not only their responsibility. Every member, if they hear something that is not doctrinally right, they have responsibility to to be have uh you know take on that role of accountability. And in our illustration that we've been using, a car illustration where the car is the church, the driver is Christ, the steering wheel is the church leadership, but I I I think a good illustration is that the emergen the church is the emergency brake. It's like Uh worth accountability, we're you know, like that's why we have congregational meetings, that's why we have accountability with that and and we're transparent with our finances, all those kinds of kinds of things. Why? Because because they are the e everyone in the church, members in the church, provide they don't provide leadership, there's leadership for leadership, but they do provide accountability so that there's sort of a uh uh an emergency break uh to to protect from something going really, you know, the whole thing going the wrong direction. The Bible gives the congregation responsibility for moral fidelity, moral faithfulness. In Matthew 16 and 18, you see that, which we talked about a lot last week. This is sort of summaring what we took what we talked, summarizing to some degree what we talked about last week. So if there's a tresp an objective verifiable trespass, a moral trespass one against another, then that's not, it's not, okay, the pastor deals with every single one of those things. Okay. No, actually, if if a if one member of the body sees another member and there's a trespass, uh g particularly against that person He's actually responsible to go to him and him alone, Scripture says, and try to gain that brother before there's further steps taken. And so there's definitely responsibility upon the uh on the part of the congregation when it comes to moral uh moral fidelity. Not not uh uh and then by the way when it comes to that whatever level where there is repentance that's where it stops. So when there's repentance, if it if it's just him and him alone and they and there's repentance there, if there's actual sin, we're talking about actual sin here, and there's repentance and that it doesn't go any further. And so we see that as the role of the congregation. The Bible gives the role of the congregation the responsibility for the election of officers. So we see that as a matter of example. Not so much statement there, but we do see it as a matter of an example. And then it is wise for the congregation to desire to go the same direction philosophically. This is just mentioning this that we all ought to be going the same direction when it comes to our approach to disciple making and discipleship, what we're doing. uh the the the the the importance of expository preaching, like those kinds of things, we all have to be going the same same direction philosophically. And the congregation provides accountability really for all areas of church ministry. So for example, we vote on a budget, an annual budget once a year. We report to the congregation what we spend, those kinds of things. So there's general accountability Now, when you look at the New Testament, that's, you know, this is a pretty good summary of the role when it comes into how the church is to function. This is the role. You have a problem if the congregation is attempting to try to lead. Why? Well that's not even possible. How can that even work when you have an entire congregation that's trying to lead a particular direction No, you have to have leaders to lead. And hopefully the leaders are doing their best to follow Christ, who is the head. So that's why we're the steering wheels, not the drivers, as the as leadership of the church. But the congregation does have an important role to play. Alright, now with that in mind, then we move to what is what are the different elder uh functions. Okay, and we move then to what the office of the elder, bishop, pastor is, which is all the same, the same, they're different words of the same office in Scripture. And we know that actually from Titus chapter one. In fact, take your Bibles and turn there to Titus chapter one, and you'll see this. Titus one. And it says, Paul, a bondservant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ according to the faith of God's elect, the uh the acknowledgement of the truth which according to which accords with godliness and the hope of eternal life with God who cannot, uh who has promised before time began. Uh go ahead and uh look look over at uh verse five. For this reason I have left you in Crete that you should Set in order the things that are lacking, appoint elders in every city, as I commanded you. A man is and then it says, if a man is blameless, husband of one wife, having faithful children, not accused of dissipation and subordination. And then it says for a bishop. So you see elders and bishops describe there two different words with the same office. For a bishop must be blameless as a steward of God, not self-willed, not quick-tempered. So that helps us to understand that. Also, 1 Peter chapter 5 also helps us with this as well. So we see that we have one office among the elder bishop pastor. And there are several functions within that office. And I I'll say this, I'll expand this a little bit. There is, I don't know if I have this here. Yeah. So let's talk, well, let's Mention this generally and then we'll get into a little more specifics. There is there is function within the office, for example. Who is supposed to be paid? Well, the Bible says those who are laboring in the word and in doctrine. It says the elders are kind of worthy of double honor. And then it says, especially those who labor in the word. And so that's a uh those who labor in the word in that text is a subset of of elders. And so you can have unpaid elders biblically and also paid elders as well. And the primary responsibility of the paid elder is to be studying the word. That will be the major difference. And I and there is a there's a sense in which if the person is studying and preaching the word and he's the main uh preacher, what you see in the New Testament is you've got Timothy and Titus and and others as well in the New Testament, that they are the they are this we would say senior pastor or lead pastor as well. They're the ones that are the main preachers as well. So you see here in Scripture a couple of the word pastor means under shepherd, and we find that word in Ephesians chapter 4 verse 11. It's interesting, but you don't find it actually all that often in the New Testament, the word pastor. attributed to to um church leadership. You find elder and bishop far more or overseer would be the word. It's not bishop in the sense of Catholic bishop, it's the it's overseer. And you find those two words more often in a New Testament than the word pastor, but you do find the word pastor, Ephesians chapter 4, verse 11. It says that there, that Uh 1 Peter 5, 2 tells us feed the flock. That's a major, major role of what the pastor is supposed to be doing They are to protect spiritually, 1 Peter chapter 5, verse 4, as an under-shepherd does. And in Ephesians chapter 4 is to equip the saints for the work of the ministry. So the saints are to be doing the work of the ministry and just broad broadly, what is the work of the ministry? Well it's disciple making because the the whole the whole um purpose of the church is disciple making. So the pastor's role is to equip the saints to do disciple making. So those are three basic functions of a pastor that I think are absolutely not I think absolutely The Bible is clear that those things are very uh essential. And many of these are commands, by the way. They're not just statements, they're not just examples. We have examples of this as well, but these are he, you know uh For example, Peter says to the others there, feed the flock. That's a command. We're required to do that. The next word is bishop, that's an overseer or a superintendent. The responsibility is really management and stewardship of the church. We find that in Titus 1. 7 and a few other places as well. So you have the same office but a different function. And so you have the term overseer. And then you have the term elder. That is a the meaning of spiritual leadership, and really that's with responsibility as well. If you think, for example, over in Hebrews chapter 13, where it says that it says that they watch for your souls as those who will give the count to God. those who who lead, who is that talking about? Well it says over in uh other places that it's the elders who lead So there is a spiritual leadership that takes place uh in the local church as well. Um and then you have this description of of a elder in 1 Timothy chapter 4 verse 6, which uses the word, it's not a it's not an office there, but it uses the word servant. Or diakonos is actually the word. Some it's translated minister or deacon or servant. And so the the the pastor, elder, uh bishop, that person or people in the church, they're actually not all they they can be involved in the physical needs of a church. So the primary responsibility of the elders, uh pastor elders, they're they are to f to fulfill the um the spiritual needs with a with also the fun with also some of the function of of meeting the physical needs. And then you have the reverse is true when we come to the deacons. The deacons primary function is to to do to help with the physical needs of the church, and they have sort of a secondary role as spiritual needs. You find these by example in the New Testament, in the book of Acts, you have plenty of examples. of deacons, even preaching, like Stephen and Philip were both deacons and they're preaching, so it's not as though they did the deacons have to function exclusively as physical need uh meeting the physical needs. Just as elders don't have to function exclusively as meeting the spiritual needs. But the emphasis is there in both of those situations. At this point, that's a general summary of the office of Elder Bishop Pastor. Any questions? That was kind of a quick summary, but Any questions about from anybody about how how that works in a local church? In our church, we have currently two elders. We had one, me, for a long time, and then the Lord did provide somebody that's been here for a long time who's faithful, and the church elected him as an elder as well. And um the Bible shows in the New Testament a clear uh a clear um It's like it it's it's best if you have elders, but there's no biblical requirement that you have to have a plurality of elders. You don't you never see anywhere that It's required. But you do have example often and statement often. Uh so the the one thing you want to be careful of, extremely careful of is that you want qualified elders. And we didn't talk a lot about qualifications. In fact, go ahead and let's look at that for just a minute. We're actually, when we get into the deacons and see the distinction, you're going to see that. But take your Bibles and turn to 1 Timothy chapter 3. 1 Timothy chapter 3. And we have here in 1 Timothy chapter 3 the qualifications. of both the the the pastor, and I'll just generally call him pastor here. Here the word is overseer in the first ver first verse But y but you have the word uh uh here uh and then you have uh and the qualification for that and then it moves over to deacons starting in verse eight Now, um, the emphasis for leadership in the church is character. That's the focus in the New Testament For both, and the character needed for both an elder and a deacon are the same are pretty much the same. In fact, you have repeated repeated uh phrases for both. Both uh so you have only two offices in Scripture. You have the elder b pastor office and then you have the deacon office. There's only two offices in the New Testament for the no for the local church. And within that, um both of them are supposed to be they're supposed to be men of character, and you have a description here of what that looks like. They've got their houses in order, they've got Uh the they're they're they're not certainly hopefully not perfect. Um otherwise I I need to step down right away because I'm not. But there is uh there is a a general um uh they need to be men of of character. Um so well before I get into that I'll I kind of gave you one, but it's okay. What are what is the biblical difference? Okay, we already said generally The deacon's role is the physical needs of the church, the eld elders' role is the spiritual needs of the church. But generally, what are the distinctions between the offices in in the in actually they're all in 1 Timothy 3. What are the dis what are the distinctions? What have what is what is different? Besides what we mentioned already. Any ideas? Yes? The ability to Teach convey a sound bot. Good. Uh apt to teach is one of them. So you have that for the elder. They must be apt to teach in verses one through seven, but you do not have that for the deacon. It's not required for the deacon. Okay. Act to teach means you need a desire to teach and you also need to uh have the ability to be able to to convey teach Now you you convey truth, scriptural truth. Now, uh there's been a lot of debate on what there are different levels of giftedness within teaching. There there really is. There's no no way around it. And I think that's probably why you have a distinction between in the New Testament between those who labor in the Word and a doctrine and those uh who may not. They all have to be gifted they all have to be able to teach. But there is a there is a um there is varied levels of gift varied levels of giftedness. You see it clearly you see it in the New Testament, and just practically speaking, that's true as well. They do not have to be all equally gifted. They don't have to be all equally gifted to some would would probably be uh able to teach in a small group better than a large group, some may be able to teach large group. better than small groups, some be might maybe be able to do both. I mean th there's different different levels of that. But right, apiteach is good. Any other ones? Yes ma'am? Excellent. Yeah, very good. So so it's very clear we cannot be uh a pastor elder cannot be a novice or a uh a new Christian, a new believer. That is a distinction. A deacon does not have that requirement. It's questionable whether a deacon should, you know, whether there's wisdom in have having a deacon be uh a a new believer be a deacon right away. Um you they they're because the Bible says their character has to be tested. Okay. Uh so you have to think about that. But by definition they do not have to have that qualification. But that's good. That's it's a decision Kevin? Alright, let's I'll list them for you. This is one. They gotta be called or the word is desire. 1 Timothy 3 verse 1 says, if a man desires the office of a bishop That word desire, that word uh uh desire is epithumeto. It is a strong desire. In fact, it's sometimes tran translated lust. It is a uh desire for I I I really, really want to do this. Um this is not uh okay, no yeah I can handle that Now that's different for a deacon actually. There's no there's you don't see that. You get you come to verse 8. Look at look at verse 8 where it starts talking about deacons. It just says, likewise deacons must be reverent and not double-tongued, that kind of thing So a deacon does not need this strong, overwhelming desire or this this, you know, they just need to be willing to serve. So I see that as a distinction. I wouldn't say it's a qualification distinction technically, but it is something that's clearly different when you look at the when you look at it at it here. The elder must have the ability and desire to teach, which Kevin mentioned already, that is the deacon is not required to have that gift. though he may have it. So it's not that he can't have it. We see uh by example that some do. And Stephen did, Philip did in the book of Acts, but a elder must. And then an elder must not be as has been an elder must not be a new believer, 1 Timothy 3 verse 6. But that is not that is not in uh that is not the case, it's not a requirement for deacons. Uh good. Any any other questions about that? Okay. So let's just look a little bit at the role of the deacon. The purpose is to manage the physical needs of the church to free up the pastors or elders to preach and pray. I mean that's that's what you see as an example in Acts 6. And it's intrinsic in the word. The word deacon means servant Um and so uh and so they're to manage and but I'll say this. So yes, they are to Be ready to serve. I am very thankful for the deacons that are in this church that really serve and and some of them I don't I really don't know what I would do without them. I would be in big trouble, um, probably. Um and so they are they they handle a lot of the physical needs of the church and and those kinds of things things. But it's also a management kind of a thing. It's not just they do everything, but they're in the they're to manage the physical needs of the church as well. So there is a leadership role there. It's not, you know, sometimes Some churches uh sort of treat it like there's no leadership role there. I think there is. I think there is it's really more of j more than just Um just they go th they're more than just gophers. I think that there is a management role there for them Because you see in the uh as an example in Acts 6 where you've got these guys that are all they are figuring out how to distribute the needs to the needs of the of of the congregation, the Hellenistic widows in that passage Uh so I think that's important to to con consider. The deacons were delegated responsibility for the physical needs of the body. The deacons were given responsibility in dealing with the disputes regarding the handling of distribution of funds. So they're dealing with dis disputes over these things. And the deacons were given the responsibility of distributing them and managing the finances, it seems to be the case as well. Certainly in conjunction with with the elders as the elders and deacons lead together. Applications. Any other questions about these different roles before we get into sort of general applications? Yes, ma'am. So I read something about uh Phoebe being a deacon somewhere. And so one church is saying We can have female beacons because of the table of Phoebe. So I wasn't quite sure what to make of that because I'd never heard it before Yeah, that's a good question. So I would put it in terms of what is what is prescriptive, kind of like the very beginning, the first slide where we talked about the basis of things. what is prescriptive and what is example and you know you you sort of triage it that way if you will. Okay. And so we find First Timothy three there's This is prescriptive examples. And in both cases, you've got the pastor, you've got the uh the the the bishop there, the the overseer, and the deacon. They both both have to be a husband of one wife, they have both have to be male. So that's a prescriptive passage on leadership in the local church, which tells you that that that's the intention for leadership. Can you have women who serve? Well, I certainly hope so Okay. Uh I absolutely uh in fact I don't know what we would do without the women in our church that serve so faithfully. Um And uh and so you have lots of examples of that. Whether you call them deaconesses or not, I mean I think you could. There wouldn't be anything wrong with that, as long as they're not ordained as leaders in the church. I don't see anything I don't see any you know issue with that. Um or you could they just you know they serve really well and and you understand that. I don't think it's prescriptive to say they're deaconesses at all And you only have a few examples of that. times. Yeah. Is the position of deacon necessarily one of authority? So I think that they have uh a role in leadership Um depends on what you would def how you define authority. The authority of any leadership in the local church is entirely based upon scripture. So there's a we talked about this a little bit before, but there's a difference between ministerial authority and magisterial authority in the New Testament. You've got the government that has magisterial authority where they actually can there's there's actually punishment of evildoers. uh in a situation where there's unrepentant overt sin that goes on that that you can there's excommunication, you know, where you're actually still trying to restore. But um But when it comes to the authority of uh as long as you uh it depends on how you define it, I would say they are given the role of leadership in the in the physical matters of the church. whether or not a woman can be a deep. Yes. So leaders so right. So you definitely can't so right, so You definitely would not call the woman the the woman would not be a leader the women would not be a leader in the church. And I'll just mention this We're definitely there there's a this is the maj one of the major debates in Christianity right now is complement is a two terms complementarianism and egalitarianism Okay. And egalitarians basically say that in order, this is my summary, in order for women to really be considered equal, they must be equal in their roles. That's an egalitarian view. We would not say that here. We would be a complementarian. We would say that that women and men are equal and that they are image bearers. They are equal in in their value They're equal in their essence, but they have different roles scripturally. And actually, if you look at, I think it's 1 Timothy 2, you actually find what the roles, why the roles are that way, is based on the created order. in scripture, Eve being Adam's help. And so that's that's what you have there. And so that's that's the basis of it. uh uh the ki the egalitarian will usually say that that the basis of um of The way it's set up in the New Testament is based on culture. They'll they'll actually say that it's okay that was the cultural norm, and so that's why it was that way, but we don't have that culture anymore. So We could change it. But in 1 Timothy chapter, I believe it's 2, it actually says something different than that. Actually go ahead and just look there because you're in three already. You'll see it. It says uh pick up in verse Um verse eleven. Let a woman learn in silence and all submission, which by the way, silence learning in silence does not mean that you can't discuss or talk in the church in the church is talking about uh questioning from the point of authority that they need to go they need to talk to their husbands at home about that. Uh doesn't mean that they can't discuss things or talk about things. It says, and I I do not re uh permit a uh woman to teach or use or have authority over man. There's there's Tony's point there. For Adam was why? It's not a cultural thing. Verse 13. For Adam was formed first, then Eve. It's based on the created order. And Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived fell into transgression. Nevertheless, she was saved in childbearing if they continue to in faith, love, and holiness with uh with self-control. So um So that's uh it's based on a created order, which is not something that changes. Just so you know, that you should know that that is something that you should be Able to talk to somebody about and say why you believe what you believe about it, always, always say, look, in God's point of view, He can have different roles. and still be equal in value. You know how we know this? Because the comparison in 1 Corinthians chapter 11 is Christ and the Father. It says the head of every woman is the man, but the head of man, the head of Christ is God in that passage. Is there a greater value in essence between the Father and the Son? No There's a different role that they're playing. So anyway, uh that was uh that was a uh uh we had a little time to to do that, so uh that's a little bit further explanation of that. All right, there are only two biblical offices in Scripture that carry authority. Ministry endeavors are extension of the pastor's ministry or elders' ministry Physical financial endeavors are an extension of the deacon's ministry generally. To be most biblical, any authoritative office should reside in the office of pastor, elder, or deacon. In order for a local church to work the way God intends, the pastor and elders, the deacons, and the congregation must take their responsibilities seriously before the Lord. So everyone has a role to play. We start off with the congregation having an important role to play. And the leadership has a role to play. The elders and deacons have a role to play. And everybody has a role to play. in order for things to be the way that God intends them to be. And I, you know, there is there is flexibility in there on how you function beyond that. But in in you know, and I you know there's some that would say that God did not intend um, for example, in Matthew chapter uh uh eighteen God when it said bring it to the church, for example, as that final step of church discipline, the God didn't really intend that to be something that was uh that was to go to the whole congregation. it it really just is a sort of a summary statement about what the leadership should do. Uh I we we basically don't fun wouldn't function that way uh here. I'm not I you know I I think there's an argument to meet made that direction, but we've decided that that's you know, as a Baptist church that's That's not how we we function. I have pastor friends that I highly respect that would look a you know go a different way with that, but we we really don't function that way. And I actually feel like I I really the more the more the longer I'm in the ministry and the longer I see uh issues in ministry and struggles within churches, I I see actually the the role of the congregation being a very important role. It's by the way, I'll just mention this as well, one of the reasons why I I really am wanting to make our quarterly uh meetings, congregational meetings that uh have a lot of meaning to them, if I could say it that way, where we're really we've we've done this for the last two car two or three congregational meetings where we've really helped everybody know what direction we're going, why we're doing what we're doing, all of that. This is an extremely important thing I think to to really help us go all the same direction. And um and so uh because I think the co the the congregation really does have an important important role to play that we should not overlook. All right, any other questions? We actually have we're done five minutes early, which is not normal. Usually I have a lot of uh discussion on this one. I'm sitting around a table teaching this, there's usually more discussion. Some people probably a little bit not as readily uh wanting to a ask questions but uh in this setting. But feel free. Uh there's no the only the only dumb question is the one that's not asked. Maybe not only Presbyterian follow Yeah, they have no congregational uh role the congregation doesn't play any role in decision making for Presbyterian So they are they are members of a church, uh they'll but they don't really play any uh anywhere. You won't find congregational meetings in a in a uh in a uh Presbyterian church. You won't find Um I mean you really don't play any the uh church discipline would be handled by the elders entirely. Um Yeah, they just really don't uh I can't think of any significant role they they probably would receive a report on like a in paper report. Some of them would receive a financial report. maybe uh once a year or something like that in on paper, but I don't even think we would have I mean it would be depends some on the on the church, but there really is no decision-making role that the congregation plays in the polity in a Presbyterian church So you don't have to be an elder to have any voice at all, which is why there's so many elders. Yeah, right. And actually needs to be, to be honest with you, because You also in most Presbyterian churches, if not all, you have a hierarchy of presbyteries. So they're not autonomous. So our church doesn't answer to anybody above uh you know there's no Presbyterian answer to anybody So part of the way they handle the safety issue is that they've got the the elders are ans answering to a a higher presbytery. Um so that's why they can still function okay, but um But I I yeah, I I just really uh the longer I've been in ministry the more I I grew up in a church that had more of uh did not I mean it was a little that had a little bit of a congregational role. It was a Bible church. Um but there wasn't much and I I found it it makes a lot more sense to it seems to be a little more consistent with what scripture is saying about what the congregation should be be doing to to have a c a role of the congregation. It's gotta be limited. You can't have the c people in the congregation saying, I'm gonna take the lead when they haven't been elected to take the lead. You know. But um they certainly I think they play a a really important role in And emergency break. I think that's a really good way to describe it. Good question. Any other questions? Okay, let's end Two minutes early, that means I get two minutes somewhere else, uh just so you know, anyway this works. Uh Kevin, would you close this in prayer? Heavenly Father is 24. Designing the church and not just creating it, but being descriptive enough with us to know roles and positions. I pray that we would look at ourselves and assess our positions, assess the gifts and the position you put us in the Lord. that we'd be responsible individually and then responsible collectively as a church body to encourage each other, to hold each other up, to seek spiritual growth from one another, and uh to be all in the same uh same page, going the same direction, Lord, as a church body, to look at our effect on this community and our effect on our families. And that we would be pushing the gospel, Lord, and uh Amen. All right, we'll see you. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.