If you have your Bibles, open them to Ecclesiastes chapter 5, and I'm going to pray, and then we will get in reading of God's Word. Heavenly Father, we are grateful this morning and thankful for your goodness and your kindness to us, Lord. We thank you that you have ended us Your great mercy and your wonderful grace have given us the privilege and the joy to have your word this morning. And I thank you, Lord, for how you work in and through us and I thank you for how you enable Pastor Jim to bring your word each week, Lord, and giving him strength. And I pray this morning as we get around your word that Father you would help us to set aside all the cares and all the concerns of the day. And help us to concentrate fully upon your word and what you have for us this morning. And I pray that as we hear your word, Lord, that you will help us not to be just the hearer But help us to think it through, Lord, and help us to be obedient to it. And we ask for your guidance and your direction in Jesus' name. Amen. So we are in Ecclesiastes chapter 5. It's quite a lengthy little reading this morning, so hope your ears are open and paying attention. Chapter 5, verse 8. If you see the oppression of the poor and the violent perversion of justice and righteousness in a province Do not marvel at the matter, for high officials watch over high officials, and higher officials over them. Moreover, the prophet of the land is for all. Even the king is served from the field. And he who loves silver will not be satisfied with silver. Nor he who loves abundance with increase. This is also his vanity. When good increases, They increase who eat them. So what profits have the owners, except to see them with their eyes? The sleep of a laboring man is sweet, whether he eats little or much But the abundance of the rich will not permit him to sleep. There is a severe evil which I have seen under the sun. Riches kept for their owner to his hurt. But those riches perish through misfortune. When he begets a son, there is nothing in his hand As he came from his mother's womb naked, shall he return, to go as he came, and he shall take nothing from his labor, which he may carry away in his hand And this also is a severe evil. Just exactly as he came, so shall he go. And what prophet has he, who has labored for the wind? All his days he also eats in darkness, and he has much sorrow and sickness and anger. Here is what I seen, have seen. It is good and fitting for one to eat and drink, and to enjoy the good of all his labor, in which He toils under the sun all the days of his life, which God gives him, for it is his heritage. As for every man to whom God has given riches and wealth, and given him power to eat of it, To receive his heritage, heritage, I'm sorry, and rejoice in his labor. This is the gift of God For he will not dwell unduly on the days of his life, because God keeps him busy with the joy of his heart. There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, and it is among men, common among men A man to whom God has given riches and wealth and honor, so that he lacks nothing for himself of all he desires, yet God does not give him power to eat of it But a foreigner consumes it. This is vanity, and it is an evil affliction. If a man begats a hundred children And lives many years so that the days of his years are many, but his soul is not satisfied with goodness or indeed he has no burial, I say that a stillborn child is better than he, for it comes in vanity and departs in darkness and its name is covered with darkness. Though it is not seen the sun or known anything, this has more rest than that man, even if he lives a thousand years twice. but as n but has not seen goodness. Do not all go to one place All the labor of man is for his mouth, and yet the soul is not satisfied. For what more has the wise man than the fool? What does the poor man have who knows how to walk before the living? Better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of desire This is also vanity and grasping for the wind. Whatever one is, he has been named already, for it is known that he is man And he cannot contend with him who is mightier than he. Since there are many things that increase vanity How is man the better? For who knows what is good for man in light, all the days of his vain life, which he passes like a shadow Who can tell a man what will happen after him under the sun? Let me begin by asking a question. Think of the word satisfaction. What comes to your mind? What does satisfaction look like to you? Somebody might have uh the idea in their mind and might be relaxing on a piece somewhere. Relaxing with a good book or laying out near a riverside or having bank acco uh a big bank account with lots of money or satisfaction over um over uh having high status somewhere. But how does someone truly experience satisfaction in life There are all kinds of pursuits in life. There are all kinds of things that we think will satisfy us. But what actually satisfies us Is there a universal way for people to be satisfied in this life? Even more more basic, what does what is satisfaction? I looked up what satisfaction is, and uh one one source said it's the state of contentment that comes when one's Desires, needs, and expectations are fulfilled. Emotionally is a feeling of peace, happiness, or contentment that follows the achievement of something desired Relationally, it's a sense of well-being that comes from being in harmony with others or with God. And spiritually, it is a deep rest of the soul It comes from trusting and delighting in God rather than circumstances. What we're going to find in Ecclesiastes is that The only true source of la lasting satisfaction is God Himself You'll notice in the passage, if you're just running your eyes along the passage, you'll see in Ecclesiastes chapter 5, verse 10, it says, He who loves silver will not be satisfied. There's your word, satisfied with silver. And then if you move on to Ecclesiastes 6. 3, it says there again, if a man begets a hundred children and lives many years, so that the days of his years are many, but his soul is not satisfied with goodness, or indeed he has no burial, I say that a stillborn child is better than he. And then again, in verse 7 of chapter 6, all the labor of a man for his mouth, and yet the soul is not satisfied. Throughout the passage that we're looking at this morning, the subject, what is being talked about, is a matter of life's satisfaction. Now, you may have noticed as Harry was reading through this passage that Solomon is again going to cover certain subjects that he's covered before. We've seen the subject of wealth on many occasions and how Solomon perceives wealth. We've seen various subjects throughout Ecclesiastes, and we'll see them again here But Solomon is going to add some new information. He is going to help us, particularly, with the source of satisfaction. It's actually embedded in the text, and we're going to bring it out this morning. We're first going to see in verses 8 through 17 of chapter 5 that satisfaction does not result from wealth or honor. And this is a common theme that we've seen in Solomon so far, in Ecclesiastes so far. Solomon, of course, as you'll recall, is the most wealthy person that you can possibly imagine. He is the king of a vast kingdom. He has wealth imaginable. And he has come to the end of his life and he realizes that you can have an accumulation of wealth and not truly be satisfied. We pick up in verse 8 and he mentions before we get into the the subject of wealth, although it is actually clearly related. He points out that he gives them advice and he says, do not marvel if someone is oppressed. If you see the oppression of the poor and the violent perversion of a justice and righteousness in a province, if you go to a particular district or a particular area, don't be surprised if you see oppression. And if you then he says the violent perversion of justice, he's talking about corruption. Oppression results from corruption, and don't be surprised if you see corruption. And of course, we know just by realizing human greed and the sin nature that we all have, that people are inclined towards selfishness and greed and covering their own backs and and um and wanting even to gain to the at the expense of others. And of course, that is not a Christian attitude, but it is one that we see in our world all the time. And he is saying, don't be surprised by that. Solomon's a realist. We see all the way throughout Ecclesiastes that he sees that which is under the sun. He sees what is real, what is realistic. And he says, don't be surprised by it. He explains why. He says, for high officials, watch over high officials. Sort of like you scratch your back, I'll scratch, and you know, that that sort of thing. I'll s uh you scratch my back, I'll scratch your back, kind of an attitude. Or you protect me, I'll protect you. Sort of a wink and a nod idea. That is very common in among high officials in any kingdom, in any land. And there is lots of opportunity the higher you go for corruption. He says, don't be surprised by it. It happens. And he even admits that even the king, and of course Solomon is the king in his land, is served from the field The field, speaking of the sort of most basic vocation of farming the land, he says even those who farm the land with hard work are going to ultimately benefit the king. Uh probably through taxes, if no no other way. Uh you see that. And as we look at the world, we look at even our country, we look at things. The reality is that the higher up you go, the more advantage you have when it comes to wealth, the more advantage that you have when it comes to material possessions, the more opportunities that are gained as you go up through the ranks. of various authorities and officials. I think our founding fathers, frankly, in our country tried fairly fairly uh hard to to make it so that there was more equity in our country, but look, you can't get past the reality of greed. Certainly you couldn't in the fur you couldn't in uh in our revolutionary time period. And uh and you certainly can't as we think of the king of different kingdoms of the world. He says, don't be surprised by this. But then he says, but also realize that wealth does not bring satisfaction And he's going to give various ways of this. In other words, he says, okay, you might have someone who is poor that seems to be oppressed, but actually understand that it could very well be that the person who is poor Who may not have the advantage of the one who is not may be very well more satisfied Understand that in our world, sometimes you have people that are so preoccupied with wealth equality that they forget that actually wealth doesn't bring satisfaction in the first place. Now, I by no means want to be political here. That's not the purpose at all. But we do need to understand that in God's economy and in reality of life, wealth does not equal satisfaction. And he gives reasons here to avoid falling into the trap of pursuing wealth. And he's going to begin in verse 10 by saying wealth is both addictive and unsatisfactory. He says, he who loves silver will not be satisfied by silver, and he who loves abundance will increase This uh uh he loves abundance with increase. This also is vanity. Someone who just loves more and more and more is ultimately not going to be satisfied by that which he loves. Talk about a horrible existence Someone who loves and pursues something, but can never be satisfied by that which he loves so much. I mean, think about when you do love something that is satisfying to you. Maybe a good, healthy marriage where you're happily married and you love that person and you're also satisfied by that person. Or force our relationship with the Lord where we love that we love the Lord and we're satisfied by the Lord. Or a relationship with another brother and sister of Christ where we love that person or are satisfied by that and are satisfied by that person But that does not happen with wealth. If you love wealth, you will not be satisfied by it. And he reminds us of this. Then in verse 11 it says we see that wealth attracts human leeches who give rich no peace. Uh it's well known, I think, by now, maybe not well known, but pretty well known, that if you win the lottery, tell nobody. Don't tell anyone if you win the lottery. Um, because everybody will suddenly have needs that you didn't know about before. And there are there are many stories of this. There are m many uh you know if you gain lots of riches, make sure you don't tell anybody that, because then you have people coming out of the workwork woodwork wanting to be your friend But they have ulterior motives. This is a this is actually a major problem during the Gilded Age, which I won't go into now, but during the Gilded Age where you had the Rockefellers and people like that that gained great wealth They never could figure out who their friends were anymore. Because all these people had it, so many people had ulterior motives. Wealth attracts human leeches who give no peace. When goods increase, they increase who eat them, those who need them. Thirdly, wealth accumulated has no function Wealth accumulated accumulated. It has actually no function. A large bank account is that is just that. It's a large bank account. You know what you know the vision I think you know the thing I think of? Uh how many of you all remember um the old animated series I don't even remember what it's called now, but basically Scrooge McDuck was the character. What was it called? DuckTales. How many of you all saw that when you were kids? Okay. See, we have a lot of middle-aged people in the room that saw that as their okay, my b okay, so that And and he's swimming through his remember he s he would swim through his wealth. I don't think he could actually do that if you had but he had piles of money, this big, huge building full of money, and he what he did for fun is he would swim through the wealth. I mean What do you need that's all it's good for, except you actually can't swim it swim through it, I don't think. There's no real, there's nothing It's just an accumulation of wealth that has no function. Wealth in of itself doesn't have a function. It's actually what you do with it that makes it functional. Number 12 uh verse 12 tells us that wealth does not give peace or rest, but promotes insomnia. See, once you have wealth, then you have to worry about keeping the wealth. And nobody taking the wealth from you, or your investment portfolio going down, and you're worried about that, and there's insomnia about it. The sleep of a laboring man is sweet, verse 12 says, whether he eats little or much, but the abundance of the rich will not permit him to sleep. The sleep of the laboring man is sweet. Somebody who just goes to work And works a hard day's work, gets a day's wages, goes home, he works hard, and he's able to sleep. But the person who's already accumulated wealth and so he's not working because he has all the wealth that he needs He ends up not able to sleep because he is worried about his wealth and the abundances of the rich. It just won't permit him to sleep. So wealth does not give peace or rest. Many people say, look, if I could just become financially secure, what is that? There is no such thing as financial security in the sense because you always feel like a little more will make you more secure, and so you never feel really secure. Number five, love of wealth often causes a person to hoard, even to point a ca point to the point of causing suffering to himself. Someone loves money. They become hoarders. Have you seen, have you, have you uh realized what that's like to be a hoarder? It's a terrible thing in life that I remember I lived when I left lived up in Pennsylvania, rural Pennsylvania, Bellwood, Pennsylvania. Nobody's heard of that. You might have heard of Altoona, that's a little bit south of it. There was a particular we were we lived in a town of like, I don't know, four people. Not really, it was more than that, but it was not a big town, maybe a thousand people or something. And And uh there was this one house, you drive by it, and there is stuff coming out of the windows. I mean, onto the deck. I don't even know how anybody lived in there at all. There was stuff everywhere, all over the yard. that this these people were known in the entire town. Everybody knew who they were and they were known as hoarders. Love of wealth causes this hoarding thing. Verse 13, there is a severe evil which I have seen under the sun, riches kept for their owner to his hurt Verse 14, wealth is an insecure basis for happiness. It says, but those rich those riches perish through misfortune. When he begets a son, there's nothing in his hand. The fact is you can accumulate wealth, but if you're going to keep wealth, um you're gonna have to invest in order to deal with the problem of inflation. And yet the more that you invest, the higher the risk of investment. And so it's insecure. You can have a large amount of wealth and lose it the next day or you can l lose it through erosion because of inflama uh because of uh because of um uh the the the problem of of uh of inflation. Wealth is an insecure basis for happiness. This is why Proverbs 23, 4, and 5 say this, do not overwork to be rich, because of your own understanding cease. Will you set your eyes on that which is not? For riches certainly make themselves wings. They fly away like an eagle toward heaven. God says, don't seek to be rich. Now the conclusions that we see from the idea of accumulating wealth we find in verses 15 through 17. And he says there in this passage, as he came from his mother's womb, naked shall he return to go as he came. And he shall take nothing for from his labor, which he may carry away in his hand. Why is it foolish and vanity to accumulate wealth because you can't take any of it with you. As poor as you were were when you came to this world, as naked as you were when you came into this world, that's how naked you will return as well. You can't take anything with you in the next life. He says this is a severe evil, verse 16. And the word evil there does not mean evil in a moral sense. Sometimes we think of the word evil every time it's used in the Old Testament. We think it's always always means uh it always means morally evil. It does not. Oftentimes the word evil may mean calamity or something bad. And that's the case here. He's saying it is a severe calamity. It is a horrible life. It's a horrible existence. Verse 16. And this also is a severe evil, just exactly as he came, so shall he go. And what profit has he who has labored for the wind? And then notice the result, finally, the terrible result is verse 17. It says, All his days he also eats in darkness. Now that word darkness we're going to see again. We're going to see it again in Ecclesiastes. We saw it already, Ecclesiastes 2. 14. The wise man's eyes are on his head, but the fool walks in darkness. Yet I myself perceive that the same event happens to them all. The idea of darkness is to walk in darkness, is to walk with not without clarity When it comes to where you are going, a fool, the Bible says in Proverbs, walks in darkness What does it look like to walk in darkness? I think this verse actually becomes a very helpful verse to help us understand Solomon's view of darkness. We see three things here. There's emotional darkness, that's sorrow. He has much sorrow, much grief. There is physical darkness and sickness. And there is volitional darkness and anger. Sorrow, sickness, and anger. What does it look like to live in darkness? It looks like sorrow and sickness and anger. That is the end. That is the result, the final result of someone who loves money. Who loves wealth, who pursues wealth, and thinks that they will find happiness there. No, they will not. They will actually be living in darkness. Now there are, I imagine as we think through this, there are many illustrations that we could give of this, many examples in our world even today, that you can think of rich people who actually are extremely miserable. I think in our nation's history, there's one that comes that stands out. His name was Howard Hughes. How many of y'all know who Howard Hughes was? Howard Hughes was a man who was brilliant. He designed the first, he designed and flew the fastest, the world's fastest plane in 1935. He was an engineer, he was a physicist, he achieved a world record for flying around the globe in 91 hours in 1938. He had a vast business empire which included engineering, manufacturing, aviation, real estate, and entertainment This is a man who had significant entertainment and it was a casino operator in Las Vegas and controlled at one point third of the revenue of the Las Vegas strip. He accumulated enormous amounts of wealth and became the world's richest man and was a highly influential public figure. And yet This man, his life ended in in ruin. This is a man who was who became severely obsessive, had severe obsessive compulsive disorder He was a he was c he was a became a germophobe and uh um a hand he was uh became one of those guys that were couldn't stop washing his hands. He struggled with substance abuse, uh narcotic painkillers, and those kinds of things. His health deteriorated deteriorated eventually, that's what ultimately killed him He was an extreme recluse and isolated himself in hotel rooms for months or years at a time and developed an a secretive inner circle that he trusted only a few people because he was so uh insecure and so afraid and full of fear because of all the wealth and everything that he that he had accumulated. This is a perfect example of what Solomon is talking about. Wealth does not bring security. It certainly does not bring satisfaction in life. Well, what does? And the answer is God. God is the one who brings satisfaction. Actually, God satisfaction is viewed by Solomon as a gift from God. It's not something that you can pursue by the accumulation of wealth or power. It's something that God chooses to give This is really quite interesting. I don't think anybody thinks of it this way. We you you aren't born and this is not worldly thinking to think that actually you can't pursue satisfaction, you can't come to a place You can't create your own satisfaction. Satisfaction instead is a gift from God. And we pick up in verse eighteen. And we see in verse eighteen it says, Here is what I have seen. It is good and fitting for one to eat and to drink, and to enjoy the good of all his labor in which he twells under the sun, all the days of his life, which God gives him, for it is his heritage. As for every man to whom God has given riches and wealth and given him power to eat of it, to receive his heritage and rejoice in his labor, this is a gift of God. So let's unpack what we're talking about when we're talking about God salvation being a gift from God. Notice he says it is good and appropriate for us to enjoy the good from our labor. Think back to that word good back in Genesis. Do you remember? We've mentioned this on several occasions before, but when God created the world, he said ultimately that it was what? It was good. The created people, he said, that was very good. But because of the fall, very often we cannot enjoy The creation that God has made and we cannot experience it as good. It's fallen, it's tainted, it's twisted, it's distorted, and we are fallen and tainted and twisted and distorted. And because of that, it is not, creation is not always apparently good to us. And so it is a gift of God for us to be able to perceive it as good. This word, this idea of eating and drinking. Really, it's a picture of what it means to be satisfied. Think of a meal that's a really wonderful meal. At the end of it, you're just satisfied. Deuteronomy 14, 26 says this, and you shall spend the money of whatever your heart desires, for oxen or for sheep, for wine, or similar drink, for whatever your heart desires, you shall eat there before the Lord your God. and you shall rejoice, you and your household. First Kings four twenty says, Judah and Israel were as in as numerous as the sand by the sea and multitude, eating, drinking, and rejoicing. So when the Old Testament, sometimes when the Old Testament talks about eating and drinking, it is in it's in reference to rejoicing and enjoying, and that's what we see in this passage when it's talking about eating the good of our labor and enjoying it. This I I want to say at the outset that this is what God wants. He wants us to enjoy. He wants us to enjoy the good of our labor. Sometimes we our perception of God is that He is some sort of killjoyer Someone who wants us to be miserable, that is not the case. We see here, in fact, that God gives us the good gift. of satisfaction. And the word heritage is an important word, actually. The word heritage means possession or portion. God gives a portion, and that portion is the portion with which we are to enjoy what God gives us. And God is the one who gives us this. In verse 19, we have a description of satisfaction. If you want to see the biblical description of satisfaction, I think verse 19 really helps us. I want you to notice, look at this, this is really, really helpful. And this is new information. We haven't seen this before in Ecclesiastes. Verse 19, it says, as for every man to whom God has given riches and wealth to give him, notice what it says there, to give him power to eat of it. Now we already said that eat is equivalent to enjoying. And so what he's saying here is that God has the ability to give the power to enjoy. We I don't think we think of it this way. I don't think we think of enjoyment as that that way. We think of we can enjoy, we can, of our own efforts enjoy something. But actually it is God who has the ability and apparently the desire to give the power to enjoy You ever uh had something given to you or maybe something you worked for or whatever, and you said, I really should be enjoying this, but I'm not? You ever gone through maybe you've taken a trip somewhere, and it should be something that you're enjoying and yet you're not. We're we live in a fallen world and we're very fallen ourselves, and sometimes like I should be as happy as anybody and yet I'm not. God, uh a satisfied person has the power from God to enjoy things. And notice what it says, to receive his heritage. That is, to receive, or I'm going to use the word accept, because I think it'll help us understand it. Accept his portion. What does it mean to be satisfied? It means that you have the power to enjoy things, but you have the ability to accept what God has given you. Is that not, folks, a real hindrance to our satisfaction in life? Because we have just simply not accepted our portion. We haven't accepted what God has given us. For whatever reason, we are looking elsewhere. We are discontent. And so we're not satisfied. The power to enjoy, the accept to accept our portion, so that we can actually rejoice in the work of our labor God is God who gives this. He gives us the power to enjoy, the ability to accept our portion, and also to be able to rejoice in our work. See that's a that's a good life, isn't it? It's not a matter of accumulating every kind all kinds of money. At the end of your life you have a big bank account and you're miserable No, being able to live life and to work in a vocation and then to be able to rejoice in the work that you are doing. while you enjoy the fruits of that, and then you accept the portion that God gives you, well, that's a pretty good description of satisfaction, isn't it? Philippians 4 tells us this in the New Testament, verses 12 through 13: I know how to be abased and I know how to abound. Everywhere in all things I have learned both to be full and to be angry, hungry, rather. Both to abound and to suffer need, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me Now, verse 13 we hear everywhere. It's all on a bump. It's on a bumper sticker. It's on Instagram. It's on Facebook. It's everywhere. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. But in the context, it's not saying that you can do whatever you want and God will give you the strength for it. In the context, he's saying God will give you the strength to be able to be content. It is a God-given strengthening that we are able to know how to be abase and how to abound. It is something that we learn. There is a role for us to play. Paul says, I have learned, Philippians, I have learned in whatever state I am to be content. We are not totally disassociated from this gift that God has given to us. We have to learn some things as well. But it is Christ who strengthens us to be able to do this. It is God who is the source of this. Now, notice how God does this. We find in verse 20 the method that God uses. How does God bring somebody to a place of acquiring satisfaction. First one he tells says, for he will not dwell duly on the on uh dwell unduly on the days of his life. To dwell unduly is to regret. That's maybe a helpful way of saying it. He will not regret on the days of his life. Friend, you ever you ever fall into a fall into a place of regret where you look back on life And you're dwelling on, you're regretting, you're looking back and wondering, what if I would have done this or man, I messed up here, or I didn't do this right, and you end up Some people end up living in this constant state of looking back with regret. God can give us the gift of not looking back with regret. But then it says this, but God keeps his him busy with the joy of his heart. Look at that. That is really interesting what he says. God keeps him busy with the joy of his heart. How is it that God keeps someone from dwelling unduly, or living a life of regret, constantly reminiscing and remembering and ruminating over things that they have done and wishing that they have done it differently. How does it happen? Because God keeps their mind busy with joy. With the joy of his heart. God keeps him busy with the joy of our heart. What a wonderful gift. Real really, I can't think of a better gift in life. That we are so preoccupied with the joys of our heart that we are not looking backward with regret. We're looking forward in joy. That is a gift of God. What we see here in this passage is that God is the source of satisfaction. This is why David prays for it. And this is why we ought to pray for it as well. Psalm 90, verse 14, O satisfy us early with your mercy, that we may rejoice and be glad all our days. Psalm 63 says this, O God, you are my God. Early will I seek you, my soul thirsts for you, my flesh longs for you, the dry and thirsty land. Where there is no water. So I have looked for you in the night uh in the sanctuary to see your power and your glory, because your loving kindness is better than life. My lips shall praise you. Thus I will bless you with while I live. I will lift up my hands in your name. My soul shall be satisfied with morrow and fatness, and my mouth shall praise you with joyful lips. What a wonderful attitude. God is the source of our joy. Psalm 91, 15 through 16 says, He shall call upon me, and I will answer him, and I will be with him in trouble. I will deliver him and honor him with long life. I will satisfy him and show him my salvation. Psalm 103, 1 through 5 says this, Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. Who forgives all your iniquities, who heals all your diseases, who redeems your life from destruction, who crowns you with loving kindness and tender mercy, who satisfies your mouth with good things, so that your youth is renewed like the eagles. This is our God who gives us satisfaction. Then we pick up in verse 6 and we act, and the- and the concept of satisfaction and being unsatisfied continues. There is a continuing thought as we move to verse 1 of chapter 6. And in verse 1 of chapter 6 it says. There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, and it is a common thing among men. A man to whom God has given riches and wealth and honor. So that he lacks nothing for himself of all he desires, yet God does not give him power to eat of it. But a foreigner consumes it. This is vanity, and it is an evil affliction. Solomon is going to go on to describe three different tragedies in life that are common. The first one is great wealth, but can't enjoy it. And we see this there in verse 1. God gives riches, wealth, and honor, but he doesn't give power to eat or the ability to enjoy them. He says, this is a horrible existence. God would give and benevolently give all the wealth necessary, but he has no power to enjoy the wealth. That's a tragedy. Tragedy number two is in verse three. An unsatisfied legacy. If a man begets a hundred children and lives many years, so that the days of his years are many, but his soul is not satisfied with goodness, or indeed he has no burial I say that a stillborn child is better than he. Now, this passage is talking about somebody who has many, many children. Some people say that the answer to satisfaction is having a great legacy. But if you are unsatisfied as you are building that legacy, or it's talking about it talks about burial here, um, it's actually saying even if it does not have a uh he doesn't have a proper burial, that was a big thing back in that day that you have a proper burial. It's better for someone to be stillborn, he says, than to have a life like that. That's a severe statement, isn't it? What he is saying is he is saying essentially that for someone to be born to live essentially a life of vanity with no satisfaction whatsoever despite a legacy, come to the end of it, end of it and die, it was like wasted time. Better that he'd never been born in the first place. And his reasoning is this. It says in verse 4, for it comes in vanity and departs in darkness, and it comes, its name is covered with darkness. We saw what darkness was. A person who lives like this, if they have no satisfaction, if they're not given satisfaction by God, then they live in sickness and sorrow and misery. They're living in darkness their entire lives. Tragedy number three, we see verse six. This is a hypothetical long life, but unsatisfied. Even if he lives a thousand years twice, but has not seen goodness. Do not all go to one place. All the labor of man is for his mouth, and yet the soul is not satisfied. You could live a thousand years and yet not be satisfied during those years and ultimately it is a tragedy. So he gives these three tragedies to what happens when God does not give this power to enjoy life. This power to be satisfied. And the question then becomes, okay, all right, I get it. Satisfaction is the gift of God. And there are many people that live in tragedy and don't have it. How is it that I can gain? How could this satisfaction be applied to me? Look at verse 8. Verse 8, he reminds a couple he's gonna again remind them, or remind us, of of uh some ways that we're not going to gain satisfaction. We've seen these before, but he's gonna remind us of a limited advantage. of a couple of different things. First of all, it says, as a rhetorical question, verse 8, for what more advantage has the wise man than the fool? What advantage does a wise man have over a fool? Well, there is more advantage. A wise person does have advantage over a fool, but it's limited, is what he's essentially saying. Or what advantage does the poor man have who does who knows how to walk before the living? He's basically saying, what uh you have a poor man who knows how to survive. What advantage does he have? There's no uh Yes, the wise person has advantage over the poor, but the poor person has advantage over the one if he's able to survive. But all of this is extremely limited. I want you to notice that in verse 9, the root issue, this is really the key to the whole thing. And I think this helps us immensely if we if we pause and see it. It says, better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of desire. Don't blow past that. Better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of desire. Do you know why there are many people in this world who are unsatisfied? Do you know why there are many Christians in this world that are unsatisfied? Because of the wandering of desire. Wandering of desire could be applied could be applied to all kinds of things. He's saying better are the what are what you can see. what your portion is, what God has given you as as a portion. Accept it. Receive it as your portion But the wandering of desire, the constant what-ifs, the constant what if this or what if that Or I wish that would have happened. Or or man, I wish I could have done this instead. Those kinds of wandering desires, you will never be satisfied in this life with wandering desires. And he points this out to us. That is the root issue. What you can see is what God has given. Accept it. Don't have the wandering of desires. And then he's going to give us in verses 10 through 12 what I think are ways to learn to accept what is. So in verses 10 through 12 of this passage, what you ultimately have is that God is in control. God is sovereign. You can't fight against God. God is more powerful and more all-knowing and all of this. And we're going to see that in the passage. But there are four things that we need to learn to accept. And we'll see this. Number one, you can't change what God has designed. It says, whatever one is, he has been named already, for it is known that he is a man. Now, what is it talking about there? That's kind of a strange statement. Understand that when they named things back then, they named things because it described the essence or the character or the nature of something. And so by saying it is already named, it's saying that the essence or the nature or the character of something is already established. It's not changeable. And so he's basically saying one of the things that we need to do in order to be able to accept what is, so that God can give us his satisfaction, is to realize you can't change what God has designed. Now look, as we go all through all four of these, some of us we need to just sort of realize this and be subtle about this. God wants to satisfy us. He wants to give us the power to enjoy. But we can't have the power to enjoy. If we are have wandering desires, number two, you can't fight what God has decreed You can't fight what God has decreed. Notice what it says, and he cannot contend with him that's God who is mightier than he. Now, obviously, God is stronger than me is all it's saying. But the point is that sometimes in our minds, as we have these wandering desires, or these regrets, or all these things that are happening in our minds that cause us to be unsatisfied and discontent We need to realize you can't fight what God has decreed. God is sovereign, he is in control, and he decides what goes. Number three, you can't control what God has commanded. It says in the passage, since there are many things that increase vanity, how is man the better? You cannot control what God has commanded. And number four, you can't discern what God alone defines as good. This is really critical. Notice what it says in the passage. Pick up here, it says verse 12. Actually, verse 11, since there are many things that increase, how is a man the better? Oh yeah, verse 12. For who knows what is good for man in life? All the days of his vain life which he passes like a shadow. Who can tell a man that will happen what will happen after him under the sun? You know what the passage is saying? You don't know what's good for you It's like a little kid who wants an entire bucket of ice cream. He might think it's good for him, but it's not good for him. And coming to a place of understanding that God is the one who gives satisfaction is actually understanding that God is the one who knows what will really satisfy you. You don't, and neither do I But we don't like we we like to think we know what we want. And we like to think we know what will really satisfy us. Oh, if I only had that relationship. That will satisfy me. Oh, if I only had that amount of money, if I only had that possession, if I only had that that role, if I only had that responsibility, that will satisfy me. You don't know what will satisfy you But God does. Isn't that wonderful? This is why God is the source of satisfaction. You can't discern what God alone defines as good. Now if we can get these four things settled in our minds Then that leaves us at a place where we're simply able to receive the gift of satisfaction from God. So I have a final question for you this morning. Are you living in divine satisfaction? Are you living in divine satisfaction? Have you ever thought about it? Have you ever thought about the fact that it's actually God who satisfies? That it's actually God who is the giver of satisfaction? Or have you lived your whole life pursuing your own satisfaction? Giving God, you know, like a little bit on the side or or you know making sure that you've appeased him. No, God is the one who satisfies us. with good things. He is the one who knows what will truly satisfy us. And living a life of surrender to him Surrendering to his will, surrendering to what he wants for us, surrendering to what he has done in our lives. is where we need to be in order to receive this gift of satisfaction. Now there is a gift that you need to receive first before you can ever receive the gift of satisfaction. And many of you already know what I'm going to say. That is the gift of Christ. See, we're remember, we're born in this world, fallen. Because of Adam and Eve and their sin, the Bible says sin passed upon everyone, and we look around this world and we know it's not right. And we look at ourselves and we know we're not right, and we know that our sin is offense against God, and that God is holy. So God cannot justify our sin. He cannot look overlook and go the up look the other way at our sin. Instead, what he had to do, because of his great love for us, is send his son Jesus to take our sin on himself. To die in our place to pay the punishment for our sin, so that we could have His righteousness So that we could be connected to God. That is the only way we could be satisfied. If we are we are born disconnected from God, and so we are unsatisfied. We're born unsatisfied. But when we come to Christ, we are connected to God. Now does that mean immediate satisfaction? Well, no, we actually have to learn to be satisfied by God. And it certainly doesn't mean if we're connected to God that suddenly we'll have all kinds of health and wealth. That's not the point. But there is a sense in which the way God has designed us as human beings to be is to be dependent on him even for our joy, even for our satisfaction in life And if we will look to God as the giver of our satisfaction, then we will truly be satisfied And if you don't know Christ as your Savior this morning, if you're not sure where you stand with the Lord, if you don't know if you're connected to Him through Christ, if you've received that gift of righteousness and eternal life from Christ. If you're not sure, please come and talk with me after the service. I will be happy to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you are connected to God so that you can truly be satisfied. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Father, we come to you and we praise you for your word this morning. We thank you for the gift Of satisfaction that only you can give. We thank you that you are the one who satisfies. And we confess to you, Father, that so often we live in with a wandering desire. We live with wanting what we want and thinking that what we want will truly satisfy when in reality it is only you who truly knows what is good. And it is only you who really knows what is satisf will satisfy us. And we know from your word that those who are most satisfied Are satisfied in you when we are when we are living for you and glorifying you. Lord, may we find our satisfaction in you this morning. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community here at BBC. you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call, so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, Or if you just have a need we can pray for. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.