We'll be in First Peter chapter one in just a moment. First Peter chapter one. And we get Ready to read from God's Word and hear the message. Let us go to God in prayer. Father, as we come and consider the many truths that we have just sung about We consider the fact that we have a glory that we can have in our Redeemer, who brings us life Life eternal, life more abundant. He cancels the power of sin and death. We no longer fear any judgment. Your word says there is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. We praise you for this incredible fact. That Christ came to pay the punishment for our sin in our place, so that we do not stand in the place of judgment. No, in fact We have been granted the righteousness of Christ Himself upon us. We praise you for these truths. Without Christ we are eternally hopeless. But with Christ we have all the hope, the confidence, the assurance. Praise you for these truths. Lord, we pray that you would, in the moments to come, that you would use your the power of your word to impact us, challenge us, encourage us where necessary, and rebuke and correct where necessary. We ask all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Reading from First Peter, the text that preaching from today, verses one through nine. First Peter chapter one, verses one through nine. I encourage you to read along with me God's word says, Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the pilgrims of the dispersion in Pontius, Galatia, Capitocea, Asia, and Bithynia. Elect, according to the foreknowledge of God the Father and sanctification of the Spirit, for obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ. Grace to you, and peace be multiplied. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who, according to his abundant mercy, has begotten us again to a living hope, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled, and that does not fade away, reserved in heaven for you. Who are kept by the power of God through faith for salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you greatly rejoice though now for a little while, if need be, you have been grieved by various trials, that the genuineness of your faith, being much more precious than gold that perishes though it is tested by fire, may be found to praise, honor, and glory at the revelation of Jesus Christ, whom having not seen, you love Though now you do not see him, yet believing, you rejoice with joy inexpressible and full of glory, receiving the end of your faith, the salvation of your souls. Well, good morning. It's wonderful that we have a church that doesn't mind our pastor once in a while being able to get away with his precious wife and have some wonderful time together And uh I am very uh thankful that Pastor Jim gives a little time to get a little relieved He'd been busy this week and uh so I'm very thankful that uh he is able to be able to get out and get away for a little bit to get some rest. I'm not sure if that's that mic or me But we don't need that mic. I'm thinking that's what it is. Thank you. Okay. I got a question for you this morning. Have you ever made this statement? I sure hope it doesn't rain Saturday because You fill in the blank. Maybe you were having a family outing and we're going to do a cookout. So you were hoping that it won't rain Or maybe you had a soccer game and you were hoping that it wouldn't rain so you could play the soccer game. Or maybe you had a yard sale as Joey and I had last week And we were hoping that it wouldn't rain. And of course, Toei always says, I'm praying that it won't rain. But Think about that for a moment. What would be your chances of it raining or not raining? Also, what if you were a young couple and you said this statement, I hope that one day We can buy ourselves a home or build a home of our own and raise children and have two cats in the yard and two cars in the driveway. Maybe not that far. What's the chances? How about this? You teens and you middle schoolers, have you ever said this? I sure hope my teacher Doesn't give me homework on the weekend. Or maybe you said, I hope we don't get a pop quiz on Friday and ruin my weekend. What are the chances? How about when you speak to someone and ask them Do you believe that when you die you go to heaven? And they say to you, I surely hope so. I mean, I'm a good person. I've done many good things. And I'm hoping that my good outweighs my bad so that God may accept me. When you think about this, you know where this is going. But this is the world's way. This is their view of hope. And it's defined by AI, by the way. It is an optimistic state of mind that is based on an expectation of a positive outcome with respect to events and circumstances in one's life, even in the world. How many times have we said, I hope they can get peace in the Middle East. How many times have we said, I hope that our government will finally get together and and get things done? How many times do we say these things? And yet, to conclude here, this hope that we are speaking of here in these questions is referring to the possibility of something happening. It's not a secure hope. And I think sometimes when we think about this, the possibility of something happening or not happening, or by chance we may or we may not, 50-50% chance, right? We cannot build our life on this kind of hope with all certainty, can we? Yet the Lord the world will. The world does. That's why we have so much anxiety today, because the things they are hoping for are not coming to. And so Is that the kind of hope that you want? Something that's not secure? Is that the kind of hope that you have? A hope of uncertainty? I think there are times that we can mix up this hope with the one that we're going to talk about this morning. Is there such a hope that we can build our life around? And so, with all certainty, we will see the reality of that hope come to fruition. Is there such a hope? Now, if you don't have your Bibles open, I would encourage you to open up to 1 Peter chapter 1. And we are going to look into verses 1 through 9, and I thank Brother Enrique for reading those and just about every hymn we sang this morning, actually Is preaching this actual lesson this morning. But in here, we're going to find that God is going to show us in His Word this morning that He has begotten us. again to a living hope. A hope that is secure, a hope you can live your life on with all certainty, and it is kept by the power of God. Now this hope, this living hope, I like Dr. Martin Lloyd-Jones. He calls it a lively hope because it's alive. It's not a dead hope. It's a lively hope. It is a live hope. And uh so as we begin this morning, the the reason that it is such a lively hope is the fact that it's kept by God. And we're going to learn this morning about this hope that we have. And if you take nothing else away from this Take this. God is sovereign on your salvation from the beginning to the end. You cannot lose it. You cannot mess it up. You can mess yourself up by making mistakes and doing things wrong, but there's that mercy is there. And so, what is this living hope, and how can we attain it? So here in 1 Peter chapter 1 We see that the letter here is written by Peter the Apostle, and it is written to pilgrims or sojourners or uh people who don't really have a home, they're just living there. And so he's writing to the pilgrims and he talks about the dispersion. Uh two points, Galatius, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithnia. So he talks about this dispersion. And when he's talking about this dispersion, I want us to see here that the reason that he's writing, he's not right what Paul writes, he normally when he's writing to Corinthians, he's writing to a particular church for particular things going on Here, Peter is writing to Christians who have been dispersed, that are out and all over the place. And it really relates to us today because we are also pilgrims on this earth. And he is speaking to us wherever we are, wherever we live, Glenn Bernie, Annapolis, New York, wherever you live at, he's speaking to us here to give us the hope. and encourage us because of what's going on. So what uh what is happening here? This has probably been written around 62 to 65 A. D. , most likely 64 A. And what has happened here is this. It's written to these pilgrims, and it's actually written to all of us, if you want to see it for real here. The situation is they are under Roman rule. The Emperor Nero is in charge. And in A. D. 64, the city of Rome was burned And the Romans believed that the Emperor Nero had set this city on fire because he loved to build things and he didn't want the old stuff. He wanted everything to be his stuff, his new way, and he wanted to do this And so they got kind of angry and upset with him. They were disappointed in uh Nero. But Nero had to do something to get their anger away from him. So he needed a scapegoat. And here we find that the scapegoat is the Christians and the Jews, and especially these Christians that are sprawled all over the place. And so when he blames this fire on the Christians It brings more persecution and hatred towards the Christian and the Jews. And in particular, they didn't care for them in the first place. But now they really he's trying to get the people to hate them because of that. So they are going through a lot of stress and strain in their lives. And so Peter is writing this letter to reassure them, to encourage them. And when you think about, we are dispersed, we live in different areas, and this is not our home, but think about your own area that you live in. And all that you see going on, all the uh sin that's going on, there's murdering, there's thieves and just everything going haywire This is kind of their life back then. They were having the same problem. But here we find that Peter is going to encourage us, and I want us to Follow along now, and we're going to get into verse 2. And verse 2 here, I like what he says here. In first two, verse 2, it says Elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father in sanctification of the Spirit for obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ. What we find here is Peter is identifying who we are. We are the elect. We are the chosen people by God. And I like it that he puts in here, it's to the foreknowledge of God. And I want to stop here just for a moment because I think it's important that we understand the passage and particularly about foreknowledge. There are all kinds of disagreements and things about for know what the foreknowledge means, but I want to go to Ephesians chapter And just read some things to you. This is what he's talking about here. And we find it in Ephesians chapter 1. And it says in verse 4, just as he, speaking of God, chose us. I want us to underline that in our Bibles. He chose us. And when did he chose us? He chose us in Jesus before the foundation of the world. Now Jesus wasn't sitting back there before the foundation of the world and looking at the billions of people he's going to have coming into the world and saying, okay, I know in uh 1980 Or Harry's going to come to Christ. I know that. So it's foreknowledge. It's not that God isn't wise enough to do that with the billions of people we have. All through history. It's not that he's not wise enough. That's not what it says here. It says that he has chosen us. He didn't say, well, Harry's going to choose me. He chose us. So this is important for us because this is what solidifies our salvation, the fact that God chose me. And it says here also, if we continue in uh uh Ephesians 48, he says before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame, before him in love, having predestined us. To adoption as sons. And it's by Jesus Christ to himself, according to what? The good pleasure of his will. God loves us So much and he shows so much mercy to us and the fact that he has chosen us and he has predestined us to adoption as sons. We don't come to Christ by accident And here we have also, according to the good pleasure of his will, he says to the praise and the glory of his grace by which he made us acceptable in the beloved. In him we have redemption through his blood. We've been singing everything this morning. It was just everything that we're seeing here. And he says In him we have redemption through his blood for what? For the forgiveness of our sins. And we're going to find out this morning that that forgiveness of those sins is every sin. Every sin. And every sin in the world. And that includes, if it's every sin, if he died for every sin, which he had to, then that means if I sin today, if I sin tomorrow, he's already paid the price. Our responsibility is to repent of that sin and move on to become more like Christ. But he says on a little further, he says, according to the riches of his grace, he made us to abound toward uh he He made to abound his grace toward us in all wisdom and prudence. God is all-wise, all-knowing. He knows it all And he is all wise. Verse eleven, if you move down to verse eleven, he says, In him also we have obtained an inheritance. being predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. Who is doing this work in us? It is God who is doing the work in us. And we have a responsibility, but I'm going to get there later. But he's working all things according to his counsel, his will, it's his kingdom. So he's working everything to his glory. And then I come down to verse thirteen and fourteen. It says, In him also In him you also trusted, after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, in whom also having believed You were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession to the praise of his glory. Now The objective here of election is salvation, which comes to the elect through the sanctifying work of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is the one has convicted you to understand and know the truth and you see your self and you recognize that you are a sinful person and you are separated from God. He's the one that gives you this understanding. It is his Spirit that convicts your heart that leads you to repentance And to receive Jesus Christ as your Savior. So here, the Holy Spirit, as John MacArthur says, the Holy Spirit thus makes God's chosen. He makes them holy. By savingly setting them apart from sin and unbelief unto faith and righteousness. This is when we get born again and we come to Christ. We are now Taken away from the sin, and we are now becoming righteous, and we have our faith in Jesus Christ and Him alone. Then it talks about sanctification, thus begins with the justification declaring the sinner just before God, and this is done by God imputing Christ's righteousness upon us. And also We find that in uh Philippians 3. 9. It continues as a process of purification. Why are we being sanctified? It's for obedience. And what is obedience? Obedience is trusting God. Trusting Him, trusting His word. And when you're When you're being sanctified and you learn something and you realize that you are on the wrong page on this certain issue and the Spirit convicts you Then you repent of that and then you start doing what he says you are to do. And you're trusting in God. And that is the saving faith that we have given to us as a gift from God Then you have the sprinkling of the sprinkling of the blood. And this is kind of taken from the understanding, I think, of uh Moses when um there were um Doing a new covenant and he sprinkled blood on everybody. And uh that kind of brought them in. And he says, the covenant, faith in the shedding of Christ's blood on the cross Not only activates God's promise to give the believer perfect atonement for sin, but it also brings the believer into the covenant by one's promise of obedience to the Lord and his word. What does it mean that we make we have made this promise? When we repent of our sins, we're saying, okay, God I'm going to trust you now. I'm trusting you, Jesus, as my Savior. That's the what it's talking about here. And uh we trust Him for our salvation. We cannot earn, gain, try to do anything to get God to approve us and save us. It is all done according to Him. And ultimately, Peter is clarifying here our identity in this world that we live in, the elect, the chosen of God. We are justified, sanctified, and will be glorified by our obedience to his word, trusting him, and saved by the blood of Christ on the cross And so as we move on here, Peter's desire is that you would experience God's grace and God's peace. When you learn here and understand what he's talking about here. It is by God's grace that we are saved through faith. And so he wants us to understand this and experience this grace that God has for us. How many times have we done things wrong, and how many times has he shown us mercy and brought us back? If we're saved by his grace, we can't work it in our own strength and in our own ability to gain any favor with God Now we are giving a lot of responsibility, but the main responsibility for our salvation and our security in Christ is what he has done. You cannot change anything and make it better. Verse 3. Peter begins verse 3 here with praise for God. And I love this Because he says, blessed be the God and Father. I think sometimes we don't realize what that means when it's talking about blessed I mean, we are grateful and thankful and we praise God. Why are we praising God? He goes on to say: Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his abundant mercy has begotten us again to a living hope. When I read this part here Light bulbs went off. I mean everything I've I've known about my salvation and how I've come to Christ, and I know that God is sovereign in it. But uh this point that he brings out here is this according to the abundant mercy of God. And uh uh what does that mean Well, when you think about it, if we are a sinful people and we are separated from God because of our sin We need God's mercy. We need His mercy because we are pitiful, we're powerless, we are sinful. There's no way in this world That we can keep the law. We can't even keep the Ten Commandments, let alone keep any law or any obedience to God in and of our own strength. And so I this mercy that he shows us to me is just um it just humbles me so much to think that when I think of the creator of the earth and heaven and everything and sustainer, when I think that he showed this mercy to me, he's holy, he's righteous, he's just he's perfect, he's everything And yet, he showed us mercy as sinful as we are. And here I want to move a little bit. to Ephesians chapter 2, 1 to 5. This kind of helps explain this too a little bit better. It says in Ephesians chapter 2 verses 1 through 5. It says, and you, who are the elect, he made alive, who were dead in trespasses and sin. So if you were spiritually dead in trespasses and sin, you can't make yourself alive. Only God, in His mercy, could make us alive. In which, He says, He made us alive who were dead in our trespasses and sins. He said, In which you once walked according to this world, according to the Prince of the Power of the Air, the Spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience, the unsaved, the world. And he says, Among whom also we all once conducted ourselves, all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, Romans tells us. And in the lust of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of our flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath. As are those today. And he says, But God who is rich in mercy, there's the word again, God was rich in mercy because of what? Because of his great love. wherewith he loved us. And I tell you what, if you want to get the nuts and bolts of this, John uh Joe's been doing a great job in Sunday school. And it this A lot of this comes out in the class, and I would encourage you to come to that. But here we're seeing this great mercy that God shows us. Not only that, but this great love that He has for us. And don't ever say Does God love me? A lot of times when we get into tight places and going through things, we often get that little little voice back there saying, I wonder if God really loves me. Right there is the truth. God is mer rich in mercy because of his great love wherewith he has loved you. Even when we were dead in our trespasses and sin He made us alive. When he says he made us alive, if you remember in John 3, when Jesus was talking to Nicodemus, that you must be born again. This is what he's talking about. We must be born again. And he says, Together with Christ, by grace you are saved. Titus 3. 5, just in case we don't get all of this. In Titus 3. 5, he says Not by works of righteousness which we have done. Not by works of righteousness which we have done. So nobody can work to gain salvation. He says, not by the works which we have done, or works of righteousness which we have done. He said, but according to his mercy He saved us through the washing and regeneration of the renewing of the Spirit, whom He poured out on us abundantly. Through Jesus Christ our Savior, that having been justified by His grace, we should become heirs according to the living hope of eternal life. What is living hope? Living hope is our eternal life with Christ. When we're going to spend eternity with Him. And because of Christ's resurrection, this comes about, and we're going to look at that in a minute Though the resurrection of Christ Jesus from the dead, here, through that, that's what it says here in this passage. If you look back down at verse 3, it says, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Okay, what does that mean? Let me explain it this way. Christ and God the Father and the Holy Spirit are in heaven. And Christ Jesus sets aside his glory and comes to do the Father's will And he comes and takes on human flesh. He was born through the Virgin Mary by the power of the Holy Spirit, not of man, but of God And then he walks among us for thirty plus years, and he has taught us of the Father. He has fulfilled the laws, I mean the uh he's fulfilled the law, and he also fulfilled the prophecies from the Old Testament And he walked among us. He did many signs, miracles, and wonders. And then we decide that we want to nail him to a cross. Now, we are actually responsible because of our sin, but God sent his only son And Jesus went willingly to that cross. And I really like us to grasp that he took all sin, all sin upon him. And God had to Put his wrath against his own son, and he died on that cross. And when he died on that cross, the Bible tells us that the wages of sin is death. He paid the penalty for our sin. He had no sin. He was sinless. And so when he did that and he died, then he was buried in the tomb. And what happened when he got buried in the tomb three days later, he was resurrected out of the tomb. And when he was resurrected back to life, he not only conquered our penalty for sin, but he conquered death and he conquered Satan. Satan could not keep him in the grave. Death could not keep him in the grave. And then he was resurrected and he is now at the right hand of God the Father in heaven So what is important here about the resurrection of Jesus Christ? The resurrection is the crutch of our salvation. Because think about it, if Christ did not rise out of the grave, then we have no hope because he did not conquer death, he did not conquer Satan, and he stayed dead But the resurrection is what's important here. What happened to you and I, what happens to you and I when Christ returns, whether we are dead or alive? In 1 Thessalonians 4, verses 13 to 18, it says this: But I do not want you to be ignorant, dear brethren, concerning those who have fallen asleep and died Lest you sorrow as those who have no hope. The hope he's talking about there is the one that we just talked about in the questions. Those people have no hope. It's a possibility, yes, and possibility no, but it's not a hope. You can't build your life on it. It's not guaranteed. And here he says, this is the qualification. For if you believe that Jesus Christ died and rose again, even so God will bring with him those who sleep in Jesus or died beforehand. And for this we say to you by the word of God, he says. Paul's saying here, that we who are alive will remain until the coming of the Lord and will be by no means preceding those who fell asleep or died before him. And he says, For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a shout, and with the voice of an archangel, and with the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ shall rise first. And then those who are alive and remain shall be resurrected or caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. Listen to this next line. Thus we shall always be with the Lord. This is our living hope. There's a day coming Because of Christ's resurrection, we are going to be resurrected. And there's a day coming when we will spend eternity. with the Lord in heaven. And we're going to learn a little bit about that in a moment here. But it says here after that, he says, thus we shall always be with the Lord. Therefore, why are we talking about this this morning? He says to comfort one another with these words. Now all of us have different lives, different things going on in our lives. We have different trials, different troubles, and so on and so forth But yet we come together here as believers and brothers and sisters in Christ, this love that we have one for another. And when I think about that, when someone's going through something, how do we encourage them Some people sometimes may struggle with their salvation even. We can encourage them by what we just read here. And I think it's important for us to keep that in mind. So what is the living hope? In which we have been born again going to look like. As a believer, the elect, we are looking forward to the day of Christ's return. Let me ask you a question. Do you think about that? Is your day so busy that we don't think about one day Christ is going to come? We don't know when it is. But we know that he's going to. And so I'm thinking about this, and he says, our living hope of eternal life consists of an inheritance, which is getting ready to go into in chapter four here. I mean verse four. I like this. This living hope of eternal life consists of an inheritance. Not only are we going to be resurrected to spend eternity with Christ. But this also to me really makes this even more I I I think I you know I don't always keep the living hope in front of my f my fore face. I'm always going too thin, I forget about this. And here we see Peter uses three words to describe our inheritance by the way of contrast. to help us get our minds around the magnitude of our inheritance. We're so used to, I've been here 76 years Some of you all might have been here a little bit more, but not too many of you. But you've been here long enough to see the world and see how evil, how wicked it is. And we try to make the best of it here. But we have a living hope That is what keeps us going and keeps us on our feet on the ground. We have a living hope and we can build our whole life around this living hope. He says here in verse 4. Well, let me go back. He says, according to his abundant mercy, he has begotten us again to a living hope. Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead to an inheritance. So we're coming out of what we've been living before we got saved. Now we've got an inheritance here and we're going to go and see what that's like He says we have an inheritance that is incorruptible, that is imperishable. He doesn't say what it looks like, but he says this is not going to be there. And I like this. He says, not able to be destroyed. That inheritance we have cannot be destroyed. This is secure and we can live our lives on this And I think here too he says, given the apparent uh transi of uh human conditions, I got this from uh John MacArthur, and seeing permanence of creation, it is good to be reminded That we shall outlive it all. In a place that cannot be destroyed. You get that? You're going to be in a place that will not be able to be destroyed Because God is in trouble. Let's go to the second one. He says not only will it be incorruptible or imperishable and unable to be destroyed, he said it also is going to be undefiled. It's going to be no pollution, no sin, no nothing like that. No evil, no wickedness. You don't have to put uh Cameras up and alarms up and this and that when you're trying to live your life. You don't have to there's no sin there. There's no temptation there And from our vantage point, it is hard to even imagine a world undefiled, is it not? We live in such a wicked time. It's always been that way. A world without Locks. Brother Joe there took a course in doing locks. Does a pretty good job. We won't need you in it. We won't need you for that. We won't need no locks up there You won't need an alarm. How many of you have a doorbell that has a camera on it that when you touch it, it comes through your phone Okay, nobody's re Thank you. I knew you had one. We have that now. We need that now, right? For protections. It's wise to do that. But we won't need that up there. And another thing It won't be uh we won't need those keys and locks and all that because there'll be no theft there. Nobody will be stealing anything. And I like it here, a world where every woman Can sleep without fear, every man is honorable, and every child is cherished. There will be no jails there There will be no prisons, no need for police, no military, no weapons, no sin there, none at all. Peter is saying that we will be like being it will be without spot or blemish. It will not be morally compromised or sinfully polluted. It will never be defiled It will be unlike anything we have ever known and hard to imagine. No cell phone. No computer, no AI, we don't need AI, we have God. We don't need him now, actually. But that's the way that's the way we're living today, right? But just think about it What am I going to do? How am I going to communicate? I don't have no cell phone. How do I call somebody over there? You're going to have a spiritual body here, which will be a physical spiritual body I mean you'll know and recognize each other and be able to walk around and do things. But I'm thinking about this. And here, Peter states thirdly That it does not fade away. Have you ever had hopes fade away? You were hoping and after a while you just gave up on it and it's not gonna happen. You know, here It does not fade away, this inheritance we have. There's no subject to fading or decay. It cannot be rotted out. I think about my age and when as we get older and how We are fading away. And I think about myself and I'm thinking, you know, I'm 76. Everything is going south on me. I can't seem to control my weight. I can't keep my stomach up where it belongs My chest were blowing, everything's just fading away and going down. And sooner or later my face is getting wrinkles. It's not like it hot when it was when I was younger. And when you think about all these things, when you think about decay You know, one day I'm gonna be put in the ground, my body's gonna decay, but I'm gonna have a new body when that day comes. I'm grateful for that. That is such a living hope And gravity takes over a lot of times the older you get. But the body here and now was not made to last forever. But in contrast, the inheritance which Christians, the elect, are said to be moving. is said to be unfading. It will never be subject to decay. And this is good news. It will be incorruptible, undefiled, and cannot fade away. When our own bodies long since expire and are reun and reunited with Christ at that final day. will be made incorruptible forevermore. And this is the inheritance that's await all who are in Christ. Verse 5 goes on to say, Peter tells us, this inheritance is said to be kept in heaven for us. Even as we are being guarded now through our faith for salvation that will be revealed in the last time, faith is going to become sight. And we won't have to memorize scripture anymore. You won't have to do this and that. You're going to be in the presence of God. And when you think about this hope that's guaranteed, it's not something that is a possibility And I think sometimes we may get confused between the possibility hope and the actual living hope. And we don't want to do that. We want to keep our focus on the living hope. And he tells us here that it's kept in heaven and guarded by God Himself. Doesn't this living hope sound a little bit too good to be true? Do you think And you ask you talk to somebody in the world, they're gonna tell you you're nuts. And even in the Christian community, I'm not sure that we all got that focus that what is going to come and that focus that we are going to have this living hope. This great promise is being kept for us through God's eternal power. It says it is kept by the power of God through faith for the salvation to be revealed in the last time. Peter is now going to encourage us again in verse six. And he says here That in verse 1 through 5, he said, it brings such great rejoicing When we know about the living hope. Are you rejoicing in the living hope? Does that help you in your times of trouble? Do you remember about this living hope. And I want us to really grasp that today, to know and realize and understand that living hope that we have of spending eternity with Christ. And it is all in God's sovereign hand. You cannot lose it. You don't doubt it because it's going to happen And I think we'll sometimes we get kind of tired and we kind of let things slide. But here he says, um I and I think too when we're talking about this rejoicing and I just mentioned about keeping it in our forefront, I think uh bringing this rejoicing and it is a reminder to us This is a reminder to us to always keep the living hope at the forefront of our mind as we go through our daily lives. Why would we do that? Why should we keep that living hope in our minds at our forefront? Because, as my kids would say. Why'd you do that? Because. Now there is a cause. He says, though now for a little while, if need be, you have been grieved by very strouts. And I want to stop here just for a moment. I really appreciated John MacArthur breaking this down. I don't use just John, but I use him a lot. I like his uh John MacArthur says here that there are five important principles that Peter teaches us here about trials. These are good to know. There are five little principles he gives us from just this message. He said the first principle is trials do not last. How do you feel about that? Trials do not last. Now if you have terminal cancer, that's okay, because when you go, where are you going to be? Don't worry about it. But these trials, most of them are temporary. He said for a little while. And he also says, number two, that trials serve a purpose. And we're going to look at that for a second. Trials serve a purpose. And he says, for a little while, if need be. Well, if need be, you have to suffer. That makes the point that there is a purpose for suffering. We're going to look at that in a minute. And he also says that trials bring distress. Don't we get distressed? Don't we have times that we really struggle and stress over trials that we're going through? Yes. And he's making this clear so we understand it and not being thinking that something new is happening to me. I'm the only one going through this And he says trials come in different forms. Because he says they are various trials. So none of our trials are alike. Some are, but most of them are not. Everybody has their own trial And so we know that there are various trials. So we can't look at one person and say, well why are they doing that? And I got this trial. I want that trial. And this you can't do that. There are various trials. God has arranged it this way Trials should not diminish the Christian joy. And I know that it is hard to go through a trial. Especially if you've lost someone or you're struggling and can't get out of it, and so on. But there is a reason to rejoice because we are kept by the power of God to that inheritance that we have where we will not have the corruptible and the defiled and the fading away. That will be gone. So just as a reminder here now, these trials are different for different people. And I want to bring this out. We should be careful. to show love to one another when someone else is going through a trial. We do not want to become judgmental. And you know why? Because it is God who's doing the refining, not us So we should be careful when other people are going through different trials in their life, not to be judgmental toward them, but to love them and come alongside them, because it is God who's refining them And we go to verse 7, and Peter goes on to encourage us by revealing the purpose and reason for the various trials. Peter says, that the genuineness of your faith, which is more precious than gold, that perishes through, I mean dough tested by fire. This is important too. May be found to the praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. What happens in trial testing? Let's look at that for a second. Number one, the testing that we go through, these trials They extract of this world are removed from us, and we are being made more and more into the image of Christ. We are being more and more made fit for heaven. So the trials that we go through most times are taking off things and we need to learn to trust Christ through the trial. And we are learning to have things taken off that uh are of this world. And and not only that, but illnesses sometimes uh can be a little different there. But it extracts the world and it we are removed from us and we are being made fit for heaven. The second thing that we find is trials are for our own benefit. We don't like that. But the trial is for our benefit. And if you want to know how that can be, God's not up there waiting to see if you're going to be faithful in the trial. He already knows you. He already knows the beginning from the end. But he sets it there to help us. And I think it's more to our benefit when a believer comes through a trial, still trusting in Jesus. He is assured that his faith is genuine. We are sure that our faith is genuine because we're still trusting in Jesus, that we're going through the trial. And whatever we're going through, and we go through it, and we trust Jesus, at the end we can say our faith is genuine. Number three, our faith response, uh trial, our faithful response to trials reveals God's power working in us for all the world to see. For the glory of God. When you're going through trials, it is God who's working in us. And when we come in through it and we're trusting God and we're being the good testimony we should be. The world is watching and who receives the glory? It's not because you were a strong person or anything, it's because God is doing the work. You're telling people that it's Christ who's helped you And therefore God receives the glory. Verses 8 and 9 says, Whom not having seen you love. Though now you do not see him, yet believing you rejoice with joy inexpressible, and full of glory, receiving the end of your faith. The salvation of your souls, eternity with God, the Father of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, when I think about this and ending things up I have I rem I'm reminded as we look here at uh this um not knowing the Lord. I have not I'm I'm not seeing the Lord. I've never seen the Lord. I don't think any of us have. Uh yes you got a something I don't know about. But Even though I don't see him, I love him. Do you love Jesus Christ this morning? Do you love him? And he says, not only will you love him, not seeing him, you believe in him. Do I truly believe in Jesus Christ as my Savior and my Lord? It's important here. I think of uh Hebrews. Um I thought I wrote it down. Well I guess I didn't. But in Hebrews it talks about faith and it says that faith is believing Well, pretty much saying that believing is not seeing, but seeing is believing. I know I wrote that down Okay. Pardon me? Eleven one? Yes. Eleven one. I don't know where I put it. Sorry. Okay, well we're gonna move on. But it reminds me of that because I've never seen what it is I have faith in. I haven't seen heaven yet. But I know that it's there. I believe that it's there. And this is the same thing with this hope that we're talking about. So verses one and two, the way I break this down is verses one and two shows our identity as the elect which we are chosen by God the Father personally before the foundation of the world for the obedience as a child. 3 and 5 says we are born anew into a living hope by the abundant mercy of God into a future inheritance that is undefiled. incorruptible and will not fade away, guaranteed and kept by the power of God through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Verses 6 and 7, though facing various trials, if need be in this life, to the testing of genuine faith, to the glory of God, trials refine your faith. And verses 8 and 9, Jesus whom I have not seen. Here it is. I found it. Jesus whom I have not seen. It reminded me of Hebrews 11, 1. I'm sorry about that. Now, faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. My love for Jesus, my desire to believe in him In this I rejoice to the praise of his glorious name. My salvation will be complete one day in him. I hope that you find encouragement along with challenge this morning and particularly remembering and keeping in the forefront of our mind this living hope that we have because of Jesus Christ. And it is kept there by him, not by us. Don't be distracted and discouraged when you come into trials and all. Take them on. They are there to refine your faith and make it genuine. Let's close in prayer. Heavenly Father, I thank you this morning for your word. I thank you, Father, that In all of this, that we see that you are the one and only God, creator and sustainer of all life, and that you would love us And show mercy to us and save our souls. Father, we're thankful that you have chosen to reveal yourself to us. We thank you for the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ our Savior. Our hope is in him. And our hope, Lord, is in this eternal life that you promise us. And I thank you that you reveal to us that there is nothing undefiled. or gonna fade away or anything in heaven, it's going to be pure. And it also we are going to be in your presence. And we won't have to worry anymore about struggling with the trials of life. We will be set free completely there and live in a perfect existence with you. And I pray that we would be encouraged this morning. Help us, Lord, and challenge us. to keep that living hope in our forefront, realizing recognizing that we are kept by your power. And not by our own obedience and our own thoughts and our own things. And thank you, Lord, that you give us trials that help us and teach us and refine our faith. And also, Lord, it helps us. to stay obedient to you. And we desire that in all things that you would be glorified and lifted up. And we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.