I think what we'll do first is just go ahead and read through the first nine verses here, and then we will pick up where we left off this morning. Second Peter chapter two, beginning in verse one But there were also false prophets among the people, even as there will be false teachers among you, who will secretly drink bring in destructive heresies, even denying the Lord who bought them. and bring on themselves swift destruction. And many will follow their destructive ways, because of whom the way of truth will be blasphemed. By covetousness they will exploit you with deceptive words. For a long time their judgment has not been idle, and their destruction does not slumber you. For if God did not spare the angels who sinned, but cast them down to hell and delivered them into the chains of darkness, to be reserved for judgment, and did not spare the ancient world, but saved Noah, one of eight people, a preacher of righteousness, bringing in the flood on the world of the ungodly And turned the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes, condemned them to destruction, making them an example to those who afterward would live ungodly. And delivered righteous lot who was oppressed by the filthy conduct of the wicked. For that righteous man dwelling among them tormented his righteous soul from day to day by seeing and hearing their lawless deeds. Then the Lord knows how to deliver the godly out of temptation and reserve the unjust under punishment. So we pick up here in uh this passage and we look at verses one through three this morning and we identify the tactics of the false teacher. There are five different tactics. And now we pick up in verses four through eight is the next section, and we're going to see that uh some of the Old Testament um examples of both preservation of the righteous and destruction of the wicked, destruction of those who would be in the same category as false teachers in the New Testament. Let me just kind of get our bearings on this by way of practic you know a practical understanding of and remind us of what was going on as we talked about it this morning. This morning we discussed the fact that these false teachers were very likely prosperous. um and doing what the people wanted to be able to do and they were giving the the you know professing Christians and true Christians likely. Can I say it this way, excuses for licentious living, a license to send. And they were, it was very compelling for a lot of reasons that we talked about this morning, but one of the things was it just looked like they were successful. It very much looked like they had that they were not being judged for their behavior. In fact, it was just the opposite. They were really being uh blessed, quote unquote, in their behavior behavior. And it's very tempting, even in our day and age, to gauge whether or not someone is right or wrong by by their by how you know well they're doing. by their temporal success. And you can judge preachers and ministries that way as well, the amount of numbers that they have, bodies, buildings, or bucks, or a combination of the three. How many how is this m this this pastor must be doing really well because he has 40,000 people in his church? Or this pastor must be really doing this church must be really doing well because he has tons of plenty of money. God really must be blessing this church because they have uh they have the bodies, the buildings, and the bucks, all those different things. Or a combination of those. And it is very compelling when you look on that plane at what is going on and you begin to say, okay, well God's blessing those ministries and God isn't blessing other ministries. When God's measurement of success is entirely different. You can have a faithful church that that is faithful to the Word of God, faithful to living out the Christian life and growing in Christ and living out the gospel and uh in the world and and and and faithfulness to the truth of Scripture and the fidelity of s of of truth to Scripture, all of that, and and that is what God suc considers to be successful. That's on his plane. That's what he considers to be successful. Now what Peter is going to do here is he's going to, as we noted this morning, he is now going to really remind remind these Christians that he is speaking to as he wants to stir them up. He is now going to remind them of the destiny of these false teachers. That their ultimate destiny is going to be judgment. And what he's going to do is a same, he's going to use the same kind of argument that he used in the past to show the validity of Scripture and the reliability of Scripture. You remember last week we saw that he showed the reliability of Scripture by showing that you have Old Testament prophecy that was fulfilled by Christ, that they witnessed the fulfillment of it. And now he says you can expect the coming of Christ in the future as a fulfillment of prophecy because of the fulfillment that we've already experienced of previous prophecy. And now what he's going to do is he's going to say, would you look at three different judgments in the Old Testament? And he's going to highlight three different times where God judged people. And he's going to say, by that criteria and by what happened there, you can guarantee that these false teachers will also end in destruction. Yes, they're living successful lives now. Yes, they're doing what they want right now, and it's everything seems to be fine right now, but understand that ultimately they are going to end in destruction. And we have then These three different illustrations of this, or really examples is a better word. These examples of this in the Old Testament. So in 2 Peter chapter 2, verse 4, he says, if God that we have the first one here, if God did not spare the angel Angels who sinned, but cast them down to hell, and delivered them into the chains of darkness to be res reserved for judgment, and did not spare the ancient world in Noah's day. here are reserved for final judgment just like these false, these fallen angels were. And this is a reference to Genesis chapter 6. If you'd like to, can you take your Bibles and turn there? We're going to take take a minute and look at this. Keep your finger in first and 2 Peter. We'll be back. But if you would, take your Bibles and turn to Genesis chapter 6. This is one of considered one to be one of the most difficult passages to interpret in all of all of the Bible, but I really don't think it's quite as hard as people say that it is, although I will have to admit to you that I punted on this one in my ordination council. You know, uh my ordination council was a lot of years ago now and they asked me about this verse and I saw all the different views and then I had all the different uh and I knew all the objects different objections to the views and I said to them, I am very, very confident on one thing. I have no idea And they all laughed. They said, You sure about that? I said, Yeah, I'm absolutely sure. And they moved on, which worked well and for for me. Uh it's not a it's not a passage that you have to know, uh uh understand, it's not a a a passage that's contingent upon the gospel, and they understood that there even among them there would be different views. But frankly, the more I studied scripture, the more I studied Genesis chapter 6, particularly The truth of the matter is, and and and what Peter says about it, both in 1 Peter and in 2 Peter, it seems to be very clear who these people are. So let's pick up here in chapter 6 verse one it says, Now it came to pass when men began to multiply on the face of the earth and daughters were born to them, that the sons of God, that's the term Saw the daughters of men that were that they were beautiful, and they took wives for themselves of all whom they chose. And the Lord said, My spirit shall not strive with man forever For he is indeed fle the he is indeed flesh, yet his days shall be one hundred and twenty years. There were giants on the earth in those days, and also afterward when the sons of God came into the daughters of men And they were born children to them. Those who were might were the mighty men who were of old men of renown. And Peter seems to be very clear on who these people are. He says they're angels. Um uh it it it it's pretty obvious in his mind who these people are, uh or who these these care these sons of God are. And of course in the Old Testament you have references to the sons of God as angels. And in this case, you have fallen angels here. And one of the objections that you'll often get about this passage that we've talked about before when we were in 1 Peter, and I'll just mention it, is, well, it says in the New Testament that Christ said they couldn't, they're not given to uh that angels that it says angels in heaven aren't given to marriage and that's true. And the question that was asked of him is who you know if you if you marry somebody and they and they die And then you marry somebody else, who's your who's your spouse in heaven? And he says, angels are not given to m given to um given to marriage in heaven, and neither will you be given to marriage in heaven. In other words, there's not marriage there's not marriage of that kind in heaven. Um So we should not assume, just like just like we can't assume, and of course should not assume, and they assume wrongly, that we are going to be married in heaven because we won't be. Neither should then we also assume that angels can't be married on earth, logically. So this is on earth, and so for them to intermarry and even have sexual relations apparently is possible. And of course, if you if you look at some of the descriptions of the Old Testament uh of angels in the Old Testament, they they look like men. Um not women, by the way. Uh you never see that description in Scripture. Angels come out and they're never dressed they're not but actually uh you never see that in scripture. It's almost always d depicted as a man, if not always. Or or just kind of gender. Neutral. But in this case, it very much looks like that's what's going on. And the bottom line of this is that there was a gross sexual sin going on here. And he says here very clearly that these people are going to be, that these angels rather are going to be judged. And he says here, notice what he says about them. He says verse four for if God did not spare the angels who sinned, but cast them down to hell and delivered them into the chains of darkness. to be reserved for judgment. Now the word hell there is not uh your typical word for uh for hell. It could be It very might likely is just talking about a a holding place that's reserved for judgment. Of course, that's exactly what's happening according to the book of Revelation. And so what is the point of this? If the point is that the just as guaranteed, Peter uses an extreme example. Very likely in Peter's mind the worst time in all of human history, and and then biblically, the worst time in all of human history was during Genesis chapter 6, where the Bible says that the heart of man was only evil continually. And he's basically drawing this connection, he's saying Just as these people, just as or angels rather, these are angels, are reserved for judgment. Understand that even though that even though these guy these false teachers look like they're doing great and look like they're everything's fine, they're reserved for judgment too. Mark it down. God has already reserved them for judgment, Peter is saying. He's showing them this reality that they are truly reserved for judgment. You don't have to worry about putting those up until the very end. We'll do that All right. That's the illustration that he gives first. Then he moves very quickly to the next example. And the next example we find in uh where the ancient world in Noah's day are also uh are also going to be punished. Look at what it says in the text here. And did not spare the ancient world, but saved Noah of the eight people, a preacher of righteousness. Bring in the flood on the world of the ungodly. Okay, so verse 5 tells us now, same time period, Genesis chapter 6. Now you have another example. Well, what is this example? The example here is the universal judgment of the world, and actually there's only eight people saved. Okay, and and and Noah is one of them and his family. They are they are saved, they are preserved. Well the there is a clear judgment. What is Noah's point or uh sorry, what is Peter's point? Peter's point is that look, God's judged in the past. Don't don't think that God will not judge. Don't think the judgment is not coming. And just like these people apparently were preached righteousness to, this is actually the passage we know that Noah preached righteousness to them. That's not found in Genesis. It's found here. Noah preached righteousness to them, but they rejected that righteousness. They rejected that truth. And so very likely they mocked him. Very likely they turned away from the truth. And no question, what happened eventually? The coming of the judgment occurred. There's this parallel here. They denied that the coming of the judgment, the coming of the flood was going to come, just like these false teachers denied the coming of Christ. And now Noah is making some parallels here. There's a couple of parallels. One is there's a judgment of many versus a preservation of a few. Very likely what was going on there as well during the first century is that in their mind there was a lot of people that were falling into apostasy. So much so that they very much likely were tempted to say, you know, are we we're in the minority here? Well, the truth of the matter is Christians are always in the minority That's why Christ said that narrow is the way that leads to life and few that find it. Even the people, even Even in our nation, those who like in all the all the statistics you have, you know, you'll hear see here to statistics that they're you know, fifty fifty percent of the of the nation says they're Christians. They're not real Christians. 50% of this nation are not true born-again Christians. They may profess to be Christians, but many of them are believing a false gospel. And so Christians are in the It's a narrow way. And so God is reminding them, Peter is reminding these people, hey, you've got judgments coming for the majority of people. It happened before, it's going to happen again You all need to make sure that you are going to be on the right side of this, preserved by God. So you have the the that parallel going on. So it says again, and did not spare the ancient world, but saved Noah, one of eight people, and a preacher of righteousness, bringing the flood on the world of the ungodly. And obviously the determining factor there in the past was repentance. If they would have repented, then they certainly would have been able to be saved, but of course they did not repent. Look at look at if you're in Genesis chapter six, uh go ahead and look at that again, verse nine. It says this is the genealogy of Noah. Noah was a just man. Perfect does not mean flawless. Perfect means that he was He was complete, he was mature, perfect in his generation. Noah walked with God. And Noah begot three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. The earth was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence. So God looked upon the earth, and indeed it was corrupt, for all the flesh had corrupted their way on the earth. And so God judged the earth with a flood. The next example, the final example here is in verses 6 through 8, and this is a more lengthy A lengthy uh example. We pick up at verse 6 and we have this example of the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah. Take your Bibles and turn to Genesis chapter 19. Let's read that passage together. Genesis 19. And we'll pick up in verse 23. Genesis chapter 19. Of course, you know the story where you've got the angel of the Lord along with two other angels. And y and very likely that was Christ there. They came to Abraham. You have the whole story about he's they said they were gonna they prophesied that they're gonna destroy Sodom and Gomorrah and Abraham. Abraham said, well, if you could find, you know, righteous men ten, you know, a larger number and then finally ten righteous men, and they made that uh agreement with him, but they couldn't find ten righteous men uh in the city. And so they're going to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah. Verse 23 of Genesis 19, we'll pick up there. It says, and the sun had risen upon the earth. When Lod entered Zoar, then the Lord rained brimstone and fire on Sodom and Gomorrah from the uh from the Lord out of the heavens. So brimstone and fire came down on on this on So he overthrew these cities, those cities, all the plain, all the inhabitants of the cities, and what grew on the ground. But his wife looked back behind, And she became a pillar of salt, and Abraham went early in the morning in the place where he had stood before the Lord. Then he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah and toward all the land of the plain And he saw and behold the smoke of the land which went up like the smoke of the furnace. And it came to pass when God destroyed the cities of the plain. that God remembered Abraham and sent Lot out of the midst of the uh of the overthrow when he overthrew the cities in which Lot had dwelt. So what happened there? Well these were destroyed, but again we see these cities were destroyed. But again, God preserves the righteous man Lot. So again we find this this preservation and destruction. Now, notice what what he says about this, what um what's what Peter says about this. It says uh Turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes, condemning them to destruction, making an example of those who afterward would live ungodly. Alright, let's pause there. During it's interesting that according to extra-biblical literature, during the time where Peter wrote this, they actually apparently Wissam and Gomorrah still were able to see some of the remains of that judgment. For example, In one particular writing, a man by the name of Philo wrote that the cities were turned to ashes. And then actually Josephus said this, evidence of their wickedness still remains, the wickedness of of of uh Sama Gomorrah, a continually smoking wasteland plant bearing fruit that does not ripen. Apparently they that the ash was so bad there that they still could not plant things that where fruit would ripen uh correctly. In fact, vestiges of the Josephus said this. In fact, vestiges of the divine fire and faint traces of five cities are still visible. Still too uh may one see ashes produced in the fruits, which from their out outward appearance would be thought edible, but on but on uh being plucked with a hand dissolved into smoke and ashes So far are the legends about the land of Sodom borne out by ocular evidence. So we don't know this for sure. This is not biblical truth. But from there there seemed to be still, after many, many years, there seemed to be, at the time of Peter's writing, still this well-known understanding that Son and Gomorrah still couldn't grow certain things because of the destruction of that of that land, the ash and all of that that that occurred there. Now whether or not that's you know The point was it was a present, it was a present reality for these people. They knew immediately when Peter said, think of Salam and Gomorrah. Think of the judgment. Not only could they think of the Old Testament account of this, but they could also think of the of the reality that they still couldn't plant things right there, very likely it And it would have been a very real reality of God's judgment that was there. Then notice what it says in the passage It actually says this, that that he says something else, that really we're going to sort of put all of this together to see what we can learn from all this, but he says that that God delivered the lot. Okay, this was intended to be, God's God, first of all, is intended to be an example of destruction, of judgment, for people who would choose to live ungodly. They could look back at this and see, hey, there is judgment Just it happened before, it can happen again. That's Psalm and Gomorrah. And throughout Scripture, by the way, do you not see that all over the place? Christ mentions it as well, Sarm and Gomorrah as a city of judgment. Then he says this verse 7 and delivered righteous Lot. Now you might pause and say, Lot was righteous? When you read that, if do you remember Lot? I mean he wanted to go to Sodom and Gomorrah because It seemed as though because of the great material wealth that was there. Was Lot really righteous? But apparently, but according to this passage, he was, at least in contrast, to the rest of the s to the other to the cities, to the other people in the cities, so much so that notice what it says. Now we don't get this from we don't really get this from uh from Genesis, but we see this clearly from Peter. He says, who was oppressed by the filthy conduct of the wicked. For the righteous man dwelling among them tormented his righteous soul from day to day by seeing and hearing their lawless deeds. Lot apparently by observing their lawlessness. That's that antinomianism that we talked about this morning. Lawlessness. By no by by by observing their lawless deeds. He was oppressed in his soul. He was tormented in his soul, Scripture says. Why do you think Peter wrote that for this reason? That is the case. When we see when we see evil in the world, when we see um Sin and lawlessness, isn't it true that there's a sense in which it hurts our soul? It's really hard to watch. It's really hard. It's like it's oppressive. There is a reason why you, you know, it sometimes you can only watch so much news. You can only watch so much, be aware of so much sin that's occurring, because it's it torments the soul. And law a righteous person, a righteous not in a sense of uh not in the sense where of totally perfect. None of us are that But those who love righteousness, those who love the Lord and want to follow after the will of God and want others to follow after the will of God, those who love righteousness when you you see evil and corruption and sin in the world, it is something that is tormenting. And I think that Peter is saying this to sort of signal to people that that don't give in to the very thing that's causing that's causing you to feel oppressed, that's causing you to feel tormented in your soul. And let me just ask this question. Do we feel tormented in our soul over evil? Would we look at evil? Would we watch evil? When we see it, when we see it taking place, or are we so numb to it? That it doesn't even bother us. I'm not talking about a judgmental spirit or self-righteousness. I'm not saying that at all. But when a Christian uh really loves the Lord and really wants uh uh uh to to follow after the Lord, these things torment the soul And he's pointing this out. And if if you feel that way, as a Christian watching our world, understand that ultimately there's going to be preservation for you. And before we get into that preservation that God says he's going to have for his children and for those uh for for those who he calls to as his Let's first look at the look at five lessons, just in summary. I want you to see there are five lessons here from God's past judgments. That we can then look ahead and say, okay, these are true of future judgments and how we ought to think about all this. Number one, God reserves false teachers for the day of judgment. It's like God says, okay, living sinfully is wrong. Living in false doctrine is wrong. But if you are teaching others to do that, if you are trying to convince others to do it, you are really you're you're mounding up for yourself judgment in a day in a in a in a day of reckoning. He's reserving false teachers for that day of judgment. Number two, salvation is for a minority, and judgment is for a majority. It's for minority. a particular way. It must be right. No, the the way of salvation is narrow. Salvation is for the minority and judgment is for the majority. You see that's and in these judgments, you see that. Number three, failure to take God's judgment seriously results in self-deception and guaranteed judgment. If we failure to take God's judgment seriously, it results in self-deception. That's what you see when you have the whole entire The entire known world at the time of Noah, who is rejecting the truth that Noah is preaching to them, they are they are saying judgment's never going to come, the flood's never going to come, and they're self-deceiving. Number four, examples of judgment in history should remind us that future judgment is coming. We should look back, forever wondering about the coming of Christ. If we're ever wondering about whether there will be actually a day where we will stand accountable for what we've done. And by that by by the way, I'll just mention this. For the true Christian, it's not a time of condemnation at all. I want to be clear about that. For the genuine Christian, that time of reckoning will not be a time of condemnation. It will be a time of assessment where Jesus looks at our lives to see if we were good stewards with the grace that he gave to us. Were we good stewards? Is it possible that we could get to heaven, or that we could get before the judgment seat of Christ and not hear, well done thou good and faithful servant? Yes, it's possible. And is it possible that we could live our lives in fruitlessness? Yes, it's possible. Is it possible that we could live our lives w and and not really be useful for the Yes, it is very, very much possible. And that's what Peter's trying to prevent, as you'll recall from a couple of weeks ago. But the jud the condemning condemning judgment, that's a different judgment. That's the great white throne judgment in the future. It's a different judgment. But it's all going to occur at the second coming of Christ. That's the signaling of this judgment. Now, uh if you look then at what it says here, we have now, oh, uh the is that number f uh number five. Uh if as false number five, the f final one as false teaching prevails, God's people will feel oppressed and tormented. in their souls. The more there's false teaching in the world, the more there is a false philosophy, wrong thinking, of course, then wrong behavior and sinful behavior. God's people are going to feel oppressed and tormented by the world. Now, that is why it's so important for us to assemble together to find some relief. From that in the body of Christ, and why we need to be absorbing the Word of God and why we need to be find peace in who in in our relationship with the Lord. All those things become so essential and important As we look at the world and we have this false teaching in the world and we feel oppressed and tormented, understand that the relief from that are the things that God has given us by His grace. And we need to be aware of those things. But understand that this is a reality in the life of the Christian. And it's but here's the thing. How do you get through that? You look ahead and you see that there is one day. Where Christ is coming. That's the hope of the believer, where we will no longer feel that oppression and feel that torment. So he says in verse 9 here of this passage, and the Lord knows, notice the notice this light in the midst of this passage, or this hope in the midst of this. The Lord knows how to deliver the godly out of temptation and to reserve the unjust under punishment for the day of judgment. God knows how to do both. Are you aren't you glad that God knows how to preserve you under the day of judgment uh uh the uh preserve you from temptation and to preserve you uh uh uh a as as one who is who is And godly, by the way, does not mean perfect. Godly means basically someone who desires to do the will of God. And frankly, every Christian, God has given within them a spirit that desires to do the will of God. Now it doesn't mean we don't have our flesh that desires to go our own way. But every true Christian does have that desire. And there is this promise that's given to us, this guarantee that's given to us, that we will be preserved. For the day for the coming of Christ, preserved out of temptation. And so there's this promise for us. But on the other hand, those who are under the punishment, or those who are unjust Those who are unrighteous, those who are false teachers in the context here, are under the punishment for the day of judgment. And we need to understand that that is happening. This temptation, what is the t this temptation talking about? Well, in the context, this is talking about apostasy. The word temptation is used in various ways throughout the New Testament. I could take the But it's in this case it's talking about God knows how to preserve the true believer from from sustained apostasy. So the risk is not that we leave the faith entirely and never come back to it. God knows how to preserve the true believer from that. But the risk for us as Christians is what we talked about two weeks ago, the unfruitfulness, the uselessness that can happen in the life of the believer. And and um and we will we will end there. And so let's with these three points, just kind of wrapping everything up, let's say number one, let's point out in our concluding applications. Number one, do you have discernment to readily identify false teachers? That's really a question that you need to have. And I would encourage you, I think miss many of you did write these five things, these five tactics down from this morning. If not, you can just run your run, you know, you know, read through these in the first three verses of this chapter, and they really do show the kind of tactics that false teachers use. This should build for us in our mind a measure of discernment when it comes to false teaching and false teachers. And we we need to be able to readily discern those things, to identify a false teacher when we see him or her. And I will say this to sort of extra, but I've noticed uh in one particular s thing that I've been I've been a podcast that I've been uh listening to um that what was interesting and it was Mars Hill. How many of you uh uh have listen to that podcast at all? Okay. It's I it I will tell you be careful how how much diet you have of it. It's it's it's gut wrenching and very uh har it's hard to listen to Um some people find it entertaining. I do not find it entertaining. I find it uh I find it uh it's definitely uh Um it draws you in for sure, but it's definitely something that's hard to but but all all that to say that that the the the uh the the man that was in charge of all of that Before there was ever clear false doctrine, false teachings that were that were being promoted, there was all of this. I mean every one of these tactics essentially. were used before false teaching was ever really detected. And that's something that is really quite telling. So so so you can have someone whose just motives are so wrong, they're so self-serving, they want gain, they want popularity, they want power, they want all these different things And maybe they're towing the line on their doctrine so that you can't really detect anything that's really off. But their motivations are entirely wrong in why they're doing what they're doing. Eventually it comes it comes through quite obviously, and it did, uh, in the case of Mars Hill up in Seattle and that that megachurch. up there. We need to be dis have discernment. Discernment to readily identify the false teacher. Number two, are you drawn in by earthly values rather than eternal values? Be drawn in by earthly values rather than eternal values. If you're drawn in by earthly values rather than eternal values, that is you are very susceptible to false teaching. Does that make sense? The more we value earthly rather than eternal The more we value earthly success and earthly wealth and earthly power, the more we value those kinds of things the more we are susceptible to false teaching, to false doctrine, and susceptible to being pulled in by false teachers. What are we valuing? And then number three, what is your view of success? Is it temporal or eternal? May our view of success be eternal, not temporal. Clearly the apostles in the first century, now they had many people coming to Christ, there were churches that were being There were being dis there was disciple people being discipled. All of that was happening in the first century. We read through the book of Acts and we look and we see, well, the apostles were having great success, but it would not have felt that way in the first century. century. These people were under persecution. They were being they were under all kinds of I mean nobody liked them, frankly. They were being ridiculed by uh their own family members and the the Jewish people were synagoguing them. There was this term that was used back then they were they were excommunicated from synagogues. There was all kinds of things going on that would not they wouldn't nobody from that time period would have thought, okay, these are really going to be like world changers. And yet what what happened to the apostles? What what what happened? Well they were finally martyred, but what happened as a refru as a fruit? You have the church that's built by Christ through these men. And and so and so what what is so um you know what doesn't look successful in the short term God may very well be preparing to be successful in his eyes in the long term But remember, success is something that's that we want we want God to be, we want his view of success, not our view of success. And really, what is God's, what is the eternal view of success? Let me make this really practical for our church and our individuals. What is God's view of success for us? And it's one word. It's faithfulness. I've given a lot of thought to this, you know, and just thinking about this and uh what is God's view of you know in in God's eyes, what is fa what is what is success? It's faithfulness Are we faithful to the Word of God? Are we faithful to following the truth of the Word of God? Are we faithful to following the responsibilities that we have as Christians? That's what and if we're doing all the things that God wants us to do, loving Him and loving others and loving our neighbor as ourselves, and loving each other, one another, if we're doing what the Bible t says that we ought to be doing, then we will see, we will hear one day, well done, thou good and faithful servant. That is the right view of success. It's faithfulness. It's not temporal success in the way that we would think What is your view of success? This how you answer these questions will determine whether how susceptible you are to false teaching And may we truly be uh may we truly have the the right heart that puts us in the right position to follow the truth of the Word of God. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we thank you for your word and your truth this evening. And we thank you for how you show us very clearly that the destiny of the false teacher is going to be destruction. We thank you, Lord, also that the that you guarantee preservation for your saints And although Noah was not perfect, we see that clearly after the flood, and Lot certainly was not perfect, they were people who walked with you. who desired to follow after you and you preserved them. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us to look to your preservation in our lives. And be thankful for that. But Lord, may we, in the midst of all of this, want to serve you so well that we are useful for your kingdom and good stewards of what you've given to us. And that we would be faithful to you as good stewards, so that we can hear one day, well done, thou good and faithful servant. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. To have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.