And coming to earth and living a perfect life and dying to pay the punishment for our sin, but really doing that so that we can ha have a relationship with you. We pray that all that we do and say would honor you. Amen. We're experiencing that, or we we know that. Would you turn over to Ephesians chapter 3? And you're going to see another word introduced there. What is abody in Christ? And take some time to look at that sometime. Okay. We won't take the time to look at look at this, but if you want to do further study on what this is, Ezekiel chapter 15, verses 1 through 6 1 through the chapter there And my relationship with him and a security and assurance is their joy. and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. His flavor, how shall be seasoned, it is good for nothing, but to be thrown out and trampled under foot of men. Yes, they shall sing of the ways of the Lord, for great is the glory of the Lord, though the Lord is on high, yet he regards the lowly, but the proud he knows from afar Many of them I think are, I'm sure, are discouraged because having to quarantine for a long time and all of that kind of thing. brings your word and I ask God that uh our hearts and our minds would be open to what God has laid upon his heart. uh goodness to us even when we are not feeling well and Lord we're not uh immune to anything. Say, okay, well, you know, I'm spiritually dry. This is in the upper room discourse. Verse 8 it says this my by this my father is glorified that you bear much fruit, so you will be my disciples. in the life of the disciples over the last three and a half years. And he's going to begin in verses 1 through 3. Now, when the disciples heard this, we need to understand why is this so important for us to understand this, the de these different roles. That God caused, created Israel to be a vine, a source, a source of life for the world, a light to the Gentiles, if you will. In Psalm 80, verse 7, it says, Restore us, O God of hosts, cause your face to shine, and we shall be saved. and the and be connected to God through the nation of Israel. But now Jesus says, Jesus says, I'm the vine. They are distinct and yet they are all God and only one God. What is the father's role? And there's a sense in which we need to trust our wise, loving Heavenly Father who knows how to prune us in such a way that we really become It's amazing to me that you could take like a crepe myrtle and prune it back extremely hard and it'll come back the the yet next year even full fuller. And there are other things like that as well. And I should say at this point that we are going to be referring a lot to a lot of different passages today. w fruit bearers. Now, there are other places in Scripture that mention fruit, and I'm just going to list them for you. Worship is fruit in Hebrews 13, verse 15. They're spiritual results. You ever read through the fruit of the Spirit and go, man, I got a lot to do. I want us to look then at what our role is. What he's saying here is that you are my disciples because you have been cleansed by the word. And it cleanses us. And those two things together working in our lives causes us to stay connected to Jesus even though physically he's not here And this is what he's telling the disciples. Okay, so we understand our role, Christ's role, all that, how that's supposed to work, what Christ has done, made provision for us to be able to stay connected to Him. I've gone over this before. How are we filled with the fullness of God when we're filled with the fullness of Christ? who's under the influence of the Spirit of God, who is truly abiding in Christ, they have a heart of worship. of of the opposite of this is when we uh and we when you know and life will teach us this by the way. Set your affection, your mind is actually what it's talking about there. That which we have seen and heard, we declare to you, that you may have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the Father and with the Son, Jesus Christ. You will also abide in the Son of the Father. But the anointing which you have received from him abides in you, and you do not need to have anyone teach you, but as the same anointing teaches you concerning all things, and is true and is not a lie There's a lot more I could say about that, but for sake of time, we will move on in understanding what abiding in Christ is Now, if you'll look back at the passage, you're going to see then a very, very, chapter, John 15, you're going to see a very, very important truth about what abiding in Christ is. It's it's sort of, okay, there's some people that profess Christ but they don't really know Christ, and they're really not safe. That big oak tree out there, you're gonna see a lot of dead as leaves, well, during the during the summertime, you're gonna see certain branches that don't have leaves. There is a real possibility that we will actually come to the end of our life and it will, it's gonna, there's no fruit, and we're useless. Well actually, you'll it'll flesh out this whole idea of uselessness. All right. That's she especially anything around the house, you know, and I'm still really bad at that, you can ask her. There are some people that say this prayer thing doesn't work. Certain things would be clean like if something's left on the floor, there's a I know what my wife is looking for some. There is this ongoing relationship occurs. And now there's an ongoing relationship that occurs as a result of that. That would those things will will are do you have are you trying to be are you are you disobedient to the Lord in some way? that today this would be a help to all of us. that had to occur in order for that to happen. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. Before the gods I will sing praises to you. In a day when I cried out, you answered me and made me bold with strength in my soul. uh as a church family. You would really meet the needs that they have and strengthen them, give them peace, and we pray all these things in Christ's name. And uh Lord, we just ask that uh you would help us to set aside all the cares and thoughts of this week, that we could concentrate fully upon your word this morning. And Lord, we thank you for your word. And sometimes that's what happens in our lives as Christians. And that's really what John 15 is teaching us about. I'm sure many of you have experienced vacuuming before, and you vacuumed and you're going in from room to room, and then suddenly you get to a certain point and you know that cord is stretched pretty far behind you And in the middle of all of this, in John 13, John 14, John 15, John 16, in the middle of it, John 15 stands as this command. by measuring our circumstances. The branch. Something's wrong with that. He is the source. You have cast out the nations and planted it. And the branch that you have made strong for yourself, it is burned in it with fire, and it is cut down, they perish at the rebuke of your countenance Let your hand be upon the man of your right hand, upon the Son of Man whom you uh made strong for yourself. So in the Old Testament, you have God creating Israel as a nation in order that all the world may be able to experience the presence of God. The Father's role in our lives is to work with us in such a way that we bear fruit and much more fruit and much fruit. Now, when we think as a Christian about fruit, we often think we're talking about leading souls to Christ and and somebody comes to Christ and they're the fruit of our of our witnessing. In fact, would you look with me at chapter 13 for just a minute in John? in this passage that he mentions in different ways. Giving is fruit in Romans 15, 28. It's not what we're supposed to. The point is not to go through and try to emulate one each day or something like that. Well, in John chapter 13, verse 10, he actually is talking to the disciples just a couple of chapters back, and he says this, he who has bathed needs only to wash his feet. but is completely clean, and you are clean, but not all of you. It says here, water is a cleansing. Keep a finger in John 15 and turn over to John chapter 3 for a minute. Then will I sprinkle clean water upon you, and ye shall be clean. And cause your cause you to walk in my statutes, and you shall keep my judgments and do them. You have to be cleansed by the water and the Spirit. experienced that relationship that brought that par that experience, the love that Jesus had for them and the reciprocal love that they certainly showed him. But Jesus had a way as the incarnate word to be able to stay connected to us. That we've been cleansed from our own sin. in the New Testament to several other places, other concepts that really are all are another side of the same coin In this case, it's a spiritual coin. Now, it says we're now going to get to this concept of abide. Look at what it says here in Ephesians chapter 5. We have a role to play in this passive command, so it is a command for us to be filled. If I am filled with the Spirit, how do I know these things? Verse 20, giving thanks always for all things to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, they give thanks. influence of the Spirit of God. in scripture, but there's a corporate idea where we're speaking one another in Psalms and Hymns and spiritual songs. uh sort of my way or the highway or we get I know better than everybody else. You're walking in the Spirit. What does it look like to have fellowship with God? as I abide in Christ. Let that abide in you which you heard from the beginning. And just as he has taught you, you will abide in him. Now little children, abide in him that when he appears he may have we may have confidence and not be ashamed. Bears much fruit. In that passage, it tells us that there's this uselessness that can occur if we're not growing in Christ. for the previous verse, chapter verse 5, which says, without me you can do nothing. Or assert that the way that you are filled with the Spirit of God is by having some sort of euphoric experience. Now some things, you know, there's I mean the other side of it is that nobody can read anybody else's mind, so that's a problem sometimes. Sometimes you know what they want or you know what they wouldn't want what wouldn't want. Seems like this is this might be something that you want. Number four, and it needs to go in this order, it says this, verse 10, if you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. We obey Christ. bearing fruit, having joy in our lives as Christians. I pray that you'd help us with this, such a vitally important truth truth, and we pray these things in Christ's name. To have the best experience you can possibly have. It is called the Exchange. Though I walk in the midst of trouble, you will revive me. Your mercy, O Lord, endures forever. You have said in your word there that you have set your word above your very name. And we are going to be learning today about connecting and abiding in the vine. to have an ongoing, intimate relationship with you. on our behalf. Each one of us and we pray for continued healing and bring these folks back to good health. he takes away, and every branch that bears fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. I am the vine, you are the branches. If anyone does not abide in me, he is cast out as a branch, and is withered, and they gather them and throw them into the fire, and they are burnt If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, you will ask what you desire, and it shall be done for you. And by this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit, so you will be my disciples. For those of you who have actually quartered vacuums, I know there's like cordless everything now, but anyway, back in the day when they had quartered vacuums. For if I don't go away, the comforter, the Spirit of God, will not come unto you. He says, you uh my desire for you disciples, and that's who he's talking to, and by the way, we are disciples, they're followers of Christ. He says, I want you to bear much fruit. And very likely they have experienced for the last three and a half years joy. Day in and day out being fed by him, spiritually and even physically, getting their very life from him And he has seen the joy that they have had and the joy that they have experienced from that. His joy fulfilled in us by the connection that we can have in Jesus. I am the true vine. I'm the one that is the source of life. No longer is Israel the vine. we see here is that that the Father is the gardener. by the by his own wisdom to be able to prune where we're where we're needed, to uh he organizes the garden, he plants it out, all that kind of thing. And we see that God's goal for us is that as brought branches, it says, Every branch in me that does not bear fruit, he takes away, and every branch that bears fruit, he prunes it, that it may bring bring forth fruit And although that probably is that would be included, that is not all that it's talking about. that you also love one another. It's love. It doesn't say that anywhere. It says that if we bear fruit that we'll have joy. It's a singular command. spiritually natural results of abiding in Christ. And the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. Jesus is saying to the disciples, you're already cleaned by the word. Okay, well how how have they been declared clean? And I really am hoping and praying that all of the connections we're making is really going to equip us and remind us of how to be to stay connected to Christ. It says this here, chapter 3, verse 10, or chapter 30 3, verse 5. Where they would be cleansed, cleansed, and it would work in conjunction with the Spirit of God. of our sin, we need both the word and the spirit. And the work of the Spirit. But I want to make some more connections for you on what this word means. Even though it's incomprehensible, when we know it, we are filled with all of the fullness of God. And to a perfect man, to the measure of the stature. Drawing an analogy here. The doer of the action in that command is the Spirit. You can do this some with the other fruit, but sometimes it's really hard to look at the other fruit of the Spirit And to evaluate it correctly in our own lives. And yeah I have joy except when I'm not I don't have joy and I you you go through those I yeah I'm patient except when I'm not. And notice the results here. singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. Abiding in Christ, you might use the see that term. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall you also appear with him in glory. And then what does abiding mean? comfort and assurance and know the love of God in the midst of all of that. In light of Christ. And a dependence on the truth and assurance in our heart that occurs as we abide in Christ. Jesus really wants to get this across, this idea of dependency across. And they gather them and throw them into the fire and they are burned. He has something else in mind. Some people say that what this is saying is, and this is possible, but I don't think it's likely actually. This is an illustration, right? is not that somehow we're going to lose our salvation, but folks, there is a real possibility that if we don't fellowship with Christ, if we don't abide in the vine Because they lost their relationship. By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit, so you will be my disciples. When we know the incomprehensible love of God. All right, let's let's lay this out for us. Continuing to allow the Word of God to affect our hearts. As the Father loved me and also loved I've loved you, abide in my love. We will pray specifically in his will so that we will because we have his desires. We get to know God through his word. And and like I've been married a while now and now I think to myself, uh, she she would not want me to do that. There have been times where I've been running and and something will hop upon my Lord. And it's sort of a connection between an imperceptible spiritual relationship and the objective truth of God's Word, and you begin to experience this, you begin to see answered prayer in our lives. We know Christ's incomprehensible love. transparently. I mean, is the problem that you are trying to do without a relationship? I need to really know the love of God. Can you identify why this has happened? uh do have COVID. Lord, that you would be blessing them and protecting them this morning. Abide in me and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me And if you're like me, there are times where you just need to go back to what how Jesus said to get connected. even though I am physically going to depart from you. of what our role is in this, and that is to abide in Christ. And the second reason, the second purpose is actually in chapter 15, verse 11. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit he takes away, and every branch that bears fruit he prunes it that it may bear more fruit. Um what's wrong with this picture? You ever uh those of you who um of course uh I have you know people here that know more me uh than me about plants, but some plants you have to prune back really hard. which I have spoken to you. A new heart also I will give you, a new spirit I will put within you, I will take away the stony heart of your flesh, and I will give within you a heart of flesh, I will put my spirit within you Jesus. It says this, abide in me and I in you, as a branch, I'm sorry, four through five, abide in me and I in you as a branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it abide in the in the vine, neither can you unless you abide in me Chapter 4, verse 13, it says this. you're under the filling of the Holy Spirit of God, whether you're really under His influence. Most importantly, the saving of your soul. Because it doesn't come from our flesh. You're bitter, you're grumbling, and all of us have been there. In Colossians chapter 3, verse 1 it says, if you then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ is on the right hand of God. John chapter 15, verse 5. And just coming to that place of realizing that. It says essentially, if you're not abiding in me, you're withered. Well, I want us to consider um consider what what uh I'll tell you this. And that's the greatest danger, which is what's Jesus' point? Now finally we get we get very quickly and I'm over time but um it's my birthday so you'll just hang out for a few minutes Is connected to the intangible through prayer. and and ten in this kind of an order, then we truly are going to be abiding in Christ You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. by the word and the spirit because of Christ. And I pray that it'll be a help. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. or email us at info at bbcofmd. uh incarnate. Holy, holy, holy. And save our souls. may remain in you and that your joy may be full. No, it's it's not based on that. He then says who the Father is, and then he's going to say who we are, and we are also And so some of what we struggle with in our connection to Christ is we get the roles wrong. Coming up from the trunk from the roots, uh up from the soil, into the roots, into the trunk, and out the branch. And Jesus says, I am the vine. All those things are in John and on Galatians chapter 5 as talking about the fruit of the Spirit. what the command is in the passage. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. We remember we've come to Christ at one one time or another. Now that we've understood these things, we now can move to this. That we can know the love of God that passes knowledge. The fullness of Christ. Notice what it says here in verse 7. And clearly in this passage it says our his words must abide in us. And it's not legalism. There are some preachers that that's I'm not even going to say what there there are so many different kinds of fruit in the New Testament. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. And Lord, we are thankful that we can be out this morning and we would just thank you for all of those, Father, that you've brought here this morning. He says, all these things, I'm giving you the Holy Spirit, He's coming, I love you, I've shown you my love for you, all these things are going on. Now, we see actually in the passage two clear purposes. Knowing that I'm going to depart. The goal though is, or the command rather, is to abide in Christ. This whole idea of abiding in Christ, you're going to find other places in the New Testament where it's also the case where it's also found. Everything's going nuts. It's the same thing. Abiding in Christ at its very core is utter dependency on Christ. Okay, we we have to be careful that uh you know sometimes we we have in our mind a word we'll see and it's often used in a certain way and we think, oh well that fire that must be hell. The life that is in fellowship with God, that's abiding in Christ, that's connected to Christ, is one where the Word of God is continually affecting our hearts. Folks, that is absolutely essential. You know it because you begin to want what he wants. Because the truth of the matter is this is this is there are times where I'm abiding in Christ and there are times where I'm not. Are you experiencing the fruitfulness and joy that God intends for his disciples? Are you, if you look at your branches, if you look at yourself, are you bearing spiritual fruit? And my identity is bound up in what I do. We get so busy and so preoccupied with so many things that we've that we we need to go back to John 15 and remember the the instruction that Christ gave us on how we can get connected to Him. All that you did, all that Christ did to make it possible for us to abide in Christ. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. that not everyone would get it, and we ask the Lord that you just give them real wisdom with all of that. He says, I'm going to go and I'm going to leave. Does that sound like fruit? In Hebrews chapter 4, verse 12, it says this: For the word of God is quick and powerful, and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow. As long as we are depending on Him by faith. It says this, to know the love of Christ which passes knowledge, that you may be filled with all of the fullness of God. God wants that for us. I love him and that is worship. And there's a lot of people, frankly, and I'm I you know we uh we can all tend this way where you know I can't comp I everybody else lets me down, I can just comp I can just the only person I can really depend on is uh is myself. That's not the spirit. And yet this says, without me, you can do nothing. It is so important that we understand this, that the life of the Christian is a life of dependency. We get really in trouble when we look ahead too far. So we don't need to necessarily make this connection that what this is talking about is hell. So ver I won't be much longer. If the word of God is not in you, there are many people in this world that will suggest to you We know what he wants. James warned us of this, James chapter 4. And we pray it, and when we see direct, clear answers to prayer, it really is strengthening to us. When we love ourselves, obedience is hard. It's born out of a relationship. If so, where? where we need to make the corrections in order to again be that branch that the life of Christ flows through so that we can bear fruit. And then if we think of Ezekiel chapter, don't take the time to turn there, but in Ezekiel 36, verses 25-27, it says this Being under the influence of the Spirit of God puts us in a place of submission, of a heart of submission to one another. toward one another, which is other brothers and sisters in Christ, primarily. Well those those branches that don't bear leaves, they're dead. The the the nation of Israel did not have this kind of of the of ability. So I'm preaching from what I believe is probably one of the probably my favorite passage in the Bible. Okay, and then he says, just like in life you look around, or just like in life, if you have if you see if you see that brand that that Prayer is not intended for you to get what you want. In this passage is not right in such a way that you're not experiencing the joy that God wants for you, and you're not experiencing the fruitfulness that God intends for us as Christians. And Lord, I pray that you would help us to in our own personal lives take evaluate the the evaluate our lives and see where we need We're the branches that have been clean. Well, now Paul is going to take this concept and go one step further. Be under the Spirit's influence. Without me, you can't. And it says in verse 6 of this passage, if anyone does not abide in me, he is cast forth out as a branch and is withered No, actually prayer is when I know the word and I know what God wants and then I'm able to pray what God wants If you think you can, then you you you you can't, okay? I pray and hope that as I grow as a Christian, I'm abiding more often, if that makes sense. Heavenly Father, we gather here this morning because of your great name. I am the true vine, and my father is the vine dresser. But if you look here at John 13, 34, it says, A new commandment I give unto you that you love one another as I loved you. Actually you have three sides to this coin, which I know breaks down significantly, because you can't have three sides to a coin. I in my heart love him, know his love, and now I love him back and I want to show him. You just are, maybe you're driving the car, you're thinking about all the things the Lord's given you, how you are undeserving of any of it. That's not what the verse is saying. That the that the that the role. Well good morning. 1511. You ever had in your heart, you've been in the Word, the Lord's been working in your life, you have uh, and you just find yourself grateful. We would really do well to go through this passage and think through it in such a way where we can identify that in our lives and we can say, okay, I I have this is where I really need to get back on track. Or um or you have been become sort of legalistic where you are just doing to do You're in a standing where you now are right with me, right with God, and now you can be connected to me. So God wants us to really depend on him. And that's actually what he's saying here. Every one of us from time to time needs to set back and realize: well, wait a minute, am I really in fellowship with the Lord? We're going to be reading this morning from the Gospel of John chapter 15 verses 1 through 8, if you would like to follow along. that I think is so absolutely necessary and important. Well, he's the gardener. Jesus is actually the Word. We're not just trying to find our own way, do our own thing. Well, that's easier said than done. So God tells us how important it is to stay connected to Christ by being useful Because we forget or somehow we think that we have not truly be been cleansed by him Well, it's a future perspective. Now, would you then notice um just look over at then at um This is not new for many of you, but it's so helpful to just remind ourselves of these things. And Father, we are grateful that we can come before your throne this morning boldly because of what He has done in our lives. Now that doesn't mean that we can conjure up our own fake thankfulness. You're open before Christ. and to be reminded of the importance of abiding in Christ this morning We pray Lord that you'd heal them and strengthen them. But particularly he says to the disciples here, he doesn't say the word will clean you. These are all talking about the same relationship with Christ. In other words, Jesus came as the Word. I wish I could say that in my Christian life this is something that I I live every day all the time. You're already clean because of the word which I have spoken to you. He's saying, look, I have set you up. Look at the next last the last phrase there, verse five. Let's pray together. Jesus is just with his disciples and he's giving them all kinds of instructions because he's about to leave them physically. A left fielder in baseball is tagged at first base. I can do what I want to with this coin. Do we really have a submissive heart one to another? This is the amazing thing about it. Well, that's not hard when you love him so much. Don't be under the influence of wine which is dissipation, but be filled or under the influence of the Spirit of God. And this is the promise that He has promised us, eternal life. God says in Proverbs that the that the uh man divides his own way, but the Lord directs his steps. And uh Lord, uh just keep them uh uh strengthen them. Sometimes God has to prune us back. These are all results. 1 John's going to help us with this. They were not in fellowship with God anymore, and they fell into idolatry. It doesn't say that you must bear fruit as a command. That's not the focus. And God's desire for us, for you and for me, is that we bear much fruit, that we have much spiritual fruit in our lives. It's the word fellowship. We won't take the time to look at that now, but you could see the same idea here in 1 John chapter 1 spelled out here throughout the book of 1 John I am utterly destitute in being able to do anything of any spiritual value without you, Lord. We've already looked at that. So you have, we're filled with all the fullness of God, chapter 3. Lord, you have saved us if we know Christ our Savior. And and pruning is hard, isn't it? So I might get really overwhelmed by all these different kinds of fruits in the New Testament. And I'm going to make I- I want- I want you to see some more things. But if you want to know whether or not you are abiding in Christ, these are helpful. It says this. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. And he is the one revealed to us, Jesus Christ. It's not by, it's not, well, you have to have these things right in your life and then you'll have joy. And so that's really what this entire passage is all about. It's now Christ is the vine. Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you. And I don't presume to know exactly what God wants precisely all the time. Frankly, one of the reasons I preached this honestly as I thought through what to preach this Sunday is I knew I needed it candidly. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible But it's like when we come to Christ and we have this relationship, this fellowship with Him, it's it's hindered because we're not really it's like we don't really believe. He has so what is that? I mean Paul is, or Jesus rather, is using an illustration of vines and branches. And that's profound and important, actually. Next chapter over to Ephesians chapter 5. That's not the spiritual result of being under the influence of the Spirit of God. Number two, abody in Christ is a relationship. There are many very clear verses passages of scripture that explain that once you have truly come to a saving knowledge of Christ and he has saved your soul, that you can't lose your salvation. It is so helpful in our life as a Christian. He is the source of strength. Right? It's not oppressive sort of rigid check-the-box Christianity. Father, we come to you and thank you for who you are. We've got to think about that, by the way, when we're going through life and we see all the different trials and struggles and problems and difficulties and circumstances that we go through. You don't know you know, you're having to make quick decisions fast and try to do all and yet there is a way to have Maybe even more perceptible is their joy. And Father, we also want to lift up those, Father, who are not feeling well this morning. I need God's power in my life, I need his strength in my life, those kinds of things. But there has been this joy, and Jesus says, I really want this joy to remain in you. We need to understand our roles, the roles that are involved. You might see filling of Christ or being filled with Christ. What is it talking about here? Return, we beseech you, O God of hosts, look down from heaven and see, and visit the vine and the vineyard which your which your right hand has planted He's the one with the that plans everything out. We've looked at the role of Christ. Now, some people think the word water there is a reference to baptism. We just said this and we keep seeing this, don't we? Well, it doesn't end there. When you see prayer and answers to prayer, and you see that And Father, in your greatness and in your wisdom, you decided, Father, to reach down. I thank you, Father, this morning, for this great sacrifice that was made through your Son Jesus Christian character is fruit in Galatians 5, which we already mentioned. So the work of the word has a is a is a cleaning agent. And when we know God through his word, we begin to know what he wants. The joy in this passage is connected to being in Christ and to abiding in Christ. And you think of the tabernacle and the sh the presence of God was there. So throughout the New Testament, you have different kinds of spiritual fruit. How does that happen? Set your mind on things above, not on the things of the earth, for we are ye are hidden ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ and God. Verses seven through uh look at the next next next part here. If you abide in me and my words abide in you, you will ask what you will, what you will ask what you desire, and it shall be done for you. I will worship toward your holy temple and praise your name. Uh a fullback in soccer scores a goal. That's joy. I worship him. Well, abiding means there's assurance and stability. There's an openness to fellowship with God and abiding in Christ as well. It doesn't work to pray because every time I pray, nothing ever comes true the way I want it to. We unplug. That's our role. Now when the disciples heard it, they probably would have thought about the fact that in Psalm 80 and many other places actually in Scripture, it actually says that Israel is the vine. It is. These are all vital areas as we think of this vital concept of abody in Christ. Isn't this a beautiful day the Lord has made? He who abides in me, and I in him, bears much fruit, for without me you can do nothing. Why? It refers here to John and John as the word being a cleansing agent. Look at what it says. It is worship. We know his love. 1427 and also will bear witness because you have been with been with me. Alright. The Spirit of God does it. It says we have fellowship with, you have fellowship with us if you walk in the light in 1 John 1. If what you heard from the beginning abides in you, and also will abide in the Son and in the Father. He is saying that you and I run the risk of not being useful for him if we do not abide in the vine. Do not forsake the works of your hands. How does the joy remain? We no longer have to go through a tabernacle system, a sacrificial system. If you think of you think verse 34, okay, love. I mean you could guarantee if i uh uh the exact opposite is true if you're operating from the flesh. It's the same thing as abiding in Christ. He said, You have not, you ask, because you ask not, but he said, then you some of you ask, but you ask amiss that you may consume it upon your own lusts. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. We do pray, Lord, for those who are now in quarantine in our church and To we all come to the unity of the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God. And we have this word full again or fullness. Well that makes sense. The world's going crazy. I am the vine, you are the branches, he who abides in me, and I in him. In other words, the life is not there. But how do you get this? You're not going to find anywhere in chapter 15 that the command is to bear fruit. No, anyway, there's three there's three three you'll see it in a minute. There's no way for you to abide for you to of your own have all of those spiritual fruits that we've already talked about and to bear fruit in your life. Can you identify, number three, can you identify how's that how that's happened? And Father, as we come to your word now, I pray, dear God, that your Spirit will do the work in our hearts to draw us to yourself in Jesus' name. I want you to see something here. You will stretch out your hand against the wrath of my enemies, and your right hand will save me. To glorify me. There are all those kinds of things in the passage, but nowhere in the Bible, nowhere in this passage is you're going to find a command that you must bear fruit. In other words, if you're abiding in Christ, you're going to see these things grow in your life. Abiding in Christ, in fellowshipping with Christ, they're all the same thing. Now in the context, what's he saying? Like love. And there's a lot in that passage that I could go over, but the bottom line is it's telling us that there is a truth It's not a genie in the bottle. When we love Christ more than we love Christ. I have doubted his love for me. So he first says who Jesus, it first says who Jesus is. And then will you look at 1427 for a minute? You've got fruit over in Galatians chapter 5. Yes, we are to bear fruit, but our role is to abide in the vine. I mean, you have the spiritual that you can't touch, you can't feel, you can't perceive by the senses, right? It's not what the Bible says. Jesus, this is right before he goes to the cross And if you're like me, then probably uh you you from time to time you you gotta go back and And we find the in Scripture, for example, in John 16, he says, it's actually better for you that I go away. He's the source. In other words, this is God's autobiography, which I talked to the teens a couple of weeks ago Personal witnessing is fruit. You have been cleansed by the word and the spirit in such a way that you are, your position is one where you are declared righteous by God. And so very, very important to understand all of these roles. And then on from there, the many blessings that God's given us. There is no way around it. We pray that you would minimize uh the transmission within the different families that Jesus says, now I'm the one that connects you to the Father. He's not saying the disciples that you are cleansed and you will never sin again. So what I need you to do is take your Bibles, and the first place I'm going to take you to is Ephesians chapter 3. Well, would you turn to Ephesians 1 chapter over, chapter 4, verse 13? Christ said, if you have seen me, you've seen the Father. Now, verse 6 is a very controversial verse as far as what the interpretation is. And when we have this kind of life, as we experience light, the life of abiding in 7, 8, and 9. But if I go away, then you'll be able to receive the Spirit of God to me. He is the Word, and we know Him through the written Word Now, that is actually a passive command. Well, we have three very clear indications where we can actually look at our own self, our own lives, and we can say, are these true or not? Israel became useless to God. All right. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. Just flip over a few pages to chapter 13 and verse 34. And we actually need to believe it. The relationship doesn't end there. We've looked at the role of the Father. Would you take your Bibles and turn for just a minute over to John chapter 3? We must relate to Christ as he intended. What does abide mean? Look at verse 18. Do not be drunk with wine when we're in a dissertation, but be filled with the spirit. The first result of being filled with the Spirit of God according to this passage, it's worship. What it's saying is that there is a way of on an ongoing basis of experiencing the life of abiding in Christ. There are times where, honestly, there are times in my uh as a uh as a husband that I'll I'll be doing something And we've already cited Ephesians chapter 3, verses 17 through 19. And so now, because of who I am in Christ, now I can have a relationship with Him and fellowship with Him, and then I can bear fruit. I got to do this. What is he talking about? I'm not saying we don't plan. See, as we here's how you know the word of God's abiding in you. org. He is the source of life. The point is that those are results. And and that ought to happen every day, but folks, it it ought to happen. We get those kinds we have self-confidence. How do you have the peace? When we really pray what God wants, not what we want. We've been saved. Well, yeah, I love, except when I don't And this is thrilling. He's the spirit, spiritual source. What is he talking about here when he says this? This is what it means to abide in Christ. You must depend on me. Um you can't perceive them by the senses, but what you can do is observe answered prayer The disciples, when He was here, experienced who He was, experienced the joy of the presence of Jesus And in number three, we know Christ's love. But the Father, that's his role. I got to love, joy, and peace, long-suffering. Now, what he's talking about here, or you're cleansed by the word. And my heart is to speak to one another. Well it says, look at it again, if anyone does not abide in me, he is cast forth as a branch and is withered. They're not useful. Here's an example. And so here we see the same, we see the same kind of truth here. Number two, we pray specifically in God's will because he will have his desire. Now, let's just wrap all this up. May the Lord richly bless you. And as we look at one of the most important passages in the Bible, I pray, Lord, that you would help us to really understand your truth. But I am equipping you with everything you need in order to stay connected to me. So the first purpose of this passage in John 15 is that you'll bear fruit, and that I'll bear fruit, that we will be fruitful Christians. Now just put ourselves here. Now, the word means really two things in one. In 1 John 1, verse 3, it says He is the source. I want us to notice the three results in this passage. And that's a perfect illustration of what Jesus is saying here as well in this passage and verifies that that's what verse 6 actually means. You know when obedience to Christ becomes hard? But we have a role to play. These things I have written to you concerning those who try to try to deceive you. Well, I think number one, I want us to notice a couple of things about this. Have we not seen that before, by the way? And it's interesting that later on in the New Testament you find that Christ is named as the Word. From all your filthiness and from all your idols, I will cleanse you Okay, now I'm under the Spirit of God. Okay, what it's really saying is that those who profess to be Christ and don't really know Christ, then they they're going to be cast forth as a branch But like when it comes to certain things where they should be put and where the you know the and and those kind of things that And it's frankly very easy to do. Not as the world gives to you, let not your heart be troubled, neither be it let it be afraid. Everything's going around. I'll say, Lord, if you would want this, would you just see this happen? It's like the tangible, it's like, if I could say it this way, it's like the word, the objective word It's incomprehensible the love of God that has for us. I mean you go through all those and you're you you might find it hard uh this is a personal opinion but you might find it hard to actually use those to evaluate whether you're not you're in your We have a heart of worship. He says, I'm the true vine, and my husband, or my father is the vine dresser. I don't think it's what's talking about I will praise you with my whole heart. I pray, Lord, that you would renew in our hearts a desire to do that. You ever experienced pruning before a as a as a Christian? Personal holiness and obedience is fruit This is now going to expand. That should be a real clear indication to us that we're not being under the sp These are three results. I gotta go do this, I gotta do this, I gotta do this. We saw the same thing over in Matthew chapter 5 verse 13, where it says your salt the earth, but if salt loses a savor Every branch in me that does not bear fruit. He's the one that that works in such a way in our lives In fact, it's not even a fraction, it's only a fraction of what it's talking about when it talks about fruit in Scripture. How do you have the love? For without me, you can do what? You cannot say that you are truly abiding in Christ. It starts there. And and and you get to a certain point and you get that hard-to-reach spot and what happens? Well, it's not it's not by Those things don't that they're not supposed to happen that way. He says the word has cleaned you. God saved our souls through the blood of Christ, and there's a time where that's happened, and we know that. You might see that. It's a heavenly future perspective. I'm not saying we don't make plans and those kind of things, but hold them loosely. When we love Christ, then obedience becomes a natural fruit, actually. Is that the problem? My identity is bound up in the fact that I'm already cleansed. Let's pray together. The joy of being with Jesus. It's really a illustration of the Word of God. And this is fleshed out really over in 1 John. There ought to be times in our life where we just say to the Lord, Lord, I can't do it without you. And Lord, we lift up those also who are unable to come because of age or other issues. If you think a tree of a tree, the branches do not give life. But in this we see that there is a different role that the Father plays from the Son It's the same word, same Greek word. And he is now going to say, I want you to be filled with the Spirit. It says this: Do not be drunk with wine or under the influence of wine. In 1 John chapter 2, verse 24 it says this, therefore You're not going to bear fruit. Look at number seven again. May your presence be very evident to them now. And then Paul or Jesus tells Nicodemus I'm not going to tell you what fruit you're looking for. It doesn't mean there hasn't been heartache, it doesn't mean there hasn't been disappointment, there hasn't been problems and frustration and sin and all of those kinds of things What is our role? There's a connection I want to make. How it was he left us the Word and the Spirit Abiding when we're abiding in Christ, when we are filled with the Spirit of God, when we are under His influence, we are not obstinate. I get burnt by everybody else, so the only person I can depend depend on is number one. When you're abiding in Christ, you're not ashamed of Christ. I am depending on Jesus. Circumstances are such that I just, I, I, I, I've really questioned whether he loves me or not. Help us to to be able to minister as a congregation to them any way that we can. Is that supposed to happen? And you may want to have a have want to not jot some notes down as well. Good works and service to the Lord is fruit in Colossians chapter 1 verse 10. It says that his disciples will bear fruit, that God's goal, the Father's goal, is that they will bear fruit. And I'm still learning, I'm still growing. I didn't say have you have you led five people to Christ last week. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. In order to bear fruit, Christ's disciples must abide in him. So you have three in this But these are another matter. I mean it's not a biblical thing, I can but she's I'm going, uh, she wouldn't like that very much. And we thank you. It ought to be thrilling to our souls, honestly. So Ezekiel 36 prophesied to a time where the Word of God would do a cleansing work. Chapter 4 now, we're filled with the fullness of Christ. This is what it looks like if you don't do anything. And we are thankful for what Christ has done He says very clearly in this passage several times, abide in me. And that was how that was intended to be a conduit for the world to be able to come to God. Is love a fruit? Chapter 14, verse 27. All of those are fruit and more. Because God says it. Because life tells us that we need to depend on ourselves. It needs to be pruned, it needs to be get all the deadwood out of it, right, Tim? Joy that is not dependent on circumstances. Father, we know that you are the creator and sustainer of all life. How do you have all the it's all as we abide in Christ. We comp we have confidence in ourself. All over the New Testament, the threat We must experience the life of abiding. All the kings of the earth shall praise you, O Lord, when they hear the words of your mouth. How do I know whether or not I am abiding in Christ? Don't we need this, folks? Without me, you cannot bear any spiritual fruit. Sometimes what some another view is it's sort of the professor not but not possessor view Now, what does he actually say about the branch that doesn't abide in the vine? And over in in first Peter, which is where or second Peter rather If you want that, watch Aladdin. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you. And one of the major roles we get wrong is that is that we we forget that Jesus is divine. He is a wise heavenly father. And without me, you can't see the Father. And the third one is the one that's the hardest, and that is submission. Where you're not confessing things to the Lord that that i it are you what what area They're found in verses 8 and verse 11. You have brought a vine out of Egypt. Uh we are thankful that you even consider us at all, but we're grateful how you have watched over What are the different roles involved? How in the world can I even remember all those, let alone do all of them every single day? Abide means to remain in. This idea of abiding in Christ is going to expand. No, that would that would be that would now be we're focused on the fruit again. You might see different ways that this is talked about, or being under the flo uh In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this We hope to see you soon But ultimately then he says, you've got to abide in me. They are natural results Now there are a lot of things I could say, but I'm going to move on here. Well, what is this all what is this referring to? I just pray that you would really um Jesus answered, Most assuredly I say unto you, unless one is born of water. Who is that? We're going to learn what that role is in a minute. In fact, they make the tree ugly looking. Remember over in Ephesians chapter 3 where it says that if we're we're filled with all the fullness of God, when And when we really begin to know what God wants, then we can pray what God wants. Are you experiencing the fruitfulness and joy that God intends for his disciples? Father, we come to you this morning and praise you for who you are. Both in creation and in salvation, the three persons of the Trinity take separate roles in the Trinity. You ever read through the And it's interesting. Why? It's like getting to know your girlfriend or boyfriend or husband or wife, getting to know them really well. If you would bow your heads together with me as we go to the Lord in prayer. It's the branch, it's the it's the vine that gives the life. These are results that come from having a relationship with Christ. Pick up in verse 3 there. That's the point. That is not what the Bible says But there are times where as we go through life and get to know our Lord, that it just would seem that He might want this. I'm trying to serve and I have no relationship. They they they were able to be in fellowship with you, but it was uh but there was a lot more He says, I am the vine. Well A person Okay, it's an illustration. Am I really abiding in Christ the way that God intended? Number two, if not, have you become unplugged from the power source somewhere? For your loving kindness and your truth, and you have magnified your word above your name And and Lord, we're grateful for your uh Well, it's it's kind of like This is important for this reason because sometimes we get disconnected from Christ Speak, first one is this, speaking one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. When we get rebellious or when we get But on the other hand, as you get to know somebody I mean, it it is really amazing when we think of And this passage is really a place to go back to Jesus is talking in this upper room with his disciples. Ephesians chapter 3, verse 19 I am now finding my assurance. It means to have confidence finally in the presence of God as well. And that's going to become very, very important to remember as we go through this, and you'll see in a minute why that's the case. I'm making a lot of connections here today, this morning. But We have a submissive spirit. You are clean because of the word which I have spoken to you. If you abide in me, in my what? The truth of the matter is I want to say very um Number two, thanksgiving. And yet you're just overwhelmed with thankfulness for all of what God has given to you. You are already clean because of the word which I have spoken to you. Romans eight is another one. Not usually. When we are truly thankful, that comes from the Spirit of God. I mean, like, I need this. It discerns the thoughts and intents of the heart. You are already cleaned by the word. When you love yourself more than you love Christ. They experienced all of this That's the problem. Amen What's Christ's role? These we should be able to do It's withered. I'm just asking you, can you see some fruitfulness in your life as a Christian? And you want us to stay connected with you and abide in you. Well the answer is yes. Love, joy, peace, long-suffering, generous goodness, patience. That's really I think one of the roots of Is really actually support So if you name the name of Christ this morning and you are a follower of him, this applies directly to you He's not saying that, but he said you are clean. There's another fruit there. It says this. And fire is also an illustration of something. Or You're not ashamed in It's a walk of faith day by day. Don't watch, it's not that's not a biblical thing. But we really would love to meet you in person What does it say over in John chapter 1? And then finally, number four. And if I said that I would be lying. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. And when we know it, There is a corporate idea here. It ought to happen. Number one, um every time the word fire is used in Scripture, it's not always talking about hell. You're not useful. So when we know the word Would you look there with me? Verse 11 says this: These things I have spoken to you, that my joy, what? And he picks up immediately in chapter 15, verse 1, and he says this. And these things write in you that your joy may be full. Some suggest that verse 6 is saying you could lose your salvation. You cannot say that you are truly filled with the Spirit of God. Uh that's fifteen twenty seven. And I pray Amen. I mean that's the prayer, that there's more abiding going on in my life than not abiding. That's the command. A field goal kicker in football throws a Hail Mary. Worship, thankfulness, and submission. Now, let's ask this question. You are already clean because of the word No, it's I want to follow the commands of Christ because I love him. A gladness and a contentedness in who I am in Christ. In order to be cleansed by Now you're complaining If you read through the book of 1 John, you're going to see the word abiding. And I really think this is probably the key to the whole thing. He told us that the other day. You can't perceive God by the senses What's our role? The Lord will perfect that which concerns him Okay. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. How do we know that? There's nowhere it in the context it's talking about hell. It's the vine that gives the life. The King James says husband, and the my father father, he's the gardener, he's the vine dresser. We must experience the life of abiding. Would you just allow this to happen? There is a spirit of assurance in my heart They're not useful for anything So the question really becomes, how do we abide? How do we relate to Christ as He intended? It's encouraging to us. That's the role of the father. You have this peace. It's the same thing. How do I know if I am Nothing. Are you doubting the love of God? Gospel of John chapter 15 verses 1 through 8. But I want us then to notice this It means to remain. I can depend on myself The branch bears the fruit, but the vine is the source of life. My words abide in you. It's all as we abide in the vine. So what is he talking about there? And I just don't do it. The vacuum unplugs. That is, there is a way, folks, to have He's working in our lives in such a way that we are fruit bearers. The command is to abide. There's certainly an individual idea of worship. If you think of Galatians chapter 5, what is the first fruit of the Spirit? What's the Father's role? And so I have some questions. Now that in and of itself is an incredible verse, isn't it? So what is it saying there? You've got to abide in me. He says, What who we are in verse 3. It's that order. What is this fruit we're talking about? Well, love, you have joy, you have peace And there's a reason for that Your life is hid with Christ and God. 1427. I've really got to how That's not the point of those. And we just pray that uh You are declared clean. You are one a God of truth. And so It's abiding in us. Submitting yourselves one to another. And 1 John 2, verse 28 says That's not what it's talking about here. And here is what it looks like. I pray for Brother Jim as he Now let me pause for a minute. Is that the problem? You are the one true living God. He says it's withered. He is the Word. And that's found in verses 3 through 5. 'Cause I know Number one We obey God. Now Number one So he says, first of all, who he is. The second thing