It's no matter what life may bring your way. That God's name would be glorified in the way that you respond to the challenges that may come. Pastor Jim, thanks so much for opening your pulpit to me tonight. It's a a privilege to be here I never saw myself actually engaged in Christian education. I pastored for 25 years in Central Florida. In fact, Kristen Rogers, I walked in, didn't know she would be here tonight. I was her pastor preteen. Really good friends with her parents. In fact, her mom and my wife share a birthday. So I was surprised to see her here tonight, but rejoicing that she is. Pastored in Central Florida and then for 11 years in coastal North Carolina in Wilmington and then five years at Bethel Baptist Church in Schaumburg, Illinois, before the Lord called us back to the university This is our fifth year there. I actually started in the role of as Vice President of Student Development, and then when Sam Horn left, I got to pick up the mantle of ministry training. I'm now Executive Vice President for Student Development and Ministry Advancement. And so I flip hats a lot, but it is a ministry itch that now gets scratched. primarily over the seminary and love that role. And so uh it is a joy to be there. I tell people that Dr. Pettit has decided that he likes me now he just has to figure out what I'm good at. So I've been spending fifty-two years of my life trying to do that, so I'm not sure he's going to be successful, but I'm glad he's willing to try I bring you greetings from Bob Jones University and thank you so much for the relationship this ministry has had over the years with the university through different people that have come. and people that are here that are alumni and we are just rejoicing at the goodness of God. We've had a wonderful start to the year. We have gotten to start pretty normally being post-COVID, at least post-COVID with regard to physical symptoms. And God brought us a really healthy, and I don't mean that in the physical sense, number-wise, incoming class, about 720 students. And that is just a great number for us. We'd love to see it be about 800 every year, but we're building that direction, still recovering after COVID. And this has just been a really dynamic class. I describe them as entrepreneurial Everything that we go to do, they are eager to be involved, even from the way they have chosen and joined societies. Many freshman class come in and find out who's good at what and join because of that. And this class is almost the opposite They came and said, where are their needs? Because that's where we want to be. We have started the year and as we always do, we do ministry things at the beginning of the year. And so we did a summer ministry conference where we have about 50 camps and ministries come. And the response to that week was tremendous. For example, the Wilds is usually scrambling to fill some positions all the way to the end. Their director came to me after being on campus for a week and said, we have no open positions. They've all been filled. And so our students are are eager to serve the Lord. We just finished our missions conference. We have 37 mission agencies that do summer internships and short-term mission trips. They were thrilled at the response, and in fact the university sponsors trips and this coming summer we'll have 14 mission trips going out. And so we're just excited about what God is doing. Pray for us These are challenging days in which to be a young adult, and so our focus has really shifted to making sure that we're very intentional That we are instilling in our students an integrated biblical worldview. We started a biblical worldview center, and that center is focusing on our curriculum. We are working with all of our faculty. So that in addition to taking 18 credits of Bible, we don't consider the fact that we have a Christian education because we have Bible and then you go study whatever else We actually want our young people to get a Christian education that has a biblical worldview integrated into every class. And so we're working diligently that way. But currently, because of the way we are structured, any student that comes to Bob Jones graduates with a minor in biblical worldview. And we've structured all of our Bible classes that way. We did scope and sequence pulling all of those six classes together so that it flows from beginning to end. So creation and new creation and ends with apologetics. And you actually graduate with a minor in biblical worldview. And so God is doing really great things as we believe we're being used by Him to equip the next generation of servant leaders for the church, and that's our passion. I am at Bob Jones and people say, What are you doing at Bob Jones? I tell them I am there for very churchy reasons. I left pastoring to go to the university. to really see young people become convicted and convinced that they will serve God with the rest for the rest of their lives in the local church. That really is why I'm there. In fact, I wrote my doctoral dissertation, a very simple title, Helping Gen Z Students at a Conservative Christian University Choose Church. And that really is our focus. How do we get young people to internalize the importance of serving God in a local church during the days that they're in college so that it lasts for the rest of their lives. And God is blessing that emphasis. I tell our students as a university, we actually can't deliver on our promise. But we promise that we want to deliver to you and see God do in your life we can't do by ourselves. That takes the local church. So if you come to Bob Jones University and you're not going to go to local church, you need to find another school Because our students all have to go to church because what we're we hope to deliver we can't without the church. And so pray for us in that regard. It is a joyous place to be, and it's a challenging place to be The culture is all around us and not very far away, and we deal with those issues every day, day in, day out, as our young people struggle with their faith in a world like this. But don't we all? And so that's actually where I want to take us tonight in the Word of God. That is all the advertising I am going to do. I came to be in a local church to be in a local church, not to advertise a university And uh I'm glad that uh Bob Jones provides me a paycheck, but I actually came to be here tonight and be with you and be in the Word of God. And so I don't want to waste your time. I actually want us to spend some time in the Word of God. So take your Bible and turn with me if you would to 1 Corinthians chapter 16. 1 Corinthians chapter 16. If you've been in church any length of time, you probably are very familiar with the church at Corinth. And the two letters that Paul wrote to that church. It's a church that we know by its reputation. In fact, they like to be known by their reputation, but actually the reputation they wanted to have wasn't the one that Paul had of them They were rich and they were wise and they were all of those things and yet Paul challenges them with regard uh to what was really going on. And so we know based upon his letters that this is a church that was very divided It was a church that his in his writing he had received reports, and so half of this first letter he writes back and he answers questions that seemingly come out of the letter that was sent to him, and half of the letter he's correcting problems And so Paul in writing to them, I believe, comes to the last chapter, and in verses 13 and 14, I think he actually summarizes all of the practical instruction that he gives them throughout the book. Verse 13, he writes this, watch, stand fast in the faith, be brave, be strong. Let all that you do be done with love. Be on the alert, stand firm in the faith, act like men, be strong, let all that you do be done in love. This is really the injunction he gives them. I believe the central point there is A unique Greek word. In fact, this is the only time it's used in all of the New Testament, this little phrase, be brave, or the King James translates it. Act or quit ye like men. I really thought a fun title for this message would be real men quit based upon that, but um they don't actually. That phrase in the King James quitchie like men is to be equipped as men or to be becoming like men, be brave, or actually, to put it in the vernacular, he could say grow up It is to be becoming mature, that's the idea, or to be becoming a man, to grow up. So the matter of maturity is the title of the message tonight, and it's what does it mean to be mature as a believer? And I think as Paul writes to Corinth, I think these are believers that needed to grow up spiritually in all of their interactions with one another, with their community. Just they needed to mature. So what does it mean to be mature spiritually? And I think we all kind of have that idea, I need to grow in Christ-likeness, but do we really know where to go to do that? How we are to go about that So say tonight you and I decided I am going to get in shape. Now I personally believe pear is a shape. I hold to that Um, but not the shape I necessarily want to be. So if I decided I was gonna get in shape, I would go and find a gym to go to the gym and you walk in there and there's all these different machines And I decide, well, you know what? I just want to do the ones for my legs. I could do that and get in a little better shape, but probably not holistically get in shape So there are all kinds of machines and if you're like me you go in and go rabid the first day and you say I'm going to do all of this the first day and legs and arms and lift and everything else the next day you can't move and the third day you quit. That's usually how my workout routines go. But there's a plan, right? You're supposed to have different days where you do different things. And that really, I believe, is exactly what Paul is doing with the Church of Corinth here when he takes this phrase to be mature or to be becoming mature. And he actually is going to put around it four little injunctions. And I believe these are four areas that we need to be working on regularly if we are going to be mature believers. And so I want us to look at the passage that way. You know, Corinthians really is this letter, 1 Corinthians, a book that's about the gospel. I believe we find the theme verse or the purpose verse back at the beginning. So flip back to Philippians or 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 27. 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 27 Paul writes at the beginning of this book, but God has chosen the foolish things of the world to put to shame the wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world to put to shame the things which are mighty, and the base things of the world And the things which are despised God has chosen, and the things which are not, to bring to nothing the things that are, that no flesh should glory in his presence. And in verse thirty he writes this, But of him you are in Christ Jesus. who became for us wisdom from God and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. I believe he captures the whole of the gospel there. That as it is written, he who glories, let him glory in the Lord. And what you find in the book of Corinthians is the Apostle Paul addressing the gospel to real life. Whatever questions you have, he is actually going to address them in light of the gospel, in one dynamic or another. And so what you have is the gospel for real people living in relatable circumstances with relational challenges. Does that sound like your life? Just real people that are living in relatable circumstances. It's just real life with relational challenges. If there was a description of a post-COVID world, I think that one's it. I had the unenviable task of being appointed to be the head of the COVID task force for reopening Bob Jones University. We closed in March like everybody else because of the unknowns, but very quickly we determined we're reopening. How do we do that wisely? I remember sitting at a table, there was our executive team sitting around and someone said, I think we need a task force because of the complexity of the university. We really fell under the purview of every kind of protocol you can imagine. Our dining service is big enough that we fell under restaurant protocols We have outward-facing businesses and so we fell under under community protocols. Our housing is large enough that we fell under public housing. So like it was like crazy town And so we sat around the table and someone made that suggestion, we all thought it was a good idea, and I'll never forget it. Steve Pettit turned to me and he said, Alan, I think you should do that You know those moments when your life changes and you didn't really know it was changing? That was one of those for me. When I look back now, I thought, how did I so quickly say, yeah, sure, no problem. It was a problem. But anyway We dedicated two years of our life to keeping the university open and running through COVID. We came back this year and as I mentioned seemingly back to normal. But friends, I believe that we're actually just beginning to feel the true impacts of COVID. I believe that we're seeing them socially, and I believe we're seeing them spiritually. So what happened during COVID? Well, for the first time in the Western world, we experienced hyper isolation. Um other parts of the world when pandemics happen and those sort of things happen, they're used to doing what they need to do in isolation. A public health approach, by the way, to a pandemic is very different than what we ended up going through But we're not used to people stepping on our rights that way. I mean I remember um trying to do things with with college students to keep them active and get them outside, and so we started playing pickleball of all things And I was on uh tennis courts where there were pickleball courts playing pickleball with about 15 college students and it was about five till nine o'clock at night and a police car pulled up And he turned on his loudspeaker and he said, At nine o'clock these courts will be clear. And I'm serious. At one second after nine, I will be issuing citations. And I thought to myself Here I am with 15 college students from a Christian college, and we're going to get arrested for playing pickleball. Aren't there drug dealers around or anything? Like it's like we're we're just not used, we're not used to that So we all went through this period of hyper-isolation. But during that time period, we also went through a time period of hyper-information. What did we do when we couldn't go to work? We all got on the internet or we sat in front of the TV and we listened to the news and 98. 6% of the American population became MDs in their head. Like everybody knew more about COVID than any doctor ever knew That's just the way it worked. And now we've all come back together. And what do we have now? Well you have hyper-isolation with hyper-information, and now we're dealing with hyperpolarization. Why? Because everybody has a really well-informed opinion that they're dying to share. And friends, that kind of polarization is impacting our culture. Look at where we are politically. Look at where we are socially. And so we're not all that dissimilar From a place like Corinth. It was known as a culture that was very licentious or sinful, immoral. It was a place that was uh highly respected for the level of education that was there. And you see the markers of all of that in the people that make up this church that Paul is writing to. And yet, because of those very things, it was a very, very divided church. So I think his injunction to them about what it means to be spiritually mature is really important for us living in the world in which we are living. Paul basically throughout this book, and every question that he answers and every problem that he addresses simply says this: know the gospel, know your position in the gospel, and live your position. It sounds really simple, doesn't it? But whenever I encounter a question or whenever I encounter a problem, what should I do? Stop and remind myself of the gospel. What has God done? And then I should remind myself of my position in the gospel. And sometimes that looks like reminding myself that I'm not all that. That I was hopeless and I was lost if not for the grace of God. And sometimes it's just the opposite. It is reminding myself of who I now am in Christ because He has set His affection on me But I need to know my position in the gospel. And then with regard to what I do next, whether it's a problem or a question, I need the purpose in my heart. I am going to live my position. And I believe that is the key behind this passage that comes in at the end of the book. And so I really want us just to consider four simple things that I have alliterated That I believe are areas that Paul wants us to focus on if we're truly going to be mature believers. So, first of all, I want us to see that he says, be sober. Notice he uses this little word, verse 13, watch. Watch. The Greek word that he uses there means to be alert or to be awake, to be aware, to be conceived of as being alert or staying awake. Be on the alert. It's a call to wake up. And I think it's a really good phrase. If I am going to be spiritually mature, it is going to take me being actively alert. No one grows spiritually by osmosis. We grow when we become intentional, and thus I actually think that this is both a positive and a negative. I don't think this is intended just to be stated in the negative, this idea of watch, meaning that I need to be careful because something negative is going to happen. I think there's also a call to the positive. What should I be thinking in light of? But this certainly wasn't true of the Corinthians, was it? We know looking at this letter that some were denying the resurrection of the dead They were surely not living as though the Lord's return was at hand and as though he would judge men according to their deeds. They didn't even recognize God's judgment among them at the time. We know that from 1 Corinthians 11, don't we? In light of the Lord's table. They were tolerant to one living in shocking sin in chapter 5. They were taking one another to court in chapter 6. They were participating in heathen idol worship rituals in chapters 8 through 10. They were certainly not alert spiritually. And friends, you know what? It's really easy for us to be there. To go through the motions, to do our thing, to live in the world in which we live, and to to watch the news and I go to church when I go to church and and and I do the things that I do out of habit and yet maybe somehow my spiritual sensibilities are deadened somewhat And this is a call to say, hey, actually stop and think about are you growing? Are you a mature believer? Are you maturing actively in your faith? And so the two sides to this coin are first of all the positive. The positive, we're to understand our values. What is it that you believe? Paul wrote to the same group of believers in chapter 15 and verse 34. Awake! To righteousness and do not sin. There are things positively that we need to awaken to. Are you actively pursuing, making life choices in light of the truth you know? What do you believe? Why do you believe it? And then I want to ask you an even more probing question. Do you believe that what you believe is really real? Because the proof of that is in whether or not you live it. It's one thing to claim you believe something, but if you don't live in light of what you believe, I'm not sure that you believe that it's really real or that it really matters. You see, this is what it means to understand your values, to internalize the truth in such a way that it actually impacts the choices that you make and the way that you live. We're to awake to righteousness To become intentional in what we believe. You see, we're living in a culture that not all that long ago was marked by a Judeo-Christian ethic. Which didn't mean that we were any more spiritual, but the culture seemed to match the beliefs of those of us who claimed to be spiritual So we knew what marriage was, and we knew what life was, and we knew what gender was, we knew all these things, and all of a sudden, all of those things are awash. And friends, I'm telling you, as I travel a country, there's an awful lot of believers who never thought that they would equivocate on those things, and they're beginning to. Not that they would justify some other definition of marriage, but you know what? The homosexual agenda in our country isn't about you embracing their lifestyle, it's just about you tolerating it Just see it as normal. This is part of our culture. There are so many people that this is the way they are. And so think about the way it is presented to us through the commercial media It's just a part of everyday life, and so we get used to it. And thus somehow we see it as being normal. I was reminded walking onto my flight with Delta. You walk down, there's pictures, and this is that and this is that and this is that, and one of them was just a life scenario And it was a homosexual couple. It's just this is the way life is. Friends, if we're not careful, we let our values slip. And that comes out in our life choices. And so this is a call to say, you know what, I want to make sure in a world like this that I am maturing spiritually And so I must understand my values. But then, secondly, the negative is understand your vulnerability. Understand your vulnerability. Peter reminded the believers that he was writing to who were scattered under persecution in 1 Peter 5:8 of this truth when he said, Be sober, be vigilant, a very similar phrase. And he followed that by saying, why? Because your adversary, the devil, walks about like a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. He says, you know what, you need to be alert because you don't live in a vacuum. I wish I could stand before you tonight and say, you know what, you get to live out your faith in a neutral world. And if you just make right choices, you'll grow. And if you don't, you get to go into neutral. But friends, that's not the world we live in. You actually have an enemy of your soul who is actively as a terrorist trying to bring about confusion so that he can bring about destruction. He is roaring into that herd so that he can identify the weak and the vulnerable that he might prey upon them. And so, friends, it's time for us in a world like this to realize our vulnerabilities. May I ask you a question When was the last time you were honest and humble enough to sit down with yourself and say, you know what? Here's where I'm weak. If I look at my own life, here's areas of weakness for me. Maybe it's your temper. Maybe it's immorality. Maybe it's you know some other area of sin. But friends, if we are going to mature spiritually, it's time for us in honesty to look at our lives and say, you know what, that's a weakness for me What should I be doing with the Spirit of God through the Word of God to shore up that area in my life? Who knows you best? Is it your spouse? It should be. Ever thought about sitting down with your spouse and saying, you know what? I am coming to you, humbling my heart, and I want you to be honest with me. Tell me the areas in my life where you see that I'm weak. And then I'm inviting you to help me make sure that I shore up those areas because I don't want to fall. You see, friends, this is what a local church is actually about The author of Hebrews enjoins us to not forsake the assembling of ourselves together. And sometimes we translate that into every time the doors are open, I've got to be in the building. But you know you could be here every time the doors are open and not actually honor the injunction To not forsake the assembling of yourselves together, go to that passage in Hebrews sometime and look at what he surrounds the idea of assembling with And it's a group of people who, through common relationship, know each other well enough to evaluate each other so that they can exhort one another to love and good works, and then they edify each other or build each other up in their faith. That's what assembling means Are you building relationships with people that know you well enough to say, hey, you know what? I'd love to pray with you. I'm struggling And that they, through those relationships, would say to you in relationship, you know what? I want to further in you the ability to write thinking, love, and to write doing, good works. You see, this is what the body of Christ is about If we're going to be growing spiritually instead of being divided, we ought to be longing for relationships that are marked by the one and others, that we come together because we realize we are vulnerable We all are, as growing believers, vulnerable in areas where God is changing us, and God intends for us to work together that we might grow spiritually and be protected. So what does it mean to be a maturing believer? To somebody that says, you know what, I'm going to be sober. I'm actually going to think about my spiritual life. What do I actually value and should I be growing my values? And where are my vulnerabilities and what should I be doing to protect them? So he says, watch. Secondly, he says, be Stable. He uses this little phrase, stand fast in the faith. To stand fast, to be stable is the idea of the Greek word that he uses. It means to hold one's ground, to maintain a position, or to be steadfast or upright. And so I want you to see that this little injunction is an interesting one because I want you to see first of all that there's a posture to stand. He's not telling them to be stubborn or inflexible. The idea is not just simply of not caving in under pressure. It actually is the idea of not allowing to be eroded. To become actively engaged in holding on to something. And so I want you to see that this posture requires a sense of resistance A sense of resistance. I am not going to allow what I have to be eroded. In a place like Bob Jones University, we have a lot of really big old buildings. And we deal with maintenance all the time, but a massive part of our budget every year is actually what we call deferred maintenance. The only thing worse than maintenance or more expensive than maintenance Deferred maintenance. And you know why? Because when things need to be done and they don't get done, they actually just get worse and they become more expensive. Friends, do you know that that's true in our lives? You know, if you sit here tonight and you say, you know, my pride's a real issue, and you don't do something about it, you know what you're going to deal with one year from now? Deferred maintenance. And your pride is going to be worse. If you're wrestling with an area of morality, you know what's going to happen if you don't deal with it in a year? It's going to be worse. This is the idea of resistance. I am not going to allow where I'm at in my walk with God to become eroded I actually want to work on that. But then there's also the sense of resilience that I'm going to keep after this. I'm going to keep working on it. You know, friend Um you're not ever going to reach this side of glory, that place where you say, There I I made it now, I'm done. I'm all finished. Just when you think your flesh is defeated, it actually got probably in exactly the position it wanted to be in. You just ignore me for a while. There's actually a sense in perseverance, this idea that I will keep on keeping on working at my faith. Praise God for his work in us, that it's God that works in us the will and to do of his good pleasure. Paul prayed that the Ephesians would be strengthened by his spirit in the inner man. But you know what? There is this divine human confluence with regard to our spiritual growth, where we are to be working at our spiritual life through divine enabling. And so this idea of standing fast actually has the idea of not giving up ground. But then I want you to notice That it's not just a posture. I want you to notice that it is a position. Notice he says here, stand fast in the faith. When you see that little expression in the faith, it actually occurs, the word faith occurs with a definite article the twenty-six times in the New Testament And every time it occurs with a definite article is not referring to personal belief. It's actually referring to a body of truth. One that Jube described this way when he said that it was the faith once for all delivered unto the saints. So this standing is not just standing in your personal belief. He's not saying pull yourself up by your faith bootstraps. He actually is saying stand, develop resilience and develop resistance. In the truth, in the Word of God, that there is a process by which you actually work at not giving up ground spiritually, and it's by embracing the Word of God the way you should I think we hear all the time things about make sure you get in the Word of God. I want to say something a little different to you tonight. Because sometimes I think we mark our spiritual maturity by the fact that I read the Bible every day or I spend so much time in the Word of God. I actually want to challenge you differently. I want you to read the Word of God in such a way that you get the Word of God in you. Because you see, it's not just about you being in the Word, it's about the Word being in you Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed thereto according to thy law. Thy word have I treasured up in my heart, so that I might not sin against thee How many of you are familiar with the little expression knee jerk reaction? Go to the doctor, he does a physical, I don't know if he still does, but he gets out that little triangular thing, you cross your legs. And you do your best to time, right? He goes to hit you in the knee and you want to make sure you get it right that just as he swings, you swing your leg. No, that's not how it works He actually is testing your reflexes. He wants to thump there and see if your body actually responds to the stimuli. You know what that little phrase there about treasuring up God's word in my heart so that I might not sin against God is saying that I so fill my heart with God's truth that when the stimuli of the world comes my way, my knee-jerk reaction is God's truth. You see, to stand firm in the faith is actually a call to get the word in me in such a way that my response to the affairs of life is scripture saturated, and therefore I don't give up ground. And so he challenges them to be stable. Are you working at your stability by making sure you get in the Word of God in such a way that when you're done You get the word in you. I challenge you. Read the Bible with fresh eyes. Go back and read the Old Testament instead of seeing a bunch of stories about great men who did great things. I challenge you to go back and look at those stories and ask this question, what does that tell me about my God? And I think you'll read those stories very differently Because you see, it's not a story about walls that fell down or a sea that opened or a river that stopped. It's actually stories about a God that can stop a river, a God who knocks down walls, a God who can stop the sun. And that God, friends, is your God. And if we're going to become stabilized in our faith, it's only going to be because we deepen our relationship with Him. him. So be stable. Thirdly, he says, be strong. This one would kind of be insulting to the church at Corinth. Because they prided themselves on their strength. In fact, part of the attack they brought against Paul was that he was so weak. You come and you share the gospel and you talk about this and you're not like the other teachers who are so strong. You're so demure, you're so seemingly timid. And it's interesting that Paul would challenge them with this thought to be strong. But I think it's because of what it actually means. To be strong here actually is the idea of receiving power that is beyond what is expected. I think Paul is calling them to a mindset that recognizes that their strength is going to be found in the Lord. They despised weakness, and thus because of that, I don't think they would allow themselves to be in the position where Paul was Remember what Paul faced? A thorn in his flesh, the minister of Satan to buffet him, and he prayed three times for God to remove it, and God said no. But that's not all he said. He said to him, because my strength is made perfect in your weakness. In other words, I want to give you a different strength. I don't want you to become strength strong and be a strong person and be seen by the culture as being strong. I actually want you to live life in a way that you recognize the source of your strength. And so I think he's calling them, first of all, to acknowledge their weakness. Acknowledge your weakness. You know, I'm getting ready. I leave Thursday to go to India. This will be my 50th country. And um to me that is mind-blowing because I'm a picky eater. I don't really do very well in cultural diversity. I just struggle. And so God has to help me every time. And in going to India, I know what some of my challenges are going to be. India is a very interesting country. Because of the grip of Hinduism on the country, Christianity actually is frowned upon, and the reason it is, is social. You see, where I'm going in Hyderabad, there's basically a main highway. On one side are some of the most incredibly wealthy people that we'd see anywhere in the world. And on the other side, there's actually a group of people that live in the most abject poverty you've ever seen To us, that makes no sense. To the Hindu mind, it actually they look because of karma at this group of people and realize what they are living right now is the means of them coming back in the next life in a much improved way. Christianity steps into that and wants to help, and they look at us and say, What are you doing? You're going to doom these people to have to do this all over again. That makes no sense to me And so as I go there to minister, I know I go with a weakness. And I know I've been asking God, God, you've got to help me. You see, one of the things that I found in the short-lived history of the United States of America is this, that we believe that when the gospel takes hold of a culture, the end result of that work is that it looks like America. Friends, that just That just isn't true. The world was saturated with the gospel long before America ever existed. You know what? Sometimes for us we see strength, and that's how we see it. We see it in our cultural norms. And maybe it ought to be that we embrace our weakness. And realize that the things that we think are strength, maybe, maybe they just aren't. Maybe sometimes the way we handle personal conversations or the way we interact with one another. Maybe we just need to realize our weakness there and ask God's help. Because not just acknowledging the weakness, but accepting God's help. And you know what I found? The help God wants to give me often is not the help I want. I found out about Mike. Mike actually is a pastor at our church, Durso, who just passed away, and he works with our college kids, so a lot of our kids know him very well. I found out from a text from our senior pastor that he had passed away and talked with my wife and everything else and I was traveling so I didn't think anything more about it. My daughter's a freshman in college, lives in the dorms, and she had been out and I got to my hotel last night and my phone rang and it was my daughter. I thought, oh cool, it's Becca, I'll get a chance to talk to her. And I answered the phone to this profound weeping And so I just listened for a while and then through brokenness she said, Dad, Mike died. She found out by an email. And I said, I know honey, I found out earlier today. And she wept and she wept and she wept, and then finally she spoke again. And the next words that she said to me having been a pastor all my life and her living in my house all my life shocked me. She said, Dad, why doesn't God answer our prayers? And I said, Oh honey, God does answer our prayers. And he always answers them in the best way, but sometimes it's not our way. You see, Mike is healed, and he's healed forever. God's goal for all of us through the gospel is that all of us would come spend eternity with him in heaven. And this is God's ordained time for Mike. That doesn't mean we don't sorrow, but we sorrow not as those who have no hope. And I got to counsel my own daughter through her sorrow. And the shock of the grief. Is that an easy answer? No. Is God's help the help that we wanted? No. But his help is best. And so you know what, friends, with regard to being strong, sometimes it actually is acknowledging our weakness and then accepting God's help in the way God designs it. And that leaves us to independence. You see, I believe this is what Peter meant when he said, casting all your care upon him, for he cares for you. It's not like go and let God It's actually give God the gift of your trials that make you so dependent and trust Him enough to do what's best. That's casting your care. If I'm going to mature spiritually, I need to become strong. But it's not by becoming prideful. It's not by acting as though I'm culturally competent. It's actually through acknowledging my weakness and accepting the help God brings in my life because he knows what's best for me. And then lastly He says, be selfless. Let all of your things be done in love. What a statement. Interestingly to these Corinthian believers, this was such an issue that Paul wrote for them and for us by way of inspiration an entire chapter on love. 1 Corinthians chapter 13. They needed to understand this love, and so do we. That actually living a mature spiritual life looks like a life of selflessness. And I think there are two dynamics to this. I think being selfless, first of all, means that we love God supremely. And God came to his people, Israel, and was first setting them aside as his chosen people, he gave them what is known as the Shema. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord, and thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy might. Jesus reiterated that as the greatest commandment. And friends, if we are going to live successfully, mature spiritual lives in a culture like we live in, it's time for us again to decide that we love God's supreme. What is the greatest challenge to that? The fact that my tank is already filled up with loving myself. You see, loving God supremely starts with denying myself. Denying myself. And saying, God, you know what? I'm not going to come to you anymore and pray. And acknowledge who you are and how great you are and how much ability you have, and then ask you to do what I want. See, sometimes that's exactly how we pray, isn't it? I remind God who he is and what he said and what he can do, and then I say, now God, here's what you need to do for me. And it doesn't mean that we don't ask. That's so very different than the Apostle Paul's approach to life that he said to the believers at Philippi who were struggling with life, when he said to them, Stop being overcome with anxiety, be anxious for nothing. But in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. And he gives them this process that results in the peace of God which passes all understanding being theirs, and then how they're supposed to think. And he says you need to have the right approach to God. That word prayer is actually a general idea of approaching the God who is as who he is. And then in light of that, by prayer and supplication, it's actually a heart that is submitted to him. God, I am coming to you not because I deserve anything. I'm coming as a supplicant. I recognize I don't deserve your favor. I recognize who you are. That in everything by prayer and supplication and with thanksgiving is my attitude. God, I'm thankful that you always do things right. I'm thankful that you love me endlessly. God, I'm thankful that you never make any mistakes. Then Then I bring my request to God. God, I'm your child. And Lord, I have needs and I need your help. And it's then that you'll find that the peace of God which passes all understanding grips your heart and your mind in Christ Jesus. You see, this is the process of loving God supremely. And how do I live that out? By loving others as ourselves. By loving others as ourselves. We're living in a world where we all love ourselves enough to demand our rights. We're living in a world where one of our rights is, I deserve the right to be heard. I deserve the right for you to hear my opinion. Do you know what I'm finding? Not many conversations go well when I start demanding my right for my opinion to be heard I think if we turned that around and we realized that honestly the greatest gift we can give to people is to listen to them. And I'll deny myself to listen to you. I think that we would find a lot of the tension and the friction in our relationships begins to wane. You know what I found? That people Who find that you're willing to listen to them become much more willing to listen. But when we both start demanding the right to be heard, neither of us gets heard That's what was going on at Corinth. So either suing one another or taking advantage of one another, it's why they had the discord that they were having It's why believers who are wealthy were rushing to the house of God and feasting before those who have lesser means could come, and they heightened their disunity. You know, spiritual maturity is things that we tend to say comes because I've been a believer this long or I've been in church this long, or do you know who I am or where I've been or what I've done in the position that I held? And you know what I think Paul does? He debunks all of that. And he says, you know what, it's time for us to grow up spiritually. And how do we do that? I think these four things are key equ pieces of equipment that he calls us to work out on spiritually all the time. We're not going to have these things conquered. And so these are areas where we need to say, hey, you know what? I think I need to work at that being sober piece. It's time for me right now to really think about what do I actually believe. Maybe it's that standing firm piece that I need to get some resilience. I need to be resistant to erosion. Maybe it's about being strong. Recognizing where I'm weak, getting help in that area, and asking for God's help and God's answers. And maybe as looking at our lives and saying, you know what? I'm going to grow spiritually because I choose by God's grace to be more selfless in loving God supremely and loving others as myself. How are you doing spiritually, Pastor Yucca? Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273. or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.