Good morning. We're going to be in ecclesiastics of all places again this morning. If you have your Bibles open up, we're going to be in chapter 7, verses 15 through 29. And before we go there, let's uh open in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, gracious and merciful Father, you are Almighty, all-powerful, all-wise, and all-knowing, creator and sustainer of all life. And you are holy, holy, holy. And Father, we're grateful this morning that through your great love for us, and through our faith and our trust in Jesus Christ, whom you sent to pay the penalty for our sins. sin on that cross. And he rose again out of the grave and is now seated at your right hand this morning. We have your word this morning and we We are looking forward, Lord, to getting in and hearing your word this morning. We would ask that you would help us to set aside all of the distractions of this week Help us to concentrate fully upon your word and we ask that your Holy Spirit will guide us and lead us, Lord, and give us understanding. And as we go through it, help us, Lord, during the week to meditate through what we are hearing this week. morning and apply it in our lives so that in all things you will be glorified and lifted up in Jesus' name. Amen And we are in again chapter 7, verses 15 through 29. Verse 15 says, I have seen everything, my days of vanity. There is a just man who perishes in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man who prolongs life in his wickedness. Do not be overly righteous, nor be overly wise. Why should you destroy yourself? Do not be overly wicked, nor be foolish Why should you die before your time? It is good that you grasp this and also not remove your hand from the other. For he who fears God will escape them all. Wisdom strengthens the wise, more than ten rulers of the city, for there is not a just man on earth who does good. And does not sin. Also, do not take to heart everything people say, lest you hear your servant cursing you. For many times also your own heart has known that even you have cursed others. All this I have proved by wisdom I said, I will be wise, but it was far from me. As for that which is far off and exceedingly deep, who can find it? I applied my heart to know, to search and to seek out wisdom and the reason of things, to know the wickedness of folly, even of foolishness and madness And I find more bitter than death the woman whose heart is snares and nets, whose hands are fetters He who pleases God shall escape from her, but the sinner shall be trapped by her. Here is what I have found, says the preacher. Adding one thing to the other to find out reason, which my soul still seeks, but I cannot find. One man among a thousand I have found, but a woman among all these I have not found. Truly, this only I have found, that God made man upright. But they have sought out many schemes. There are many things in life. Wow That's was amazing. But probably maybe turn it down a little bit. I'm hearing myself in a in the Interesting way to name. So all right. There are many things in life that um that we they're required. Um That require a measured amount in order to get it right. And if you have too much, then you have a problem. For example, an overseasoned Cooking. You ever had somebody over season something? I remember when we first married, we had I had a there was something that my wife made and it wasn't that she didn't do enough of it, she did too much, and it uh whatever it was, it was Rough. And I just waited until she took a by herself. I said nothing until sh and she said, Oh, this is awful. Why didn't you tell me? You all know I didn't tell her. Anyway. Or over singing in music. Have you ever uh heard the national anthem sung with five thousand more notes than were actually on the page over singing. Or um applying too much pressure in negotiations. And so um people feel opposed the opposing side just sort of shuts down. Shuts down. Something's shutting down lately. Anyway. Or pushing too many pounds as you're as you're as you're lifting weights. to the point where you have a hernia or you you tear muscle. See, there are things in life that we have to do in a measured way, and if we don't do them in a measured way, they're going to end up in ruin. But we don't usually think of righteousness that way. We don't usually think in of doing right that way Nobody says, well, don't do right too much, because if you do right too much, it will end in ruin. And yet, that's exactly what this passage is saying. Look at it again. Look at what the text says. It actually says in verse 15, I have seen everything in my days of vanity. There is a just man who perishes in his righteousness. And there is a wicked man who prolongs life in his wickedness. Do not be overly righteous, nor be overly wise. Is it possible that you could be too right? Is it possible that you could be too righteous? Don't be don't be c be extremely right, and then it says And don't be extremely evil either. Verse 17, do not be overly wicked, nor be foolish. Why should you die before your time? Now, what is this text saying? We're going to learn from this passage as a whole that both wisdom and righteousness, and the pursuit of both wisdom and righteousness as a combination actually will end in ruin. We're going to see this in three three phases. And 15 through 18, we're going to see it is actually a dangerous pursuit. And then we're going to see in 19 through 22, it is an unreliable foundation. Then finally, we're going to see that pursuing wisdom and righteousness is an elusive objective. First, let's look at the fact that it is a dangerous pursuit. There's a just man who perishes in his righteousness. Solomon uh so to speak is proclaiming his journal, his diary, and he has pers perused over the world and he has thought through the various aspects of life, and he has noted that there is a just man who perishes in his righteousness. And there's a wicked man who prolongs his life. In wickedness. And you think of examples of that? I think one example in the Old Testament is Naboth Do you remember King Ahab and the day that he decided to go uh took a walk somewhere and uh saw a beautiful vineyard that he wanted for himself? Do you remember that story? And Naboth, the owner of the vineyard, he says, Ahab says, I want the vineyard, basically. That's my paraphrase. And then Naboth says, um I will not give you the inheritance of my fathers. And he lay down on his bed and turned away his face and would eat no food. He this was uh that's Ahab's response. He says, I'm not going to give you the inheritance of your fathers. um uh uh of my father's. He's not gonna give away what he inherited. He wants to pass it down. Naboth was doing the right thing. To give away the family inheritance, the family vineyard, that wouldn't have been the wrong that would have been the wrong thing to do Ahab is crying about it and he goes to his wife Jezebel. And you know what Jezebel does? Jezebel has Naboth accused of wrongdoing in public people that came and and false witnesses against him accused him of wrongdoing in public and that he is put to death for his right response. There is a right just man who perishes in righteousness Now, we require no examples of people that are wicked and yet prosper because of their wickedness. Frankly, if you look At our world today, you can have, there are many examples of people that actually, because we live in a fallen world, prosper as a result of their wickedness. And frankly, there are many more examples of people whose life are cut short because of righteousness. Obviously, maybe the most recent public example is Charlie Kirk and his life being cut short. And there are many examples in the first century of Christians who were martyred for their faith. And so what's more interesting is actually the admonition that we find in verse 16. What is the advice that Solomon gives? He says, do not be overly righteous. Be careful. Don't be overly righteous. And he says the same thing about being overly wicked. But on the other hand, don't be overly righteous. And he puts righteousness with wisdom together. And by the way, righteousness and wisdom are not the same thing I want to make sure that we understand that actually at the outset. Righteousness is moral uprightness. Wisdom is not a matter of righteousness. Wisdom is a matter of applying truth In a way that is consistent with truth, consistent with what God's Word says. So certain things can be a matter of morality, but are not a matter of wisdom. But the two are intended to go together. They are separate, but things, but they must be combined together to get a good outcome. But he says in this text, don't be overly righteous. And by the way, don't be overly wise either. Why should you destroy yourself? And don't be overly wicked And don't be, nor be foolish. Why should you die before your time? Now, if that's not enough, look at verse 18. He says, it is good that you grasp this And also not remove your hand from the other. Grasp both principles at the same time. Both principles, don't be too righteous and don't be too sinful. Don't be too wise and don't be too foolish at the same time. But then he says this: for he who fears God will escape them all. What is he talking about here? Now let me ask you a question. Just think about this for with me for a minute. Is it possible for someone to be too righteous? Is it possible for someone to pursue righteousness? Too hard. What about that person that says, I will do right and be right above everything else? What about that person that says, I'm going to do right and be right because I will feel better if I do? Or I will do right and be right because I want a greater status for doing right and being right. What about that person that gives no consideration for actually what pleases God? They are doing right to lift themselves up. They are doing right in order to be right for self. See, what we're actually talking here about is the problem of self-righteousness. And self-righteousness, if you pursue righteousness outside of relationship, If you think of righteousness outside of your relationship with God, it lends itself then to self-righteousness. And if you think of the New Testament, Christ uh dealt with the problem of self-righteousness with the Pharisees more than any other problem. And he was more visceral about that problem. He was more angry, if you will, about that problem than even the one who was caught in his own wickedness. Self-righteousness is a serious problem. If you pursue righteousness at the cost of your relationship with God, you have pursued righteousness too far. How do you know if you're doing that? Those who pursue righteousness over relationship or duty without delight. Someone who's all about duty and I've got to do what I'm supposed to do because it's right, but you have not you're no longer enjoying Enjoying in God what you're doing. You're no longer satisfied because God is pleased with you. There is not a relationship. There is just duty without delight. You may have fallen into self-righteousness. You may have gone too far into righteousness. Or Someone who is who is unwilling to admit wrong. In fact, they care so much about being right, they can't be wrong. They can't admit when they are wrong. That is a person who has fallen into self-righteousness. Or a person who's more satisfied with being right than pleasing God. Is that possible? It is. It's possible to come to a place where you are more satisfied with doing right and being right, and you have forgotten the God of righteousness. In fact, it is possible to love the Bible and love ministry and love even theology and miss God in the process. And so this text is telling us that as we pursue righteousness, we cannot pursue righteousness for selfish motives. If we pursue righteousness and that becomes our identity, we have actually pursued it in a way that is selfish rather than godly. And it tells us in the text that as we do that, we are going to end up in ruin. How do you avoid it? The passage tells us it's those who fear the Lord. See, the people that fear the Lord, they escape both problems. They escape the problem of extreme wickedness, and they escape the problem of self-righteousness. How do they escape it? Because they're aware of the presence of God. A person who fears the Lord is aware of the presence of God. They are in awe of God. They are focused on God. They're fixed on God. They're intent about fulfilling God's purposes. They are believing in God's ways. And so, because of their focus on God and who He is, they avoid the pitfalls of both self-righteousness and wickedness at the same time. And so this passage teaches us, as we see throughout the book of Ecclesiastes, we see over and over again, almost evenly spaced Throughout Ecclesiastes, that Solomon is going to point out that what God desires for us is to please and to fear him So we have this truth that you can be overly righteous. By being self-righteous. And you can pursue wisdom in a way that ultimately ends in ruin by focusing on wisdom for selfish gain. He's now going to move on and he's going to explain how unreliable the combination or the pursuit of wisdom and righteousness is. He's going to start off by explaining how wonderful and how powerful wisdom is. So if you just take the aspect of wisdom, we find In verse 19 it says, wisdom strengthens the wise more than ten rulers of the city. What does that mean? He strengthens the wise. Well, you think of ten rulers of a city. Back then and to some degree today, uh some somewhat, they would there would be a council that would rule a city. Think of it as a city council But there was usually not a c uh a singular executive of the city. There would be these very group of powerful rulers and they would It'd almost be like an oligarchy where they ruled the city as a group as a council. And they were in charge of having doing justice and making just decrees, and they had great power. And so Solomon is saying that if someone who genuinely has wisdom, he is strengthened by that wisdom and is actually more wise than a whole council of rulers if he has true wisdom. But I know that notice what verse 20 says then. It uses the word for. You could also use the word yet there. Yet, yet. There is not a just man on the earth who does good and does not sin. These things are coupled together here. Solomon is purposefully showing us that although wisdom is incredibly valuable, yet the problem is that no one is righteous. He's pointing out that wisdom is unreliable because of the unrighteousness of the person who may actually have wisdom. It's like a cracked foundation. You can make a beautiful home, but if it's on a cracked foundation, you have a faulty house. Or think of a man who steps out outside of his home to go to work one day and he got a brand new luxury car. It's a beautiful car. The paint job is perfect, the fit and finish is beautiful. And he goes into his luxury car and he sits down in these uh leather cushioned uh seats. They hug him just perfectly. And he puts his hand on the steering wheel. It feels so good. It's just a great quality steering wheel and puts his hand on the stick shift because any good car is actually a stick shift. And and he and he He it feels so good. He's ready to drive this car, has all of the amenities that you could possibly think of. The seats are heated. And and the the it's just the smell, the smell the new car smell is there. And he pushes the push button start, because any good car has a push button start. And he pushes it and it goes clunk, clunk, and it and then there's steam that comes from the engine. He goes, what is wrong? And he pushes it again. And the engine is entirely conked out. He pull he opens up the hood and come to find out upon further inspection that the engine block is cracked. This beautiful luxury car is worth absolutely nothing. And so it is with wisdom applied to the unrighteous person. It's it suddenly makes it's like putting lipstick on a pig. It's suddenly worthless. This beautiful, wonderful, strength-giving judgment Applying wisdom applied to the unrighteous person creates an unreliable situation And that's what we see in our text. And there is- it says, there is not a just man who does good and right always. And so he then gives some wisdom as a result of the fact that no person is explicitly reliable, that's his point, because all of us are unrighteous, all of our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked. And although I don't think he is saying no one can be trusted at all, everyone can only be trusted to certain degrees, and no one can be trusted explicitly. And so he says this next, verse 21. Also, do not take to heart, or do not pay attention, is actually the way you could put it. Do not take to heart everything people say. Lest you hear a servant cursing of you, servant cursing of you. He says, don't take to heart, don't pay attention to everything everybody says about you. Because you might hear someone that's even under you say something bad about you. And then he says this, and by the way, haven't remember you say bad stuff about other people too. Verse 22. For many times also your own heart has known that even you have cursed others. The word curse there sometimes in in old the old testament has a very strong meaning that has to do with condemning someone to death or punishment. But in this case it's really just talking about speaking badly about someone. And the fact is, if we're not careful, isn't it true that we can overhear someone speaking badly about us, wrongly about us, and it can really discourage us? Or we can speak badly about somebody else, so they can really discourage them. His advice is realize that when people talk, it's unreliable Why? Because people are unrighteous. Even if they are wise, they are ultimately unrighteous. And so you cannot believe everything everybody says. Now he is not saying it's no big deal to talk about bat talk bad about people. That's not what he's saying. In fact, in Ecclesiastes chapter 10 later on, we're going to learn this in verse 20, it says, do not curse the king, even your Thought, even in your thought. Do not curse the rich even in your bedroom. For a bird of the air may carry your voice, and a bird in flight may tell the matter It's saying, don't speak badly about people. In fact, don't even think it because you don't want it getting carried back to the wrong person So he's not at all saying that this doesn't matter, but he's also pointing out that every criticism that you have is not a criticism that you should necessarily listen to. Now you might say, well how does that how does that jive with like Proverbs 275 where it says open rebuke is better than love carried carefully concealed? Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful. How does how do those things work together? Well you notice in the context and what it's saying here in the passage is that when people speak badly about us and we hear it. That should carry far less weight than when people have the loving compassion to come to us. And to help us with a matter that perhaps we're not seeing correctly, even to the point of rebuke. He makes a distinction here. And I think it's a very, very wise distinction. Is it true that every criticism has at least an ounce of truth? Actually, it may not be. Every criticism, when someone comes, if someone is going to come to you and out of love want to correct something in your life, very likely there is at least an ounce of truth in it. Not always, but likely. But if somebody's just talking bad about you behind their back your back Their motive is entirely something that is unreliable at best. What is his point? He's just giving an example of the unreliability of wisdom. Why? Because everyone on some level is unrighteous. And we have to come to grips with that. This is a very familiar verse. This is you've probably heard the heard this quoted on many occasions in relation to the person the the a person's condition being completely unrighteous. Our unrighteousness is as are as filthy rags to God. We are altogether undone. There is not a person on the earth that does right, that is just. We are all, we all, as Romans 3 says, come short of the glory of God. And because of that, we our lives are an offense against a holy God. Because of our sin, we are separated from God for all of eternity. We're going to learn more about the solution to that later. But for us now, we need to understand that wisdom built on sin collapses under its own weight. Then we move on, and we realize that wisdom and righteousness are entirely unreliable, but Solomon is going to go a step further now. And as valuable as wisdom is, and Solomon should know something about how valuable wisdom is, and he should know something about wisdom. God has endowed him with an understanding heart. We know that. Solomon is actually going to now say that because he is wise, he realizes how Hard it is to get wisdom. Because he is wise, he realizes as he looks across the world that wisdom is quite elusive. Verse 23, all this I have proved by wisdom. I said, I will be wise, but it was far from me. As for that which is far off and exceedingly deep, who can find it? He's pointing out that not only is wisdom faulty because of the righteous of the fact that we are unrighteous, and so it's unreliable entirely. It's actually a matter of difficult it's really difficult actually to pursue wisdom. Wisdom is not something that you can just pursue and gain, he says. He's referencing back to something else he said about wisdom previously. In Ecclesiastes 1, verse 16, it says, I commune with my heart, saying, Look. I have attained greatness and have gained more wisdom than all who were before me in Jerusalem. My heart has understood great wisdom And knowledge, and set my heart to no wisdom and no madness and folly, I perceive that this also is the grasping for the win. For in much wisdom is much grief And he who increases knowledge increases sorrow. The fact that Solomon had wisdom He realized his limitations to be able to use wisdom in a way that brought forth joy and brought forth happiness and brought forth glory. We've seen this before. He says, to search out and seek out wisdom and the reason of things, to know the wickedness of folly, even of foolishness and madness. Notice what he says there. He can't the word reason actually could mean scheme, and we're going to see that word later in the passage, the one of the last words in the in the chapter. He says, you can't always search out And seek out wisdom and the reason of things. And he says, you can't know wickedness of folly, even foolishness and madness. What is he saying here? You ever notice that about life? You ever realize that you ever try to figure out why people do what they do? Sometimes you can figure it out. But there have been many times in life where I I gotta be honest with you, I have tried to figure out a line of reasoning of why somebody did what they did, and I'm like, I got nothing, I don't get it You ever experience that, a situation? Maybe it's a family member, maybe it's a coworker, maybe it's a neighbor, maybe it's yourself. And you're you do something or someone else does something and you're and you just can't figure out why they're doing what they're doing. It's not logical. The reason eludes you Well, we live in a complex, corrupt, fallen world. And remember that Solomon, as he goes through Ecclesiastes, much of what he observes is under the sun. And when you look at life and people and unrighteousness and the pursuit of wisdom and all those things On the balance, there are so many things that you actually cannot figure out. And so he points this out. To try to figure out people, the fact is people are crazy. It's true. How many times I hate to say this, but it's true. There are times where I've got I've said, you know, there's this song, uh this country song, uh God is great, beer is good, and people are crazy. Well I don't think beer is good. But God is great and people crazy. That's about right. So it's hard to figure out people. And then he gives an example. Why wisdom is so elusive. Take alluring woman, for example, verse 26. Why would anyone follow after alluring woman? It is, it's it's how can you fix there there's no good reason for that. He says, I find more bitter than death the woman whose heart is snares and nets, whose hands are fetters, who will entrap someone. He's talking about the reality that a man might lose reason altogether because of the woman who is trying to entrap him. This is something that Solomon must have been familiar with because he mentions it not only in Ecclesiastes, but in Proverbs. You remember Proverbs where he talked about the strange woman? 522 of Proverbs says, His own iniquities entrap and the wicked man, and he is caught in the cords of his sin. Proverbs 721 says, With her enticing speech he caused him to yield. With her flattering lips she seduced him. Immediately he went after her as an ox goes to the slaughter. Not a lot of reason there. Or as a fool to the correction of the stocks, till an arrow struck his liver, as a bird hastens to the snare, so he did not know it would cost his life And there is one kind of person that will escape this kind of total absence of reason. It's the person who pleases God. Do you notice the stark difference? The person who fears God escapes self-righteousness and wickedness. The person who pleases God escapes this total abdication of reasoning to do what someone wants to do, which is essentially sinful. He who pleases God, who's focused on God, who wants what God wants, that's the person who escapes her. And then he says this. Here's what I have found. Here's what I've discovered, he says, as he has observed things. Notice he's calculating things, adding one thing to another to find out the reason. He's reasoning things. He's trying to figure things out. He's trying to understand how this all works together. He says, my soul still seeks out, but I cannot find. As he has observed and reasoned and tried to figure things out, he comes up empty. He comes up with the truth that he can't figure out why everybody does the things that they do. He says, one man among a thousand I have found, but a woman among all these I have not found. Now, women before you get upset. This passage is not some misogynistic passage about how you know you can't find there there's a few good wise men and there are no wise women. That's not actually what the passage is saying. It says, when it says one man among a thousand I have found, it's saying . 1%. Really what it's saying there, this is a common phrase used, it's a idiom used in the f in in Old Testament times. to basically say something is not findable. It's like a needle in a haystack. You can't find it. So he's really actually saying you can't find a wise man and then you can't find a wise woman either. It's just a poetic way of saying it. Job 9. 3 says it this way, if one wished to contend with him, he could not answer him one time out of a thousand. The point is. You can't find a really, truly, reliably wise person, man or woman. That's the point of the passage. And then he says this, verse 29, truly, this only I have found. Look at what it says. That God made man upright. Think back to before the fall. What did God make? He made us, and we were very good. But they have sought out many schemes. And the passage ends. That's it. That's it. His conclusion His conclusion to the whole matter of the pursuit of wisdom and righteousness and the reliability of wisdom and righteousness is essentially this: that God made man upright And man blew it. End of story. Let's all go home. Doesn't that beg you, doesn't that beg for something more, though, doesn't it? And as we have said many times in the Old Testament, that is what you find. The Old Testament, it describes what is there, but it begs for a solution. Now this idea of schemes, I don't want to pass over that too quickly. The idea of schemes is plans or envision inventions or imaginations or innovations. It's this idea of taking something that is simple and making it complex and convoluted and corrupted. And that's exactly what sin does. Sin takes something that is very simple: a man and a woman and God creating them in perfect relationship with each other. in perfect relationship with him and creating a totally convoluted situation because of sin. And the curse of sin complicates everything. You can always mark it down, folks, that sin complicates and righteousness simplifies. Until righteousness becomes self-righteousness, and then it's sin and then it becomes complicated. But when we come to this truth, that the bottom line of what Solomon understands is that yes, God made man upright. But man has messed it up. But what if there was someone Who was utterly and completely righteous, and also had total wisdom We have such a man, don't we? And that is Jesus Christ. 1 Corinthians 1, verse 30. This is why, although everything else in the world is unreliable, Christ is entirely reliable. But of him you are in Christ Jesus, who became for us wisdom from God, and righteousness, and sanctification, and redemption. That as it is written, He who glories, let him glory in the Lord You can't glory in individuals. You can't glory in people. You certainly can't glory in yourself. You can't glory in this world, in this cursed, sin-ridden, corrupt world, but you can glory in Christ. Why? Because Christ is the wisdom of God and the righteousness of God. causes our sanctification and our redemption because of his wisdom and his righteousness, because he lived a perfect life. He carried out the just demands of God in his life. He completed and fulfilled the law in his life. He could provide for us. Separation from sin, that's what sanctification is, and redemption from the sin we have already committed. Christ, who is utterly wise and completely righteous, offers for us separation from sin and redemption from our sin. How does he do this? Romans 5 tells us how. Romans 5 verse 17 For if by one man's offense, that's Adam, death reign through the one, much more those who receive abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness Will reign in life through the one Jesus Christ. Did you catch that? Jesus, who is our new representative He is able, because of his righteous life, is able to take his righteousness and apply it to us because of his death. Verse 18. Therefore, as through one man's offense, judgment came to all men, resulting in condemnation, even so through one man's righteousness Righteous acts, the free gift came to all men, resulting in justification, that is to be made righteous, or to be declared righteous, the justification of life. For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so also by one man's obedience many were made righteous. Do you see the hope of Christ here? Do you see that in the world you have all kinds of convoluted complexities that are untenable and can't be understood? And yet, because there was one who is God and took on human flesh who is utterly and completely righteous, and yet took on the wisdom of God, the truth applied Christ. becomes sin for us who knew no sin as he took upon the his the sin of our us on the cross So why? So that we might be made the righteousness of God in him, and therein is the solution. No one is righteous. We are cracked engines. We are cracked foundations. No one is righteous And if you're listening today and you're trying to rely on your righteousness, you are relying on a faulty, unstable, unreliable thing. But instead, if you will rely on the righteousness of Christ, if you will understand that your sin separates you from God, If you will believe that Jesus Christ died to pay the punishment for your sin, if you will trust that Jesus Christ Died for you so that he can, you can he took on your sin on himself, and he can give you his righteousness. If you will accept that by faith, you can be saved. And if there is anybody here this morning that doesn't know where they will spend eternity, let me encourage you, come and talk with me after the service service. I would be I would be thrilled to be able to help you understand how you can go from an unreliable existence To a completely stable existence as you place your full trust in the all-wise, all-righteous Christ, who died to pay the punishment for your sin. Christ, the wisdom and righteousness is worthy of our explicit trust. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and we thank you and praise you for the truth of your word. We thank you that Christ is our righteousness. We thank you, Father, for the wonderful truth here that Christ is utterly and completely reliable because of who he is and what he did. Lord, I pray that you would help us to catch self-righteousness at its earliest movements in our lives. Help us never to depend on self for righteousness, but to depend upon Christ alone. Help us, Lord, to realize that you desire for us to be wise and to have wisdom. But if we're depending upon our own hearts, our own um Sin-cursed lives. We're depending upon the wrong thing. Instead, Lord, may we depend on Christ alone. And Lord, even as we go into the communion time together, I thank you for the time that we can remember who Christ is and what he did on the cross for us. We can celebrate that together. And we pray, Lord, that as we do that, it would be pleasing in your sight. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.