Good morning. Happy to be here? That's wonderful. Open your Bibles to Ecclesiastes chapter 8. Before we begin reading, we are going to be looking at verses 1 through 17. But let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come this morning with grateful and thankful hearts. You are so gracious and so kind and merciful toward us, Lord. You are patient and you are loving. You are almighty, all powerful, all-wise, and all-knowing. And Father, as we've been learning in the Sunday school class this morning about your great love, And you have proven and shown your great love through your Son Jesus Christ and what he has done at the cross on our behalf. And as we gather here this morning to sit under your word, we ask that this great love that we know and have experienced through your Son, Jesus Christ As we learn how to navigate through life and learn principles and good things, Lord, how to live our lives for your glory. I pray that you would help us to set aside all the distractions and all the cares and concerns that we came in with this morning. Help us take this time that your Spirit would work mightily in us and help us to concentrate fully upon your word, that we will be changed from being under your word through the power of your Holy Spirit from when we came in. May we be more like you as we leave. In Jesus' name. Amen And we again are going to be in Ecclesiastes chapter 8 and verse 1. Who is like a wise man? And who knows the interpretation of a thing? A man's wisdom makes his face shine, and the sternness of his faith is changed. I say, keep the king's commandment for the sake of your oath to God. Do not be hasty to go from his presence. Do not take your stand for an evil thing, for he does whatever he pleases, whatever pleases him. Where the word of a king is, there is power. And who may say to him, What are you doing? He who keeps his command will experience nothing harmful. And a wise man's heart discerns both time and judgment. But for every matter there is a time and judgment, though the misery of man increases greatly. For he does not know what will happen. So who can tell him when it will occur? No one has power over the Spirit to retain the Spirit, and no one has power in the day of death. There is no release from that war, and wickedness will not deliver those who are given to it. All this I have seen and applied my heart to every work that is done under the sun. There is a time in which one man rules over another to his own hurt. Then I saw the wicked buried. who had come and gone from the place of holiness, and where and there, and they were forgotten in the city, where they had so done. This also is vanity. Because the sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do evil. And though a sinner does evil a hundred times, and his days are prolonged, Yet I surely know that it will be well with those who fear God, who fear before Him. But it will not be well for the wicked, nor will he prolong his days, which are as a shadow, because he does not fear before God. There is a vanity which occurs on earth, that there are just men to whom it happens according to the work of the wicked. Again, they are wicked men to whom it happens according to the work of the righteous. I said that this is also vanity. So I commended enjoyment Because a man has nothing better under the sun than to eat, drink, and be merry. For this will remain with him in his labor all the days of his life, which God gives him under the sun. When I applied my heart to know wisdom and to see the business that is done on earth, even though one sees no sleep day or night Then I saw all the work of God, that a man cannot find out the work that is done under the sun For though a man labors to discover it, yet he will not find it. Moreover, though a wise man attempts to know it, he will not be able to find it. So how many of you this week found yourself at one time or another frustrated? I'm curious, how many of you would say it's a Okay. Almost everybody at some time or another this past week was frustrated. How many of you would say this past week was a particularly frustrating week? I'm curious, how many of you would say? Okay, quite a few hands. Well this message is for you. It really has to do with frustration, navigating life's frustration. There are a lot of things in our lives that frustrate us. Um I wrote down a list of different kinds of things that frustrate us. Mechanical things can tr frustrate us. Academic things can trust frustrate us, physical things can frustrate us, social uh interactions can frustrate us, personal things, mental, emotional, but also political And what's interesting is we have been going through a lot of political frustrations lately, haven't we? That's the last amen I've heard in a long time, actually. Anyway. And what is interesting Is that this passage deals with exactly that. Frustrations with authority. governmental authority, particularly in this case the king, because that was the kind of governmental authority that occurred back then. Frustrations over government authority, living in a fallen world and dealing with corrupt and uh and even abusive authority in the government. Of course, as you know, we this we are now experiencing the longest a government, federal government shutdown in the history of our country. And I was just amazed as I sat began to study this and it dawned on me. At first I didn't Put two and two together. I'm d I'm reading through this and looking at all of the frustration that's here with the king and the wisdom that's here and how you're supposed to navigate a king that does whatever he wants and all that. And I Don Man like, wow, the timing of this, um, this is this is a passage that's going to teach us how to navigate life's frustrations. But I will tell you, despite all of the problems that we have in our particular governmental system, it paled in comparison to the problems that that occurred back then during the Old Testament. Think of all of the tyrannical rulers that God's people endured over the years, both in the Old Testament and even in the New Testament. Think about Pharaoh. Or even the selfishness of Saul. Or think of even Solomon to some degree. But think of Ahab or Nebuchadnezzar. And it wasn't just kings that we know of in the Old Testament. There were kings even outside the Old Testament that are in extra-biblical literature that we find. In fact, there is an archaeological inscription that was discovered a few years ago, and it said this It said, this is an Assyrian king, and this was what was inscribed. And now at the commands of the great gods My sovereignty, my dominion, and my power are manifesting themselves. I am regal, I am lordly I am exalted, I am mighty, I am honored, I am glorified, I am preeminent, I am powerful, I am valiant, I am lion brave, and I am heroic. So clearly, folks, when you have an actual, when you have tyranny, when you have a king that has absolute rule, the saying goes, absolute power does what? Corrupts absolutely. And what we find is Solomon, who actually is king, describing the reality of how to deal with Kings deal how to deal with governmental authority. And what he is going to say in this passage Is that wisdom is necessary and helpful, but it will not resolve the problem. Ultimately, it is only going to be, and it's not in the passage this way, but we will we will go there. Ultimately, it is Christ, it is only Christ that will resolve the problems of corruption of authority in the government. This side of heaven, what we have to do is learn to navigate it with wisdom. Now this passage is interesting that it's sandwiched in between two statements. One is in Ecclesiastes chapter six verse twelve, if you remember there, that was a sort of a watershed verse where it says For who knows what good what is good for man in life? All the days of his vain life which he passes like a shadow, who can tell man what will happen after him or under the heaven And in verse 17, it's going to say the same kind of thing. Essentially, we don't know the work of God. There is so much mystery involved. So when we think of frustration, living with frustration, dealing with rulers and governmental frustration. What kind of frustrations are we going to see? We're going to see three in the text. We're going to see the frustration of power in verses one through nine. Then we're going to see the frustration of unjust results. In verses 10 through 14. And finally, we're going to see the frustration of limited understanding in verses 15 through 17. We pick up and we see the frustration of power. And he starts off with describing the importance of wisdom. In this passage, he is not going to say, wisdom is valuable. Wisdom we must pursue. It is, however, limited. We're going to see in verse one the value of it. Notice what it says. And this is in the context of dealing with government authority. He says, who is like a wise man? And who knows the interpretation of a thing? By the way, you have a very good description of what wisdom is. What is wisdom? Well, at least in part, wisdom is the ability to know how to interpret things The ability to be able to decipher things and understand things. Certainly also wisdom is the application of those truths that you know. But wisdom is described here as someone who is able to interpret a thing, to live in the world and to be able to identify what is going on. And that's really helpful if you have a king who is either a corrupt or abusive or just does his own thing his own way, which was the case as a pattern in the Old Testament. And then it says, a man's wisdom makes his face shine, and the sternness of his face is changed. He's pointing out that someone who is really wise, as he uh presents himself in front of a ruler or a king, he's going to be one whose face shines. His countenance is going to be one that is winsome. A wise person is going to be winsome in front of a ruler or a king, no matter what kind of king or ruler he is. He's not going to allow the the shame of his face or the sternness of his face to be involved. It's like like going to a uh a job interview. Nobody goes to a job interview with a scowl. If you do, you're probably not going to get the job. Remember coaching my kids when they get interviewed got interviewed at their job at Chick-fil-A. Chick-fil-A doesn't care about anything Except if you smile at the job. Now the first couple of days they'll fire you if you if you're lazy. They will. That's why they have good workers because they don't put up with nonsense. But the first day, what they're really looking for, if you go, if you interview, is for you to smile and be and and show that you can connect with somebody. That's what they want you to be able to do when you're on the line and serving food. And so I always told m told my girls, I said, look, it's not really going to matter that much what you say, just make sure you smile and you're polite and you're kind and you're probably going to get the job Well, uh a wise person does not go to an interview and and scowl, and a wise person doesn't go before a king and look and look stern and depressed and and uh and not smile. You know, some of us you know Somebody say, well that's my resting face. Well don't put your resting face in front of a king. Okay? Fake it. Put it on. You're wise. Make it make sure you're smiling. Okay. Verses 2 through 3 then explain, give advice to somebody who is wise. But I want you to notice what he does here in describing this is he gives advice to how you deal as a wise person with the king. But at the same time He is he is you're going to see the frustration bear out as well. It's pretty ingenious how he does this. As I read through the text, think of think of it this way. Think of white water rafting How many of you ever been whitewire rafting? Okay. I haven't actually, but I've seen it done on TV, and and someday I'm really gonna go whitewire rafting. If you ever go white wire rafting and you want a partner, I want to go. So so so let me know because I'd love to go white wire rafting sometime. But my and my my my marriage partner doesn't want to do it. So anyway, um gotta find somebody else. Anyway, so Um so uh in a w what are you doing as you go down a river and you're rafting? Well you've got to avoid major obstructions You've got to anticipate when there are waves that are very you know they're really high and depending on the rapids, depending on how aggressive it is, you've got to really navigate the thing But what you can't do in your as you're white water rafting is like move the obstructions out of the way. It's not like you can just like stop and say, okay, wait, wait, wait a minute. Let me let me stop here and let me move this boulder out of the way. No, you have to learn to navigate around it. You've got to be able to work around it. Now, as we go through this passage, this is what you're going to see. You're not going to see Solomon in his wisdom teaching us to how to move and get rid of the obstructions to to get rid of the hurdles. No, he's going to teach us with wisdom how to navigate around them. And we'll notice in the passage he says, number one number of verse two, I say, keep the king's commandment For the sake of your oath to God. He says, you've got to follow the commandment of the king. You've got to do what he says. But then notice he says two things. It says, do not be hasty to go from his presence. That's one hand on one hand. And then he says this. Do not, on the other hand, do not stand for an evil thing, for he does whatever he pleases. So he says on one hand, don't stand for something, and I think when it talks about an evil thing here, it's probably talking the word evil can mean sinful. But actually in Scripture, sometimes in the Old Testament particularly, it sometimes just means calamity. I think in this case, in the context, it just means whatever the king doesn't like. So it's basically saying, don't stand for what the king doesn't like. Well that makes sense. And also, so don't fight the king, but don't flee the king either. Don't be hasty just to get out of there as well You ever been in a situation where you don't like what's being said or like what's being done and your temptation just to just to get out of there, let me let me remove myself from the situation as quickly as possible? What we actually see in this text is a con is a the temptation for a person who isn't wise is either to flee or to fight. And that is our our response to many things. We either want to flee it or fight it. Some of us have a tendency to want to fight it, some of us have a tendency to want to flee it. And the wise person doesn't do either. He's not quick to just flee, because you'll offend the king, and he's not quick to fight because the king does what he wants. There's this, at the same time as he's saying these things, you understand how there's sort of this frustration as well. Obey, don't flee, don't fight. So what are you supposed to do? And that's actually the point of what he's saying. There is a frustration to dealing with this particular authority. Solomon told his son in Proverbs 24, 21, My son, fear the Lord and the King. And so there is this reality that with authority And especially in the King's case, and certainly in our world as well, there is there is a way to navigate authority that is not quite doing the right thing. We pick up in verses 4 through 9, and we see that a wise person is actually going to avoid questioning the king. Verse 4. Where the word of the king is, there is power. And who may say to him, What are you doing? He's talking about the fact that you have People with power that they can't really be questioned. If you were to question them, it's not going to go well for you. Of course, we in our own human spirits, we don't We don't do well with that, right? We don't like the idea of having authority that can't be questioned. But the reality is in a fallen world In a sin-cursed world, you are going to have circumstances where you are stuck with the authority that you have. You really can't question them. You really can't, you have to submit, and he's pointing that this out here, a wise person is not necessarily going to question authority And then you pick up in verse 5, he who keeps his command will experience nothing harmful. So a wise person is going to navigate this authority in a way that he's able to get out of this situation or Go through the situation unscathed. He's able to avoid harm. Then it says in verse 6, a wise man's heart discerns both time and judgment. A wise person understands that there is a time for the right thing, and there are things that are just and are unjust. And he identifies that the king is not always going to do what is just or what is unjust, what is right versus what is not right. By the way, I want to actually express this idea that what we've seen throughout the Ecclesiastes is we've talked about justice Or inequity, those kinds of things. And I I had somebody mentioned to me a couple of maybe last week or a couple of weeks ago what I kind of asking what I meant by injustice or inequity. I would just like get out of your mind any modern any modern idea of injustice or inequity when when when when Ecclesiastes is talking about it. When Ecclesiastes is referencing inequity or justice, bottom line is that when the Bible talks about injustice, it's talking about the evil prospering. And the righteous being punished. That's injustice. Evil prospering, righteous being being punished And so when you see in the text of Scripture something that looks like inequity, in God's eyes, that's what inequity is. It is a matter of right and wrong, and it's a matter of whether the right person is getting punished. or the wrong person is being uh being promoted. And so understand as we go through this that that's what's happening. Well, a wise person lives in the world, understands the corruption of authority, realizes that power is inherently corrupt. And and understands that it's also not fully just and often unjust, and so that there's going to be an injustices in the world. But he also understands that there is a time and a place to try to deal with that There's a time to deal with it and a time not to. He notices, he realizes his limitation. Notice what it says. Because for every matter there is a time and a judgment But then notice what it says. Though the misery of the man increases greatly. Now why is it increased greatly? Well, the next phrase tells us. For he does not know what will happen So who can tell him what is what it what it will occur? So a wise person looks at all everything, realizes injustice in the world, realizes that the wicked are being um are being promoted and prospering and the the righteous are being punished. Understands that he wants to do what he can to deal with that, but he also realizes that there's an appropriate helpful time to deal with things and there's appropriate helpful time to keep his mouth shut because he's not going to really help. And while he is waiting for the appropriate time He is inside he is sort of going, oh, I can't do anything. You ever been that way before? You ever been in a situation where you see injustice, you see something that's not fair, you see something that is not right, and yet you are powerless to deal with the problem You know that there may be a right time in the future to deal with the problem, but you've got to wait. And while you wait, you are wrestling and struggling inside. That such is the nature of a wise person in a fallen world Then in verses 8 through 9, we see four limitations that Solomon points out. He says, first of all, no one has power over the Spirit. to retain the spirit. Now the word spirit there could mean wind. It's the exact same word in the Hebrew, whether it's spirit or wind. You could easily translate this, and many modern translations do translate it wind. No one has power over the wind to retain the wind. Or no one has power over the spirit to retain the spirit. The point is the same actually. Bottom line is there are things that you just simply don't have power over And wind is certainly one of them. A wise person has no power over the wind. He has no ability to be able to deal with that. Limitation number two, and no one has power in the day of death So you have no power over the wind, you have no power over the day of death. Realize that, by the way, folks. It's amazing how many in our world how many efforts there are to ill to lengthen one's life. And yet the truth of the matter is you have no power over death. The truth is that God has the day already set. And and so no one has power over the day in the day of death. Then then number three, there is no release, there's no there's no furlough, if you will, from war. And wicked will not deliver those who are given to it. A wise person, just by sheer wisdom, cannot end a war. Are we learning that with certain wars that are happening even in our country even in our world today? Have you noticed that Russia and Ukraine are still at war? It's not just a matter of sheer wisdom or sheer ability to negotiate. There are other things involved. It is it is really great hubris to think that any individual can just decide to solve a problem like that through wisdom. Is who's really in control of all of that? God is ultimately in control. And as nations war against other nations What you actually have in Psalm chapter 2 is the Lord sits in the heavens and laughs. That is, as kingdoms against kingdoms try to deal and try to and try to actually solve problems and actually invade other nations and fight against each other. The one who has all the power is really God and we have to understand that sheer wisdom is not going to solve all the problems And we sort of end there with this particular section. Doesn't it leave you wanting something? Doesn't it leave you? And this is what we're going to see in Ecclesiastes. We've seen it before, we're seeing it again. Okay, so the wise person, I mean it's better to be wise than foolish. If you're fool in front of a powerful person I mean you might as well just call it quits. Like you're gonna you're gonna have a problem. Um if you're a wise person, you might be able to navigate it and get out of there unscathed. But the problem is not solved. And that is the way Ecclesiastes is. It doesn't solve all the problems. It it is essentially Solomon is looking at things for the most part. We're gonna see him it's almost like a turtle, where he's he a turtle like stays in his in his uh shell most of the time and sticks his head out every once in a while Well it's kind of like Solomon, he's got his head under the sun most of the time. Every once in a while we see him stick his head on. We're gonna see it in the passage actually, where he sticks his head up above the sun to sort of see what's above the sun. But he he he's staying below the sun most of the time. And as he does that He's very often left with, as we've seen, it's vanity. It's vexation of spirit. But I want to remind us folks that we do not have to live there. The key is that we stick our head out above the sun and we realize that God is in control. And more importantly, that there is going to be a day where although we, through our wisdom, cannot can only navigate, we cannot solve the problems, there will be one day where Christ does. When you take your Bibles for just a moment and turn to Psalm 22, I want you to see this. So this is actually one of the Psalms that were was in the men's conference. yesterday. It was an excellent conference, and I really was encouraged by I just told Harry, I said there are going to be a couple of these of these Psalms, and Stefan, I told them both, I said you're going to see a few of these Psalms. uh today as well. This one is just such an encouraging one. This is a messianic psalm, and we're not going to go through the entire psalm, but I'll just re cause you to realize that this is a psalm where Jesus Is being put to death on the cross for our sin. And it displays the death of Christ. It also prophesies the resurrection of Christ. And as a result of the death and resurrection of Christ, there's something else that it prophesies. I want you to notice what it says in verse 27. All of the ends of the world shall remember and turn to the Lord. There's going to be a day where everyone turns to the Lord. And all the families of the nation shall worship before you. For the kingdom is the Lord's And he rules over the nations. This is, it's speaking in the present because there's this vividness to the reality, but it is future where Jesus is the is is Going to be king. He's going to rule over the nations. All the prosperous of the earth shall eat and worship. All those who go down to the dust shall b bow before him. Even he who cannot keep himself alive. A posterity shall serve him, he will be recounted of the Lord in the next generation. They will come and declare his righteousness to the people who will be born that he has done this. This is a prophecy of Christ who will come. He will set up his kingdom. He will make all things right. He will execute And that is our hope. Christ is our hope. We do not have to end where Solomon does. We know that Christ will come again, and he will rule and reign with perfect justice and mercy and righteousness. He will reign with all of that. But for now, we've got to stick our head back underneath the sun. And we've got to see in verses 10 through 14 the frustration that of unjust results. Now this is an interesting verse. This is probably one of the most difficult verses in Ecclesiastes, I think, as I was interpreting it. Look at verse 10 what it says Then I saw the wicked buried, who had come and gone from the place of holiness, and they were forgotten in the city where they had so done. This also is vanity. Now I'll tell you ahead of time that there are multiple views of this verse. I think the best one that I can come up with that's clearest in the context is simply he's talking about, he's still talking about someone who is wicked. And he is observing the fact that they have been buried. They were in a place of prominence so that they were they had gone They had come and gone from the from a place of holiness, so that would be either the tabernacle or the temple. So he is observing someone who died, but before they died, they were wicked. But they were hypocritically going to in and out of the temple so that they were lifted up by man as being great and holy. Yet they were wicked, and he they saw, and he was seeing their demise, he was seeing their death. And on the other hand, this other they in this passage And it doesn't read smoothly there at all, but uh the other they in the passage is probably refer referencing a righteous person who was simply forgotten in the city where they had where they had so done. So you have this contrast between the wicked and the righteous. The wicked person goes through his life and he is lauded for his holiness and his greatness, and yet when he dies, it's obvious that he is wicked. And yet you have the righteous person, on the other hand, who is just forgotten. Like his deeds are forgotten, he is he fades into the sunset, nobody remembers him. Not a really nice picture, is it? Well, it gets worse. Look at verse 11. Because he says this, because the sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily. Now that we understand. How many times have we seen wickedness go unpunished And he is saying that in a fallen world, it is very normal for For punishment to go slowly toward the wicked. And do you know the result of that? He he knows notes the result. He says, Therefore, the heart of the sons of men, that's like everybody Is fully set in them to do evil. He says, because people aren't quickly punished when they do evil, there is a motivation for more people to do evil because they're not getting punished. Have you experienced that in Maryland? Think about Baltimore. I sorry, I'm I I'm not trying to be political, but I think I'm in I'm in Safe territory here. Um Baltimore City, like they don't they don't punish murderers. in an appropriate way in Baltimore City as a whole. And what do you have? You have Baltimore City being I think it's number one for the murder cap capital of the world. Why? Because People are not motivated to stop murdering because they're not solving the they're not punishing correctly. And we look at day after day after day and we see the murders in Baltimore and we are frustrated by the fact that justice is not being done. So most of us go like, I'm not going into Baltimore. Except that sometimes you have to go into Baltimore and you if you're you can do it. There are s there are actually places in Baltimore that are safer than others. You're gonna know where you're going. But we we we sort of loathe loathe the injustice that we see as a result of the problems that we see. And there's no downs, there's no there's no s there's no end to this. How about dirt bikers How about those guys on the road? This happens at Baltimore, not just Baltimore, it's Elkridge and Ferndale and everywhere else. Where you have people with these these dirt bikes, these high powered dirt bikes. Now in the state of Maryland, if it's below 49 CCs, you don't need a license. for it. But I'm and registration for it. But these things are way above that. And you got them in packs going down the streets. And every time I see one, I want to do something. You feel that way? Like they should not be on the road, it's illegal. They're gonna get somebody else hurt, they're gonna be hurt, and yet police officers are told in Baltimore City, don't chase after them, and I think probably everywhere else because It's more dangerous to chase them than not, so they just are left going aft doing what they want to do. Tries me nuts I see them, I'm like, somebody, like, I I'm tempted to like get my pellet gun out and shoot their tires or something. I want to fix the problem. It's you know they drive up my hill. And like, why are they coming up Elkridge Heights? There's like four houses up there. Go somewhere. Anyway. So all I can say is the point is that it is it is frustrating to see injustice occur. And yet that is the world we live in, the fallen world we live in, where things are not made right and evil is not punished, and so it continues, and it's not and there's no motivation to stop the evil, so it continues. But then I want you to notice that there is like a minute where Solomon pops his head up out of the out of the out above the sun a little bit. There's like this veiled hope beyond. Look at verse 12. And we have a different perspective here. He says, though a sinner does evil a hundred times and his days are prolonged, that's actually more injustice. He's actually prolonged by in in in his mind the sinner does evil over and over and over again. It should lead to death, but it's not leading to death because he lived in a fallen world. It's like his days are prolonged. And yet he says this in verse twelve yet I surely know that it will be well with those who fear God, who fear before him. What is he saying there? And then notice the contrast, verse thirteen. But it will not be well with the wicked, nor will he prolong his days which are as a shadow, because he does not fear before God. For just a moment, Solomon points out that the end result, the ultimate is that there will be consequence. Those who fear the Lord will fare well. And those who do not will not. He doesn't detail this out, but he just points this out. And there's something that I think is really interesting about what he says in verse 12. He says, who fear before him. There's a lot of what the The the word fear fear the Lord, this phrase that we see that's continually over all the way all the way through Ecclesiastes and frankly over the old whole Old Testament This phrase is a phrase that we see here, and in this case, it is emphasizing the presence of God. Not only to fear God, but to fear before God. Those who truly fear God are constantly aware of the presence of God. So that because they are aware of the presence of God, they also realize that God will one day judge them, that God will one day set things right. It's like my mother when she told me growing up, she would tell me all this all the time. Look, I might not see everything, Jimmy, but God does. And that stuck with me. He would she would say that all of the time. I might not see it all. God does, and you don't want his spankings. She would say that to me. My spankings are easier than his. And it's true. Sometimes my kids when they're younger, Dad, why don't you get spankings? Oh, I get spankings. God spanks a whole lot harder. You be a y you should be glad that I'm the one doing giving giving me those thankings. But in this context what we find here Is that there is a fear of the Lord that is in the that is that is aware of the presence of God. Now it ends. He didn't stay long. Because it ends, this section ends by saying, There is a vanity which occurs on the earth, and there is a just m and there are just men to whom it happens according to the work of the wicked Again, there is wicked men to whom it happens according to the work of the righteous. I said that this also is vanity. He summarized it by saying, This happens all the time. Those who are doing the wicked, they are rewarded as if they were doing the work of the righteous, and vice versa. But I want us to back up for a minute, even though Solomon only takes a minute and he pops his head out of the out from below the sun. And he talks, he sees things from God's perspective. I want us to take a little longer with this. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Psalm 73? Psalm 73. This is also another psalm that was preached yesterday at the men's conference. This is a plug for all you men. You missed a good conference Next year go to the men's conference and you can hear m hear me say talk about it after you've been out anyway. Um Psalm seventy three Notice verse 1, it says, Truly God is good to Israel, to such as are pure heart, pure in heart. Now he starts off there. But I want you to notice what Asaph in this psalm does. He he recognizes that he almost stumbles. Look at what it says. But as for me My feet had almost stumbled, my steps had nearly slipped. What caused that? What caused ASAP to stumble, to slip To almost fall. Here's what caused it, verse 3. I was envious of the boastful. When I saw the prosperity of the wicked. For there are no pangs in their death, but their strength is firm. Notice he then talks about how great the wicked have it Verse 5, they are not in trouble as other men, nor are they plagued like other men. Therefore, pride serves as their necklace. Violence covers them like a garment. Their eyes bulge with abundance. They have more than more than heart could wish. They scoff and speak wickedly concerning oppression. They speak loftily. They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue walks through the earth. He says, when I saw the wickedness and how they prosper, when I saw the injustice of the reality that they are full of strength and and have everything and yet they are wicked. It caused me almost to stumble. You ever been there? You ever felt the utter frustration and dismay and almost despair? Of seeing the wicked go unpunished and prosper, and yet you are trying to do the right thing. And do the right thing the right way, as best as you possibly can, and yet you're not the one that's prospering. Happens in the job sometimes. It happens in life in various ways. But I want you to notice the advice that Saul the ASAP well it's advice for us, ASAP just expresses the change of perspective that he has. I'll tell you what, we're not gonna find this passage. You're not going to see the problem fixed again. Well, you kind of are, but you're not going to see it presently fixed. In other words, it's not our job to solve or fix the problem. But I know I want you to notice in verse 16 what happens here. It says When I thought how to understand this, it was too painful for me. And then notice what he says, until I went into the sanctuary of God. There was a change. When he came into the presence of God, when he was aware of the presence of God, he says, then I understood their what? Their end. He realized once he was in the presence of God, he began to see things from God's perspective. Now he sees the end. Now he sees the result. Verse 18. Surely you set them in slippery places. He's talking to God. You cast them down into destruction. Oh, how they are brought to desolation, as in a moment. They are utterly consumed with terrors as a dream when one awakes, so Lord, when you awake you shall despise their image. Thus my heart was grieved and I was vexed in my mind. Do you see the difference They're prospering, they're glorious, they're strong, they're intelligent, they've got everything going for them, but you get in the presence of God and you realize their end is that they are going to end up being judged And vexed by Almighty God. And then notice what it says in verse 25 His heart is just lifted up. Actually, actually, back up to verse 23. It says, nevertheless I am continually with you. You hold me by my right hand. You will guide me with your counsel and afterward receive me to glory. Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is none upon the earth that I desire besides you. My flesh and my heart fail But God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. For indeed, those who are far from you shall perish You have destroyed all those who desert you for harlotry. But it is good for me to draw near to God. I have put my trust in the Lord God, that I may declare all your works. See, when we're living in the presence of God, when we are trusting in Almighty God, He becomes our sustaining strength. Our perspective changes. We see the eternal perspective, and it gives us hope. Psalm and then verses 15 through 17, we see that this side of heaven, there is a failure to understand how all of this works. Look at verse 15, it says, So I commended enjoyment. Because a man has nothing better under the sun than to eat, drink, and be merry. For this will remain with him in his labor all the days of his life, which God gives him under the Son. Now we have seen this before, and we see it now again. What he is saying here is that in spite of all of the injustice and all of the problems of living in a sin-cursed world, Yet isn't it true that God does give us gifts of joy He says they will be coupled with the turmoil of labor in under the sun. They're coupled together. And I think that the implication is this. Do not allow the problems of the world to rob your joy Don't be so consumed with the problems and the injustice of the world that you forget that intermingled with it is are gifts of joy from God. And you know what? You can enjoy them. Don't let the frustrations of your life rob you of your joy. There is great joy that we can celebrate, celebrate it instead of letting the frustrations of life rob you from it. Because He's going to end here. You're just not gonna understand everything. Verse 16. When I applied my heart to know wisdom and to see the business that is done on the earth. Again He is not saying don't apply your heart to no wisdom. You should apply your heart to no wisdom. It's interesting what it says in Ecclesiastes about this It's really, it's really quite profound. Remember in verses chapter 1, verses 13 and 14, we'll just remind ourselves of it. It says, I set my heart to seek and to search out by wisdom. Same kind of wording there Concerning all that is done under heaven, this burdensome task God has given to the sons of men by which they may be exercised. Do you know what he's saying? He's saying, I searched it is it is our God-given task to be wise and to search out by wisdom all that we should. We should be as wise as we possibly can But there's a sense in which it is a burdensome task because we as we are trying to be as wise as we can There is a burden because we know enough to be frustrated. And yet He's not saying don't be wise. Look, we ought to be as wise as we possibly can. God tells us to pursue wisdom. Proverbs two one through five, my son, if you will receive my words and my treasures uh and treasure my command within you, so that you incline your ear to wisdom and apply your heart to understanding. Yes, if you will cry out for discernment and lift your voice for understanding, if you'll seek out her as silver, and search for her as for hidden treasures. Then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. God wants us to pursue wisdom hard. And this is what Solomon did. It says, even though one sees no sleep day or night, he was pursuing wisdom so that he was losing sleep over it. And yet as much as he was doing so, look at what it says, then I saw all the work of God, for the man cannot find out the work that is done under the sun. He realizes. And then finally he says, For though a man labors to discover it, he works hard to discover it, he loses sleep to discover it, yet he will not find it. Moreover, though a wise man attempts to know it, he will not be able to find it out. Look, there are things in life that God is in control of. He is in he is sovereign, but we are simply never going to understand just by sheer wisdom. There are things in life where we are simply going to be able to say and have to say, whatever my God ordains is right. Even though I don't know what that is. Even though I don't understand it. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. And what? Do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways, acknowledge Him, and He will direct your paths. And this is how this chapter ends. It ends with, I don't know. Who knows? That's how this chapter ends. It's like a song that you it has a it's a it's a song that you know sort of um has dissonance and then it resolves and more dissonance and resolves and dissonance But doesn't resolve. And yet we know the resolution, do we not? We know how it ends. It ends with Christ on the throne. Everything is resolved. We may not understand it now, but we will certainly understand more when Christ returns. So as we're wrapping all this up, I want to give us three takeaways. Number one, navigate corrupt authority wisely. But trust Christ to set it right. Understand, yes, you should navigate authority as wisely as you can. But trust Christ to set it right. You will not be able to solve it. Number two, endure life's injustice, but remain in God's presence to stand firm. Endure life's injustice. It's going to be there. You're not going to be able to solve it. There may be times where you through wisdom can help at the right time. But ultimately remain in the presence of God so you see things from His perspective, and you're able to stand firm rather than to stumble. Remember what Asaph said. He almost stumbled, and yet he did not, because he found the presence of God to be a source of strength. and to give them an entirely different perspective on what the end of the wicked would be. And number three, pursue wisdom earnestly, but embrace joy and accept life's mystery. Pursue wisdom earnestly. Don't stop pursuing wisdom. But embrace joy and accept life's mystery. And perhaps you're here this morning, and I'll just put this plea out to you. Perhaps you're here this morning and you don't know where you stand in your relationship with God Understand that the end is not good for you. If you do not know Christ as your Savior, the Bible says you are born a sinner, and your sin separates you from God. And that means that your sin is not dealt with, and you can't deal with your own sin. You don't have the ability to do that according to the Bible. But Christ did that for you by taking our sin on himself on the cross and dying on the cross for us. So that all we have to do is accept it by faith. And that gift of righteousness is applied to us. And if you if you are here this morning, And you don't know where you stand with God, you have never come to a place where you have fully depended upon what Christ has done to pay the punishment for your sin. You have the opportunity to see it end well for you by being rightly related to God so that your sin is taken away so that you will not receive the judgment of God someday. Those who are wicked, who do not have their wickedness solved by Christ, will one day experience the justice that they deserve. But Christ took our sin on himself, satisfying the justice of God. And because of his great love and grace, We can receive that. If you have not received it, please come and talk with me after the service. I'd be glad to help you know how know more about how you can receive that gift of eternal life that God offers. Let's go, Lord, in prayer Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for its truth. We thank you for that it doesn't sugarcoat things. Your word does not does not make things look in the world better than they really are. Doesn't try to make everything happy and rosy and no, it actually it actually brings us to stark reality But I thank you, Lord, that your word also draws us to be in your presence and to realize how important it is for us to have an eternal perspective on life. And so I pray this morning that you would help us as we experience the frustrations of living in a world where government is certainly not not doing everything it should. And in some cases, doing more than it should. And we see all kinds of problems. Lord, I pray that you would help us to not live there, but to live in your presence. And as we do, we know that you will set all things right someday. We thank you for your faithfulness. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banan, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.