We are going to be in Ecclesiastes chapter 9 this morning, verses 1 through 16. If you have your Bibles, you can open up to there. But before we go there, let's pray together to the Lord. Father, we are grateful this morning and thankful for your grace and for your mercy. We're grateful and thankful for so great a salvation. And Lord, we thank you, Jesus, for all that you have done on our behalf and how you are interceding even this morning in our behalf We're thankful for your spirit. We're thankful for your word. And I pray as we come to this time to come and sit under the preaching of your word, I pray, Father, that you would help us to set aside all those cares and all those concerns, all those things that distract us this week. And may we take this time to Hear from you. And Father, I pray that you'll open our hearts and our minds to your word, and I pray that your Holy Spirit will be working mightily in our hearts to transform us more and more. into the image of your great son, Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Chapter nine of Ecclesiastes, verse one. And before I begin, I am going to put on my glasses. Okay, for I considered all that is in my heart. So that I could declare it all, that the righteous and the wise and their works are in the hand of God. People know neither love nor hatred by anything they see before them. All things come alike to all. One event happens to the righteous and the wicked The good, the clean, and the unclean, to him who sacrifices and to him who does not sacrifice. As is the good, so is the sinner. He who takes on an oath as he who fears an oath. This is an evil in all that is done under the sun. That one thing happens to all Truly, the hearts of the sons of men are full of evil. Madness is in their hearts while they live, and after that they go to be dead. But for him who is joined to all the living, there is hope. For a living dog is better than a dead lion. For the living know that they will die. But the dead know nothing, and they have no more reward, for the memory of them is forgotten. Also, their love, their hatred, and their envy have now perished. Nevermore will they have a share in anything done under the sun. Go eat your bread with joy, and drink your wine with a merry heart, for God has already accepted your works. Let your garments always be white, and let your head lack no oil. Live joyfully with the wife, whom you love all the days of your vain life, which he has given you under the sun. All your days are vanity For that is your portion in life and in labor which you perform under the sun. Whatever your hand finds to do, do it with your might For there is no work or device or knowledge or wisdom in the grave where you are going. I returned and saw under the sun that The race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, nor bread to the wise, nor riches to men of understanding, nor favor to men of skill But time and chance happened to them all. For man does also does not know this time, like fish taken in a cruel net Like birds caught in a snare. So the sons of men are snared in an evil time, when it falls suddenly upon them. The wisdom I have seen under the sun, and it seemed great to me. There was a little city with few men in it. And a great king came against it and besieged it and built great snares around it. Now there was found in it a poor wise man. And he by his wisdom delivered the city. Yet no one remembered the same poor man. Then I said, Wisdom is better than strength Nevertheless, the poor man's wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard. Let me begin by asking a question. How often do you attempt to forecast something? Well, you think of the weather and they might get it right about fifty percent of the time. They're the only people that get s paid what they get paid to to uh be wrong half the time. Um but they're they're not always that great at forecasting the weather. Might you might forecast the markets or you might forecast a health diagnosis or you might try to forecast Uh elections, those are always fun to try to forecast. But even by thinking through the things that we may try to forecast, it's obvious that life is extremely unpredictable and very uncertain. And that is actually what this text is talking about. In chapter 9, verse 1, and verse 12, and 10, 14, you have phrases like, no man knows. And you do not know. It goes on in 11. 2 and 11. 6 as well. You do not know. The point that you're going to see throughout the passage here this morning is that Solomon is trying to tell us that life is extremely uncertain. And yet God wants us to live in the midst of it. There are there are life is full of moments that demonstrate that we are not in control A phone call in the middle of the night is something you don't expect. I got a call call last night, not in the middle of the night, but the last night and uh and my neighbor had passed away Um pretty unexpectedly. I mean I knew he was sick for about a month, but I did not realize he was that sick. He's a Christian, knows the Lord, I'm thankful for that. But I I was kinda surprised by it. I was I was uh did not exp anticipate, did not expect it to happen. Or a doctor's report that you didn't expect Or uh your job suddenly you get a pink slip. They do pink slips anymore. I don't even know if they do this anymore. But anyway, uh you you find out you that your job is is uh is not going to be there. Or it's shaky like you work for the government and of course we're done with the government shutdown, thankfully. We're thankful for that. But for a while there things were pretty ten tentative and didn't know how to plan. Or Or a relationship that changes without warning, and suddenly you thought you were on good terms with somebody and something changes We try to plan and structure and ensure and prepare. We try to anticipate outcomes and yet Life is basically uncertain. And we instead of trying to control and trying to forecast What if instead we learn to live with the uncertainty? And to live knowing that God is in control, that we are in His hands. Can you think about what, when you think about how you feel about the future and the fact that you don't know the future, you don't know what's coming? Many of us are have lived some time, enough time, to look back and to realize that there are, we have been surprised throughout our lives of things that we didn't see coming that came. And we don't like that feeling of surprise. How many of y'all like surprises? Well, there are some good ones that are good, but but what about the surprises that uh is bad news? How many of y'all like those? I like I hopefully nobody I don't think anybody would raise their hand I like bad news, especially if it's a surprise. No, we we don't in fact if at all we want to be prepared for those kinds of things And yet there is virtually no way for us to go through this life unsurprised. Because that is how life is. Jesus gave this advice to his disciples. He said, do not worry about your life. What you will eat or what you will drink or what your or about your body what you will put on. Is not life more than food and body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air, for they neither sow nor reap, nor gather in barns yet your heavenly father feeds them, for you uh are you not more valuable than they? He goes on later in the passage to say, can you add one uh cubit to your stature by work stature by worrying about it? No, you cannot There's nothing you can do about what you can't control, and you can't even predict what you can't control because life is that uncertain. So what we need to do instead is learn how to live in light of the uncertainties of life. And this passage is going to teach us that. It's going to help us with that. We're going to see in verses 1 through 3 that life is uncertain, but we are in God's hands. And then we're going to see in verses 4 through 10 that life is uncertain, but it is still worth living well. And then verses 11 through 16, life is uncertain and no one can master it. So verses 1 through 3, life is uncertain, but we are in the hands of the And we pick up here and it says this, for I consider all that is in my heart, so that I could desire declare it all. That the righteous and the wise and their works are in the hand of God. He reflects on his life, Solomon does. He reflects on what is in his heart, and he wants to declare uh in a in in a comprehensive way what he would declare about life and he says this is what this is about the only thing he could say about all of life it's in the hands of God it's in God's hands And he begins this passage on uncertainty with that rather certain truth. It is in the hands of God. And the implication is is that because it is in the hands of God, it can be steer by God however he wants it to be steered. Proverbs chapter 21 points this out. It's when it says, the king's heart is in the hand of the Lord. Same author, Solomon. says it's in the hand of the Lord, like the rivers of water, he turns it wherever he wishes. And so circumstances of life The reality of the various aspects of life and God's working in life are steered by God. But as we think about life and circumstances being in the hand of God, how should we perceive that God is with us? How should we, by what we see in our circumstances, assume about how God feels about us? Notice what it says in the second part of verse 1. People know neither love nor hatred by anything they see before them. I think it's a very important understanding. Now the word hatred there, uh you say who is this talking about, love or hatred? I think we have to assume it's talking about God. That's what it's been it's in the hands of God and people assume says they can neither know love or hatred by anything they see before them. Anything that is in front of them, the circumstances that they are in, do not show them that God is either loving or or rejecting of him. And the word hatred there is also mentioned, for example, in Malachi one. When it says that God hates something, it's not talking about a a malice or a a a kind of sinful hatred. It's talking about a rejection. And what he's saying is is that the circumstances that you see around you and the things that even affect you personally when it comes to the circumstances, you cannot assume God's love or his rejection by those circumstances. It's actually quite telling Here's why, verse 2. All things come alike to all, he says. He says, there's one event and it happens to all. Now, this has been a theme that we've seen throughout Ecclesiastes. Ecclesiastes two fourteen, and the wise man's eyes are in his head, but the but the fool walks in darkness, yet I myself perceive that the same event happens to them all Same kind of thing is said in Ecclesiastes 3. 19, and again in Ecclesiastes 7. 15, and again in Ecclesiastes 8. 14. You have the same event And it happens to all kinds of people, righteous and wicked, wise and foolish. It's the same event that happens to everybody. And so he lists He lists this kind of thing here. All things come alike to all. One of it happens to the righteous and the wicked. To the good and the clean and the unclean. To him who sacrifices and him who does not sacrifice. As the good, so is the sinner. He who takes an oath, as he who fears an oath. This is an evil in all that is done under the sun that one thing happens to all. I mean it seems actually pretty unfair when you think about it, that the same catastrophic event happens to the righteous as those who happen to the evil The same calamity, the same good things, the same blessings happened to uh to the the rain falls, and back then the rain was a good thing, and still is today actually, but But uh it falls on the just and the unjust. It happens everywhere. Circumstances are inevitable But circumstances do not tell you God's disposition toward you. Look at verse 3. Truly the heart of the sons of men are full of evil, madness. in their hearts while they live, and after that they go to the dead. Oh, there's something that's certain. Death. You'll know when it is, but you know it's coming. Of course if you're familiar with the phrase there's only two third things that are certain in life, that's death and taxes. And death is some certainly something that is certain. It's inevitable. It will happen. It's going to happen to all kinds of people, whether they're evil or not, and whether they're mad in their hearts or not. This is whether e all of that. It's all what is clear is that you have the same event Same events, same circumstances, and the one event that happens to all is death. Now, in these first three verses, what can we gain in application from this? Let me ask you this question. Do you use circumstances to gauge God's favor with you? Do you do that? You find yourself in a very difficult situation and you say, boy, God must be upset of me. Or you find yourself in a good situation and you say, well, God must really love me. Do you gauge your standing with God by the circumstances that you find yourself in? This passage says you can't do that. For you just look at the calamities of life or the problems of life and say, Well, God must be mad at me. Well, that might be how people react, but that's not how God does And to say that we could somehow determine God's standing toward our standing toward God, rather, by the things that, the circumstances around us, that is that is a fallacy. You remember the song in the sound of music that Liesel sang when she met that one handsome guy and fell in love? Somewhere in my youth or childhood I must have done something good Well that sounds nice, but it's totally wrong. You sort of assumed that that was the case. She sort of assumed that must be the case. And if we're not careful, we have the same kinds of feelings. Look, folks, we need to understand that if we know Christ is our Savior, our favor with God is not based upon our circumstances. And frankly, it's not based upon our performance either. It's based upon God's favor that's been given to us. In Ephesians chapter 1, this is clear, verses 5 through 7. Having predestined us to the adoption of his sons by Jesus Christ Himself, according to the good pleasure of His will, to the praise of the glory of His grace, by which He made us accepted in the Boved. In whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins according to the riches of his grace. If you are looking to where you're standing with God, you look to two things. that you are created in the image of God and that you are saved by the grace of God. That's how you know your standing with God. He made us, he made us, Jesus made us accepted in the beloved. And folks, that is where we must drill down and anchor our hearts and our souls so that we are not tossed to and fro every time some kind of circumstance comes along that is unfavorable to us that we don't expect. Yes, the circumstances are in the hands of God. Everything is in the hands of God. But we cannot pretend to know why he is doing what he is doing, and we ought not assume we understand his disposition toward us based upon the circumstances of life. But I want to go a step further. Many of you are parents, and all of you had parents And if you think about the parent-child relationship, do you feel like if you think about back to your parents, the relationship with your parents? Do you feel that your parents, their disposition toward you is based upon your performance? Or based upon some circumstance. How about how about parents? How about you how you treat your kids Are we are we do we treat our kids where we've got to make sure everything is absolutely equal with all of our kids? Are we are we training up little justice warriors? That say, hey, it's not wait a minute, I didn't get in as much as that person and you get you did that with him and he did uh are we are we Uh are we are they gauging our favor with them based upon what we give them and how fair we are with everybody else? I tell you one of the freeing Freeing things. We were in a one time in a um men's breakfast a few months ago and we were talking about parenting and I don't know how we got on the subject of this, but basically somebody a couple of people said Um, you know, you we don't you don't have to be absolutely equal with your kids with everything. You every child is different. That means you can't be actually equal. You've got to actually figure out what is best for that child and it may not look the same for everybody. And I sort of said, you know what? That's a good point. So throw it out, the whole idea of, I mean, look, life's not fair. You know why our kids ought to know that we love them? Because they're our kids. And they ought to understand that They are our children and we love them unconditionally. We love them because of who they are, that we are their parents and they are their children. They know I am daddy loves me, mom loves me, no matter what I do or don't do And that should be the basis with which they measure our their standing with us. And it's the same way with God. We don't measure our standing with God based upon how we feel He's treating us in the moment. We measure our standing with God based upon what he has said in his word, that we are accepted by him if we know Christ is our Savior. Now, as we move on. We realize in verses 4 through 10 that life is uncertain, but it is still worth living well. See, the truth of the matter is as we go through life and it's uncertainty, it's not hard for us to get a little depressed. You ever been that you ever you ever experienced that? Maybe if you have after you have a series of surprises, all negative, one right after another. You ever feel like you're fighting on all fronts at the same time? Now you're dealing with social problems and work problems and church problems or whatever. You're dealing with all kinds of problems at the same time. And you get discouraged and you get, you feel a little, you lose confidence maybe in your abilities, maybe in yourself. You just kind of lose confidence in everything. And you know what this is just helpful advice that Solomon gives here. He says, look, you're still living. That's what he says in the passage, but for him who is joined to all the living, there is hope. That hope means confidence. There's confidence for a living dog is better than a dead lion. Boy, this is just dirt practical. Remember that a dog back in Old Testament times is is a scavenger. They eat dead stuff. They're the lowest of the low. You can think of a rat. Okay. All you dog lovers there out there, and I'm becoming one. Um I sorry, it's just the way dogs were originally. They're rats like in the Old Testament. They're dirty, mangy creatures, not something that you hug and cuddle and Let them lick on you and stuff. Lions, on the other hand, were the most honored animal back then And so what he's saying though is he's saying, you know, a l uh a a dead lion, though it is honored, does no good, and a live dog is worth more. He's pointing out the fact that if you're still living, take what you have in your life. It says, verse 5, for the living know that they will die, but the dead know nothing. He says, uh Yeah, we know we'll die, but at least we have consciousness, at least we're aware of things. There's Life's still to live. And they have no more reward for the memory of them is forgotten. There's nothing left if you're dead. So he's pointing out that as we have still have life, we should live it to the best we can. Also their love, their hatred, and their envy have now perished. Still talking about the dead. He says, nevermore will they have a share. That word share is translated portion later. It's the same word. share or portion in anything done under the sun. Their portion. And we've seen this word before throughout we it's it's uh been translated heritage It's translated share here. It's this idea of what God has given under the sun, what God has provided as something for us to either enjoy or responsibility to fulfill. It's our portion And when you're dead, you're dead, there's no more. There's no more of that. Now, of course, remember, let me remember remind us. Solomon is looking at what's under the sun. Because the reality is, folks, let's remind ourselves that once you're dead, it's not done, right? I mean, once you're dead, you live in eternity with the Lord, or you don't, you're apart from the Lord and separation if you don't know the Lord as your Savior. But from Solomon's perspective, under the sun here, he is simply saying that after you're dead, you're no longer living in this life. And so he says we need to treat our lives that way. And he has said this on several occasions before. And in verses 7 through 9, he's going to tell us exactly how we ought to live this life. And we've seen some of this before. How are we to live with this portion? So in verses 7 through 9, we need to number one live joyfully, and I'll go through these quickly because we've seen them before. When you live joyfully, he says, Go, eat your bread with joy, and drink your wine with a merry heart, for God has already accepted your works. Just understand that you're to live joyfully. And then live comfortably, verse 8. Let your garments always be white, and let your head lack no oil. The idea of of having putting your oil on one's head or your uh anointing, washing yourself, that was something that was done in the Old Testament. And it was done to make a person's heart glad. It's also to the way they clean themselves. Matthew 1 or Psalm 104. 15 says, and wine that makes glad the heart of man, oil to make his face shine, and bread which strengthens man's heart And actually if you remember over in in David's life, uh once he was uh no longer mourning uh for the s the uh uh the the son of Bathsheba In 2 Samuel 12, 20 it says, So David arose from the ground, washed and anointed himself, and changed his clothes, and he went into the house of the Lord and worshiped. Then he went to his own house and when he requested they they set food before him and he ate. He was fasting prior to that. So he's basically saying with this idea of anoint uh anointing, live comfortably Live life, live it. Live what you have, is essentially what he's saying. And he says, enjoy the wife of your youth. Verse nine. Live joyfully with the wife whom you love all the days of your vain life, which he has given you under the sun, all your days of vanity. Now he's pointing out, we're talking about the vain life of vanity, that every that this is This is all simply referring to life under the sun. These are your options. This is the best life you can live under the circumstances that you have. For that is your portion in life and in the labor which you perform under the sun. But I want to hasten to say that if you look at other passages of scripture, it helps expand our perspective on what the portion of God is. In fact, it actually says in Psalm 73, 25, and 26, it says, God is the strength of my heart and my portion. That God actually himself is our portion forever. Now we're looking up above the sun. And in Lamentations 3. 24, the Lord is my portion, therefore I hope in him. And so actually, yes, when we're looking at under the sun, we should enjoy life. We should do what we can with life. We should do the best we can with the life that God has given us, that we have. It is our portion. And yet, when we look above the sun, we see that God Himself is our portion. And in verse 10, it tells us, still talking about this life on earth, and it's good practical advice: whatever your hand finds to do, do it with your might. For there is no work or device or knowledge or wisdom in the grave where you are going. Again, he says, if you've got life, live the life you've got, and live it to the fullest. Limp it completely. Unfortunately, sometimes when we're living in uncertainty, it causes us to become paralyzed. We sort of don't want to do anything. We're afraid if we do this, this will happen. Or if we're afraid if we go here, this will happen. God says, don't live like that. Take the life that you have, no matter how much it is. Yes, you're going to die, but live the life that you have to its fullest. And work hard. Whatever your hand finds to do, do it with all of your might. Now, I want to actually expand this even further into the New Testament. Colossians 3, verse 23 and 24 says this: and whatever you do, do it heartily as to the Lord and not to men. Isn't it wonderful, folks? We've seen this over and over again when we've looked at the life under the sun. Yes, enjoy it, live it to the fullest. Do what you can. But then when we pull when we look at other texts of Scripture, we see that we expand our focus And what we really ought to do with life is, yes, live it heartily, but live it heartily as to the Lord and not to men Knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of your inheritance, for you serve the Lord Christ. Colossians 3, 23 and 24 Philippians 1 twenty and twenty one uh twenty-one says, for it for to me to live is Christ. And to die is gain. Galatians 2. 20, I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. In the life I now live in the flesh, I live in the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. I love what Jim Elliott said. He is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. So Solomon tells us that death is coming. Live the best you can with the life you have But Christ sort of completes the idea by saying that you can't save your life, so lose it for Christ. Your life is hidden with Christ and God. Philippians 3. 7, Paul says, I count all things but loss That I may gain Christ. Jesus said this, Luke 9, 24, for whoever desires to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will save it. Look, when you look at all of life, it's uncertainty, it's unpredictability, you realize that death is coming. Do the best you can with the life God's given you. Don't try don't fear. Don't worry. Don't try to control. Live it for Christ. And then he is going to move back, we're going to have to move back into what we see in the passage, that as we look around at the world, we get some more wisdom here. And he says that life is certain and no one can master it. Verses 11 through 16 Look at verse 11. He says, I returned and saw under the sun. We're back under the sun now, that but time and chance happened to them all. So, from the perspective, you know, God is in control, God's God's in it the world is in his hands, but from our perspective, there is chance From a human perspective, time and chance happens. Things just happen in the sense that we cannot figure out the reason why certain things happen. The race is not to the swift. Now notice what he does here. As we see all of these, he's going to explain that things aren't always what you expect. In fact, I think the longer I live, the more I realize this. Have you ever noticed, folks, that sometimes in life, people who are dumb really do well? Have you ever noticed that? Or really smart people seem to like not do that well And whatever it is. Or you look at somebody super successful and you go, I don't get it. How did they get that successful? See, we think we we kind of and we're when we're young we think well if we work hard and we're smart then we'll have the we'll have we're things are just we're just gonna excel in proportion to our intelligence and our diligence That's usually how we think. But in fact, you get you keep going in life and you sort of realize, you know, I think that guy was just in the right place at the right time. I don't think it had anything to do with that guy's talent or his ability or his fortitude or his character. I think he just happened to be in the right place at the right time and and he wasn't probably the best guy for the job. He just ha is in it, whatever it is And that's essentially what Solomon is saying here. He says the race is not always to the swift. The fastest person doesn't always win. The battle is not always the strong. The strongest person doesn't always win the battle. Nor the bread to the wise. Blessing is not always given to the wise, nor riches to men of understanding. Wealth is not always given to those who understand. nor favor to men of skill. This is not, this is just the reality of life is it it it just it's not fair It's not a matter of the harder you work, the more you're going to gain necessarily. Now, this is not saying that there are isn't cause and effect, because there is. And the Bible tells us in other places that what you sow you will reap. We understand that. But it is definitely not a one-to-one proportionate kind of thing. You can work really hard and end up with nothing Or you can be lazy and somehow be in the right place at the right time and end up with a lot. Such is the life that we live. And so it isn't fair. And you sort of have to just realize that, recognize that. Verse 12: for man also does not know his time. Like fish taken in a cruel net, like birds caught in a snare. So the son of men are snared in an evil time When it falls suddenly upon them. Again, he's pointing out the uncertainty of life and actually the uncertainty of death. It's coming. We don't know when it is And then he moves on and he and he explains more. He develops this idea of the the diligent is not always the one that gets the most, the the the fastest is not always the one that wins the race. He says in verses 13 through 15, he says, this wisdom I have also seen under the sun, and it seemed great to me. He gives us illustration. He says, There was a little city with few men in it. And a great king came against it, besieged it, and built great snares around it. So you have the city, there are people in it, and um a king comes and he he he lays siege to the city. He's going to attack the city from all sides Now there was found a poor wise man. Get it? A poor wise man. Now, if he's wise, why is he poor? Because sometimes that's the case. And he by his wisdom delivered the city. So he was wise enough to be able to help those def uh that were in defending the city to be able to defend the city uh appropriately. And he says, Yet no one remembered that same poor man. He goes off and nobody remembers what he's done. Oh yeah, the crisis is over, crisis is averted, but because he has no status, because he has no wealth, because he's not known in the city, it's he can He he he just sort of fades off. I I uh I my mind can't I don't know if this is a great illustration, but my mind uh ran to Mordecai in Esther, um where Mordecai saved the life of the king and yet kind of went off and and uh not really said much about him until Mordecai starts reading about reading from the records again and decides to honor him. But prior to that point he wasn't honored for his for what he did The point is the same. He's making the same point. Life is uncertain. It's not predictable. You can't assume that wise men are necessarily going to be recognized for their wisdom. That's the situation here. Verse 16, wisdom is better than strength. So it's better, nevertheless. The poor man's wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard. You ever re and that's true in the world. When you think of the world, the world wants to know everything the rich man has to say. Because he's rich and everybody wants to be like him. And if he's got a lot of money, then everybody wants to hear what he has to say, even though even if what he says makes no sense. Oh, I'm going to listen to that because he's rich and I want to be like him But if a poor man says something, even though it may be great wisdom, nobody listens. What is the overall point he's getting at? The overall point is that life is unfair, you can't control it, and it's uncertain And yet remember, folks, what we saw in the very beginning. It is all in the hands of God. And here's what we know from the New Testament. Here's what we can be sure of from the New Testament. That when we think of how the circumstances of our world affect us. We can know, if we know Christ our Savior, we can know that God will use all of them for our good and for his glory. A very well-known popular verse, Romans 8. 28. And we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. for whom he foreknew he and he be predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he predestined, them he also called, and whom he called, them he also justified, whom he justified, them he also glorified. That text tells us that the circumstances of life God uses even in a fallen world. Romans 8 describes a fallen world, even in a fallen world. God uses them to help us to grow in Christ-likeness so that one say one day when we see him we'll be like him for he sees him So that even though life is unfair, unpredictable, it is uncertain, it doesn't make sense, we can't figure it out, we can know as Christians That God will use all of it for our good and for his glory. You cannot master life, but you can trust the one who holds your life. With that, I'd like to ask three questions for us. Number one, do you tend to interpret God's favor or displeasure based on your current circumstances? Are you guilty of that? When you think of what is happening in your life, if it something's happening good, you might think, well, God is favorable toward me. I have good standing with God. And if your life is bad, I have bad standing in life. No. Your standing with God has everything to do with what Christ did on the cross. Have you trusted in Christ to save your soul? If you have, then you have his righteousness on you, so that when God sees you, he sees his righteousness. But if you have not, then you are left clueless You're left sort of wondering, what does God think of you? Look, the fact is you're a sinner. You've been separated from God because of your sin. And you need Christ to save you. He took your sin on himself, and he wants to give you his righteousness. You simply need to accept it by faith. And if you're not sure where you stand with God, look, it can't be based on your circumstances. It's got to be based on the truth that you know from the Word of God. If you have questions about that, please come and talk to me after the service. How are you and the second question? How are you responding to the imp imp unpredictability and brevity of life? How are you responding to that? Are you worrying? Is there fear? Is there anxiety? Are you debilitated or Paralyzed by, are you depressed because life is so brief and so unpredictable? So uncertain? Or are you simply going to live your life as God has provided it So that whatsoever your hand finds to do, do it with all your might. And by the way, better than that, do it as unto the Lord, and give the life that you have to him. It's the only life really worth living that has that has eternal rewards. Number three, are you willing to accept that life is often unfair and beyond your control? Yet God remains good and trustworthy. Well, you just simply accept that. Life is not fair. We live in a fallen world. It's not going to be fair. But God is still good, and He will take your life and use it for your good and for His glory. We need to trust that. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the time we could spend this morning in your word. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide This helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.