We're going to be looking at verses 17 through 1020. But before we do, let's go and ask the Lord's blessing on our time. Father, we are grateful this morning. We are thankful for all that you have done on our behalf, Father. You are gracious. You are kind. You are merciful. You are perfect in love. Your justice is perfect. Your wisdom is perfect. Everything about you is perfect, including your Son. Thank you, Father, for sending Jesus to come and take on the sin of the world. And Lord, He provided the sacrifice that took care of our sin. And I'm grateful that after he died on that cross taking the full punishment for our sin. He was buried in a tomb and on the third day he was resurrected up out of that grave. And is now seated at your right hand, interceding on our behalf this very day. Thank you for your word, Lord Jesus. Thank you for the Holy Spirit and all that it does working in and through us And Lord, I pray this morning as we come to your word that you will help us to set aside all those distractions and all those things that we might have planned later and help us to concentrate this morning upon your word. And Father, as you give us understanding by the power of your Spirit, may we use the wisdom that you give us. Your wisdom is truth. And I pray this morning that we will see, Lord. that your wisdom is the only wisdom that is worth living for. And we thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. So we are in chapter 9 of Ecclesiastes, and we are going to begin in chapter verse 17. Words of the wise. spoken quietly, should be heard rather than the shout of a ruler of fools. Wisdom is better than weapons of war, but one sinner destroys much good Dead flies putrefy the perfumer's ointment, and causes it to give off a foul odor. So does a little folly to one respected for wisdom and honor A wise man's heart is at his right hand, but a fool's heart at his left. Even when a fool walks along the way, he lacks wisdom, and he shows everyone. That he is a fool. And the spirit of the ruler rises against you. Do not leave your post, for conciliation pacifies great offenses. There is an evil I have seen under the sun, as an error proceeding from the ruler. Folly is set in great dignity. Which while the rich sit in a lowly place, I have seen servants on horses, while princes walk on the ground like servants He who digs a pit will fall into it, and whoever breaks through a wall will be bitten by a serpent. And he who quarries stones may be hurt by them, and he who splits wood may be endangered by it. If the axe is dull and one does not sharpen the edge, then he must use more strength. But wisdom brings success A serpent might bite when it is not charmed. The babbler is no different. The words of a wise man's mouth are gracious But the lips of a fool shall swallow him up. The words of his mouth begin with foolishness, and the end of his talk is raving madness. A fool also multiplies words. No man knows what is to be. Who can tell him what will be after him? The labor of fools wearies them For they do not even know how to go to the city. Woe to you, O land, when your king is a child, and your princes feast in the morning. Blessed are you, O land, when your king is the son of nobles, and your princes feast at the proper time, and strength and do not for strength and not for drunkenness. Because of laziness the building decays, and through idlen of hands the house fleaks. A feast is made for laughter, and wine makes merry, but money answers everything. Do not curse the king, even in your thoughts. Do not curse the rich, even in your bedroom. For a bird of the air may carry your voice, and a bird in flight may tell the matter. I think one of the things that I have loved about ecclesiastes is we have gone through it and others have commented to me about this as well. is how real it is. If you if if if a man were to try to write a text to establish the foundation for a religion, it would not be ecclesiastics. Ecclesiastes tells how things really are. It doesn't sugarcoat anything. It doesn't make it sound as though God is going to fix everything in your life. It doesn't promise anything that is not possible. It is a very realistic book, and as we have noted on many occasions, It is a view from under the sun that it is a view from what it what it is to be in a fallen world. The truth is Ecclesiastes can move someone from idealism to realism. How many of you all remember when you were young and you were idealistic? Some of you are young and you're idealistic. And uh so you don't even have to remember. Uh I remember when I was younger, I remember even in college and and in and in seminary, getting out of seminary and thinking, you know, the the ministry is relatively simple Um and uh and thinking, you know, you know, I I I uh pretty much you gotta preach and and and baptize people and lead people to Christ and counsel and all these different things. You learn all these different functions in the ministry and She study and all these different things. It doesn't seem all you know, it seems straightforward enough, right? And uh I just I and I I I don't know what I thought, but I did not have any clue how difficult it is. Because you have to deal with people And people are um people are not consistent. People are not orderly, people are not predictable. Um and so uh some of you probably think of the same thing, you know, as parents. You remember when you're young parents and you think that you're gonna be the perfect parent, you're gonna do everything perfectly and you're gonna feed them the right things and You're gonna have the exact bedtime and you read all the books and you find everything and you think, I've got this figured out, and you wonder why in the world this other parent that has a four or five year old is doing so badly and what in the world can't they can't they just get control of their children until you have your own? And you and you and you ha and all the books go out the window because this child a new book has to be written for him. Um there's an idealism. And the truth of the matter is, as we go through life, we begin to realize that life is not what we thought it was. And yet, as we go through life, it gives us, if we are Christians, it gives us a greater pre-appreciation for the grace of God, as we heard in the as we heard in the uh in the Thanksgiving time together before the service. We are thankful for the glimpses that we see above the sun in Scripture. We are thankful for the hope that we have in Christ. The world is fallen, things aren't right. And yet, we know one day it will all be made right. And we can be thankful for that. As we go through this text this morning, We are going to see that that wisdom is absolutely necessary But that wisdom in a fallen world creates no guarantee So you have two words that are going to help us understand the thread that goes through this text. And the one is necessity. Wisdom is a necessity. And yet wisdom is also unguaranteed. In other words, you can have to be the wisest person in the world, but because we live in a fallen world, that wise person might not have all of the success or the outcome might not be what that wise person thinks it is. And yet it's actually worse if you're not wise. And so when we see this, we go through this text, we're going to see the value of wisdom, and then we're going to be brought back to reality and realize that even wisdom on its best day in a fallen world Is not going to be necessarily create an ideal result. So let's we're going to see four things here in this passage actually. We're going to see first of all it why is this the case? Why is it that wisdom is an unguaranteed necessity? Number one, we're going to see the influence of folly and sin. And then we're going to see in verses 8 through 11 the higher risk of loss. If you don't have wisdom, then we're going to see the increased confusion of foolishness if you don't have wisdom. And then the exponential importance of wisdom in leadership in verses 16 through 20. And we'll work through these pretty quickly. You might have noticed sometimes uh Harry reads a text and you and you go through the text and you're probab people told me actually this past week, they they listen to Harry read the text and they wonder how's what's he going to do with that Well this one's actually a little bit more straightforward. We'll be able to move through this this text uh pretty quickly. It's not nearly as difficult to interpret as some of the others, and so uh we'll be able to move this through this pretty quickly. We'll begin to, first of all, we'll see that wisdom is an unguaranteed necessity because of the influence of folly and sin. We'll pick up in verse 17, it says Words of the wise are spoken quietly. Um and sh the there's uh uh uh so we see here in an ideal w so we see in the text verse seventeen Words of the wise spoken quietly should be heard, rather than the shout of a ruler of fools. Now What is it saying? It's saying the ideal is for wisdom to be quietly spoken and for people to be attentive to it. That's the ideal. That when someone really is wise and is speaking something that's truly wise, that everybody's ears perk up and they listen. And yet what really is the case? Usually, actually, the opposite is the case. You have the shouting of leaders toward fools. This is an example of what happens. Why do fools have to be shouted at? Because they don't listen. You go through the book of Proverbs and you see over and over again the major characteristic of a fool. If there is one characteristic you can point to of a fool, I think probably it is the fact that the fool just simply doesn't listen to instruction Doesn't listen to wisdom. And so he never changes. He never moves on to wisdom. He never moves to the next step because he is foolish. And so we see then in verse 18, it says, wisdom is better than weapons of war. But one sinner destroys much good. Uh talking about how great wisdom is, it's it's better than weapons of war. But all it takes in a well A well-established wise plan is one person, one situation to go awry, one sinful decision, one w one uh foolish choice. To make the entire thing come to naught. And then we see this illustrated in verse 1. Dead flies putrefy performers, perfumers, rather, ointment. Well that makes sense. You've got a you've got ointment that's perfume and you put a bunch of dead flies in it, what's gonna happen? It's not gonna smell so good anyw anymore That's the nature of folly with wisdom. Wisdom is this wonderful perfume, so to speak, and if you put sin or put folly in wisdom, then suddenly it doesn't smell so good anymore. This is the world we live in. And call uh and the text says and cause it to give off a foul odor. So does a little folly to one respected for wisdom and honor. Now, we need to ask the question: what is folly? We're going to see it several times in this passage. What does it mean when it says the what is the word folly? Ecclesiastes 2. 14 helps us. We've seen the word before. And in that context, we see that it says that the wise man's eyes are in his head, but the fool walks in darkness Folly is moral blindness, shallow silliness, and darkness. It's described as a scripture And so if you have someone who is simply not paying attention, who is simply silly and not taking life seriously and falls usually blind to what is morally right and morally ethical. It's not folly doesn't necessarily s mean somebody that's evil in an in their intention, although although I suppose it could This could be somebody that's just simply not taking things seriously. And yet because of that, it just messes everything up. And then in verses 2 through 4, we see that wisdom actually preserves as a protection. So don't think that wisdom is useless. By the things he said, you can begin to think that, well, what's the point of being wise No? He's going to say in verses 2 through 4, wisdom is important. It says, a wise man's heart is at his right hand. And the word w the phrase right hand, it's an idiom for protection. Right hand as uh in other words, he's saying that wisdom, a wise man's heart, a wise person is a protection to him. When a heart is wise, it's a protection to the person. Like in Psalm 16, 8, where it says, I have set the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved. The Lord is our protection at our right hand. But he says, in contrast, the fool's heart is at his left. You want to be unprotected. The fool's heart does not see, does not look ahead, does not see evil coming, does not see the problems, does not protect himself. And so wisdom is very valuable. Verse 4, if the spirit of the ruler rises against you, he says, Do not flee your post, for conciliation pacifies great offenses. He's basically pointing out that wisdom handles opposing authority well. It's a protection for us because when there's someone who's an authority that's not ha handling things right, something that's not making someone that's not making right decisions. Wisdom tell what what is our result? Well our our um our inclination is to flee that situation. But God actually says, don't do that. Don't leave your post. He says, for conciliation pacifies great offenses. So what is conciliation? Conciliation is a gentleness that heals. For example, in Proverbs 1430 it says, a sound heart, it's the same word, a sound heart is life to the body, but envy is rottenness to the bones. And in Proverbs 15:4, it says a wholesome tongue. So a sound heart, wholesome tongue It is the idea that someone who is opposed by, in this case, an authority, chooses by his gracious, gentle spirit. to actually bring healing to the situation. Boy, we need more people in our world like that, don't we? We are living in a world where where um people are just plain mean And uh not responding, responding graciously is not popular these days. And yet what he says in this text is wisdom will cause us when we are opposed by authority to respond graciously. Don't leave your post. Don't flee or fight. Stand. Stand firmly. And stand graciously. It's a gentleness that brings about healing. That's what wisdom can do, even in an in a less than ideal situation where the authority is opposing you. And then we find in verses 5 through 7, it says, There is an evil I have seen under the sun. So again, we're continuing to see what's under the sun, what is in a fallen world here. And we see actually verses 5 through 7, there are various curses of this light. There's a series of twisted realities here that demonstrate that we indeed live in a fallen world. See, uh Uh Solomon is not content just to say, yeah, we live in a fallen world. He is going to give us some examples of what it looks like. And by the way, some of these will be very, very You know, you'll see these. They'll be obvious to you. But let me say before we go through these, isn't it true? We live in a twisted world. Things are not as they should be. Things are not right, and we know that. And so he points this out. For example, he says as an error proceeding from the from the ruler. It's just not right that there should be errors coming from rulers. A foolish ruler is one twisted reality. Another is glorified foolishness. Folly is set in great dignity, which the rich sit in a lowly place. It's not right that folly would be set in great dignity, and yet that's exactly what we see that occurs. Or I've seen servants on horses. Horses were an honored place. If you sat on a horse, you were in an honored place. So servants are honored, or princes are dishonorable, while princes walk on the ground like servants. All these things are twisted. They're not right. There's glorified foolishness. That is honored. This is the world we live in. Now you know if we just take a few moments to look at social media, you will find this to be the case. It doesn't take long to go on Twitter or TikTok or um it's not called Twitter anymore, it's called X. or what w or um Instagram, Facebook, all those different media outlets and you could see Utter foolishness that for some reason gets thousands of likes goes viral Just foolish kinds of things that that are lifted up because we live in a world that really kind of that is entertained by foolishness and by folly And when you look at the way things should be, things just aren't right. So wisdom is necessary to navigate life, but it is no guarantee because of the destructive nature of folly and sin. Let me move on to verses 8 through 11. And verses 8 through 11 are going to show us that we do need wisdom because without wisdom, there is a greater risk of loss. And the two kinds of loss that we see is danger and difficulty. Verses 8 through 10, we see the risk of danger. Notice this the examples that are given. He who digs a pit will fall into it. Is digging a pit a good thing? Yeah, you need to dig a pit for certain certain kinds of things, farming and those kinds of things, but you might fall into it. And whoever breaks through a wall will be bitten by a serpent. Walls are the serpents live in the cracks of walls and things like that. You break through the wall, you get it, you're bitten by a serpent. He who quarries stones may be hurt by them. And he who splits wood may be endangered by by it. All examples of things that that should be productive things to do. It's the same kind of thing that we We see in Genesis, it is by the sweat of the brow, the thorns and the thistles, all of these things, because we live in a fallen world, it and attempts to be productive in life come with opposition. You ever feel that way? You ever feel like you're spinning your wheels? You ever feel like you intended to have five thousand things done by the end of the day and you only got done three? And and you say, where where did all of the time go? What in the world happened? We live in a fallen world that makes productivity difficult. Our own minds wander and and and are un and are distracted. And also We move on to that those are dangerous things, we move on to the reality of difficulty. And so he he he apparently um axes and splitting wood are on his mind, because he continues the idea in verse ten, and he says, if the axe is dull and one does not sharpen the edge Then you must use more strength. By the way, that is a very good thing to point out that having the right tools matters. Like if you have the wrong kind of tool, you're gonna have more difficult. If you try to use a s you try to use a uh screw in something with a hammer, you're gonna have a problem. Okay. Um and it and and it um I think it was Abraham Lincoln, if I remember right, that said that if he's asked to cut down a tree, he'll s uh if he's given four hours to cut down a tree, he'll spend the first three hours sharpening the axe. And there's just wisdom in that. The right tools done with the right kinds of sharpening or whatever really make the job easier. That's just a wise thing. And and that uh so if the axe is dull and one does not sharpen the edge, then he must use more strength. But wisdom, it says he says, brings success. The wise person prepares. The wise person sees to make sure that he has the right kinds of tools to do what he needs to do A serpent may bite when it is not when it is not charmed, he says. The babbler, which is the charmer, is no different, has no advantage. He's saying basically somebody might charm a serpent, but before he uh he is able to be charmed, he might bite anyway. It's serpents are unpredictable. You can't necessarily predict exactly what they're going to do There is there is bottom line is because we live in a fallen world despite the possibility of wisdom, you need wisdom to reduce the risk of danger and difficulty, but you do not You are not exempt from wisdom, from danger and difficulty just because you have wisdom And then so wisdom is helpful because it diminishes the risk of loss, but it does not guarantee that danger and difficulty won't be a constant part of our lives. But not only that, we see then that it increased, we have increased confusion of foolishness. Notice what happens when there's foolishness everywhere. If you don't have wisdom and there's foolishness and you have a uh an excess of foolishness, then then you're going to have confusion. Look at what the text says The words of a wise mouth verse mouth verse 12, the words of a wise man's mouth are gracious, but the lips of a fool shall swallow him up. The idea of swallowing him up is the idea of setting his own trap. A foolish person will do that. He'll keep talking into himself and he'll trap himself in the middle of talking. He'll contradict himself multiple times as he talks and tries to talk his way out of things. The Bible says in a multitude of words there wanteth not sin, and a fool will just keep talking and talking and talking until they get themselves into trouble. But a gracious person, wise words are words that are that are gracious. Then in verses 13 through 15, he gives us characteristics of foolish talking This is something that he's going to camp out on for just a s for just a moment. He's going to explain that we have these characteristics of what happens when there is foolish talking. Again. Wisdom is valuable. It's something that you need. It's something that is necessary. Because if you don't have it, you have foolishness. And what does foolish talking look like? Notice the characteristics, verse 13. The words of his mouth begin with foolishness, and the end of his talk is raving madness. So foolish talking escalates. It starts it begins with just utter just just ignorance and foolishness. And it moves on at and it sounds you the more somebody, the more foolish person talks, they just sound like a raping mad person. Have you ever experienced that before? You ever let just let somebody talk to argue themselves out of their own what they're gonna say? You ever just sort of sat there and said, 'No, they'll hang themselves. ' Foolish person will do that. Number two, it is verse 14, it says, a fool also multiplies words. No man knows what it is to be. Who can tell him what is at what what will be after him? So uh uh uh this is a saying that a fool is it multiplies words, he's dogmatic about what he believes what he thinks. He s talks a lot, he's dogmatic, even uh, and yet he's unclear. He doesn't nobody knows what he's talking about. So foolish speaking, it escalates, it's it's egocentric, it is also unclear, and we find in verse fifteen There's an ignorance to a fool. The labor of fool fools wearies them, for they do not know how to go to the city. You got this city, most cities were set up on a hill, this high hill, and you're going to the city, like how can you not how can you miss the city right in front of you? It's really talking about utter ignorance here, basically. The fool is ignorant. Can't even can't even find a city sitting right in front of them that's up on a hill, well lit, and obvious is just a illustration to show that Now if you think about if you think about this in just in our world, you find all kinds of foolish talking and foolish expression in our world. And I mentioned social media before, but you really do find this on social media, don't you? You may say one particular comment and all and then there's another comment after that and another comment after that and a comment that builds on that. You ever been That but mate s made some sort of comment on on a on social media that you thought was a totally harmless, just straightforward comment. So many comments on that And you try to answer that, then somebody else chimes in, and before you know it, it's escalated into utter foolishness, and you're like, forget this, I'm done. Uh that's that that's because there is so much foolishness in this world. And that's because we are dealing with so much foolishness. And there's an ignorance and foolishness to the world, which is why wisdom is very essential. And it becomes exponentially important when we're thinking about leadership But in verses 16 through 20, you have leadership here. Leadership here in verses 16 through 20 um are uh it's it's going to describe the difference between someone who is foolish versus someone who is wise. The reason why it's so important is because leader those who are leadership, that there is foolishness, it affects so many other people. And so he's going to explain how this works. Verse 16, he says, Woe to you, O land, when your king is a child When your king is immature, when there is when there are authorities and they're just immature, woe to you. And your princes feast in the morning. And what is it talking about there feasting the morning? Uh the I think it's talking here about the idea that a a prince uh someone is is more inclined toward their appetites than towards serving serving the people, more inclined toward um more inclined toward feasting and enjoying themselves in the morning before they even get any work done. Later on in the context you'll see there's laziness involved there. I think it was what he's talking about there. It might indicate even drunkenness, feasting sometimes locate sometimes related to drunkenness as well. This is an immature person who puts pleasure before diligence, who puts self-indulgence before serving. Woe to you, land, when you have someone like that. And then verse 17, blessed are you, O land, when your king is the son of nobles. And your princes feast at the proper time, not in the morning before anything else is done, for strength and not for drunkenness. So blessed is the person whose leader has things appropriately done in an appropriate way and has the right priorities. It's so important for leadership to have the right kinds of priorities. Verse 18 through 19, because of laziness, the building decays. He points out, and we're still thinking, I think we're talking here about leadership still And he says because of laziness, the later the the building decays, you see, uh when when you're a leader, you you can't just let things go, and there are certain problems that just never go away There look the reality is in life, some problem occasionally a problem might go away on its own, but for the most part, problems not dealt with get bigger. Now that's the case with that's the case with building decay. If you've got rot in the foundation of the building, there's no way to there's no way to somehow think that rot within wood is going to somehow like repair itself. Rot if a if something is rotten, the only answer is to is to throw it away and replace it. You can't repair rot. And you can't the laziness causes decay and a decay in a building get worse. It's not being fixed, it's not being dealt with, it's not being remediated. And through idleness of hands, the house leaks. You ever had your house leak? It will not stop leaking just by looking at it. If you have a pouring down rain, I guarantee you that it's not going to just fix itself Um I um uh I I didn't we had a leak in our house. Um it was of course this is just always the case. My dad had passed away and um I I don't know, next major rain the house leaked. Never held the house has never leaked in my life. And it leaks after my dad and I'm like, what in the world? This is so weird. I started taking a video of it. I'm like, this is a this is And and trying to think, how do you even fix this? And anyway, we did, but uh, I didn't just let it I I wasn't like, okay, it's operating, it's fine now. No, um I well I guess I guess I guess the leak will go away by itself. No, I had to figure out where that leak came from and And I had to go up on the roof and I had to repair the leak properly, I had to look it up on YouTube and figure out how to do it so I couldn't ask my dad anymore. Um and and I wasn't gonna pay anybody because I refused. But anyway You have to deal with things. Leadership that just lets things go and lets problems make work. There has to be a proactivity. Laziness causes greater problems. And then verse 19, foolish leadership is illustrated here. A feast is made for laughter. And wine makes merry, but money answers everything. This is not saying money answers everything, by the way. That's what it looks like at first. First time I read that, I'm like, what, wait, what? How's the Bible saying money answers everything? That cannot be what that's saying. And it's not. This is actually think of it in in in the sense of a a wrong a leader who is foolish This is from the perspective of a foolish leader. He's feasting and making laughter. Wine is making merry, and his assumption is, oh, money will solve all the problems. Money will solve everything. This is from the perspective of a foolish leader. And y you know, foolish leader, they will. They'll be like, well just tax everybody. You know, just get more money. We'll fix this problem with money. Like you can fix every problem that way. Verse 20 says this, do not this is a warning uh really regarding the decisions of of of leadership and really there's not much you can do about it. So he says do not curse the king even in your thought. Even if you have a leader that's a foolish leader a king, there's a foolish king. Don't curse him in your even in your thought. Do not curse the rich even in your bedroom. For a bird of the air may carry your voice, and a bird in flight may tell the matter The the the the scary thing about a foolish leader is they're usually pretty insecure as well. If you look at the ch the history of the world, the history of of kingdoms You find a great deal of insecurity to the point that sometimes kings will put family members to death. Herod did that. Family members to death because they don't want somebody to ascend the throne. And so he's sort of saying that this is sort of a uh a way of saying, hey, be careful if you've got a leader like this, and don't don't you know don't rock the boat. Don't pay don't poke the bear. You've heard that phrase. Don't poke the bear Because he got a foolish leader. And so he's pointing out what? That wisdom is important in leadership, and without it, things are worse. And that ends the chapter. So, what are some things that we can take away from this? Number one, can you see how real scripture depicts life? We started this way. Can you see that? There's just reality here. And you can see how it how real scripture describes the the fallen world in which we live. But also Wisdom is valuable, but it cannot promise success. The fallen world just presents this, prevents this. We see that in the passage. But I want us to then hasten to say this. Imagine a world where wisdom is always rewarded. Imagine a world where sin never thwarts a wise plan. Imagine a world where righteousness and wisdom are coupled together. And that is what we all have to look forward to in the coming of Christ. We see the need for wisdom and what happens if you don't have wisdom, we see the foolishness of the world. We see that that it is it is no guarantee, even if we are wise, that we're going to be able to avoid calamity in this world. But there's coming a day when Christ comes He is the all-wise, all-righteous authority, and he will rule so that things will be right. Things will not be twisted. Things will not be misconstrued and confused and all of that. Isaiah 11 points this out. There are actually several passages I could do go to, but I chose Isaiah eleven that really Points this out. Verse one it says this there shall come forth a rod from the stem of Jesse and a branch shall grow out of his roots The Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord. His delight is in the fear of the Lord, and he shall not judge by the sight of his eyes. nor decide by the hearing of his ears, but with righteousness he shall judge the poor, and decide with equity for the meek of the earth He shall strike the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips he shall slay the wicked. Righteousness shall be the belt of his loins, and faithfulness the belt of his waist The contrast that we see in this passage, that we see from this passage. We see a fallen world, but you step outside, look above the sun, see what's going on See what eternity holds for us, and there is a day where wisdom will be rewarded, where righteousness will reign, where Christ will rule. Wisdom is always honored, leadership is always righteous, decisions are always just, speech is always gracious, danger never surprises, and foolishness never destroys. That is the world we have to look forward to someday if we are in Christ. The darkness and the curse of this world illuminates the brightness of the cross. But it really will only be for those who accept him. Who accept that wonderful gift of of of of salvation, at least for those presently or here on earth now. There will be a day where Christ will rule and reign. And the question is, will you be with him? See, Christ has come and he has And he died on the cross for our sin. The question now for you is, what will you do with Jesus today? You the world apart from Christ, this is what they have to look forward to. Foolishness and folly and the and the best case scenario Unpredictability of life that ends in death and then hell. And yet with Christ, because Christ came, took our sin on himself. Makes us so that we can be rightly related to Him, gives us His righteousness, if we will accept who Jesus is and what Jesus did by faith. Then we will have his righteousness. He has paid for our sin. And that we will be rightly related to him. And we can look forward to the day where he will rule and reign. And all things will be right. If you are listening today and you don't know where you will spend eternity, understand your future is not hopeful. This world is not going to give you what you need or what you want. This you can look to government and you will it it will fail you. You can look to you can look to other people and they will fail you. You can think, oh, things will get better around the corner, or this job will be better, or this situation will be better. Life is not going to get better. Outside of Christ. Maybe temporarily, but ultimately it will not And yet we have the hope of Christ. We look forward to the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. So the question is: what will you do with Jesus today? And if you are listening here this morning and you say, you know, I I see the I see what this is saying. I see the world I live in I see the foolishness and the folly. I see the hopelessness. I see that even if I'm the wisest I could possibly be, that I'm still living in such unpredictability and uncertainty And I there there doesn't seem to be anything that's really going to change any of this. And the world is in chaos and there's so many problems. And as soon as you think somebody solved the problem, another problem pops up Realize that in Christ you're still to deal with every problem. It's not like somebody comes to Christ and suddenly all your problems go away and you get healthy and you get wealthy. That's not what happens as a Christian. You don't get wealthier, and you don't necessarily get healthier But you do have hope for eternity. And you do have a relationship with God. And you can look forward to the day where Christ will rule and reign with both perfect righteousness and perfect wisdom. If you don't have that hope, I'd encourage you to come and talk with me after the service. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure you'll spend eternity with the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we thank you and praise you for your word and your truth. We thank you that it is real and wisdom is Wisdom is necessary in this world, but not um not certain, and it doesn't guarantee anything. But we thank you for the hope of Christ that someday when we look ahead, He will rule and reign, and we can accept and if we will accept Him as our Savior, if He we are His children, we can have that hope and we can be thankful. No Christian should be unthankful because every Christian can look ahead to the hope of Christ. We're thankful for that, Lord, today. We thank you for your perfect wisdom. That we see throughout Scripture and that we can anticipate living in in the future. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call, so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us. Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon