Father, we praise you. We thank you. Our hearts are full with so much truth that we have been able to sing about to allow to penetrate our hearts. Thank you, Lord, for your goodness, your kindness. Your saving work that you have provided for us. We praise you that, as we sung last, that you do guide us and lead us We admit, Lord Dar, the future is so very, very uncertain to us. We have plans and we have thoughts and we have ideas But ultimately, Lord, we know that you are in control of all of it, and it is your good hand that guides us through it. And we praise you for that. As we consider, as we're about to see from this text, Lord, and hear the message preached, I pray that we would see these truths and more anew and fresh in our lives. That you would use your spirit to penetrate our hearts and challenge us and encourage us and rebuke us if necessary. We ask, Father, that in all things our hearts would be ready to hear from your word. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. Reading this morning from Ecclesiastes chapter 11. I encourage you to take your Bibles and turn there as well and read along with me. Ecclesiastes chapter eleven, we'll be reading the entire chapter, verses one through ten. Ecclesiastes eleven, one through ten. Verse one says, Cast your bread upon the waters, for you will find it after many days Give a serving to seven and also to eight, for do not know what evil will be on the earth. If the clouds are full of rain, then empty themselves upon the earth, and if a tree falls to the south or to the north, in the place where the tree falls, there it shall lie. He who observes the wind will not sow, and he who regards the clouds will not reap. As you do not know what is the way of the wind, or how the bones grow in the womb of her who is with child, so you do not know the works of God who makes everything. The morning sow, see sow your seed, in the morning sow your seed, and in the evening do not withhold your hand For you do not know which will prosper, either this or that, or whether both alike will be good. Truly the light is sweet, and it is pleasant for the eyes to behold the sun But if a man lives many years and rejoices in them all, yet let him remember the days of darkness, for they will be many. All that is coming is vanity Rejoice, O young man, in your youth, and let your heart cheer you in the days of your youth. Walk in the ways of your heart and in the sight of your eyes. But know that for all these God will bring you into judgment. Therefore, remove sorrow from your heart and put away evil from your flesh, for childhood and youth are vanity. We have been going through the book of Ecclesiastes, I and there has been really an extended discussion on uncertainty and the uncertainty of life. And now Solomon in this chapter in Ecclesiastes 11 here, he is going to narrow down, narrow in on financial uncertainty specifically. So his entire chapter is really on this on how to live wisely in financial uncertainty. And of course, if you Pay attention to the news or anything else in this world, you know that we have lived in financial uncertainty for a good amount of time, even in recent years. Did you know that over the last fifth after over the last three years there has been a an accumulated inflation of 15%? It's pretty high. If you somebody says, well, how do you deal with uncertain times? Well, you can deal with by saving, saving, saving. People say, Well, save, save, save. But I mean if you uh realize that your savings fifteen uh three years ago was about fifteen valued at fifteen percent less than it is now, that's encouraging. Aren't you glad you came today Um so what do you gotta do? Well you gotta invest to deal with the problem of inflation. I mean you've got to just to keep up with inflation, you better not just park your money in in uh in a savings account that doesn't bear any kind of interest. I mean you've got to keep up with inflation. And at that rate you're really going to have to do some pretty you might have to do some kind of risky things because as it's well known the the higher potential of Uh the higher potential of a gain, the higher risk there is. So if you want more financial uncertainty, then try to fight the problem of inflation to some degree. There are ways to do that more responsibly, but And that and and then you see these advertisements buy gold. How many of you have seen an advertisement advertisement to buy gold? Like if you buy gold, it will fix all of your problems. You'll never have to deal with inflation ever again, as though gold never goes up and down in price, and gold is the answer to everything. But if you buy gold, I mean supply and demand affects gold as well. That's no guarantee of anything. The fact of the matter is, no matter what you do in this world, there there are financial uncertainties that we are going to deal with. We are living in financial uncertainty. And so Solomon is going to address this. Now keep in mind, Solomon is arguably the richest man that ever lived. So he knows a little bit about how to deal with finances correctly. And what we're going to see is some wisdom that is really under the sun kind of wisdom that we want to be aware of and we want to s we want to see what he has to say about this. But we also when we especially as we come to the end of the message, we want to see what what the rest of Revelation says about being under above the sun, what God has to say in light of all of eternity. We see as we go through this passage there with that he's going to help us navigate financial uncertainty wisely. And the way that we're going to be able to do this is There are actually five different things that we're going to see. They're on the back of your bulletin, so you don't feel like you have to write them down right away. But we're going to see, first of all, that you should diversify broadly. Decide realistically, devote diligently, discern life's brevity, and delight responsibly. Let's first then look at diversifying broadly. Just go ahead and move to the broad the first one there. Diversifying broadly And verses 1 through 2, we have a fairly familiar verse here that we see in Ecclesiastes. You may have heard this quoted. Chapter 11, verse 1 says, Cast your bread upon the waters, for you will find it after many days. Give a serving to seven, and also to eight, for you do not know what evil will be on the earth. He says, Cast your bread upon the waters. Now to understand what we're talking about here, we need to understand that in order to invest back then, you didn't Take your phone and go on to an app and go on to something like Robinhood. You didn't even go on your computer and go on to like a um um some kind of brokerage account and go into Fidelity and do your investments there. Now that's not how you invested back then. The key to investing back in 940 BC was it was really had to do with maritime trade. That was really the key. In fact, Psalm 107 says those who go down to the sea and ships who do business on Great Waters. If you can imagine what it would be like for someone to be a farmer and to grow crops, uh Israel having you know grow you know wheat, that kind of a thing. And let's suppose you're a wheat farmer and you want to see you want to do some investing beyond just just um growing wheat and selling it. You might take your harvest and go down to a seaport and you may take that that and and trade it for some goods like something that you couldn't get in your area, maybe spices or gold. Those kinds of precious things. And you could take those things and then you could resell them in your area where the demand would be high and the supply would be low, and you could make a profit. I mean we understand the basics of those kinds of things when it comes to investing. And that was a a lot of how they would invest back then. If you wanted to sort of go beyond your normal agrarian farming kind of kind of endeavor, you would then have to do it usually by by sea kinds of trade. Now Solomon did this on a very, very large scale. And we find this actually in 1 Kings, just a couple of verses. Tell us a lot about how Solomon did this. In verse 26 of 1 Kings 9 it says, King Solomon also built a fleet of ships. At Ezion Zeber, which is near Eleth, on the shore of the of the Red Sea in the land of Edom Then Hiram sent his servants with the fleet, uh seamen who knew the sea to work with the servants of Solomon. Hiram was the king of Phoenicia And the Phoenicians were known for their ability to be able to sail and build ships and sail them well And Solomon created an alliance with this king Hiram and a partnership in order to be able to take advantage of the Phoenicians' ability to be able to sail and uh be involved in this maritime trade. In verse 28 it says, And they went to Ophir, which is probably in East Africa, and acquired four hundred and twenty talents of gold from there, and brought it to King Solomon. And later on in 1 Kings 10, verse 22, it says, For the king had merchant ships at sea with the with the fleet of Hiram, that's the Phoenicians again. Every three years the merchant ships came bringing gold, silvery, ivory, and I was tracking until then and it said until it said apes and monkeys. I guess apes and monkeys are a thing you want in your kingdom. Um I don't know that I would want apes and monkeys in my kingdom, but of course I'm not Solomon and he was amused probably by anything you could find, and so there are apes and monkeys. It must have been sort of s a symbolism of uh of being rich or wealthy. But anyway, so we see that Solomon, he has really taken this kind of investing in the sea to a whole new level. He's cast his bread among many waters. I just show you a map to kind of give you an idea of what's happening here. So Solomon he builds this fleet of ships with the Phoenicians' help in Ezeant Gebur. I don't know if I'm pronouncing that right, but you can see on the screen there, you can see Israel is in the green And just south of that, to give access to the Red Sea, you have this Ezon Gebur, and that would allow them to be able to have trade to access the trade routes via the Red Sea uh to um to different areas to be able to get gold and spices and precious stones. Very likely Solomon also had an outpost uh near the sea a port that he would go out to the Mediterranean Sea as well, and he would get all kinds of other things that he wouldn't be able to get there, you know, the things like monkeys and apes and That kind of thing. And so you see there, you see there that he had he was in a central location. He was very intelligent, very wise in how he did all of this. And obviously he gained a lot of wealth as a result. Israel would export things like olive oil, wine, wheat and barley, copper from Timnah, textiles and craftsmanship from the Phoenician Israelite workshops. And they would import things as already been mentioned, gold, silver, ivory, apes, peacocks, exotic woods, precious stones, spices in abundance. This is what Solomon did in order to expand his wealth, to expand his kingdom. He diversified his investments. And we see that in doing so, he was going to be able to multiply his wealth. But there was another reason to diversify, that was for the sake of safety, and we see that in verse 2 of this passage. In verse 2 it says, give a serving, or you could use the word portion or property. Give a property, a piece of property, to seven and also to eight, for you do not know what evil will be on the earth. Spread out your property among various places because you don't know what evil is going to come. You don't know if there will be uh a massive um you know, hurricane or something that would blow away all of your all of your crops or though those kinds of natural disasters. You don't know what's going to happen. So have various kinds of property to hedge against the risk and the and the and the danger. And we have an example of this in Genesis thirty two through thirty-two, seven through eight, where Jacob is about to meet Esau and he's scared about what Esau is going to do. You remember that story? And he actually divides his flocks and his family up into two parts so that Esau can't annihilate both of them at the same time. This is common sense. So what he is saying practically is Solomon is saying that if in an uncertain world you should cast your bread upon many waters, you should diversify your investments both for the sake of being able to multiply them and for the sake of safety so that you are s you you you don't ru lose everything all at one time. And really this is this is wise advice It's interesting that how various people interpreted this phrase, and actually this was a common phrase that was used. uh during various time periods in the Old Testament. For example, the traditional Jewish interpretation of this verse was actually that it was talking about spontaneous generosity, that you should be very generous because in so doing you are going to reap a result from your spontaneous and frequent generosity The Arabs, one ancient Arab saying was this, do good, cast your bread upon the waters, and one day you will be rewarded. Sounds very familiar, doesn't it? An Egyptian sage said this, in straight times or happy times wealth grows because of spreading it. And another time it said the same person said Do a good deed and throw it in the water, when it dries you will find it. And so you have different you have this idea of investing or really even being generous of giving and doing so broadly, diversifying broadly. And so we have an important principle here in considering uncertain financial situations. But I do want to broaden this beyond just investments to generosity as well uh which we have already mentioned. I think we need to be, as Christians, we need to be generous and be able to be generous in various ways. And not just say and not wait for a perfect situation, a perfect uh um thing with no issues, in order to be generous. And in ministry, we have to do this here at our church. There are many times where we say, well, we want to reach out to the community. We want to do more outreach and instead of just doing one thing, we do many things, hoping that it will one of the things that we're doing, or a couple of things that we're doing, the Lord will use in the lives of people to bring people to a saving knowledge of Christ And witnessing is that way. You can't say, okay, I'm going to wait for the perfect opportunity to witness where everything has aligned perfectly, and then I'll give the gospel. Because the reality is there are many, many people out there, and you don't know who is ready to be saved and who isn't. And so I think there is we could expand this beyond just financial investment to just how we live our lives in general. But because life and finances are uncertain, it can cause people actually to do the exact opposite. It can cause people to be quite indecisive. Do you find yourself, because of all of the variables of life, do you find yourself being actually quite indecisive? Psalm is going to deal with this. Notice what he says in verse 3. He says, if the clouds are full of rain, they empty themselves upon the earth. And if a tree falls to the south or the north, in the place where the tree falls, there it shall lie He gives two statements about what we know to be true. If you have clouds, assuming they're not the kind of clouds that don't produce rain, but uh uh if you have rain clouds, they eventually are going to produce rain And if you have a tree that looks like it is going to fall, it is going to fall at some point. You may not know how it's going to fall, but you know it's going to fall. He is using this, these two phrases, to demonstrate that there are certain things in life that we know to be true. One, he points out for rain was something that was extremely important for for for growing crops And he points out that if you have clouds, then you have rain. It's going to come. At one time or another, it'll come. And that is a matter of using something that we know to prosper. But he also says using something that we know to be safe. It is true that you cannot always tell how a tree will fall. It may be leaning a particular direction, and you think, well, it's very likely that it's going to fall a particular way. But I have been in situations where I have seen trees because of the wind and catching the wind, the wind catching at a certain spot. I remember the first day I was working for Excel tree experts doing tree removal. It's the first day I was on the job, uh we went to a location And the crew chief would uh cut the tree down and he totally he totally misjudged where the tree and it landed on a house. And I was like, man, what am I getting myself into? And they all assured me this has never happened before Uh but I looked at it and I could not have t tell told you that it was going to go differently than what he thought. It leaned a certain way and we thought it was going to go that direction. The truth of the matter is he should have taken more precautions in topping it out. Or you you know, there's other things he could have done to make sure that it wasn't going to go that way. Why? Because it is unpredictable how a tree will fall. It can lean one way but with a uh a uh you know a whole structure full of leaves, wind can pull it in an entirely different direction at the wrong time and you have a problem. So you don't build a house around a tree that's gonna fall, bottom line. At all. Like don't think, well, it might go it's just gonna go this way. I there was a house Matt will know who I'm what I'm talking about. There's a house that we both know of. that the trees were literally the I think the trees grew around the house, I think is what happened. But basically you've got this much space between I'm really not exaggerating, between the house and the tree and it was several of them and I had somebody I had I was looking at the property and they said which one of these should we do we need to cut down, which ones we don't And I was like, all of them. They all need to be cut down. Like every single one of these. Well, it looks like that one's leaning that way. It's this close to the house. You don't plant a ha you don't plant a tree that close to the house, and you don't plant a house that close to a tree. You don't do that. Why? Because you really don't know how it's gonna fall And so there are things that you know to be true, and as a result of those things, there's variables in there, and you work with what you know. But notice then what it says in verse 4. He who observes the wind will not sow, and he who regards the clouds will not reap. You know what he's saying here? He's saying, if you are constantly, remember back then this is a farming, most most people farmed. That's what they did. They were farmers. And He's saying if you're constantly worried about whether the you're throwing out the seed and the wind catches your seed and takes it to another property and they get the benefits of your throwing out the seed If you're constantly worried about when the wind is going to blow and you're waiting for a day where you have absolutely no wind and no chance of wind coming, what's going to happen? You're never going to throw that seed out Because the fact is you can't predict the wind. You may have some measurements to some degree, but at the end of the day, weather patterns can change, as we all know. Weathermen get paid like a lot of money to to be right fifty percent of the time. It's kind of amazing. But anyway. And It says, and he who regards the clouds will not reap. If you're waiting for exactly the perfect time to plant when immediately after you plant the rain is going to come, what's going to happen? You're never going to plant. He's pointing out that we need to be realistic and not overly idealistic about timing when it comes to making decisions. He is saying that there is the possibility of having analysis paralysis. How many of you are ever guilty of that? Analysis-paralysis. I know that I can lean that way where I'm analyzing so often I just can't come up with a decision at all And he is pointing out that that is a problem, that if you are dealing with uncertainty in life, you the the answer is not just to hold and do nothing ever. That is not the answer. He says you've got to be decisive Realistically. Look at what you know and don't be so worried about what you don't know Go by what you know and be and make good decisions and some of those decisions are gonna be favorable, some of them may not be, but you have to be decisive in a in a world of uncertainty despite the difficulty that you might find to do that. Now let me I want to I want to move this on to a bib a New Testament biblical principle and that is this That what Scripture teaches is that we ought to sow and re and what we sow we will reap And often when we sow spiritually, we sow spiritually and we don't reap until much later. It's not usually that we see immediate results on the spiritual investments that we make in the lives of people. Usually there is a long delay between the investment that you make and the and the result from the investment spiritually I'm talking about In Galatians 6, verse 6, the Apostle Paul exhorts the Christians there. He says, Let him who is taught the word share in all good things with him whom he teaches. Do not be deceived. God is not mocked. For whatever a man sows, that he will also reap. For he who sows to his flesh will of his flesh reap corruption. But he who sows to the Spirit will of the Spirit reap everlasting life. And let us not grow weary while doing well, for in due season we will reap if we do not lose heart Therefore, as we have opportunity, let us do good to all, especially those who are of the household of faith We ought to sow where we can. We ought to invest spiritually where we can, knowing that God will bring the increase in His time. Even if we don't see a one-to-one correlation between what what we're investing in and what the results are. Make efforts towards spiritual things, make investments towards spiritual things. And let God do what only He can do in your life, because the Bible tells us that generally speaking, what we sow, we will eventually reap. Not only do we need to be decisive, but then as we make these kinds of decisions, realistic decisions, we need to move on and be devoted diligently. So verses 5 through 6 explains the importance of follow-through and being diligent in our work. In verse 5 it says, as you do not know what is the way of the wind, or how the bones grow in the womb of her who is the w who is with child, he points two things out that you you're never going to figure out You're you're never going to figure out the direction of the wind and it's it's never going to be completely predictable. Of course with science we know much more than at that point they knew about how uh children grow in the w in the womb, but there are still there's still some mystery there. Certainly without the modern science and without the technology that we have, you would never be able to know that. And so then he says here, so you do not know the works of God who makes everything. Understand, you just don't know. You don't know the works of God who makes everything. He's reminded of this before, and now he's reminding this again. You do not know the works of God who makes everything. You don't know when God will choose to bless and when God will choose to withhold. You don't know why He is doing what you what He is doing all the time. There are general things that we know about as Christians. We know that God is loving, God is merciful. He wants to see us grow spiritually. He wants to see us grow in Christ's likeness. But how that all takes place in our lives on a detailed basis, we simply don't know That's why we have to trust the Lord and not lean on our understanding. But while we are trusting in the Lord and resting on him and waiting patiently on him, we need to work. Notice what the text says, verse 6. In the morning, sow your seed. But don't just stop there. In the evening, do not withhold your hand. He says, when should you work? in the morning and in the evening. For you do not know which will prosper, either this or that, or whether both alike will be good. He says, you don't know how the timing of everything works and when the best time to do all these different things? So you can't always time everything. He just simply says, be diligent, work hard, focus on on follow-through. Make decisions and follow through them and keep going and don't stop. Do we have a problem with that in our society today? We start something and don't finish it. We are quick to begin, but it takes character to finish. And so if we're not careful, we can fall into that. We can think, well, this isn't working, I'm going to move on to something else. And it is true that sometimes you have to try things and you realize that it's not working, you have to move on to something else. Definitely true. But may it not be that it's not it's because we didn't put enough effort in, that we didn't work at it long enough or hard enough, that there wasn't enough follow through He's teaching us here that we need to follow through and be diligent. Psalm Proverbs 12, 27 says, the lazy man does not roast what he took in hunting. But diligence is man's precious possession. I think it's kind of a funny funny picture. Lazy man goes hunting. He shoots you know, whatever they would shoot back then. Um of course they don't have bullets, so anyway I'm I'm already day. You know you go out and shoot a deer. I heard somebody got a deer. I think it was was it Luke, did you get a deer No? Oh Ethan got it here. Ethan got it here. Okay. And Ethan, did you take it back with you and you're gonna use you you know you're gonna use it for food, right? Okay, if you said no, I'd be worried. Okay, so So so really the truth of the matter is uh uh you know to go out and to shoot a deer and then say, Oh, I just don't want to carry it back. Now I'll I'll tell you, it those things are heavy It is hard it's not easy to carry it back. And sometimes the best deer you gotta go deep into the woods to get. And that's difficult. But someone a lazy person shoots a deer And then just leads in there and says, Oh well, I'm just gonna go and I'm not gonna do do the f I'm not gonna follow through, I'm not gonna work hard No, someone who is going to get the fruit of their results, they're going to be able to get the meat from their kill. They're going to have to follow through on it. And so he exhorts us to devote diligently. And then he as we are working night and day and working hard and doing being diligent, he's going to turn the tables a little bit and he's going to point out something that we know to be true but we don't know when. Notice that's been a bit of a theme here in the last A couple of verses. There are things that we know and things that we don't know. And often we know something is inevitable. The tree falls, that's inevitable. We don't know when. We don't know where it will fall A cloud with a rain cloud is going to produce rain. We don't know exactly when, but we know it will. And so there's something else like that, and that is death. So he moves on, and we need to discern life's brevity in verses 7 through 8. So he says, truly the light is sweet. And it is pleasant to the eyes to behold the sun. And the word light, Ecclesiastes uses it in correlation with life. Light and life are are basically light is an illustration of what life is. And Job did it does the same thing in Job 30, 20 and 33, 30, where he says that that he may be enlightened with the light of life. And so as you're living out life and you're living out the good things of life, it is sweet. And you and it is pleasant for the eyes, it says, to behold the sun, to l to to to enjoy the sunshine, to enjoy what the sun produces. That is all something that is good. But he says in verse 8, he hastens to say But if a man lives many years and rejoices in them all, yet let him remember that the days of darkness, for they will be many. He basically is saying, hey, there's going to be a day where there is darkness, there is death. Ecclesiastes is always already used in Ecclesiastes 6, 4, and 5 and other places. He's already used darkness as an illustration of death. And so he says, death is coming. Yes, if you live at at best you live your entire time your entire life in enjoyment of the light of life, yet still death is inevitable. And he says this. Notice what he says, verse 8. All that is coming is vanity. What? Is he saying that based upon everything that he has said so far That it all ends in death and you're done? All this investing, all of this, all this bread putting your bread among many waters and making good decisions and Working hard from morning till evening and and hoping that the sun w hoping that the rain will come at the right time as you work hard to spread out the seed and make the right investments. All of that ends in what? Death. It is true, isn't it? Somebody who's highly wealthy and spends all their time focused on either the accumulation of things or the or or the or the producing of things and they've got money and wealth and they're they're diligent at pursuing earthly things Well, in the mind of Solomon as he observed what is under the sun, it all ends in death, and it's all vanity. Let me encourage you not to think, let your thinking stop there. Realize that that's the case. You can live your entire life And you and come to the end of your life and you've accumulated all kinds of things and all kinds of wealth and you have diversified your portfolio and you've got a great retirement and you could travel the world and then you die. the stark reality of inevitable death. And yet for the Christian, our minds should turn to what the New Testament says. Christ says this, Matthew 6, verses 19 through 21. Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth. Where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also Aren't you glad that God's word doesn't stop with Ecclesiastes? That yes, all of these things, though it is wise, I mean Solomon's wise and how you should function away that is uncertain in a in an uncertain world. There's some really good financial wisdom here. But folks, if you don't look above the sun then it all becomes just vanity. If your goal is to accumulate wealth and to survive and to enjoy the material bless uh the material blessings of life and to work hard and that is all there is to life. It all ends up in vanity Jesus says, invest in heaven. Put your treasures, invest your treasures in heaven. Where moth and rust doesn't corrupt, and where it can't be stolen. For why? Why? Because where your treasure is, there your heart is as well. Well, he is going to then end with understand he concludes with his idea of vanity. But then he summarizes his his advice and he and it's so he peaks above the sun a little bit. Notice what he says in verse 9 I rejoice, O young man in your youth, and let your rejoice, O young man in your youth, and let your heart cheer in the days of your youth. So he says, when you're young, when death does not seem to be near, though it could be, enjoy it. Rejoice in your youth. Those of us who are older, Don't you don't you want to tell the young ones, hey, enjoy not having the aches and pains? Enjoy being able to work all day long and not feel a thing because it doesn't I went out yesterday and I hadn't run a chainsaw in a long time and it's getting cold and I procrastinated and had not had a lot of time to collect wood for my my wood burning stove. And so I went out and ran a chainsaw for not very long. And I went in and I'm like, oh There's like um I still do it right now, I can feel it right there. Anyway, and it it's a sore and I'm like what and th I never used to even feel this. I'd go work out with a chainsaw all all day long and drag brush and climb trees, all this kind of stuff. And I didn't feel a thing. Well I get well, maybe a little bit. But all I do is like 30 minutes of of of using cha a chainsaw and I go in and uh anyway. Bottom line is enjoy the youth while you got it But notice the thing what he says, walk in the ways of your heart and in the sight of your eyes. Now here's what it's not saying. It's not saying follow your heart. It looks like it's saying that. Walk in the ways of your heart and in the sight of your eyes. What you see, do it, and follow your heart. That's not what it's saying. Here's why it's not saying that The word heart doesn't mean the same thing as the word heart means today. Follow your heart today pretty much means do what you want. Okay When you see the Disney princess shows that movies that say follow your heart, it's basically saying do what you want. I mean that's pretty much you should Tran you know, have it in your mind every every time you hear that. That's not what he's saying here. What he is saying here is that you should the heart is a in in the in the in the Hebrew mind The heart was both the mind, the will, and the motions. It was the entire built being. It was the soul. It was everything. And it's basically saying walk Walk thoughtfully as you think through life and certainly make wise decisions Walk in in view of your thinking, your emotions, your will, all of that, your whole person. Walk thoughtfully and And in the sight of your eyes, what you can see, what you know, not what you don't know. Don't be preoccupied with the things you don't know, the variables. Don't do that. Focus on things that you do know and walk thoughtfully. But he says this. Notice what he says But know that for all these God will bring you into judgment. He just lifted his eyes above the sun. Throughout Ecclesiastes, we've seen that life, we're seeing life under the sun and its role, and its conclusion is its futility, its vanity. He looks above the sun and he realizes that as you are walking through life, God will bring you into judgment. It's questionable whether at that point he understood that there would be an accounting by God of everyone, like the the great white throne judgment or the judgment seat of Christ. It's questionable that he w whether he understands that. God's judgment was actually on earth. God's judgment was that what you do what you do in this life is going to also you're going to receive um uh retribution or judgment from God based upon what you did in this life. You'll receive it in this life as well. But either way we know that there is a truth, isn't it? That one day for the Christian we will stand before the Lord. That it is appointed for a man once to die, and after that the judgment, where we will account for the things that we have done in the body. And isn't it true, folks, that we should, in our thinking as Christians, live for the day where we are able to hear those words, well done, thou good and faithful servant. As we are preoccupied with being under the sun and living under the sun, and we must remember that there's going to be a day where Where the things that we do for the sake of eternity are the things that are really going to matter. Those are the rewards. Everything is else is going to be wood, hay, and stubbles, 1 Corinthians 3. There will be a day where it will all be reckoned with, and we will have to stand before the Lord. Now, for the Christian, we will not receive the condemnation that someone who doesn't know the Lord will receive. But certainly we will be uh we will have to give an account to the Lord Now with thinking through all of these things, so he says, therefore, remove sorrow from your heart and put away evil from your flesh, for childhood and youth are vanity. Now there are three very simple things that we can take away from this. Number one, invest your time, talents, and treasures broadly. I would say even beyond broadly, invest them. For eternity. Number two, live decisively and diligently. In an uncertain financial world, God says, live decisively. Not foolishly, not ignoring the things that are known, not ignoring conventional wisdom, not knowing the things that are obvious, but also not being preoccupied with the variables that you'll never be able to predict. Live decisively, live diligently, and number three, to avoid vanity, invest in eternity. To avoid futility of life, invest in eternity. This is what God desires for us to do. Now let me ask you this question this morning. We're here this morning. And we have been talking a lot about very practical sub the very practical subjects of finances and and living in an uncertain world and how we should function in terms of living in an uncertain world. We have very practical Knowledge here. But as we have come to the end of this chapter, we have turned our attention to spiritual things, and we have turned our attention to the reality that there will be one day a judgment. And the fact is, the Bible tells us that after we die, there will be a judgment. And that might sound harsh to you. You might say to yourself, well, I don't believe. I have a hard time believing in a God who is going to judge me someday. Are you sure you have a hard time believing in that? I mean, think about it. Don't you want certain things and people to be judged You think of the Holocaust and the atrocities of the Holocaust. Don't you think there should be some judgment there? You think of the of the of the the the those injustices that you happen that happen all the all over the world and it seems as though people get away with all kinds of crazy things Don't you think that there should be a judge? Isn't there something morally inside of you that says that's not right that so many people get away with so many heinous things against other people. Can't you tell in your own spirit that something's not right there? And isn't it isn't it s Doesn't it isn't consistent with your own sense of morality that there will be a day where someone will judge things and set everything right That is God. God is a just God. The Bible actually tells us that God judges our sin. In fact, He cannot help but judge our sin. If he didn't judge our sin, he wouldn't be a just judge. He wouldn't be a just God. He would cease to be God if he didn't judge our sin. He has to judge it And the Bible tells us that the wages of our sin is spiritual death, separation from God. Because of our sin. We are born into sin. We are separated from God because of our sin, and we will die apart from God and God's judgment on us because of our sin. Except that God is also a loving God. He is also a merciful God. And so because he loved us so much and he wanted to rescue us from this eternal judgment. He sent his own son, whom he loved, to live a perfect life which we could not live And to go to the cross and to take our sin on himself, and then he judged his own son by putting him to death. Jesus died to pay the punishment for our sin. And so that if we will accept what Jesus did Not of any works of righteousness of our own, not of anything that we are, okay, well we're good enough to save ourselves or no, no, no, no. We're not. And our good can't outweigh our bad because it doesn't deal with the bad. But if we will trust in what Jesus did on the cross, that he took our sin on himself, and died in our place and rose from the grave three days later victorious over sin and death. The Bible says if we will believe in our hearts that if we will If we will confess with our mouth, Lord Jesus, and believe in our heart that God raised him from the dead, we'll be saved. We'll be rescued from the problem of our sin and the problem of that judgment, so that we are rightly restored to God, so that when we die, we will spend with Spend eternity with God in heaven. Have you been f have you been freed from that judgment to come? It's really as simple. You say, well, I don't I don't know if I can really under I don't really if I can I can know for sure. You know I've been a good person, but I've done some bad things and I don't really know how it's all going to come out in the end The Bible tells us these things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. The Bible is written that you might know whether or not you're right with God. And the standard by which you're right with God is not what you do because you cannot save yourself. The standard by which you're right with God is what Christ, what Jesus Christ did in dying on the cross for you So that your that wages of sin is death Jesus paid for that death on the cross. He took your punishment on himself so that you could have your sins forgiven. If you are here this morning and you say, well, this is I'm not really sure I've heard this this this way. I'm not I'm not I don't know where I stand with the Lord. I'm not sure where I will will spend eternity, and I don't really know if I am right with God. Please come and talk with me after the service, and I would be thrilled to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure you'll spend eternity with the Lord. Or talk with somebody that you're comfortable with uh if and and and make sure they're taking a Bible and they're showing you. Don't leave here today without knowing for sure where you will spend eternity. Let's go Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you and praise you for the wisdom of your word, its truth. We thank you that it gives us wisdom for how to live this life under the sun, but it also reminds us of the vanity of just living under the sun. With no investment in it in eternity. And so I pray, Lord, this morning that you would remind us as Christians That our lives should not be preoccupied with the investments of this world. Yes, we should be responsible Yes, we should follow the even in common grace that we should follow the wisdom that we see even in Psalm's. life but but Lord may that all of all of that may we see it as an equipping for us to be able to serve you And may we realize that our treasures we've got to lay up for ourselves, not treasures on this earth. We must lay up for ourselves treasures in heaven. And Father, remind us of that. It's so easy for us to be caught up in material things, caught up in the treasures of this earth. Remind us day in and day out of the need and the desire to invest in the treasures of eternity. So that that would be where our heart is. And Lord, if there is somebody here this morning that doesn't know you, I pray today they would understand their sin and their need of a savior. I pray that they would be saved today. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community here at BBC. You'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes. and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide That helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon