Heavenly Father, we are so grateful and so thankful this morning for your goodness and your kindness We thank you that in your great mercy and your great love for us, that you would send your only begotten Son, Jesus. Christ to come and take the sin of the world upon himself and die on that cross, paying the penalty in our place. And being buried in the tomb and on the third day was resurrected, up out of that grave, and now seated at your right hand. We thank you this morning, Lord Jesus, for the great sacrifice you have made on our behalf. We thank you for your word, your great and precious promises We thank you for your Holy Spirit coming to indwell the heart of the believer, to give us understanding, and Lord, to comfort us and encourage us and enable us. to be your servants. And Father, this morning I ask that you would help us to set aside all the cares and all the thoughts and all the world's ways and thoughts that are in our minds this morning. Help us to set that aside this morning. We pray for your Holy Spirit to come and work mightily in our hearts and our minds. Open our ears. Open our eyes to your truth. And we pray, Father, that in all things you will be glorified and lifted up, and we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. As we look at Ecclesiastes chapter 12, verses 1 through 8 Remember now your Creator, the days of your youth, before the difficult days come, and the years draw near when you say, I have no pleasure in them. While the sun and the light, the moon and the stars are darkened, and the clouds do not return after the rain. In the day when the keepers of the house tremble, and the strong men bow down When the grinders cease because they are few, and those that look through the windows grow dim, when the doors are shut in the streets, and the sound of grinding is low When one rises up at the sound of a bird, and all the daughters of music are brought low. Also, they are afraid of height and of terrors in the way. When the almond tree blossoms and the grasshopper is a burden and desire fails. For man goes to his eternal home, and the mourners go about the streets. Remember your creator, before the silver cord is loosed Or the golden bowl is broken, or the pitcher shattered at the fountain, or the wheel broken at the well. Then the dust will return to the earth as it was, and the spirit will return to God who gave it. Vanity is vanities, says the preacher. All is vanity. We are coming to the end of Ecclesiastes. This is the last chapter in our series on Ecclesiastes. And as we come to the last chapter, Solomon is directing his attention to youth. We see this in Ecclesiastes 11:9, where it says, Rejoice, O young man, in your youth. And we see it again in the same verse, he says, in the days of your youth. And then we see in Ecclesiastes 12, 1, remember now your creator in the days of your youth. So although there is application for all of us this morning, there is particular application for those of you who would be in the category of youth. So the question is, who is in that category? And the and that's a little I was trying to think about this and w okay, where do I where do I help people know what the c what category you're in? Some people say you're young at heart, you know, so you could be really old and and still be youth. But you'll see the description here and at some point your no I back to Harry just read it and I'm gonna have to do a lot of interpreting for you, but the it doesn't really youth doesn't really apply to all of us. And so who is the youth? Well let's start with our our junior church ends at ends at um around seven or eight. So we'll say it's from eight through through your twenties. I actually think you could argue that it would be all the way through your 30s based upon the content of the chapter. But we'll just say through your twenties. So would you put your hand up if you are from eight all the way through their your twenties? All right. There is probably maybe half of the room here is uh is in that age group And so this message is particularly for youth. And I want to be clear. I'm not saying that twenty-five is the same as eight. I'm not saying that Nor am I saying you're in your 30s is the same as you know twenties, but they're all different ages. But um this this really does apply specifically to your age group. Have you ever no noticed in the last few years, I don't remember this phrase I don't remember this word uh uh when I was young, the word adulting. Okay. I don't remember ever hearing that. I've heard the word adult many times, but I've never heard the word adulting until you know the last several years and now it's everywhere. It's a very common gerund now in our language. And I don't remember it, but I actually looked it up and do you know that the word adulting was first used in 1921? I was shocked. And in 1921, it was said in the book Call of Education by J. H. Doyle, the junior high school is one of the most dangerous devices ever invented for the adulting of childhood and youth. I actually agree with that. I think that's probably still the case. But that's the term first term, first time that it was cited in a publication the word adulting. In 1989, it was used in a PhD thesis in Arizona State University, and it in that thesis it says the process of adulting, according to Hudson is the management of attachment and loss life structures and transitions. Well that doesn't help us at all. So we turn to 2018 And we see that um we see this said. Bills are paid, I vacuumed the hall. I think that's enough adulting for today and tomorrow and the day after that. at Tiny Dancer A11 Access 28 November on Twitter. And so you see from the most recent use of the word, it pretty much means doing anything. that you don't want to do and taking responsibility, we would call that taking responsibility for the things that you need to do in life And the God says in his word that that we should all be adulting in the early stages of life. Really the interesting thing about it is as we think this is pretty well established sociologically, it seems as though people are adulting later and later and later in life. They're taking less and less of responsibility later and later. And aren't fully becoming, you know. the independent if you will, uh taking full responsibility until the later u later twenties now uh in our world oftentimes. Of course our our our twenties are you know the people in this church are different. But but for the most part that's what you have uh in our culture uh a a as a result. But the Bible is very clear in Lam Lament Lamentations three twenty seven, it says, It is good for a man To bear the yoke in his youth. The word yoke means responsibility, essentially It is good for someone to take on responsibility when they are young. The truth is you cannot mature without having a high level of responsibility. The major one of the major sociological problems that we have in our country ever since the the ever since probably 1950s is that teenagers have had maximum freedom with minimum responsibility. And I've gone over this before, many of you know this You cannot mature properly if you have maximum freedom and you have minimum responsibility. It should be that our freedom matches and is proportionate to our level of responsibility And what Solomon is going to say in this text essentially is that you need to take responsibility. The mindset, parents, it's our responsibility. to give our children responsibility at appropriate ages to make sure that they are growing in their duties and their responsibilities as they grow. But it is for the youth it needs to be, there needs to be a particular mindset. And the mindset needs to be not so much just on what is happening right in front of you, but what is happening down the road It's kind of like driving. That's actually something you have to happen in your youth as well. You learn to drive. And one of the one of the possible dangers of driving when you're a youth and just starting out is that you're only paying attention to what is right in front of you. I'm not going to ask for a show of hands of who struggles with that But but that might be a problem. You have to learn to look ahead, to look down the road, to see the light that's turning red, uh, to see the car that's pulling out in front of you, to drive defensively. You've got to be able to see down the road. In fact, when I was starting to drive. If we didn't have GPS, I know I'm old. I'm not in the young category. We had to I you know if I had to go someplace new I'd have to pull out this thing called a map. And I'd have to know exactly where I was going And then I would then have to plot it out and go there. I don't I don't even do that now. I just plug it in too, just like everybody else. But but but if we're going to go the right direction in life, we need to see the end, but we also see need to see The midpoint, we need to be able to look ahead. And what we're going to see in the passage is that Solomon is going to encourage, he's going to encourage the youth to do just that. We're going to begin and we're going to see this is going to broke pretty much we're going to see that we need to be aware of our responsibility before our Creator. And in verses one through five, we're going to see that we should live responsibly while you are while you have ample opportunity And then we should live responsibly while you still have the ability. Live responsibly while you have ample opportunity, and live responsibly while you still have the ability. We'll pick up then in verse 1 here, and it says, remember now your Creator. The word remember is a concept that we find in the Old Testament. It helps us to go to Deuteronomy 8, verse 18, where it says, And you shall remember the Lord your God, for it is he who gives you power to get wealth. that he may establish his covenant which he swore to your fathers at his as it is this day. Then it shall be, if you by any means forget the Lord your God and follow other gods and serve them and worship them, I testify against you that this day that you shall surely perish. This text then teaches us that to remember the Lord is to worship him, is to obey him, is to follow him. And so when we remember the Lord, we are doing what God has called us to do. Psalm 119, 55, I remember your name in the night, O Lord, and I keep your law, because I've remembered you. Now, it then says, the text then says, remember your Creator. It doesn't say in this text, remember your your judge. or remember your merciful God. It doesn't say, it says remember your creator. And there's a particular reason it says remember your creator. To help us understand this, I want to back up just a couple of verses here and note that in Ecclesiastes 11, 9 through 10, what it says there Notice what it says to the young man in those verses. It says, Rejoice, O young man, in your youth, and let your heart cheer you in the days of your youth Walk in the ways of your heart and in the sight of your eyes. And we discussed last time that wasn't mean that doesn't mean follow your heart. It means n make decisions based upon what you know to be true And then notice what it says, but know that for all these God will bring you to judgment. Therefore, remove sorrow from your heart and put away evil from your flesh, for childhood and youth are vanity. So in those passages, he's telling the youth, Understand you are accountable. There is an accountability. There's going to be a judgment. God is watching. There is an evaluation happening, and you need to understand that. The term accountability means is the answer ability or ownership for whether the responsibility was fulfilled. That's accountability. And one day we will stand accountable before the Lord. But now we ask the question, how do we how do we come up against the accountability and and be successful in the accountability? In other words, when we stand before the Lord, how is it that He will be pleased with us And that is to understand what our responsibility is. Our responsibility is the task, role, or duty that someone is assigned or expected to carry out. And that is why Solomon here says, remember your creator. How do we get what our role is, what our responsibilities are? As an image bearer of God, as a create a creation, we must go back to why God created us. The created order, what God did in creating us, shows us what our responsibility is before Him. And so now he is saying to those who are youth, those who are young, realize why God created you. So let's take some time and do that. In Genesis chapter 1, verse 26, we see that we are to reflect someone. Why did God create us as image-bearers of him? It is to reflect. Then God said in that passage, then God said, let us make man in our image according to our likeness, according to our likeness. Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. The focus that God wants us to have in our lives is that we are to emulate the character of God. We are to be image bearers of God. Those things that can that are true of God and can be true of us. The characteristics like His holiness and His love and His mercy and His goodness All of those things are true of God and can be true of us, and it is our responsibility as image bearers to begin to have those things bear out in our lives To reflect, but particularly as we think about New Testament teaching, we understand that the perfect image of God was Christ Himself. He came as the image of God, and he lived a perfect life, showing us what it would look like to reflect God as an image-bearer perfectly. And so our responsibility, young people, your responsibility, frankly, middle-aged people, our responsibility, and older people, we are, we are, our responsibility is to reflect Christ But then Sinclair Ferguson's book, which I would highly recommend for young people, called Discovering God's Will. This is something that young people really deal with and struggle with. He says he explains that the key is not to try to figure out what you're supposed to do based upon the circumstances you find yourself in. But to think about who you are and who you are to be in Christ. When you are working on growing in Christ-likeness, then the will of God will open up for you in the way that He wants you to go. To live a life that is totally ignorant of what God wants you to be Not just what God wants you to do, but what God wants you to be is going to result in your never finding out what God wants you to do. You must be what God wants you to be before you can know what God wants you to do. And so our first concern as Christians Our first concerns as image bearers and our first concerns, your first concerns as youth, are to think to yourself, am I growing in Christ-likeness? Am I becoming more like Jesus? Am I showing more love, more mercy, more grace? Am I am I more purity, holiness? Am I growing in that? Young people don't think for a minute that you're ever going to be able to not grow in the things of Christ and at the same time do what God has called you to do. They go together, and one must precede the other. We find also, secondly, notice what it says in Genesis chapter 2 verse 15. It actually said it in Genesis 126 as well, but it says in Genesis 1 uh 2. 15 that we're supposed to have dominion It says, then the Lord God took man and put him in the Garden of Eden to tend and to keep it. He gave Adam a job to do. He gave him work to be done. This dominion involves productive work, developing, organizing, caring for creation. This is so important as young people that we don't that that lives young people remember be productive in your life Don't wake up every morning thinking what you can what how you can please yourself. Think about how you can please God, first of all, by emulating who Jesus is, but secondly, how can I be productive with what God has given me? How can I be a good steward with what God Psalm 85 says this, for you have made him a little lower than the angels. You have crowned him with glory and honor. You have made him to have dominion over the works of your hands. You have put all things under his feet All sheep and oxen, even the beasts of the field, the birds of the air, and the fish of the sea that pass through the paths of the seas. Christ will one day He will have complete, utter dominion over everything. We as Christians are to have dominion over what God has created. We are to be responsible. We are supposed to, we are to take responsibility understanding that we are accountable. He says to do this in the days of your youth. And the reason that he emphasizes that, to do this in the days of your youth is because there are advantages that you have as young people. I don't know if you realize this or not, but you have great advantages. You know who knows how many advantages you have Young people, old people. We know. I'll put myself in the older category. I'm right in the middle there. But I look at some of the I look at youth and I I see what they're able to do and not even break a sweat And I realize that there is just by virtue of the health that you have, the vigor that you have, the energy that you have, the energy is amazing. Like the idea of an all-nighter is painful to me. I mean that idea just is like, what in the world? Never in a million years do I want to stay up all night. If it happens, it's because I didn't want it to happen That's what happens when you get older. And you'll see that in a minute. Purposely staying up all night, that is just like asking for two days of recovery. But not for a young person. It's like, give me two hours of sleep after an all-nighter and I'm good. I still don't think it's healthy. But anyway, it is possible There is an advantage to being young. That advantage gives you opportunities that you will not have when you are older. Understand, young folks, that take every opportunity you can to serve the Lord, to live your life for Christ. to reflect Christ, to take responsibility, knowing that it actually only gets harder to take responsibility. The older you get, the more difficult it is to take responsibility for what God wants you to do. Learn early Uh D. Al-Moody said one time, he said a certain at a certain meeting, two and a half people were converted to Christ. A friend asked if he meant Two adults or a child, the facts were just the opposite. He said two children and an adult. When a child is led to Christ, the whole life is saved. The the the wonderful thing about youth is that you do have more opportunity. You have more life ahead of you, all things being equal. Not necessarily. God doesn't guarantee us another day, but all things being equal You've got more energy, you've got more health, you have more opportunity. Use it for Christ. And we see in the text it tells us that there are diffic it's he he says, do this before the difficult days come. Boy, don't just get ready. It's going to get a whole lot more interesting. Before the difficult days come, he says, and the years draw when you say, I have no pleasure in them. There is young people, there's a day that comes when it gets difficult. It gets difficult to do the things that were no big deal that he didn't even give thank didn't even give thought to before And it gets difficult. And the pleasure of the there's a youthful pleasure in life of not having to deal with the curse of the body that we live in and the aging process that you don't have to deal with now that causes there to be a joy and a pleasure and an enjoyment uh that you will you will have later. So the question the question is, what do you do with that? What are you going to do with it? Ecclesiastes encourages you take responsibility early. And what we're going to see here that We're going to see here in the text that there's a description of the aging process. Now I got to be honest with you, when I went through this, it literally plunged me into depression. Seriously, I was like afterwards, I mean like the day that I really studied this out was Tuesday of last week, and Tuesday night was a rough night for me. The point is not to depress us. The point is not to be cynical. It could look like that, but it's not The point of this passage is for you to, especially youth, to be able to picture what it's like to get older. Now, that's not something you're thinking about. In fact, I think youth think of getting older as like another person. Like I remember when I was young, I never really thought about getting old. Now I do, but I didn't before. I didn't I thought of like the idea of being getting older as like a different person than I was now. And believe it or not You're it's actually the same person. Like there's you know there's not that much difference here, except it's slower. Anyway. Um and so and you forget more. So um So this describes this. And the idea, young people, is that you would actually picture yourself getting older. I almost did this. I decided not to. But I almost looked up they have these AI things now where you could take a picture of somebody and then you can watch them age. I almost did that with my kids and put it up there for you. I I didn't because I didn't want to ask them permission. I didn't know what they were anyway, so I didn't do that. But but there would be almost biblical value in doing that because To picture the brevity of life, to picture that you aren't going to stay as energetic as you are, or as good-looking, or any of that. It's all going to change The reality is, realize the opportunity you have. So we're going to go through this and hopefully it will help you to understand That you will be there and it's going to and as every old person tells you, including me now, it will be there faster than you think. And so all the old people. Oh yeah. You all are funny. All right. So so we see in verses two through five a description of the process of aging. And what I did, because this is it this is this is really diff a little bit difficult to interpret, and there are various interpretations on each one of these. And you may say, well, I don't really agree with that. That's okay. It's fine. You don't have to agree with my there's three or four views on different things. Traditionally it has been a description of the aging process. I am taking it that way And so what I've done is I've put this on the back of your bulletin. So you don't have to write every one of these down. I don't intend to linger on this forever. um because it I don't want to plunge you all into depression, but um but it is something that uh we will I want to go through because I think it will be helpful to really picture the aging process as we think about it. The first one, number one is the diminishing of youthful joy. The text says, well the sun and the light joy So he's saying, remember what he says He says here verse 2, or verse 4, verse 1, remember now your your creator. You need to do this now while you can. Okay. Uh take responsibility while you can, while you have the ability to, while you have the opportunity to. And then he says, while the sun and light, that I think that's representative of joy And the moon and the stars are not darkened. And the clouds do not return after the rain. That's an interesting phrase. The clouds return after the rain. indicates uh the clouds are like trials and the trials occur after prosperity. So you have prosperity and trials uh in the in and the youth at youth it seems like you have trials at times but then they subside and the older you get the more the trials seem to be stacked up on top of each other one after the other because you have the physical problems and the issues of recovery and all of that that you have to deal with. So the diminishing of youthful joy. Number two, arms and hands that grow weak It says, in the day when the keepers of the house tremble, the trembling of the hands, the trembling of the arms, the trembling of the legs. Um I just noticed a few days ago I'm going up the stairs and my knee creaked. Like what is going on? I'm not that old yet. Time will fix that. Number three, legs become bent and feeble. Legs become bent and feeble. Says in the strong men bow down. Okay, think of a think of someone who is strong. erect, you know, lots of energy, lots of strength, and now they're bent over, just trying to take one step in front of the other. When the grinders cease because they are few, what are grinders? The teeth. You lose your teeth as you get older. I'm telling you, this is a little rough. When the grinders cease because they are few, teeth become fewer. And those that look through the windows grow dim. Failing eyesight. And when the doors are shut in the streets, this could be linked lips sinking in because you have less teeth. And the sound of grinding is low. You're not able to chew as vigorously as you did before. You have to take longer time chewing because you have less teeth. Solomon must have had a dental problem, but anyway. And one rises up at the sound of a bird. This is increased insomnia. Little bird just wakes you up. You thought you you intended to get, you know, you you you know you should get eight hours sleep, seven, eight hours of sleep, but you only get three and a half, which is what happened on Tuesday night with me. This this happens as you get older. You you you don't sleep as well. You wake up and you've got a neck ache and you don't know why. And you go to the You go to the the um x ra you go get get an x-rayed and they say there's nothing wrong. And I'm like, there is something wrong. Anyway. Increased insomnia, hearing impaired, and all the daughters of music are brought low. Suddenly you don't hear the music as well as you did before. Here's one. Also, they are afraid of height and of terrors in the way. Older people tend to get more fearful as they get older. They don't want to venture out. They don't want to take risks There's a f there's fear that sets in. There's a sense of desire like a desire for comfort that sets in. When the almond tree blossoms, that's gray hair Now, by the way, almond trees are pretty when they blossom, so that's not necessarily a bad thing. But it is indication of you're getting older. When uh the grasshopper's is a burden, talk about burden being dragging dragging himself along, a grasshopper sort of dragging himself. Grasshoppers don't drag themselves along. They're not burdened. That's not what grasshoppers do. They hop around. But when a grasshopper is suddenly burdened, he's what is what's happened? He's lost his motivation, his reduced posture, reduced motivation. This is a vivid description of what happens as we age and as we get older. And then it says this, for man goes to his eternal home. That's death. And as a result of death, the mourners go out, go about in the streets, and that's what's left. Now, why is he saying this? I'll remind us, first of all, it's not just to be cynical about life. He's wanting what's the point? The point is take responsibility when you're young, when you have opportunity We see from this text that decline, physical decline is universal and inevitable Now, if you have really good genes, maybe you're going to start aging a little bit later, but eventually it will catch up with you. Catches up with everybody. Life is fragile and it is limited. It's fragile and it is limited. This is not a cynical explanation. You know what it is? It is a m- it's a merciful warning Because your your days of youth, they will go fast And the encouragement is here, use it wisely. Take the opportunities, take the responsibility. Ultimately, we would say from New Testament Truth. Live it for Christ. Ephesians chapter 5, verses 15 through 16 says this. See then that you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise. Redeeming the time. Why? Because the days are evil. Well, we have seen through the book of Ecclesiastes That we live in a fallen world. The days are evil. It's a sin-cursed world. There are all kinds of problems in our world because we live in a fallen world. But there is a way to redeem the time, to buy it back, to take advantage of the opportunities that God provides. And the answer, frankly. is you can only do this as you live for Christ. The wonderful privilege that we have as Christians is that the things that we do in this limited time can be can can have ramifications for all of eternity. So that as Christians, this is really not entirely what Solomon has in mind. But as Christians, we can say, okay, I can take the opportunities that I have. They're fleeting. They will be gone. They are limited. But I can take the life that I have that God has given me. I can take the opportunities I have. I can take responsibility. And the things that I do can matter for all of eternity. So that we are redeeming the time because the days are evil. This is where the passage becomes very the next text we're going to see is the passage continues to become very valuable to us. Because we actually are going to see next, it's going to talk about the end of life. There's something very valuable about thinking about the beginning of life to the end of life. I was thinking about this, and when you usually when you're forced to think about this is in a funeral. And I also was reflecting on the fact that I went to very few funerals as a young person. I I think most young people don't go to that many funerals. Um my kids have been to my dad's funeral. Um I hope that makes a positive impact on them ultimately. That life is short. And then he need to use it for Christ. But I think there would be value actually And I I I I go to funerals, I actually find them quite meaningful to think about somebody's life from the beginning, from the birth, to think through to their death and what the life what what were the significant things in their lives What were the things of redeeming quality and redeeming value? It's the dash in the middle between the two dates on the tombstone. And it's m almost probably almost cliche now, but it's a good question. What will you do with your dash? How will you live out your dash? It's a really important question to ask. It's like driving a car. You need to know what the destination is, and you need to know look ahead what's going on in order to be able to stay on the road of life that will fulfill the role that God wants you to have in this life. So the passage is now going to, we're going to turn our attention to our responsibility while we still have ability. Again, we see remember your creator. Verse 6. Remember your creator, before the silver cord is loosed, or the golden bowl is broken. Or the pitcher shattered at the fountain, or the wheel broken at the well. Okay, there's Definitely terms that we would not immediately understand significance. I think they would have in the for in that time period in 940 B. C. they would have understood what what this was. They would have understood um what these were and why they mattered. So let's figure out what we're talking about here. Notice the golden bowl This is talking about the extinguishing of a lamp and dura. In those days, a bowl usually was a reservoir for olive oil, which then fueled lamps. It's actually an inefficient way to fuel a lamp, but back then that's probably what they had in the Middle East, so that's what they used. And we actually see something similar in Zechariah chapter 4, verse 22 and 3. where it says, and he said to me, What do you see? So I said, I am looking, and there is a lampstand of solid gold with a bowl on top of it. And the stand seven lamps with seven pipes to the seven lamps to olive trees or bias. So there were pipes that ran to the lamps that supplied them. And I think probably the silver cord is the supply to the lamp. And what does it say about this? The silver cord is loosed. It's cut off. The supply isn't there anymore. The golden bowl, it's broken. The supply to the light or the life is gone. It's a vivid way of describing the fact that death has taken place. And then you move on and you see the breaking of pottery. Or a pitcher shattered at the fountain. Back then it there are reports that and even archaeological digs that Um there was pottery that would be dug up as at at burial sites, and this is something they would do sort of as a ceremonial practice that demonstrated that there was a life that died. I mean, frankly, pottery, broken pottery is useful to no one anymore. You take a cup or a bowl or something that's useful and you break it and no longer it's useful. And what he is saying here is that at death your usefulness ceases. Live a life of responsibility. Remember the Lord. Remember your creator because there's going to be a day where your usefulness on this side of heaven, your usefulness under the sun, is going to come to an end. It says a broken a wheel broken at the well. Think of a well, think of a wheel at the top of it. You're you're you're using the wheel as a pulley basically to pull up a bucket in order to be able to Supply water for life, and that wheel is broken, the usefulness is not there anymore. He's simply saying that and at death our usefulness under the sun is done And then verse 7 it says, then the dust will return to the earth as it was. What's the dust? That's us. Genesis 2. 7 reminds us that the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living being. The text here tells us, and the spirit will return to God who gave it. Just a little glimpse of the fact that there is more than just under the sun. There is a spirit. We do have a spirit, and it will return to God. But we, the body, returns to dust. Job 34, 14 through 15, if he it talks about a man returning to dust. And Psalm 104, 29 through 30 says, you hide your face, they are troubled, you take away their breath, they die, and return to their dust. But I want us to turn now and think about the New Testament teaching on this because we have more here that we need to think about when it comes to life and to death. In Matthew chapter 16, Jesus says this when it comes to our life. Verse 24 and 25 it says, And Jesus said to his disciples, If anyone desires to come after me, let him deny himself Take up his cross and follow me. Whoever desires to save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. Isn't it wonderful to know that because of the redemption of Christ Our usefulness does not actually end at death. Our usefulness on this earth and this time period with the bodies that we have, that all ends. But when we give our lives to Christ, then it redeems them so that they are useful actually for all of eternity. This is why Jim Elliott, in his very famous quote, said, he is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. I was reading in Philippians this week. I love Paul's words in thinking about both life and death. We have a very uh biblically balanced understanding when we read verses twenty through twenty-six of Philippians. Actually we'll just read twenty-one through twenty-four of that passage. It says, For me to live is Christ, and to die Is gain. Now that's a little different than what Solomon says. We're now seeing the fullness of revelation come about in the New Testament, and now we see that with Christ to die is actually gain. He says, but if I live on in the flesh, this will mean fruit from my labor. I'll be more ability to be able to work for God. Yet what I shall choose, I cannot tell. He says, I don't know what I would, if I had a choice, whether I die today or not, I can't tell what I would choose. Because I want as much life as I can to work for God, and yet I want to be with Christ. This is exactly the perspective that every Christian should have That I want my life to count for Christ. I want to work as hard as I can for Christ. I want there to be fruit in my life as a result of living for Christ. But I do long for the day where I will see Christ as well, and I will be with him. He says, verse 23, for I am hard-pressed between the two, having a desire to depart and to be with Christ. Which is far better. Nevertheless, to remain in the flesh is more needful for you. Romans 14 8 says, For if we live, we live to the Lord. And if we die, we die to the Lord. Therefore, whether we live or die, we are the Lord's. Is that your perspective this morning? Whether you live or you die, you're the Lord's Your life is God's. Your life is hid in Christ, Colossians 3. Isn't it true, folks, that many times we think, and that youth are particularly I remember being youth myself and really thinking about Building a life for myself. Even when I was dating and thinking about being going to the ministry and not thinking, I was direct definitely going that direction. I think I I I would think sometimes in terms of building a life instead of just living for Christ. Having my life spent for Christ. Now I look at my life in the middle middle middle-aged and now I think about there's real limits. I look ahead and this is almost cliche now, but you you do get to the point in your life where you say there are more days behind than there are ahead And when you realize that, you begin to say, man, I want every day to count for Christ But man, what wonderful if you can get that as early as you possibly can, you have more opportunity. You have more options and more energy to be able to live for Christ so that you can look back and say, I lived for Christ. So what takeaways can we get from this? Number one, we need to live under responsibility by embracing under accountability by embracing responsibility. We need to live under accountability. There is going to be a day for the Christian where he stands before the Lord and he will not receive condemnation. But there will either be an acknowledgement of a faithful service, or there won't be, a life of usefulness Or there won't be. When you come to the end of your life and you stand before the Lord, are you going to hear, well done, thou good and faithful servant? Or will you not? That ought to press on us from the earliest times of our lives. When we truly come to Christ and we are truly Christian, we ought to care about the day where we will stand before our Creator, stand before our Lord, stand before our Savior. And give an account of what we did with the life Christ gave us. Number two. We need to take every opportunity to spend your youth for Christ. This is speaking specifically to youths. Take every opportunity. Look for opportunities. Spend it for Christ. And you will get older and you'll look back and you'll say, it was a life lived for Christ. Or if you never get older like Jim Elliott did You will be able to stand before the Lord and say, I spent everything I had for Him. Number three, live for Christ while you can. This is for all of us. Time is limited. It's limited. We have one life to live for Christ. Live for Christ while you can. Set your mind on things above, not on the things of this earth. And maybe you're listening this morning. And you are really unsure about the next life. You're unsure about what will happen if you die. We are talking about life. We're talking about death. And I have a question for you. If you were to stand before the Lord and he asked a different question, not whether or not you are a faithful servant, but he asked a question like, Why should I let you into heaven? What would you say? That's a hypothetical question. It really won't happen that way because the reality is there will be a day you die, and there will be a day where you will stand before the Lord. But the decision will be made. He won't ask that question. He'll know the answer already. You say, well, I don't really know how I can know for sure that I will spend eternity with the Lord. I don't think you can know that. So the Bible says you can know that. 1 John 5. These things are written that you might know that you have eternal life. The Bible is literally written so that you can know that you have eternal life. As you go through the Bible, you go through places like Romans, where it tells us, for example, that that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. That we are born sinners And we are born on our way to a Christless eternity, on our way apart from Christ. We will die. And the Bible tells us We will head to a place called hell, which is separation from God because of our sin. And yet, and God has to do this because He He must judge sin. And yet, he provided Jesus for us to take our sin on himself to satisfy God's justice To pay the punishment for our sin, so that He can then give us His righteousness So the Bible says, Romans 5. 8, God commends his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. So the Bible then tells us that he rose from the grave three days later. Romans chapter 10 says, verse 9, if you will confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. Full stop. Decision's made. You can know. If you don't know, boy, I would be thrilled. To help you to take a Bible and show you how you can know. I did it in a nutshell here, but if you have questions or want this fleshed out There is nothing better in my that I can think of that I would rather do than take a Bible and show somebody how they can know for sure they will spend eternity with the Lord. Come and talk with me after the service I would be thrilled with that. Or talk with somebody else that you're comfortable with, that you know they have a relationship with the Lord. They know their Bibles. And don't leave here without knowing for sure where you will spend eternity. For all of eternity. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. You have given me We thank you for its truth. We thank you that it challenges us and reminds us of some pretty basic truths, but Very important truths to remember that our life is limited. And we have limited opportunities to To take responsibility, to take stewardship of our lives To to live for you, to emulate you, to reflect your character. Help us, Lord, with these things. And if there is anybody here that doesn't truly know you as their Savior, I pray today they would understand their sin and their need of a Savior. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call. so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.