Well good morning. Kind of funny this morning uh getting up extra early to go shovel snow before so I could get out here. But it was so wonderful driving here alone 97. And you just see the glory of God. All the trees were covered completely with snow. A little less here in your area, but down our way everything was covered. It's really beautiful. And uh we are changing up uh our reading this morning. Uh Matt said since we did not have Sunday school, he's going to do a chapter in Matthew chapter two and preached on the whole chapter for two hours. So here we go. Let's bow our heads. Let's go ahead and pray. Father, we're grateful. We are so grateful and so thankful, Lord. I thank you for those who came out early this morning and got things prepared, Lord. Even when you send such a beautiful thing as now, Lord, it's such a beauty and it really reflects your glory. We thank you, Lord, for those who were willing to come out and prepare so that we could come together this morning. I thank you for each one who decided this morning to come out. and participate in worshiping you together here. And I pray for those who are at home that, Father, you will bless them also and protect them. And I pray, Lord, this morning as we come to your word As we are thinking and going through now, the time that we celebrate your birth, and Father, we are so grateful that you loved us that much that you would send your only begotten Son. to come and and uh be born of a Virgin Mary taking on human flesh by the power of the Holy Spirit. And dwelling among us and teaching us and fulfilling Scripture and fulfilling the law and fulfilling the old uh Testament prophets, uh prophecies, Lord. We're so grateful And you have given us your word here this morning. And as we prepare to come into your word, I pray that our hearts and our minds That we would set aside all the cares and all the stress and all the distractions, Lord, of the season. And that we would take time this morning as we hear and account from your word. of the birth of our Savior, Lord. And we are grateful and thankful for that. And we ask, as we are thinking in this, Lord, and going through it, that our hearts and our minds would be solely focused upon the birth of our Savior and the importance of that. And yes, we do enjoy this time of year, Lord And we're thankful for the gift that you have given us, the greatest gift. And Father, I want to lift up also Pastor Jim and his family as they're traveling home. May you keep them safe and bring them back to us safely. And I know they're going to be listening this morning. So we ask, Father, that that your word would go out and that people would be blessed. And we pray, Lord, that we will be changed more and more into your image as we sit under your word. And we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. So we are going to read Matthew chapter 2. And it begins in verse 1. Now, after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king, Behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he who is born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east, and have come to worship him. When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. So they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet, but you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are not the least among the rulers of Judah. For out of you shall come a ruler, who will shepherd my people Israel. Then Herod, when he had heard secretly, called the wise men determined from them what time the star appeared. And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search carefully for the young child. And when you have found him, bring back word to me that I may also come and worship him. And when they heard the king, they departed. And behold the star, which they had seen in the east, went before them, till it came and stood over where the young child was. And when they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceedingly great joy. And when they had come into the house, They saw the young child with Mary, his mother, and fell down and worshipped him. And when they had opened their treasures, they presented gifts to him gold, frankincense, and myrrh Then, being divinely warned in a dream that they should not return to Herod, they departed for their own country another way. Now when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise. Take the young child and his mother, flee to Egypt, and stay there until I bring you word. For Herod will seek the young child to destroy him. And when he arose he took the young child and his mother by night and departed for Egypt, and was there until the death of Herod that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophets, saying, Out of Egypt I called my son. Then Herod, when he saw that he had was deceived by the wise men, was exceedingly angry, and he sent forth and put to death all the male children who were in Bethlehem and in all its districts, from two years old and under, according to the time which he had determined from the wise men. Then was fulfilled what the prophet spoken by Jeremiah the prophet sang. A voice was heard in Ramah. Lamentations, weeping, and great mourning. Rachel weeping for her children, refusing to be comforted because they were, because they are no more. Now when Herod was dead, behold an angel of the Lord appeared in the dream to Joseph in Egypt, saying, Arise, take the young child and his mother, and go to the land of Israel For those who sought the young child's life are dead. Then he arose, took the young child and his mother, and came to the land of Israel. But when he heard that Archalith was reigning over Judea instead of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there. And being warned by God in a dream, he turned aside to the region of Galilee. And he came and dwelt in the city called Nazareth. that it may be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophets, that he shall be called a Nazarene. If you read the bulletin, you would have thought, hey, we're going to look at Galatians chapter 1 this morning. You just heard the scripture reading and you think, hey, we're going to look at Matthew chapter two this morning. In fact, open your Bibles to the book of Revelation. Not a joke. We're going to Revelation and we're going to find Christmas in Revelation. Revelation chapter 12. Many people find Revelation to be an enigmatic book. Almost as hard to to interpret as it is to say the word enigmatic. And we're gonna jump right in the middle of the book. to a little interlude in the events of the book of Revelation to a vision that John has, a vision that includes the Krishna story. Look at Revelation chapter 12 and verse 1. Now a great sign appeared in heaven, a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and on her head a garland of twelve stars Then, being with child, she cried out in labor and in pain to give birth. And another sign appeared in heaven. Behold, a great fiery red dragon Having seven heads and ten horns and seven diadems on his head, his tail drew a third of the stars of heaven and threw them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman who was ready to give birth to devour her child as soon as it was born. And she bore a male child who was to rule all nations with a rod of iron. And her child was caught up to God and his throne. That's quite a vision, and it's only the beginning. We're gonna look at this chapter, and you know, sometimes when we come to Revelation, we're a little little A little hesitant with all the symbolism that's there. Like, okay, what's going on? We've got a woman. We got a child. He said something about Christmas. Is this the Christmas story here? And then you gotta try again. Where does that fit in Dragons, mythological creatures. Were they real in the past? We don't know. Maybe long past it was some kind of dinosaur, but clearly there's more going on here than just a dragon, whatever that is. In fact, in Revelation chapter 12, we kind of get a picture of an entire the entire scope of human history from beginning until end, of the battle between God and the devil that began Back in the Garden of Eden. We see this woman. And you start thinking maybe of Genesis chapter 3, verse 12. We see this woman and she it reminds us of this verse where it says in Genesis 3. 15, I will put enmity between you and the woman. This is God speaking to the serpent God speaking to the devil saying, I'm going to put enemy between you and the woman, between your seed and her seed. He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. God promised there at the beginning when man fell, when man broke, disobeyed God, when mankind was cursed. God gave a promise of a Savior that would come. The woman would bear a child. And as we come to Revelation chapter 12, and we think, hey, we have this woman Yeah, we have a child. That might be easier to identify, right? Capital C. Um got the dragon, and the passage is going to make it really easy to identify. But who is this woman? Is it in fact Eve? Eve, who when she gave birth to Cain, said, I've gotten a man from the Lord, probably thinking, Wow, this is the promised one. Well, it was going to come from her descendants, but Cain was not that one Some people look at Revelation chapter 12 and think, this woman, this woman, there's got to be Mary, because the child, no big C child. So who gave birth to Jesus? This is obviously Mary. And you come to verses like this, Matthew 120, just before the passage we read. Matthew 120-21 says, The angel of the Lord appeared to him, that's to Joseph, in a dream, saying Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take to you Mary your wife. For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit, and she will bring forth a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. Here's a child being born to a woman. What so many women throughout history, from Eve, all due to Mary, had looked ahead too. Who would be the one who would bring the Savior into the world? And yet, as we look at Revelation chapter 12, There's a little more descriptions of this woman. Let's go back. Revelation 12. Let's see what the w who the woman is. Now a great sign appeared in heaven, a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and on her head a garland of twelve stars. Obviously we've got some symbolic language here. But often in Scripture, especially even in Revelation, if we look at the context, if we look at what it's alluding to in maybe the Old Testament, we can tell What the symbolism is intended to mean. Now the child and the dragon, like I said, it's going to be very easy. The woman's the hard one here. Who is this woman with the clothes with the sun, with the moon under her feet And I hit a garland of twelve stars. Actually, if you think back Is there a story in the Old Testament where there is sun, moon, and twelve stars? Look in Genesis, a little ways after Genesis 3 and the promise of the Savior. But Joseph Not the Joseph and Mary Joseph, the Joseph from Genesis Joseph. That Joseph, he has a dream too. And in this dream, God is revealing something to him. He dreamed still another dream and told it to his brothers and said, This is Genesis 37, 9 to 10 This is what he said to his brothers. Look, I have dreamed another dream. And this time the sun, the moon, and eleven stars bowed down to me. So he told it to his father and his brothers, and his father rebuked him and said to him, What is this dream? that you have dreamed. Shall your mother and I and your brothers indeed come to bow down to the earth before you? Here we have sun, moon, eleven stars. But what the Joseph, he's the twelfth brother of the brothers here This is the beginning of Israel. Jacob, his father, is going to be called Israel. As we come to Revelation, I believe it's referencing. . This dream here, letting us know this woman, it's not Eve, although there's some relationship there to the beginning of this story, this great battle between the devil and and God It's not Mary, even though she's the one who actually gives birth to the child, but it's speaking actually of Israel. The people of Israel through whom God would bring the Messiah, the promised one, who would save their people from their sins. Mary was just one of the people of Israel. The child clearly is Christ. And we can tell that also once again by looking back in Scripture from this symbolism. Let's read a little farther down. Verse 3 Another sign, no, that's the dragon. Let's get back to the child. Jump down here to verse 5. She bore a male child who was to rule all nations with a rod of iron. Now our translators helped us out. C child with the capital C, we're thinking this has definitely got to be Jesus. And he's going to rule With a rod of iron. Well the Old Testament, it tells talks about someone ruling with a rod of iron in the future. In the book of Psalms, Psalm chapter 2, uh this is a messianic psalm, talking about the one who had come to save the world from their sins. And listen to what this verse says. It says, I will declare the decree. The Lord has said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. Ask of me, and I will give you the nations for your inheritance. and the ends of the earth for your possession, you shall break them with a rod of iron, you shall dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. Break them with the rod of iron. Rule with the rod of iron. Looking ahead to the Messiah. Beyond this passage, in Revelation chapter 19, We have another reference to Psalm 2, speaking of this one who would rule with a rod of iron. Revelation 19, verse 15. This is the second coming of Jesus Christ, as he comes with his armies from heaven. To make all things right. He says, Now out of his mouth goes a sharp sword, that with it he should strike the nations, and he himself will rule them with a rod of iron. He himself treads the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God. He will rule them with a rod of iron. Who is this child who will rule with a rod of iron? We look in Revelation chapter 12, we see the connections. Clearly, this is Jesus Christ. And of course we could have gotten that just from the capital C But there he is. So from Israel, God promised that he would send a Savior. It began with that proto-evangelium. That's what the fancy word for Genesis chapter 3 is, where God promised to send a Savior Then God promised, hey, the Savior would come through Abraham. The Savior would come through David. And finally we get to Mary and Joseph, both descendants of David, both of the house of Israel, just as God promised he sent this child. But there's somebody waiting for him. Somebody who wants to devour him. The woman's Israel. The child, that's Jesus, the Messiah, the one promised to save his people from their sins. But now we have this dragon. And God makes sure we don't mistake who this is. Let's look at verse verse three. And another sign appeared in heaven. Behold, a great fiery dragon. It's powerful. Having seven heads and ten horns and ten diadems on the head. We won't spend time with that. If we were studying the book of Revelation, we connect that to some other passages But let's just say this man is a lot this man, this this dragon has a lot of power. It says he with his tail he drew a third of the stars of heaven and threw them to the earth And the dragon stood before the woman who was ready to give birth to devour her child as soon as it was born. If we jump down in the passage to a section we haven't read yet, God makes sure we know the symbolism and the meaning. Verse 9 So the great dragon was cast out. That serpent of old. So who's the dragon? He's the serpent of old. He's referencing back to Genesis chapter 3. Going all the way back to the beginning of this conflict. This dragon is the serpent of old He's called the devil and Satan. Oh yeah, there's two of his names. The devil. That means that he is he is the one who has uh the the devil is the one who He's uh slandering God's people. He's Satan. The word name Satan literally means the adversary, he who deceives the whole world. Very clear. We're talking about the big picture, the big battle, and Christmas is kind of at the very center of this battle as the Savior that God came to defeat the devil, enters the world. And that devil knows. He knows this is not good for him. In fact, he's been trying to stop this from happening from the beginning of time. Cain is born of a woman. What does Cain do? He murders his brother. Who's a murderer from the beginning? The devil is. The devil is trying to mess up the the- mess up the line so that the Savior does not come. Cain kills Abel. Then there's the line of Seth, the godly line. It intermarries with the ungodly line. And in Genesis chapter 6, they become so wicked that what happens? The flood comes. He tries to stamp out the deliverer, and yet God saves Noah. And so the promise continues through Noah. He attempts to muddy the picture after God chooses Abraham and says, through you, I'm going to bless all nations. And so what happens? We have these stories about Sarah ending up in the harem of of Pharaoh and Rebekah later on in that same line as he tries to divert things so the Messiah does not come as God promised. He wants to stop it. You look throughout history. Exodus chapter one, what does Egypt try to do? Kill all the male children You look at the attempted murders of David by Saul. God promises, David, I'm going to send my Messiah through you, and so there's attempts on his life. A more obscure story is in 2 Chronicles 22, Queen Atheliah tries to destroy the royal seed, kill all the males in the royal line. This would have stopped the Messiah from coming as God promised, and yet God once again protects that royal seed. You'd think about the book of Esther in the College and Career Group. We've been studying the Book of Esther What happens there? Haman tries to exterminate all the Jews. This would have prevented the Savior from being born, the Messiah to come as God's promised. And yet The devil could not stop him. Now, in verse 4, we see the baby about to be born. And what does the devil want to do? Well, he couldn't stop him from being, couldn't stop the Messiah from coming, so Well, we're gonna devour him as soon as as he is born. We just read Matthew chapter two And we see the ugly head of the dragon again. Now the baby is born. Let's kill him before he has a chance to grow older. Let's stop this right at the beginning. Here is the one coming to be born king of the Jews. That's what it says in Matthew 2. Revelation 12 talks about him being the one who's going to rule with the rod of iron. Let's kill him before he has a chance. to do what God intended for him to do. To make all things right, to rule the world, to have dominion. And so, Herod, as a tool of the devil, tries to kill him. And yet he cannot. Here we see this battle, and through this vision here in Revelation chapter 12, we see the devil's war against God. First he tries to stop the Messiah. He can't do that. Then he tries to stop the Messiah's messengers. We'll see that in verse 7 to 12. We see them in heaven, we see them here on earth. He tries to stop them. And then finally we'll see him try to stop anyone who's believing and obeying Jesus Christ. That's his plan. And you know what? You and I are part of this battle. This message here, this vision from Revelation 12 may seem high and far away. This is like, okay, there's dragons, there's, you know. Well babies are kind of normal, you know, but the dragons, there's women with stars on their head, all this kind of thing here. How does what does this have to do with me? John's going to bring it in to us because we have a part in this battle here. Think of the book of Revelation. Who's it written to? It's written to seven churches. Written to people in our age. Now we don't think of it that way because it's 2,000 years ago, but this is still the church age. It's written, you see in Revelation chapter 2 and 3, these letters to these seven churches And he wants to encourage them. Persecutions will come. There will be difficulties. There will be obstacles. And yet you can overcome. You can keep on serving the Lord. You can keep you're part of a bigger picture here. So often we don't see the big picture. So often we just think about, hey, but today I've got a job that I'm maybe a little bit tired of I gotta put in my eight hours, nine hours, ten hours, eleven hours. Depending on the job, you know. I've got the things ahead of me. I I've got the same naughty children in that woke up this morning I had yesterday, you know But we're part of something bigger. And that's what he's bringing out here in Revelation chapter 12. There's a battle that's begun that began in the beginning. We, in mankind, we fell And there's someone opposing God. He wants to stop God's plan for this world. He wants to stop the Messiah from coming to save us from our sin. He wants to stop the Messiah from ruling in the future. But he can't stop Jesus. And so what does he do? He goes after Jesus' messengers. We move into the second part of this vision. And it says in verse 7, A war broke out in heaven. We're going to jump in time. I'll show you a little bit where this is, but there's a war going on. Now this is jumping into the future. We're at Christmas in the beginning of this But visions kind of jump in time sometimes, and this one jumps ahead. A war broke out in heaven. Michael and his angels fought with the dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought, but they did not prevail, nor was a place found for them. So we got the dragon and his angels. Earlier we saw that a third of the hosts of heaven, third of the stars are cast to the earth. with the devil. It's believed that this is talking about uh one-third of the angels. They're cast down from heaven in the past. And he says in the future, in the tribulation period, this is going to happen again And this time it's going to be more permanent. Notice the emphasis here, verse 9, so the girl dragon was cast out. He says in verse 8, I mean it's verse 7, verse 8, verse 9, that he was cast out. The end of verse 9 says, and the angels were cast out with him. There's a battle. And the devil cannot win. He couldn't stop the Messiah. Nope, can't do that. He couldn't stop the the the uh the angels in heaven here. It says Michael And the good angels that have not fallen, they have fought against the devil, and now they cast them out. Now, you think, wait a minute, cast them out a second time? Weren't they already cast out once in the past? How come they're going to get cast out in the future Well we can see from Scripture that though they were cast out and no longer had their places in in in in in in in God's host in heaven. They still had access to heaven, to stand before God. You look in the book of Job, Job chapter 1, and the devil comes up there with some of the other angels and reports on what he's doing. Uh jump jump ahead. If you look in the in the book of Job here, um God asked the devil, Hey, what have you been doing? And he says, I've been walking to and fro on the earth. God says, have you considered my servant Job? And the devil says, yeah, I saw him. You know, he God says he does what's right. You know, he's a just man. Hey, you know, I'd like to be Job, you know. God does an assessment on me, and this is God's assessment. He's a just man. He's doing the right thing. Well the devil's at the axe on him too, but you know why he's doing that? You've blessed him. The man's the richest man in the world. He's got a nice family, nice property. Of course he's going to do what's right. Take that all away. And he's going to curse you. So we see the devil up there. What's he doing? In fact, he's doing devil kind of thing. What is a devil? A devil is a slanderer. The word devil means slander. He's accusing this just man who is who is a faithful believer in God. Now in Revelation chapter 12, he no longer has that access. There's battle going on. Battle going on in heaven. Even today there's a battle going on here on earth. In Ephesians chapter 6, it talks about a spiritual battle. The Bible doesn't really get into this a whole lot, but he mentions there's a lot of things going on that we aren't a whole lot aware of. Ephesians chapter 6 says this to us here in the church age. Finally, my brethren. Be strong in the Lord and the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. Look what he says here. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against Principalities, against powers, against rulers of darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places. The devil's still trying to stop God's plan. He can't stop the Messiah. The Messiah already came. The Messiah already died on the cross. The devil tried to crush his head and only got his foot. The devil himself got the crushed head. Christ rises from the dead, ascends to heaven. We see that a little bit earlier when it says he was caught up in verse 5. She bore a male child that was to rule all nations with a rod of iron, and her child was caught up to God and to his throne. The devil can't get him now. So what's the devil doing? He's going after God's people. There's a spiritual battle going on. A battle that It's not just like, you know, some of those strange pictures you see angels fighting against demons. It's not like that at all. They don't really have bodies. It's spiritual battle. I have no idea what this looks like. I don't think you can write it down because things are invisible But there's a battle going on here too. And it's part of the hearts and minds of people. A battle to keep them from coming and believing on Jesus Christ the Messiah who can save them from their sins. And if he if the devil fails there again and somebody gets saved, there's a battle to get keep you from fighting on the right side and get you to fight on the wrong side That's the battle. God the devil wants you to think wrong things and do wrong things. He wants you to believe things that aren't true and then live that out as if God isn't there, as if there isn't a battle going on, as if you're not a part of God's plan for this world, but you are. In the middle of this vision, God speaks of believers. Look at verse 10. Then I heard a loud voice. So the devil and his demons are cast out of heaven. Then he heard a loud voice saying in heaven, Now salvation and strength. And the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ have come for the accuser of the brethren. If you accuse them before our God, day and night has been cast down. See, that's still going on now. He's still accusing us before God. But there comes a day where he's going to be cast down. And look at verse 11. And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, by the word of their testimony. And they did not love their lives to the death. They overcame him. The devil. Powerful. We have this picture of the devil as a dragon. Why? It's emphasizing his power. His power is greater than ours. We're small people. We only live here on the planet for about 70, 80 years, something like that He has been around since the beginning. He's got way more experience than we do. He knows what works. He knows how to trick people. He knows how to blind people's eyes. He knows how to get people off the right path and onto the wrong path And yet we can still overcome. In fact, that's what God wants to give us the strength to do. He's already done it with Christ. He says they overcame him. How By the blood of the Lamb. Here we see in this vision the mention of the crucifixion. Because this child of the beginning of the vision is the Lamb. Here in the middle. The one who died for us on the cross. We're getting the big picture here. We started at Christmas. Now we're at Easter And his death and his resurrection not only saves us from the penalty of sin, saves us out of the clutch of the devil, out of the power, but it also saves them from the power of the devil in this lifetime now. They overcame him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony. Now the first readers of this vision The churches in in Asia Minor that are mentioned in Revelation 2 and 3, they would have probably really, their eyes would have really opened when they Or ears would eyes would have opened when they heard the word overcame. Their ears would have really opened when they heard this word overcame. Because earlier, when he gave the seven messages to the seven churches, this word is repeated over and over and over again. Overcome each one of these passages. Look there. I know it's a little bit small there, but it says in J in chapter 2, verse 7, to the church at Ephesus, to him who overcomes, I'll give him the eat of the tree of life, the next church To him who overcomes shall not be hurt by the second death, the next church. To him who overcomes, I'll give him some of the hidden manna to eat. There's some more symbolism. Whoa. Next one, him who overcomes and keeps my works to the end, I'll give him power over the nations, ruling with Christ. To him who overcomes shall be clothed in white garments. We see that in Revelation 19 He who overcomes, I'll make him a pillar in the temple of my God, and I'll write on him my new name. To him who overcomes, I will sit on it, he'll grant him to sit with me on my throne, as I also overcame, and sat down with my father on his throne. Look at this re repetition. Overcome, overcome, overcome. We're part of this big battle And God says, I want you to overcome. See the big picture. Understand where you are. There are sides. There is the kingdom of darkness ruled by the dragon. But you're part of the kingdom of light. Christ has overcome. That's what he says there. Chapter 3, verse 21. And so you too can overcome through the blood of the Lamb. The blood of Christ who saves you from the penalty of sin. Is the blood that also can give you power over sin in your daily life. You can fight on the right side. You don't have to fall. Be strong in the Lord and the power of His might. He said they overcame. It's the blood of the Lamb. This morning, are you struggling against sin? Is there some habit in your life that you just can't break? Is there something where you said, I you know, this is just part of who I am. You know, I, you know, I know it's not right, but you know, it's not the major thing in my life. God wants us to win over sin. He wants us to overcome. We cannot do it on our own. Without him, we can do nothing. But he wants us to be faithful. He's given us the power to keep his commandments Not because we're great, not because we're experienced, not because we're talented. No, because he died for us. He freed us from the power of sin. We're no longer on the dragon side No, we're on Christ's side. He overcame. He died. He rose again. He ascended. The devil can't get him. And God says, you too can overcome. Through the blood of the Lamb, through his strength. We look ahead. This passage is looking ahead. This is speaking specifically here of believers in the future. When the devil's cast out of heaven, now his focus is on the earth. He's going to really try to destroy God's people. He can't accuse them in heaven anymore, so he's going after them. And yet still in a situation that's even more Stressful than ours, more difficult than ours, there are those who overcome through the blood of the Lamb. John loves this word overcome. If you studied with uh with Joe in Sunday school the last couple months, this word overcome showed up quite a few times. In fact, if you want to flip in your Bibles to 1 John 1, it's a very short book. I'm going to read you a couple verses where John, the author of Revelation, also mentions the importance of overcoming. 1 John chapter 2 1 John 2. 13 says, I write to you fathers, because you have known him who is from the beginning. I write to you, young men, because you have overcome the wicked one. It's possible today to overcome the wicked one, to overcome temptation. To win against those those tricky sins that have gotten a place in your life. They can be rooted out. The next verse, 1 John 2. 14, I've written to you fathers, because you have known him who is from the beginning. I've written to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word of God abides in you, and you have overcome the wicked one. Whenever you say no to sin, whenever you resist the devil as God commands, you are overcoming the wicked one. And the only one way to do that. is through the blood of the Lamb, because he saved you, because he gives you strength. 1 John 4, 4. 1 John 4, 4 says this. You are of God, little children, and have overcome them Because he who is in you is greater than he is in the world. Who's this one that's in the world? He's talking about the dragon, the one who is seeking to devour you. He couldn't devour the child when it was born, so he's like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. He'd moved from Christ to you. And God says, greater is he that's in you Than he that's in the world. You're of God, little children. You're on his side and have overcome and overcome the world 1 John 5, 4 to 5. It says, whatsoever is born of God, that's mean person who's born again, you are a child of God. You trust in Christ as your Savior. You stop trusting yourself in your own good works. You're trusting Christ alone to save you. God says you're born again. You have spiritual life. He says whatever is born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that overcomes the world. Our faith. Who is he who overcomes the world? But he who believes that Jesus is the Son of God. That's where it starts. He who believes that Jesus is the Son of God, that's the person who overcomes the world. That's the person who overcomes to the blood of the Lamb. Returning to Revelation, we've moved ahead. Now beyond the church age, and here is a group of believers that are also overcoming. They have the benefit of 1 John that we just read. They have the benefit of the letters of the churches, which emphasize overcoming in God's strength. And now the devil's focus is on them. He wants to destroy them. He couldn't stop the Messiah He couldn't stop the Messiah's messengers. The angels defeated the devil devil, cast them out of heaven. Now he's going to stop the believers in the Messiah. Look at verse 12. Therefore rejoice, O heavens, and you who dwell in them. Woe to the inhabitants of the earth and the seal. And see, for the devil has come down to you having great wrath, because he knows that he has a short time. This is how we know we're talking in the future, the end times. He's been cast out of heaven. He's no longer accusing. believers before God. And now he only has a short time left here. Now Revelation, remember we're in the middle of this book. This book talks about the end times. He's talking about the things which shall be hereafter. Revelation chapter 6, all the way to verse chapter 18, is talking about this period. The Old Testament talks about it as the time of Jacob's trouble. It's the tribulation period. And so he stops now to describe some things that are going on. And this is one of the the he stops here in chapter 12 and explains why are things getting so bad. Because the dragon that opposed God from the beginning is now at the very last opportunity to stop God Couldn't stop the Messiah. Couldn't stop the Messiah's messengers. Now he's focused on those who are left who still believe on Jesus Christ. Look at verse 13. Now when the dragon saw that he had been cast to the earth, he persecuted the woman who gave birth to the male child No, we're back to the pictures here again. We got all of them again. We've got the dragon, we've got the woman, we got the child. The woman, remember, that's Israel. He's going after Israel. He he she gave birth to the male child, but the woman was given two wings of a great eagle. Now we're getting confused here now. A woman with wings. Did she become an angel? Nope. No ain't nope. No, that's not what's going on here. Once again, we're using some poetic language here. It's a vision. He's going to describe how God helps her to get away. In fact, he's already mentioned this if you look back in verse 6 It says, Then the woman fled into the wilderness where she has a place prepared by God that they should feed her there 1,260 days. Now we're talking about the same kind of period at the same time. She's going to get away to the wilderness. She was given two wings of a great eagle. This is verse 14. That she might fly into the wilderness to her place where she is nourished for a time and times and half a time. Okay. We have 1,260 days back in verse 6. Now we have time times and half a time from the presence of the serpent. She's getting away from the serpent, the dragon. So the serpent spewed water out of his mouth like a flood after the woman, that he might cause her to be carried away by the flood. Now, this could be a literal flood Or it could be armies coming after her, but the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed up the flood which the dragon had spewed out of his mouth. So whatever was coming after her to destroy Israel, she gets away And the dragon was enraged with the woman. And he went to make war with the rest of her offspring, who keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ. He's going after those who believe the Messiah. Couldn't stop the Messiah, couldn't stop the Messiah's messenger. Now he's on his last His last moment here. We won't spend too much time here, but notice here the time periods. It's kind of the same. 1,260 days. And then you've got time, times, and half a time. It's often believed that this is talking about time, that's one year, times, plural, two years, and then half a time. We got three and a half years there. 1,260 days also works out to three and a half years, talking about the same time period here. The final the final period before the coming of Jesus Christ. We're not going to spend a lot of time there, but that's what's going on here. We're coming to the end when the child that was to rule the nations, who was born on Christmas, comes and actually rules the nations. The child that overcame on the cross, rose from the dead, ascended to heaven Now overcomes finally over the devil and casts him to the bottomless pit. We see here In fact, we can even look here. You might sometimes the timing and envisions and that kind of thing is hard to follow. And this awful lot of things going on in this chart. But you see here The whole picture, the devil's war against God, starting there with the old serpent. The angels fall, the demons fall there, a one-third of them fall. All the way to verse 10, talking about the kingdom of God. Verse 5, talking about the child who rules the nations. We see the three and a half years, the second three and a half years of the tribulation. The bottom there you can see where this falls in the book of uh Revelation, Revelation 1 to 3 there, happening in the church age, 6 to 18, in the final time of judgment Chapter 19, clearly there is the second coming of Jesus Christ. Chapter 20, the millennium, and then it goes on into the new heaven and new earth, talking about when the child rules the nations. And the point is this The battle that began at the beginning will end with Christ on the throne. We sing joy to the world. In fact, we're going to sing in just a moment. And we sing the part where it says He rules the world. Why is that in the song? Actually, Joy to the World. It does talk about Christmas, but a lot of it is actually talking about the end of what Christ, the one who was born on Christmas, what he will do in the future. He will rule the world. That's what he was born to do. He will rule the nations. The story of Christ comes in two parts, the first coming and the second coming. The first coming, he dies on the cross. He rises from the dead. He defeats the devil there, providing spiritual salvation to us. But his work's not done. He's going to come a second time to rule the world as he promised. As God said all the way back in all those promises where it says a scepter will come out of Judah. That's in Genesis We've got the promise in Psalm 2 that we saw, he's going to rule with a rod of iron. We see in Micah 5. 2, a king is going to be born in Bethlehem. Matthew 2, where is he that's born king of the Jews? He's going to have a kingdom. And God says, realize you're part of a much bigger picture here. You're part of this battle. And which side of the battle are you fighting on? You get the dragon doing his best to stop God's plan. And his focus is now on those who believe on Christ. On you, on me Are you going to overcome? Notice at the end here, as once again it's looking farther ahead into the future. But what's the dragon doing here? He's going after those who keep the commandments of God. And have the testimony of Jesus Christ. That should describe us too, right? Keep the commandments of God And have the testimony of Jesus Christ. He wants to overcome by the blood of the Lamb. We're part of this big story. This is not just some weird vision in the book of Revelation that nobody can understand. Actually, you can understand it. It's quite clear. There's a big picture, a big story here from beginning to end, and we are part of that story. It's about Christmas and about the end of the world. The baby born will one day rule. And to us today, what do we do? Overcome in the victory that he already won. Thanks be to God who gives us the victory through Jesus Christ. Overcome in the victory that he won. But the battle still goes. Sometimes we see it being ugly, like some of those stories I talked about earlier, you know, Pharaoh trying to kill all of the male children, throwing them into the river. We've got Haman trying to literally murder all the Jews on one day. We see things like that even happening today as, you know, through history, World War II and the atrocities committed there You think about uh uh some of the things going on today in Nigeria, in uh Sudan. I meet with people in East Africa who have been running away from scenes like this. The devil is still trying to Stop God's work one way or the other. Sometimes it's very bloody. We live in a beautiful place with nice snow-covered trees. We don't sometimes see the the bloody side of Rachel crying for her children because they are not. But that still goes on in the world We're in a nice bubble here. Every once in a while we get shocked into realizing, oh, there is more going on. There is a battle going on. But often the battle does not Look like this. For us the battle looks like being faithful each day with the things God's put in front of us, the difficulties, the trials, the responsibilities. And no matter where we are and what the attack is, God calls us to overcome. We cannot do it alone. They overcame him by the blood of the Lamb. We must do the same. Christ is our victory. He overcame, so we can overcome He we died with him. We rose with him, as Romans 6 chapter says. We can live in newness of life. We can live in victory. We can keep the commandments of God. We can be a good testimony for Jesus Christ. What is spiritual warfare? It's not An angel finding a demon in some weird picture that looks like sci-fi. That's not what it is. Spiritual warfare is you and I on a daily basis facing temptation and turning to Christ, relying on his strength And overcoming that temptation, keeping his commandments, and being a testimony for Jesus Christ, fighting the part of the war that God has placed before us. He's placed each one of us in unique families, in unique jobs, in unique neighborhoods. We are his ambassadors there. And we're fighting. Not physically. But we're fighting against the darkness Hoping to bring the glorious light of the gospel to those who are blinded by the devil. The devil's actively trying to keep them from believing. Our job is to encourage them to believe, to bring the truth there, so that bring the word of God to them. Faith comes by hearing, hearing by the word of God. They've got to hear the truth, and we're the ones that brings it to them. We are the ones who testify for Jesus Christ. That Is your part in this battle? This morning, where are you Are you fighting on God's side in this battle? Are you overcoming? Are you the testimony he intends for you to be? This morning, there may be some who have not yet trusted Christ as their Savior, and this may seem very far-fetched, to be on the side of the dragon. That's just picturesque language, a picture here to kind of get us to to see the bigger picture, to understand what's going on in the world. But there are two sides. There are two kinds of people in this world. There are those who are on God's side. And there are those who are not. We all start on the not side. We all start as enemies of God. We need peace with God. We need to cross the line, to be on his side, and there's only one way to do that. That's through the blood of the Lamb. In Romans chapter 5, it talks about this process. It says, therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. We must make peace with God before we can be on His side. We must become a child of God. The Bible talks about us before we make that change as being a child of darkness, a child of wrath. A child headed for destruction. We're under the power of the prince, of the power of the air. That's the dragon side. That's another one of his names. But God wants all of us on his side. He wants us to be at peace with God. We're each sinners. We've broken God's law. We've gone our own way instead of God's way. God says, all we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way. We like doing things our own way. And God calls that sin. The punishment for sin is separation from God. It's eternal wrath. It's ending up we're in the place that God intended for the devil and his angels. Hell, it's a real place. God never intended for you to go there. But that's where all those who are on the devil's side end up. But God says to you today, come to me. Be justified by me. He says, much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. He says, being justified by his blood, how do we overcome? Through the blood of the Lamb. Only Jesus can save you. He died in your place. You're a sinner. You deserve to be punished. No matter what you do, you cannot save yourself. You cannot be good enough. You cannot measure up to God's standard. But Jesus came. He died on the cross. He shed his blood for you. And he rose again. He took your place. He took your punishment. Instead of you dying and experiencing the wrath of God in hell. Jesus died in your place. He took God's wrath on himself. He says, you can leave the kingdom of darkness. And enter the kingdom of his dear son. You can be at peace with God. How? Through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through faith in Jesus Christ Stop trusting yourself. Put your faith in Jesus alone. Say, God, I know I'm a sinner. I cannot save myself. I believe Jesus died for me on the cross and he rose again. Please save me. That's the only way to cross from darkness into light. It's only one the only way to be on the right side of this grand battle throughout history. Jesus Christ is the center. The one who came on Christmas, the baby who was born there and come to rule the world. Came for you to save you. Have you believed on him? Let's pray. Dear Lord, thank you for your word. Some parts of it are written in different ways. Here we see some prophecy, and yet your message is clear. You are the winner. You are the one who has overcome. And you invite us to your side. Lord, I pray if there's some here who have never trusted you as their Savior. That they'd realize the situation they're in and trust you alone. And Lord, for for us who have already joined your side through faith in Christ. Lord, I pray you'd help us to see the big picture. Help us to realize that we are part of a battle, a battle that we know what the end is. And Lord help us to be effective servants of yours, effective in sharing your light, in living for you, in overcoming temptation. And in glorifying you in all we say and do. We need your help. We need your strength. We cannot do it on our own. In Jesus' name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community here at BBC. you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call, so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.