Good morning. We are going to be in Nehemiah this morning, chapter 8. Before we go into that, let's bow our heads together and we will pray for the Lord. Heavenly Father, we are grateful this morning for your goodness and your kindness. We're thankful, Father, that we have this joy and this privilege. To be here together this morning. And Lord, we remember that we just finished celebrating your birth this week. And Father, I pray that uh you would help us this morning. To set aside the busyness and all the other things that have gone this week in celebrating your birth. And help us to take this time this morning, Lord. Clear our minds and our hearts. That we, Father, would listen to your word this morning. Speak to us, Father, as the song says, speak, O Lord And I pray that our hearts and our minds will be prepared to receive your word, Lord, and not only to receive it, but to plant it deep in our hearts That Father, we could be that testimony and that light in this world as we go from here after the service. And we ask God that you will guide and direct everything that in all things you would be glorified and lifted up. And we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, we are going to be in Nehemiah chapter 8, and we are looking at verses 1 through 18. Now all the people gathered together as one man in the open square that was in the front of the Watergate, and they told Ezra the scribe to bring the book of the law. of Moses, which the Lord had commanded Israel. So Ezra the priest brought the law before the assembly of men and women and all who could hear with understanding on the first day of the seventh month. Then he read from it, in the open square, that was in front of the water gate, from morning until midday Before the men, the women, and those who could understand, and the ears of all the people were attentive to the book of the law. So Ezra the scribe stood on a platform of wood, which they had made for the purpose, and beside him at his right hand Stood Matathiah, Shema, Ananiah, Erjaya, Hilkiah, and Maesia And at his left hand, Petadaya, Michelle, Maljahaja, Hashem, Hashabandana and Zechariah and Meshulem. And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people, for he was standing above all the people. And when he opened it, all the people stood up. And Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God. Then all the people answered, Amen, Amen. while lifting up their hands, and they bowed their heads and worshiped the Lord with their faces to the ground. And Jeshua Bani And Sherabiah, Jamon, and Echab, and Shedabatiah, and Hodajah, and Messiah, Khalita, Azariah, Zobaraz Hannah, Beliah, and the Levites helped the people to understand the law, and the people stood in their place. So they read distinctly from the book of the law of God, and they gave the sense and helped them to understand the reading. And Nehemiah, who was the governor, Ezra, the priest and the scribe and the Levites, who taught the people, said to all the people, This day is holy to the Lord your God. Do not mourn, do not weep, for all the people wept when they heard the words of the Lord. Then he said to them, Go your way, eat the fat, drink the sweet, and send portions to those for whom nothing is prepared. For this day is holy to our Lord Do not sorrow, for the joy of the Lord is your strength. So the Levites quieted all the people, saying, Be still, for the day is holy. Do not be grieved, and all the people went their way to eat and drink, and to send portions, and rejoice greatly, because they understood the words that were declared to them Now on the second day the heads of the fathers' houses of all the people with the priests, the Levites, were gathered together, and Ezra the scribe In order to understand the words of the law, and they found written in the law, which the Lord had commanded by Moses, that the children of Israel should dwell in booths during the feast of the seventh month, and that they should announce and proclaim in all the cities and in Jerusalem saying Go out to the mountain and bring olive branches, branches of oil trees, myrtle branches, palm branches, and branches of leafy trees to make booths. As it is written. Then the people went out and brought them and made themselves booths each one on the roof of his house, or in the courtyards, or on the courts of the house of God, and in the open square of the water gate, and in the open square of the gate of Ephraim So the whole assembly of those who had returned from captivity made booths and sat under the booth And for since the days of Joshua, the son of None, until that day, the children of Israel had not done so And there was very great gladness. And also day by day, from the first day until the last day, he read from the book of the law of God. And they kept the feast seven days, and on the eighth day there was a sacred assembly according to the prescribed manner. How many of you all uh are looking forward to January. I'm curious. How many of you all say, I like January? How many of you all say I don't like January? Alright, a few of you. Okay. I gotta tell you that when I was young, um January was my least maybe February along with it, but January was my least favorite month of the year. Um there just seemed to be it just I thought it was boring And now I'm okay with boring. In fact, January, I think, now is one of my favorite months of the year because there it gives you a chance to kind of reset gives you a chance to sort of look back at the previous year and look at the successes and look at the failures and look ahead to the next year and maybe make some adjustments, make some plans. Set some goals. And I think all of that is fine and good in its place. I think sometimes it can get out of hand with the kind of New Year's resolutions that we do But I think there's nothing wrong with taking stock at certain points and reflecting on what you have been doing and look ahead and make plans and goals for the future according to what would please the Lord And one of the things that I want to really encourage you is to in 2026 to set the Word of God as your highest priority. I didn't say a priority. I didn't say among the many things that you're planning. Maybe you're planning things Maybe finding uh new health um health goals or financial goals um or family goals of some kind. But above everything, I want to encourage you that your to make your primary goal this year, your priority, knowing God and knowing his word. That is a priority that honors the Lord. It is, it really is, we need to see that the Word of God is intended to be the source of everything else in our lives. In this text, we're going to see that it is the source of worship. If you can think of a car with no gas or a tool with no battery or power. Or a body with no food or water, or an organ with no blood, or a ministry with no supply of the Word of God. You must, if we are going to serve God faithfully and worship God in the way that pleases him. It starts off with finding our source in the Word of God. And that should actually be described in our worship to God. Psalm 84, 2 says, My soul longs fainteth for the courts of the Lord, my heart and my flesh crieth out for the living God. That should be our hearts, to cry out to know God as our supreme priority, as our primary focus, and everything else stems from that. See, if we make other things our focus, if we make our wives our focus, or our husbands our focus, if that becomes the priority then we're going to have problems. If our kids are the priority, then we're going to have problems. If our if anything else is the priority, we've made it our idol. But if God is our priority, then everything else flows from that. It is our source. You'll notice in the text in Nehemiah 8, verse 6, it says, And Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God Then all the people answered, Amen, Amen, while lifting up their hands. They're worshiping God, and they bowed their heads and worshiped the Lord with their faces to the ground. What caused this congregation of people, this group of people in Nehemiah, to in unity worship God in this way? And I would submit to you, it is how they engaged the Word of God. They arguably they were experiencing a kind of spiritual revival in this passage. But what we're going to see in the text is particularly how they engage the Word of God. See, when we think of our worship Which, by the way, is the same thing as our service. In the Old Testament, we see the word worship has the same Hebrew word as the word service. And the same thing in the New Testament, worship and service are the same word both in the Old Testament and in the New Testament So when we think of our worship or we think of our service, are we more focused on the forms of the service or the worship or the source of the worship? Mark Ashton said this in his along with Kent Hughes and Tim Keller in their book, Worship by the Book, there's a profound sense in which excellent worship cannot be attained merely by per pursuing excellent worship In the same way that according to Jesus, you cannot find yourself until you lose yourself, so also you cannot find excellent corporate worship until you stop trying to find excellent corporate worship and pursue God Himself. Psalm 138. 2 says, I will worship toward your holy temple. I will praise your name for your loving kindness and your truth. For you have magnified your word above all your name. God places such high priority on the Word of God. He places it above his very name. If we are to worship the way God intends for us to worship, it is going to be as we approach and engage the Word of God correctly. Now we're in Nehemiah chapter 8, and most of you are aware that Nehemiah is a book that where Nehemiah intends, has a burden to rebuild the wall that protects Jerusalem And we find that he is commissioned in chapter 2, and he goes gets to work in chapter 3, and in chapters 4 and 5, the work is attacked But in chapters, toward the end of chapter 6 and chapter 7, the work is accomplished and the people are registered and everything comes together. And then in chapter 8, we're then going to see that there is a focus on the Word of God. And we're going to see several truths throughout this. And we're going to see that biblical worship depends entirely upon our rightly engaging in God's word. First of all, we're going to see in verses 1 through 3 that we need to engage God's word intentionally We need to engage God's word intentionally. Verse 1 says, Now all the people gathered together as one man. Did you catch that when Harry was reading? They gathered together as one man in unity together with one purpose, one heart, one desire, in the open square that was the fr front of the water gate. By the way, that wasn't the temple By this point, the temple's rebuilt. But it didn't, this the word of God was not in the temple here. The preaching of the word of God that happens here, the worship that happens is outside. It's in the open square It's open and right in front of the water gate, which is southeast of the temple. And they told Ezra the scribe to bring the book of the law of Moses, which the Lord had commanded Israel. They unified around God's word. And they read the word of God openly Verse 2 says, So Ezra the priest brought the law before the assembly of men and women, and all who could hear with understanding on the first day of the seventh month. Before the assembly of men and women, everybody that could hear, they opened the Word of God, and they listened carefully and attentively. Verse 3. Then he read from it in the in the open square, and it was from the from the front of the water gate from the morning until midday before the men and the women and those who could understand, and all the ears of all the people were attentive to the book of the law. They were listening carefully. They were attentive. They were engaged. They were intentional. Happens to be there were about six hours there. I go over fifty minutes and I hear about it. I'm just saying Six hours they're reading the book of the law. Psalm 119, 18 says, Open thou mine eyes, thou may behold the wondrous things out of thy law. They were undistracted. They were intentional. They were attentive to the words of Scripture. We deal with so many much distraction today, don't we? I'm not sure if there's there's ever been a time in the history of our country That there has been more distraction to knowing God, knowing the Word of God, and worshiping Him I'm talking here about personal distractions that cause us to be distracted from worshiping God the way that God intends. But folks, there has always been distractions And the parable that Jesus gave the disciples, the very well-known parable, you remember the sower and the seed, and of course, in that passage, the seed is the word of God. I want you to remember something that Jesus told them about the distractions that kept the seed from taking root in the soil. In verse 21, it says of Matthew 13, Yet he has no room himself, but endures only for a while. But when tribulation or persecution arises, because of the word, immediately he stumbles. Now he who receives seed among the thorns is he who hears the word, and the cares of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word And he becomes unfruitful. But he who received the seed on the good ground is he who hears the word and understands it, who indeed bears fruit and produces some unhundredfold Some 60, some 30. We see three things in this passage that distract. Number one is tribulation. Difficult times, trials, if they ought to bring us to the Word of God. They ought to help us focus on the Word of God. But if we're not careful, they become distractions to the Word of God. Number two, cares of this world. You ever find yourself so anxious, so worried, that you can't even read? With understanding the Word of God. This is, Jesus warns of this, that the Word of God, as it's planted in the soil, there can be distractions. like worry and the cares of this world. The cares of this world can be just providing for uh uh for our families or Providing for our needs. They can be they can become a distraction to really allowing the Word of God to take root Or the deceitfulness of riches. This goes beyond normal cares of life. Now we're focused on money. We're focused on the accumulation of wealth. God says all three of these things can rob us from allowing the Word of God to go in deep. And then to be able to eventually produce fruit. Jonathan Edwards in his book Religious affections says this. That religion, which God requires and will accept, does not consist in weak, dull, and lifeless wishes Raising us but a little above a little a state of indifference. God in his word greatly insists upon it that we be good in earnest fervent in spirit, and our hearts vigorously engaged. It is such a fervent, vigorous engagedness of the heart in religion. That is the first, the fruit of a real circumcision of the heart, a true regeneration, and that has the promises of life. John's is simply saying that if we are truly regenerated, if we are truly born-again Christians, then that is going to produce in us a desire to engage in the Word of God. Vigorously engage. Can I ask you a question this morning? Are you vigorously engaged in the Word of God? When it comes to your devotions in the morning, when it comes to engaging in the preaching of God's Word, are we vigorously engaged? We see secondly in verses 4 through 6 that we are to engage God's words submissively. Notice what it says in verse 4: so Ezra the scribes stood on a platform of wood. They elevated the Word of God above them that they made for this purpose. And then we see in verse 5, they promoted the Word of God, and Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people, and he was standing above all the people. And when they had opened it, all the people stood up, and Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God. Then all the people answered, Amen and Amen, while lifting up their hands, they bowed their heads and worshiped the Lord with their faces to the ground They came to the Word of God. They arranged themselves under the Word of God. They were submissive to the Word of God. And they agreed with the Word of God. That's what an amen means. They were in hearty agreement with what the Word of God says. Then we see in verses 7 through 8 that they engaged the Word of God understandingly. Verse 8, verse 7 says, actually we'll pick up in verse Verse 8 says, all these people helped the people to understand the law, and the people stood in their place So they read distinctly the book in the law of God and they gave the sense and helped them understand the reading The emphasis was on understanding the Word of God. It wasn't on ritual, oh, I need to have my 15 minutes of devotions. Oh, I better go to church and do the church thing. No, they were engaged attentively, they were submissive, but they also were seeking to truly understand the sense of the text. In fact, in this book, this chapter rather, we have the word understanding in verse 2, in verse 3, in verse 7, in verse 8, in verse 12, and verse 13. Back in the passage that I mentioned before in Matthew chapter thirteen, you have the word understanding there in verse 13, 15, 19, and 23. God's emphasis for us as we approach the Word of God and are engaged in the Word of God is on understanding the Word of God. Hebrews 4. 12 says, For the Word of God is quick and powerful, and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. And notice what it says in the text, that they read the Word of God distinctly, they gave the sense of the text, and they caused them to understand the reading. Do you know what that is? That's preaching. That's biblical expository preaching, where the text is read, the sense of the text is given, and the people understand what the text is saying. When the Apostle Paul came to the church at Corinth, the church at Corinth was where they were emphasizing oratory, and the culture in Corinth was to lift up those who were great orators and had great ways of describing various things and they were s they were they were acclaimed as so wise Paul says that my speeching and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the spirit and of power. That your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. Unfortunately, the temptation in our day is to worship apart from the Word. And that is commonplace in our churches. James Saddocks wrote a book, The Passion-Driven Sermon Where he says this. Quite often in our corporate worship services, I see many Christians coming really close to worshiping worship. Just think about some of the manifestations of this perversion, referring only to musical praise as worship, designating only mu musicians as worship leaders And drawing an obvious distinction between worship and preaching in the corporate services. While all these seem harmless, they have contributed greatly to the de-emphasis on preaching as an expression of worship. One only has to observe some worshipers standing with raised hands and closed eyes during a segment of musical praise, only to sit restlessly with no Bible in hand during the sermon. What could possibly bring more honor to God than for people to hear and revere His voice? I submit that the teaching shepherd is the primary worship leader in the congregation, and the sermon is the significant sacrifice of praise offered by both the pastor in the pulpit and the people in the pew. He is saying that the focus of a worship service should be on the preaching of the Word of God. That should be primary And it is a sacrifice of worship, not just for the preacher preaching, but for those who work at engaging their minds to listen. And in doing so, we are actually worshiping God. Not passively, but actively engaged in listening to the truth of the Word of God. Then we see in the text when they understood the sense of the text, when it was explained to them, and they understood it. Then they rejoiced. Verse 9 says, And Nehemiah, who was the governor, Ezra, the priest and scribe and the Levites who taught the people, said to all the people, This day is holy the Lord your God. Do not mourn nor weep, for all the people wept when they heard the words of the law. Now notice the text there. First they did weep. I suspect that there was some weeping over conviction. They were reading from the law of Moses. They're realizing they weren't following all the law of Moses. There were things that they realized that they needed to correct in their behavior And certainly the preaching of the Word of God is going to do that, and conviction is a good thing, but we don't stay there We return to a place of joy, and they're encouraged to do that. There's something that happens when we come to the Word of God We see what God says, we understand it. We are convicted by it. We change our behavior. We repent it of it. And we are able to move forward with joy. And they're encouraged to do that. Verse 10. Then he said to them, Go your way, eat the fat, but drink the sweet, and send portions to those for whom nothing is prepared. For this day is holy your Lord. Do not sorrow, for the joy of the Lord is your strength. So the Levites quiet all the people saying, Be still, for the day is holy, do not be grieved. And all the people went their way and eat to eat and drink and send portions and rejoice greatly because they understood the words that were declared to them. Why did they rejoice? Because they understood the words of the Scriptures. That's joyful. That's true biblical joy. We're engaging the Word of God joyfully. This is, I think, a process that we see here that can be true in our lives or also that isn't necessarily true. Do you really joy over having true understanding of the Word of God? You say, well, I don't really understand it. Are you engaged attentively to the Word of God? There's a we we see how these people were changed by the Word of God and were able to worship the way that God intended. Then we see they wanted to change. They wanted to obey. They engaged God's word obediently. Verses 13 through 17. Now on the second day, the heads of the fathers, houses of all the people, with the priests and Levites, were gathered to Ezra, the scribe. And they found written in the law, which the Lord had commanded by Moses, that the children of Israel should dwell in booths during the feast of the of the seventh month And what is referring to there is the Feast of Tabernacles in Leviticus 23 verses 42 through 44, we have this. certain feast um that they were supposed to remember what God had done for them and bring them out of Egypt into the promised land and settling them and they were supposed to set up They were supposed to set up tents or booths as it's called here. And they weren't following this practice. They were supposed to put down palm branches, they're all kinds of Things they were supposed to do as a m as a matter of a memorial of remembering what God had done for them. And they weren't practicing it, and they come to what God's Word says and they realize we need to do this So what do they do? They do it. We see what it says. It's very simple. They obey what it says in the text and of Scripture in Leviticus, and they say in verse 16, then the people went out and brought them and made themselves boos. It's pretty simple. They did what the Bible said for them to do. Each one on the roof of his house or in their courtyard or the courts of the house of God And in the open square and the water gate, in the open square of the gate of Ephraim, they started putting booths everywhere, tents everywhere. Well, why would you do this? We have our houses, we have our places that we're doing. Why we gotta do this This isn't practical. This doesn't make sense. The Bible said to do it. And so they were doing what the law said for them to do. How much thought and time and energy do we spend in obedience to the Word of God? This is actually critical for growth in the Word of God. In fact, did you realize that if we are not obedient to the Word of God, we can actually demature? When you think of maturity, the idea of dematuring doesn't really work. Like you see a child growing and they mature and they get older and they grow. You don't go backwards. It's not like you go from 19 to 12 if you do certain things the wrong way. It doesn't work that way. But when it comes to Christian life, it can Hebrews chapter 5, verse 12 explains this. It says, For though by this time you ought to be teachers, you need someone to teach you again the first principles of the oracles of God. Go back and you gotta go back to the basics. Why? And you have come to need milk and not solid food. For everyone who partakes only of milk is unskilled in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe. But solid food belongs to those who are of full age. That is, those who by reason, notice what it says, by reason of use. Have their senses exercised to discern good and evil. The way the Word of God works in our lives is that we must use it In fact, it's not enough just to understand it. That brings great joy to us. We've got to obey it. We've got to correct our lives with it. We've got to grow in Christ-likeness with it. We need to use it. There is a sense in which if you don't use it, you kind of lose it And so we're remo reminded we ought not we cannot coast in the Christian life. We cannot coast when it comes to the Word of God. Sometimes we think to ourselves, well I've been steeped in the Word of God my whole life and I've got I've been studying it for a long time. It is amazing that when you really begin to look at the Word of God with new eyes, with fresh eyes, the things that you will see that you never saw before. I just recently started reading the Word of God. Starting back in October, I started this, where I'm I just read through a book of the Bible. If I can do it in one sitting, I will. Sometimes I'll do it in a couple of different sittings. And just just read through as much as I can to really get the sense of a book and then to read through another one and read through another one. And it's amazing when you read God's Word, I read God's Word that way, there are things that I hadn't really seen before as previously. We have to engage, we've got to work at it. We can't coast Finally, we need to engage the Word of God regularly. Verse 18. Verse 18 says, also day by day. From the first day and to the last day, he read in the book of the law of God, and they kept the feast seven days, and on the eighth day was a solemn assembly according to the manner. They read intentionally, they understood, they worshiped, they had joy, they were strengthened by that joy, they were obedient because they were strengthened, and now we see it was regular. It was day by day. And that brings us now to where we reflect on our own lives. How are you doing in your own personal regular worship time with God? You see a pattern here? There is a pattern. Notice the pattern. They were intentional. They were submissive. They were understanding. They engaged the Word of God joyfully. They engage God's word obediently, and they engage God's word regularly. Can I ask you a question this morning? As you reflect on 2025. Where's the breakdown for you? Now maybe there's not. And praise the Lord if there's not. And I'm not saying there has to be But I would imagine in a group of people this size that at some point you can look and say, you know what, it broke down at that point I didn't really take the time to understand text, and so I never joyed over the understanding of the text. Or I saw what the text said and I wasn't very obedient. I didn't follow it But mostly the breakdown usually is the first one, isn't it? It's intentionality. We must be intentional. I want to return our minds back to Psalm 1. We read Psalm 1 in the beginning of the service, and we listened, and we sung Psalm 1 in the service. Psalm 1 is such a, for me personally, it's such a foundational psalm. I remember going through the psalm as a young man and realizing the truth of the psalm. Understanding that I should I gotta be really counsel careful about the counsel of the ungodly. And then being in the path of sinners and being in the sea thus scornful, I realized that where I got my influence from would affect my life But then notice what it says in verse 2 of Psalm 1. Just remember with me. But his delight, it doesn't say his duty His duty is in the law of the Lord. Well, it is. But that's not what it says here. His delight is in the law of the Lord. That is, the wise man, the man in Psalm 1 enjoyed the word of God. He enjoyed it. He delighted in it. He couldn't get enough of it. Andy he meditated on it. By the way, that's what you do when you like something. You meditate it, you think about it all the time Constantly think about the things that you like. If you're into something, then you think about it. You see that all the time in with boyfriends and girlfriends. They like somebody and they can't stop thinking about them. Or they're newly married, they can't stop thinking about them. They're thinking about it all the time. Why? Because they like thinking about them. What about God's word? Do we like the Word of God enough to think about it as we go throughout our day? Do we meditate on it? Do we roll it over our mind? Do we Question it, do we ask ourselves, oh, what does that mean? Hmm, I wonder what that phrase means. Oh, I hadn't seen that before. Do we engage the Word of God in such a way that we enjoy it, we benefit from it? We think about it and we meditate on it. It's that person, the Bible says, whatever he does, he'll be like a tree planted by water that brings forth fruit of the season. His leaf will not let w And whatever he does will prosper. Now that is not health and wealth. That's not what it's saying. Frankly, if you look at some of the most faithful people in church history, they died serving Christ. Or they suffered greatly to serve Christ, and you say, well, that's not success. This isn't worldly success. This isn't prospering in the way that we would think of prospering. This is this is success in God's eyes. This is a life worth living. It starts, it starts folks with a source being the Word of God So I would ask you three questions this morning. Number one, do you delight in God's Word? Very simple question. Do you enjoy it? I think sometimes there needs to be honesty. I think I think sometimes there just needs to be, you know what, I don't really enjoy it the way I ought to. I don't really delight in it. I like reels way more than I do the Word of God. I like looking on I like selfies. Or I like whatever it is. Admit it. You can't change it if you don't admit it. You know what a wonderful prayer is? A prayer that I think God loves to answer? Lord, give me a greater love for your word. Now, you can't pray that prayer and then just go off and do whatever you want. I mean, that doesn't work. Our appetites are cultivated They're not they don't just happen. Whatever you're into, the more you do it, the more you think about it, the more you like it, the more you're into it, the more you think about it, the more you like it, causing you to be able to delight in something. And it's no different than the Word of God. But to start off saying, you know what? I need to increase my joy in the Word. Lord, would you give me a greater joy, a greater delight in your Word? Number two. Do you meditate on it? I guarantee you, if you don't like it, you won't meditate on it. And and an indication that you do love it is that you do meditate on it I mean, it takes some discipline, mental discipline to meditate. It would be helpful to write down verse cards. We do it in w with a wana. We've got kids memorizing verses. Adults, we ought to be doing it too. But it'll be thinking and studying devotions should happen in the m ha you know, usually happen in the morning. I'm not saying it's that's a if it happens in the evening that's what you believe you should do, that's fine But we should be taking our devote our time with the Lord and continue to think about it throughout the day. And number three, this is real practical, do you have a plan? You know the truth is if you don't have a plan, you won't do it. If you get up every morning and you just open your Bible and say, I guess I can figure out somewhere to read, you know how much Bible you're really going to understand? So make a plan. There are all kinds of different ways of making a plan. This year I was like, um, I wonder what ChatGPT will come up with. So I typed in uh I typed in some parameters. I wanted to read through the Bible. I wanted to read through entire books. I didn't want to s jump her anyway, I just type it all in and it gave me a plan. That's really, really easy. That's amazing what you anyway. That's the right way to use it, by the way. I didn't say Chat CPT, read the Bible for me. I didn't do that. Okay. That would be the wrong way to use chat. That's not even that doesn't even work. But anyway, uh But to use make a plan. Figure out each day how how how you're going to engage in the Word of God. I think a place is also helpful. Know where you're going to go. When you get up in the morning, the first thing you need to do is have coffee. That's that's Bible. No, I'm kidding. I'm kidding. That's not Bible. That's what I do. Otherwise I'm fairly like groggy. I need to wake up. So find a way to wake up. Go outside out in the thirty degree weather if you want. Wake up. Find way to wake up so you can engage your mind Coffee, you know, cold weather, push-ups, whatever it is for you. But have a place that you go. Have a Bible in the place. Have your plan in the place where the Bible is. Like I I know this is really, really like rudimentary, but sometimes we we set ourselves up for failure because we don't prepare and we don't plan. It's kind of the same thing like when you go to work when you're when you're when you g go to work in the morning. You've got to set an alarm clock. You gotta set two alarm clocks if you need to. I know I remember when I was working at UPS, I would set two alarm clocks because 3. 30, one was not enough. Had to do two. Have a plan. Make it a priority. Set a place. Know what place you're going to go. And that's why I just think it's important for us to think about this as we look ahead to the coming year. We are, you know, some of us need to lose weight, and I'm included, that was a first-person plural. Some of us need to lose weight, some of us need to get some things in order, we need to organize some things, we need to have a different direction in various ways. But don't forget, don't miss the priority of God's word. Let's pray together. Actually, what I'd like you to do is just had it I'd like every everybody to close their eyes and bow their heads. I want to give you a few moments just between you and the Lord. I won't be asking any raised hands or anything like that, or we're not be not going to be singing 14 verses of just as I am or anything like that. But I do want to give you a just a chance before the Lord to talk to the Lord about what we've gone over. Maybe you just need to pray, Lord, would you please give me a greater desire for your word Or maybe you want to ask the Lord to help you to meditate on his word more or to engage. in his word. Or maybe you've been convicted about distractions in your own life that are keeping you from engaging in God's word. And you want to talk to the Lord about that. Ask Him to help you with those distractions. I just want to give you just a few seconds of silence to talk with the Lord, and then we will pray together Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you. Thank you for your word. All of us who have been affected by your word and have come to a place of understanding Our sin, our need of our Savior, understand the truth of it, and yet we are so e we are we are prone to wander. We are prone to distraction. We are prone to misplaced priorities. And so, Father, I pray, Lord, that you would renew our in our mind, in our heart, the desire to make your word, knowing you and your word the number one priority in our lives in the next year. Lord, I pray that for every one of us. I pray that we would engage your word the way the people in Nehemiah chapter 8 did, both personally and corporately. I pray that we would have, we would make it the priority of our lives individually and of our church. Knowing that as we do that, it becomes the source of service and of worship. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call, so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.