I will be reading this morning from Hebrews chapter two, verses ten through eighteen. Hebrews chapter two verses ten through eighteen. For it was fitting for him, for whom all things, and by whom all things, and bringing many sons to glory, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through sufferings. For both he who sanctifies and those who are being sanctified are all of one, for which reason he is not ashamed to call them brethren, saying I will declare your name to my brethren. In the midst of the assembly I will sing praise to you. And again, I will put my trust in him. And again Here am I, and the children whom God has given me. Inasmuch as the children have partakers of the flesh and blood, he himself likewise shared in the same that through death he might destroy him who had the power of death, that is, the devil, and release those who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage. For indeed he does not give aid to angels, but he does give aid to the seed of Abraham. Therefore, in all things he had to be made like his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest, in things pertaining to God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people. For in that he himself has suffered, being tempted. He is able to aid those who are being tempted. You take your Bibles and turn to Hebrews chapter 2. Hebrews chapter 2. We're asking the question, what child is this? And you may be saying, why are we going to Hebrews chapter 2? Perhaps you've never even heard a Christmas message from Hebrews chapter 2. Hebrews chapter 2 gives an emphasis on this child that we have been talking about that the other that uh is different than often what you hear at Christmas time I would never want to de-emphasize the wonderful truth that Christ was born to die. Surely he was. He was born to ultimately die, to pay the punishment for our sin. But this passage, the emphasis of this passage is going to be that Christ was also born to live. And in fact, for those of us who are Christians, he was born to help us to live. Now to understand what's going on here in this passage, I think it's helpful, an illustration that's helpful for us is to think about the background of the people to whom this author was writing, probably Paul, but uh the the whoever the author of Hebrews was, is to think of Bayer's remorse. How many have you ever had buyer's remorse before? You bought something, maybe it was a car, maybe it was a boat. You know the old adage with a boat, the the the best li best Two days of a of a own boat owner's life is the day they bought it and the day they sell it. Um that often is the case with boats. Um or house. That's a really big buyer's remorse problem if you buy a house. I I did that once. Um I was up in Pennsylvania, we were looking for a house, we looked at all kinds of houses, and we finally found one that looked there was After going through about fifty houses over a couple of days, we we found one that looked pretty good and it was in our price range And we decide to make an offer and then I beg it I began I we walked through the entire house and you know you look at really nice things and then you look at other things and you sort of If you like something, you sort of discount the stuff that's not so good and you emphasize the things that are good. This house had a great garage. It was a big, awesome looking I mean it was a great garage. And uh had a had a it was a good had great curb appeal and a great garage. And I really liked the garage. And as we went into the house, we saw things like the electric wasn't grounded. Uh there was no bath there was one bathroom and didn't have any shower. There were two bedrooms, only two bedrooms, but it had a great garage. And and um we put an offer on that house. And I and and there was a sewage pipe that was actually leaking down in the in the basement. We put an offer on that house and suddenly I started thinking about everything except the great garage I started thinking about all of the problems, all the things they're gonna need to be updated, all the things they're gonna need and I started thinking to myself, oh man. I was talking to my mom about it at the time and explaining this house and and she's like She said to me, you seem to be trying to convince yourself that this is a good purchase. And she was right. Thankfully, uh we did get it inspected and there was major problems and then we were able to get out of the contract and and um and didn't buy that house and bought a much better house. But that was the the mo the buyer's remorse that set in as a result of that. That was that was pretty substantial for me In a sense, the people to whom the author is writing, they're having, quote, buyer's remorse. It's a silly illustration for something actually much more serious The Jewish Christians have converted from Judaism. They've left their identities. They've left their families, very likely. Very likely their families have disowned them. They have come to a place where they have understood who Jesus is and what he has done, and they have turned to Christ. And ever since then it has been it was hardship after hardship after hardship. And there was persecution, and there was no end in sight for this persecution. And at the point at which the author of Hebrews begins to write to these Christians, they're ready to throw in the towel. They've had fire's remorse, so to speak. They're being tempted to go back into Judaism. They're discouraged. They're disenchanted a bit. And they're fearful. They're afraid for the persecution that is to come for themselves. and for their families. How do you encourage a group of people like this? Well, it is helpful to remind them of the end, of the victory that is in Christ Jesus, and certainly Hebrews does that. But Hebrews doesn't only do that. As we think through the suffering that these people went through, Hebrews 10, verse 30 says this. Through 35 it says, actually starting in verse 32, it says, But recall the former days in which after you were illuminated you endured a great struggle with sufferings. Partly while you were made a spectacle both by reproaches and tribulations, and partly while you became companions of those who were treated, for you had compassion on me in my chains and joyfully accepted the plundering of your goods. There's a lot of suffering going on in that in those few verses. They were ostracized. They had to go to bat for the whoever the author, probably Paul here The plundering of their goods, they were suffering. How do you encourage a group of people that are in self that are suffering, they're going through struggles? Certainly to know that Christ is the victor in the long run and he will have the victory is wonderful. But they needed help then, there and then where they were. See, not only was Christ born to die, to pay the punishment for our sins, but Christ was born to live. Hebrews 4, 16 explains that Jesus is our help. It says that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. And in Hebrews 13, 5 it says, Let your conduct be without covetousness, but be content which in such things you have. For if he himself has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you, so we may boldly say, the Lord is my helper. I will not fear. What can man do to me? Jesus is our help. Why can he help us? Because he was born a man. He was born a baby and became a man. Now in Hebrews, in chapter 2 here, the previous verses that were not read in verses 8 through 9, we see that that the that the author is making an emphasis on the fact that Jesus is going to be have authority over all things. Verse 8 says, you have put all things in subjection under his feet. Talk about Jesus. For in that he put all in subjection under it under him, he left nothing that it that is not put under him. But now we do not yet see all things but put under him But we see Jesus. He says we don't see all the authority. We don't see the authority. We don't see the power. We don't see the victory. But we do see Jesus. Who was made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor, that he may by the grace of God might taste death for every one. But as we root through the text of Scripture that we're going to be looking at today, you're going to see things like this in verse 14 Children have partaking of the flesh and blood, he himself likewise shared in the same. He shared in the flesh and blood of his children. He shared in taking on human flesh. And in verse 17 it says, Therefore, in all things he had to be made like his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest. Christ was clothed in humanity for us. He was clothed, as we're going to see, to be the captain of our salvation. Now as we look at this passage, verses 10 through 18, we're going to see in verse 10 the salvation plan. We're going to back up and see the overall plan of salvation. And then in verses 11 all the way through 18, we're going to see the personal present benefits of taking part in that salvation. In verse 10, we pick up and we see God's eternal plan here. And we see in the passage, first of all, the plan's central focus. It says, For whom are all things, and by whom are all things, and bring many sons to glory. This is talking about Jesus. It is all for him, and it is by him that all things are going to come about the way they are. And what Jesus is going to be doing because of his death on the cross is bringing many people to glory. This passage is referring to an Old Testament passage in Psalm, Psalm 8. And in Psalm 8, explains in that passage, David's writing, he says, O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is your name in all the earth. who have set your glory above the heavens later it says and crowned him with glory and honor and in verse six of that passage you have made him ha have dominion over the works of your hands, you have put all things under his feet. Sounds familiar, doesn't it? See, what it's explaining in that passage, you could actually go back to Genesis as well, is that we were born to glorify God. We are born to have dominion over the earth. That's why God created us. He created us to form and to fill the earth. And yet, because of sin, what we ended up doing was distorting God's creation rather than doing what God intended for us to do. And so in order to continue God's plan, Jesus comes, and he is given all things And he is going to one day, he is going to take the crown, and he is going to have full authority on this earth. And all things are beg going to be given to him, and he is going to accomplish for all who are under him and with him that which God wanted us to accomplish in the very beginning. To truly glorify God fully and completely in this earth. God gives us the opportunity to do that now. But we will do it in a much fuller way in the future when Christ returns. But in the meantime, what do we do now? We're living in a sin-cursed world. We're living in a fallen world. We ourselves are sinful. We are fallen. We are tempted with sin every day. We struggle with the sufferings We can identify to some degree with what these folks were going through that read were the first readers of this book He says that Jesus is the captain of our salvation. So we see the planned central role here. He's the captain of our salvation. Now that word is an interesting word. Some of your modern translators will translate that author. And certainly the idea of beginning or authoring is included in that word. Later on, it's going to be used in Hebrews 12, verse 2, looking at Jesus, the author And then it also says the finisher of our faith. But I think it means more than just author. Author writes a book and they're done and you don't necessarily have any relationship with them after that. It's more than just that I think captain is actually a pretty helpful helpful uh uh illustration for us. It's a helpful word for us because the same word is actually used in in the Greek translation in the Old Testament For example, in Numbers chapter 14, verse 4, where it says, let us select a leader. They were not wanting to select a leader for the right purpose in that passage. But they wanted to select a leader to bring them back into Egypt, and they used this word. In Judges, Jephthah was invited to come to be their commander. Not an author where he just starts them off, okay, you guys go. No, he was going to lead them into battle. And so Jesus is the the right way to think about this is that Jesus is he is the author and the finisher of our faith and he is also the in-between He is the one that leads us along in our lives. He is the one that helps us along the way. He is the captain of our salvation. Hebrews 2 is just taught that we should not neglect so great a salvation in verse 3 which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord and was confirmed to us by those who heard him. But we need to understand that there are three aspects to salvation. There is justification that we are declared righteous by God. And there is one day glorification where we will be like him, for we will see him as he is. But in between, we have this sanctification process where we are set apart for God, from sin, for God But we are growing in our Christ-likeness. And what this passage teaches us is Jesus knows exactly how to help us. Now, what equips Jesus to be the captain of our salvation? the captain of our lives, the captain not only of the of our justifying us, declaring us righteous, not only one day glorifying us, But growing us in Christ's likeness. What prepares him for that? The passage tells us. For it was fitting, it says, it was fitting for him And notice what it says, what it was fitting for. It was fitting for him to make perfect through suffering. Does that strike you as kind of strange? Jesus was made perfect? Do you know it says that four different times in the book of Hebrews? It says that Jesus was made perfect. Now, I'll hasten to say that Jesus is God. We know that very clearly from our other passages. There's no question about he claimed to be God and he is God. I won't take the time to explain all of that. If you need more explanation, talk to me later. There's all kinds of explanation about that in the New Testament. So Jesus, when he was born, he wasn't born Flawed, he wasn't born sinful at all. He was born perfect apart. He did not have the sin his sin uh a sin nature at all when he was born. So how could he be made perfect Well, the word means to be to make genuine or to develop fully, to complete, or to fulfill. That helps us a little bit. In fact, it actually says in Isaiah 53. 2 that Jesus, when he was born, he will come as a tender plant. Now that helps us a little bit. When a plant in its early stages is plant, you know, if a seed's planted in the ground, it grows, you see the little thing coming out, the little stem coming out. Well, there's nothing flawed about that stem. It's just in its earlier stages, and it begins to grow and to develop and into a plant well then then produces fruit. And what we find in Scripture is that Jesus starts as a tender plant. He's born as a baby, and then he begins to develop as a tender plant. Uh uh I have some guitars that I would never have been able to buy myself. I inherited them for my dad. And I I've had to do research on these guitars. And there are there are essentially two kinds of guitars. There are really expensive ones and there are ones that are not. That's my categories. Um and you can pretty much tell the difference between the ones that are really expensive and the ones that are not by one thing. Do they have sol are they solid wood or are they some sort of laminate? So most guitars when you buy them they they're laminate. They may say they're wood, but if you if you look at the details, the the back and sides are laminate. Usually have a solid front if it's a good good guitar. But the back and sides are laminate. And when you buy the car guitar, you like the way it sounds, and it will sound that way the day you buy it. And if you take care of it, maintain it the rest of its life, it'll sound the exact same way Unless it has like rosewood back insides. If it has solid rosewood, it will actually cure and get better over time. It will sound good in the beginning, and then it will cure, it will develop into an even fuller sound. There will be more tones. I I saw this in Living Color last time I went to take my broke an expensive guitar to the to the to the to Appalachian Bluegrass uh in in Cadinesville. Um while I was there, I played a couple of guitars that were there and I played two guitars. One was new and one was used. And both of them had solid wood, but but but they were one was used and one was new. And do you know which one sounded significantly better? It was used In fact I played it and I'm like, wow, this sounds they're the same kinds of wood, but the one sounded so much better than the other. I asked the guy, why is this one sound why is the used one sound it was less expensive than it was used? Why does it sound so much better? He said, 'cause it's used It's been cured over time. Now that's a that's a ill illustration that is going to break down when we're thinking about Jesus at some point. But understand that when it says made perfect, we're talking about something that has matured over time. Jesus In such a way without losing deity, he limited his power, but he didn't lose his deity at all. He becomes a baby, and he matures over time. He grows. Well, how does he grow? Notice what the passage says. He matures. He grows through suffering. Now this is actually clearly in all throughout the New Testament, how Jesus suffered not just suffered at his death, though he certainly did, but suffered throughout his life. He was a man of sorrows acquainted with grief. And do you know that there are two things that we share with Jesus that we see in several places throughout the New Testament? We see it in Romans, we see it in 2 Corinthians, we see it in 1 Peter, and that is suffering and glory. Glory in the future and suffering now. For example, Romans 8, verse 17. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with him, that we may also be glorified together. For I consider the sufferings of this present time to not be worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us. Jesus, God, God's awesome plan to equip him to be the captain of our salvation. He made him, he exposed him to suffering. That's why it would later say in Hebrews 4. 15. For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses. Jesus can sympathize with you. He knows what you are going through. He has been tempted at all points, like as we are, yet without sin. Because he actually himself grew as he as he suffered It's kind of like how many of you have seen Undercover Boss? Who has seen who's seen oh come on, you know, confession time. Not that many of you. Okay, well, um Over Undercover Boss is a is a program where usually like the CEO of a company will go and he will un he will um disguise himself and he will then uh and he will then become an employee and he'll do all kinds of menial and sometimes rather disgusting things uh in order to put himself in the shoes of an of his employees. And it's funny, at the end of each of the program, uh each of the the show He meets with various employees, he reveals who he is, and usually he m fixes a bunch of problems that that um that were there. And a lot of times he will give certain things to people that seem to really sacrifice. And what they what every CEO always does in every program that I've ever seen, and I haven't seen that many, but but I but but it when I've seen them, they always cry Like every single time they cry. And and and I think to myself, why are you crying? You know why? Because they went through it Whatever the difficulties they're they watched them go out, they heard their story, they rubbed shoulders with them, they went through the difficulties themselves, they imagined themselves doing this same job every single day for you know a decade or two like some of the employees that they were working with and it was emotional and they could sympathize. Jesus was born to live. so that he could sympathize with our weaknesses. He could sympathize with our with our humanity because he was clothed with humanity himself. That's what we see in the passage. And so then what we're going to see in verses 11 through 16 are the blessings the benefits, if you will, from following after a captain who has been there Who knows what it's like to go through the struggles and the suffering and the difficulties of life. We're going to see number one, verses 11 through 13, we're going to see oneness. Oneness is in the passage. Notice, and I want to illustrate it this way. We're going to see several things that Jesus does because he br comes into oneness with us and brings actually really brings us into oneness with him. So I want us to think about a marriage. What's a marriage? Well, the Bible gives us this illustration. It makes this correlation in Ephesians 5. where the two become one flesh, and that is what Christ's desire is with us as we become one with Him. Us being the church, he being uh the the husband, if you will. There's a wonderful illustration there of oneness. Well, what do you see in a marriage? What brings these a couple together in marriage? What happens? Well, a couple of things. Well we'll see the passage, first of all, a special dedication. There is a special dedication in marriage, and there's a special dedication that occurs in the life of people who follow Christ. Verse 11 says, For both he who sanctifies, that's Jesus Who sets apart, that's what the word means, who dedicates, if you will, and those who are being set apart set apart, those who are being sanctified, those who are being dedicated There is a oneness there. Secondly, there is a special designation. For which reason he is not ashamed to call them brethren. A special designation, a special thing that he calls us. He's not ashamed to call us brethren, his family. And then there's a special declaration, like at a wedding when you have witnesses, it really s seals the deal. It's the thing that actually ha uh makes it so it is is real. You have witnesses. He says, I will declare your name to my brethren. In the midst of the assembly, and I will sing praise to him to you, comes from Psalm 22, verses 22 through 23. There's a public declaration. Actually, the public declaration is of God to us. He declares us to us who God is. And then a special dependence. Notice what this says. This is the God of the universe becomes a baby, lives a life where he has to do this. Trust. In him. He says, and again, I will put my trust in him. Jesus with limits his own per power. He doesn't get leave his his deity, but he limits himself so that and he takes on human clothe cloth he's clothed with humanity and so then he is then he is then uh tr has to tr depend on his father and on the holy spirit in the same way that we do He he can he had to do he did that himself. He trusted in his father and in the Spirit of God as well Now we see oneness as being as being one of the blessings. And then we move on to verse 14, and we see that another one of the blessings is release. Notice what it says here. Inasmuch then as the children have partaken of flesh and blood, he himself likewise shared in the same, that through death he might destroy him who had power of death, that is the devil. He took on human flesh so that he could die to pay the punishment for our sin. And in so doing, it explains that he we are released. From, we are released from Satan's power. It says he might destroy him render him powerless. To make uh the the word destroy means to make powerless, to make void. Jesus in living a perfect life and then dying to pay the punishment for our sin, he voids the power of Satan. And notice what it says here. It removes fear from his children. It releases us. It sets us free, verse 15. Sets us free from the fear of death. Now, do you suppose fear of death is a problem? Certainly, in this first century, when this the original readers of this, they feared death. They feared persecution. But the fact is, this is something that everybody fears. You have entire institutions that are dedicated to finding, discovering, and researching out longevity. How can we have greater longevity in life What can you do to have more longevity? Why? Because nobody wants to die. There is a fear of death. He explains that we of course we know from Scripture that fear has torment, 1 John 4. 18 And it is true that if you don't know where you will spend eternity, if you think that you die and that's it, or worse, if you think that you die and there's punishment, either way, there is a fear of death that is going to that is going to put enslave you. And that's what the passage says. That people are enslaved. They're in bondage to the fear of death. And what Jesus did in coming to earth, living a perfect life, and dying for us, he releases us from that. And I would just ask you this question this morning. Have you been released from that? Have you been released from the fear of death? If you have not been, today you can. And that is by accepting what Jesus did on the cross, depending on what He did to pay the punishment for our sin. But then we find finally, and then notice what it says in Hebrews 13. 5. This even applies to Christians, verse Hebrews 13, 5 and 6. It says, For he himself has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you, so we may boldly say, the Lord is my helper. Notice what it says. I will not fear. What can man do to me? When we understand the friend that we have in Christ, when we understand the release that uh from death and from the fear of death that God gives us. And when we experience that as a Christian Then we can go through anything and know that Jesus is always with us, He's always helping us, and we do not need to fear. Christian, are you living in fear? If you are, realize that you can you can draw on the help of Jesus You can call on him. You can tell it to Jesus as the song goes, so that you will not fear. what man can do to you. And then finally, personal aid. This is a very general term. But in verses 16 through 18, we have as a final as a final benefit of Jesus going through the life that he has gone through, going through the suffering that he has gone through, being perfected, growing in his suffering We find that it says that he will give aid to the seed of Abraham. Notice he says, not to angels, and not to Abraham. They're not the special chosen people to whom he has chosen to give aid, but to the seed of Abraham. He says verse 17, therefore in all things he had to be made like his brethren. That he might be merciful and faithful high priest in the things pertaining to God Now on Christmas Eve, we're going to learn a little bit more about what that means to be a high priest, but for now, we'll notice what it says. It says a merciful and faithful high priest. The word merciful can mean can be translated compassion. Why can Jesus be so merciful and compassionate? Do you know why? Because he's been there If you talk to somebody, you've gone through something really difficult in your life. Maybe it's the death of a family member. Maybe it's uh some kind of physical struggle, physical problem. Whatever it is, when you talk to someone who has gone through that, you can see a different compassion with them. Or, or you listen to the story of someone that resembles something you've gone through. And it's like it really hits you. There's mercy, there's compassion. You can put yourself in that person's shoes. Jesus can do that with us. And he does. We cannot be touched. He is not one who is not touched with the feeling of our infirmities. There is personal aid for us. Notice what it says in the passage, to make propitiation for the sins of the people. He is our high priest, and he satisfies the right the just demands of God, verse 18. For in that he himself was has suffered being tempted, he is able to aid those who are Tempted. The word aid is an interesting word. It's used another time in Hebrews chapter 8, verse 9, where it says he took them by the hand. You know, it's really interesting how how The writer of Hebrews deals with these people that were being tempted to defect from the faith. Now he does warn them in Hebrews. No doubt he definitely really warns them. But he also has compassion on them. And he also explained to them that Jesus is able to take you by the hand. He is able to aid you. Aid those who are being tempted. Why? Because he was tempted in all points, like as we are, yet without sin. As we summarize all of this up, I'd like to ask two questions. Number one, Jesus was clothed with humanity to be your merciful, compassionate captain. Have you started your journey with Jesus? We've been talking here about this. We've been talking about who Jesus is to what is called in the passage his brethren or his children. These are people that have accepted him as their personal savior. But what about you? Do you have that kind of personal relationship with Jesus? This is not just an empty religion. This is not some form. This is not some ritual. This is a personal relationship. You see how personal this is. Do you have a personal relationship with Christ? And if you were here today and you say, you know, I I don't think I have a personal relationship with Christ. Oh, I know what he did th 2,000 years ago. I believe he was born as a baby. I know there's a historical fact that he died, and I understand that he died for the sins of the world, but you have never understood your sin, that you have sinned against God, that your sin separates you from God. But that Jesus Christ died to pay the punishment for your sin. If that's something you've never understood before and you don't have a personal relationship with Christ, let me encourage you, come and talk with me after the service or somebody that you're comfortable with. Boy, I would be thrilled to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure you will spend eternity with the Lord. There would be nothing that would thrill me more than that. But then for those of us who know Christ as our Savior, who have started that relationship, Jesus is our captain, I just wonder this morning if you're feeling discouraged. Or weary or lonely or depressed or hopeless. You know, Christians can feel that way And when you do, I want you to understand that you have a personal Savior who knows what you're going through. Who has been there? Any temptation you've ever had, Jesus has been tempted to a greater extent because he actually never gave in. Any struggle that you've had, that category of struggle, Jesus has faced. Rejection, he's faced it. The death of friends He's faced it. Anything that you can think of as a matter of suffering, Jesus has gone through that. He knows what you're going through, and he is a friend that sticks closer than a brother. Tell it to Jesus. Hebrews 4. 16 tells us, let us therefore come boldly. That word bold means openly. Come openly to the throne of grace. that we may obtain what? Mercy, compassion, because Jesus has been there and find grace to help in time of need. If you're discouraged or weary or lonely or depressed this morning, let me just encourage you to cry out to Jesus. To recognize the presence of Jesus in your life. If you feel like you're going through things that nobody else understands, realize that Jesus does. Commune with Him. Know him. Fellowship with him. And he will bring you comfort like no one else can do. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you for your word. We thank you for Jesus this morning. We thank you that he did come To take on human flesh, he came to be born. And certainly he did come to be born to die. To pay the punishment for our sins. And if there is someone here, Lord, that doesn't know you as their Savior, I pray today that they would begin this personal relationship with Jesus. Lord, for the rest of us, may we be reminded that we have a personal relationship with Jesus. Thank you, Lord, for sending your Son To leave his place at your side, to come to earth, to take on human flesh. to suffer and to be perfected in that suffering than to die So that he truly could be the author and the finisher of our faith and everything in between. We thank you this morning for Jesus. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.