Every year in our country, nearly fifty thousand people commit suicide. That's one every uh eleven minutes. That's more than the actual combat soldiers, Americans who died in World War One, on par with the number of military that died in Vietnam. Suicide is the second leading cause of deaths among ten to fourteen year olds. It's a third leading cause of death in ages 15 to 24, and the fourth leading cause of death in ages 35 to 44. This is an epidemic of astronomical proportion and uh we need to do something about it. Early on, we realized that some of the work that was being done in the prevention of suicide was inadequate. But after we lost Abigail, um, it became very clear that how we were being trained did not speak to the issue in the in the person's heart. We are Toby and Amy Whitmer and we are the founders of the Safe Helps Group, a nonprofit organization that is dedicated to the prevention of suicide. suicide and to educate concerning the journey that leads to suicide and to comfort suicide survivors. At SafeHelps Group, we would like to train parents, pastors, teachers, counselors, a method of addressing the heart of someone who is in jeopardy. If this great need resonates with you, please reach out. We would love to connect with you. We look forward to hearing from you soon. Good morning again. I am Toby and this is my beautiful and wonderful wife, Amy. It's great to be with you here at your church. Got to talk to folks in in Sunday school a little bit. Her pastor has been a dear friend of mine for a long time, probably more than a decade uh from a class originally, a seminary class, and then we staying in contact and hopefully being able to be a blessing to each other. Um as I said in Sunday school, you know, it was until January I was the pastor of Lighthouse Baptist Church in Newark, Delaware, about an hour from here for 21 years. I was an assistant pastor before that for 10 years. Also during being a senior pastor, I was a corporate chaplain and honorary commander with the Delaware State Police, and I'm presently being appointed as chaplain to the Delaware State Police Hi, I'm Amy. I'm a part-time teacher at a Christian school. I teach middle school and high school art and health, and I also run a piano studio out of our home. And we have five amazing children On June twenty-eighth, two thousand twenty-three, just last year, our lives radically changed forever when our oldest child, Abigail, uh took her life by suicide. Abigail loved the Lord. She was beautiful, she was gifted, talented. She was the one who would walk into the room and just light up the room. She was married for almost three years. She and her husband were youth group directors in her in their church. She was also very successful in her career. She was the employee health coordinator for Namores Children's Hospital up in Wilmington, Delaware. There were several unresolved issues physically and mentally that led to the perfect storm that June afternoon. And we are thankful to Abby, as I said before, was very open with us about her struggle, and we were able to walk through that for many, many years. You know, sometimes I I I think every parent in our situation thinks, you know, what more could I have done? You know, what what did we let leave undone? We believe that through the interaction and the counseling and praying with her and being with her through all the struggles, that perhaps we we did increase the number of her years. Maybe we had her around with us uh a longer time. But but Abby loved the Lord and she was a theologian in her own right, um being a PK, a pastor's kid. She was always around the business, but developed a dear a deep love for the Lord and was able to lead many other people towards the joy of the Lord, interestingly, even in her struggles. But she left journals for us and videos and audio files, as if almost that preparing us for the ministry that we were were doing. Now, we're learning a lot about the road that leads to suicide. We are um engaged with clinicians and and therapists and doctors with a a gospel worldview and trying to learn everything we possibly can to help and equip you to be able to to help others. So in the aftermath we are slowly healing. It was very difficult to go through the one-year anniversary just three months ago in June, but we are trusting the Lord in the days ahead, just one day at a time. After the few first few weeks of her death, it was just clear that there was just no way that uh we were going to return to the pastorate, that I was going to return as a lead pastor. And I've been doing a little plug in, so Jim's gonna have to forgive me. He has no idea that I was gonna do this. But um so pasturing is not hard and like the way of being a ditch digger. Okay, there's no question that people have a lot harder physical jobs than pasturing. Most of the struggles of pasturing come from the inside, inside the pasture feelings of inadequacy, feelings of not knowing how to deal with a particular struggle or bearing a burden of somebody in the congregation or a certain critique. of things that you're doing your very best and you know people are not happy with what you're doing. The administration, the leadership, the burdens financially. All of these things, the fact when people leave the church for one reason or another, you feeling responsible like it's your fault, all of these things make pastoring extremely hard. extremely emotionally and um uh fatigue and and and uh carrying the burden very hard. So I wanna encourage you. I knew that I couldn't go back to that at all. I just couldn't. It's too thin. too much wind taken out of us. So I would encourage you, you know, this has nothing to do with your pastor, but to lift him up and to encourage him. He literally, your pastor, I know him well. He's brilliant. You know, he could work any other executive job, but the Lord has called him to this and equipped into this and ordained him to this. He literally is, not in some weirdo way, but he literally is the mouthpiece of God to you. He is the under shepherd to you. Value that. You see that as precious. Encourage him and his dear wife. So after the first few weeks, we just couldn't go back. And um so there, like a phoenix rising from the ashes, there was this new idea as we literally laid um incapacitated me on the recliner, Amy on the couch for for weeks. This new idea came. Maybe we could spare another family from being in our situation. Maybe we could spare another person from taking their life by giving them, at least on the the mental side, the thought side of things um truths of God that would help them not to believe the darkness and the lies. And so Safe Helps Group arose from the ashes. I have a lot of professional friends. uh secular friends who came around and supported the idea, attorneys and graphic designers and all of that. The Lord put in place all pro bono to raise up a faith-based nonprofit organization. Safe Helps group. Safe is a word dealing with people who are in jeopardy. They need to be safe. And helps, you know, plural, to be able to give them resources and multiple truths, helps to help them to find safety and find peace and quietness in their life. And then group, we knew that we were going to engage with a lot of different uh places, both secular and colleges and high schools, which we have in churches just like this. So faith helps group. 53,000 Americans died by suicide last year. That's over 1,000 every week last year. What's even more shocking is 1. 75 million attempted Americans. 700,000 died worldwide by suicide last year So you you may not be familiar with the numbers. Uh there was always this magic ceiling this that was in place in America. that w we would never go past 50,000. Well last year for the first time ever, the greatest numbers ever, 53,000 Americans died by suicide. And what you know what really gets me is what Amy said, 1. 75 million Americans attempted to take their lives. Safe Helps Group is exists for three reasons. Number one, to prevent suicide by engaging with those in jeopardy with the powerful truths of Jesus' gospel alongside of of uh of um clinicians who are trained medically to be able to provide that side of things. The second goal is to educate and equip the greater church about the road that leads to suicide and that involves teaching techniques to engage with people around you who may be in jeopardy and also involves eliminating unhelpful stigmas that keep those in jeopardy from getting help Number three, the last purpose is to comfort survivors of suicide, SOS, just like our family, those who lost loved ones and friends at work. and the neighbor boy across the street and to to be able to bring into their trauma some comfort and some encouragement Our mission is accomplished primarily through teaching, like we will do here today. We're not just here presenting our ministry for possible mission support. We are here to equip you. We are here to teach you things that I I thank the Lord that maybe you don't know because you've never been through that door. But it's it's time for the conservative church, for the greater conservative church to engage in these issues. So we're here to to teach you and equip you uh through preaching and video resources and written resources and one-on-one triage counseling. Very often uh through through these services uh someone will contact us who who who needs help, who who's in jeopardy. And perhaps they don't feel comfortable talking to someone who who they who they know, but Talking to someone who is in the field who they don't know who is willingly wanting to talk to them is an open door to them So we do triage counseling, which means that we evaluate where a person is, and then we connect them to medical clinicians with a biblical worldview. so that they can directly um continue that counseling longer term. There's an incredible COVID of any anything it did, it did one good thing. And that is there is this counseling compact that is going on, legislation in nearly every state that now they're pulling down the walls of counseling across state lines. and they can do that virtually. So legislation is passing almost every state where that will allow some of my friends, clinicians, doctors, um therapists uh who love the Lord and come from a biblical angle with the medical understanding also to be able to virtually counsel someone uh who is in California and it being legal and uh and paid for by insurance and that is just coming and we praise the Lord for it. Please Praise preach please pray for us. This is all new to us. I've been a pastor for 19 years, 31 years, you know, pastor's wife. That's what we did, you know, shepherding, da-da. This is all brand new. Pray for us. and for this great cause of people who are struggling and people just like you and people in this church that are struggling with mental illness. And we ask you to consider Perhaps you or a greater church, this would be Pastor Jim's deal, but but would consider supporting us on a monthly basis. All the information is on the table. Please go back to by the table. It gives you a handy-dandy wristband. It says Safe Helps group on one side. On the other side it says Abigail F E 28. That's our lingo. uh survivors lingo it means forever twenty-eight years old will remember her. So check out her website, safehelps. org. where you can engage and we have an incredible active Facebook group. It's just Faith Helps group on Facebook. Please join that. Keep up with us. There'll be pictures from this church. uh on there. So yeah, keep up. Also, excuse me, on our table you can sign up to get our newsletter that is sent out every couple of months. So you can do that by email or postage Also let us know by cell phone. If you pick up a brochure, his cell phone number is on the back. So let us know by cell phone or email. They're both on there. If we can help you, help a friend or a family member, anybody who just needs somebody to talk to, just go ahead and reach out. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Great to be in the house of the Lord together this morning. Amen? Let's bow our heads together as we go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come with grateful and thankful hearts this morning. We praise you for who you are, Father. You are the creator and sustainer of all life. You are gracious and kind and loving. You are merciful. You are just. And Father, we thank you for your kindness in sending your only begotten Son, Jesus, to come and take our place at the cross, pay the penalty for our sins in full Died on that cross and was buried in the tomb, and you raised him up on the third day. And we are grateful this morning that we can come to you through him and what he has done at the cross. We are grateful for the grace that we live in. And I thank you this morning, Father, that we can come here this morning and get together and worship you and praise you. I ask, Father, as we come to the time that we are going to be under your word, that Father, you would help us to set aside all the distractions. All those thoughts and preconceived ideas we've had when we came here. Help us to concentrate fully and be led by your spirit And I pray, Father, that as your word is proclaimed to us, that Father, we would receive it with joy and that we would meditate upon it And continue to think through it as we go through our week and remembering what we have been taught, that in all things your great name would be praised, glorified, and honored, and lifted up in Jesus' name Amen. We are going to be in 2 Corinthians chapter 10 this morning, looking at verses 1 through 6. 2 Corinthians chapter 10, verses 1 through 6. Now I, Paul, myself, am pleading with you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ Who in presence am lowly among you, but being absent I am bold towards you, but I beg you. That when I am present, I may not be bold with that confidence by which I intend to be bold against some Who think of us as if we walked according to the flesh. For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty in God, for pulling down the strongholds casting down arguments and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God, bringing every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ and being ready to punish all disobedience when your obedience is fulfilled. field. And we will be back to that passage of scripture. And uh I appreciate what your pastor um they call you Pastor Jim here. I'm sure they do because your last name is impronounceable in any language, anywhere. And it's hard because we have a lot of mutual friends and I'll say, hey, do you know Jim something. Gang gangaleria sang gang gang. I you know, I I I love him with all my heart, but I've never been able to pronounce I can't spell it now, right? Gonningham or however I can spell it now. But uh excuse me for for talking about that. But hold your place in this passage of scripture. I appreciate that he uh actually said to me, um, can you preach expositorily in the main service And I always preach expositorily. We were trained under similar people at least in seminary. But there expositorily just means unpacking a passage. So we are going to be preaching textually expositorily this morning. In the Sunday school hour, we went through Psalm 139, kind of in a verse-by-verse expository way. The passages on your lap we will get to at the end and we will unpack it at the end. And on the way we will hit several passages and tell you in context what they will mean also. So I'd like to preach to you a message entitled Destructive Meditations, Unresolved Demons, and Issues, or Unresolved Issues and Demons Within. So let's say that again. destructive meditations, unresolved issues, and demons within. Before we begin to speak, when Amy and I are here, and by the way, there is no question that you could ask us that is off limits I don't want to say no question or any questions. I mean I'm sure there's something. We would be happy to talk to you about everything that occurred last year year in any fashion. Maybe you have a, you know, you just have a very morbid question. That's great. You know, we've learned to live with morbid things and in even morbid humor. And uh, you know, we would never say him out loud because he would think that we're so terrible, some of these things. But it in life, you know, sometimes you either laugh or you cry. Uh so uh please feel free when we're here afterward or whatever to ask us anything. Maybe just something on your heart that you just wondered. It's okay, we'll not be offended or anything. Now Amy might punch you, but I can't be responsible for her No, she won't. We we often um field questions like uh that are norm that normally you wouldn't feel comfortable uh asking. And that kind of brings me to this. When we're here during this message or whatever, you can do one of two things. You can gasp or you can grasp. So we're hoping that you'll grasp. We're hoping to bring you into this world a little bit because there are people around you that are in this world. There are people around you that are struggling in mental illness. There's people around you. The numbers are huge. And some of them are shocking. So there's a large survey done, 20,000 preteen girls, 20,000 preteen girls anonymous survey. Three out of ten recorded that I am presently considering taking my life. Three out of ten. And I would love to tell you that that's only in the unsaved world or outside of the church. Beyond that, the numbers are staggering. I don't know if you you caught a little bit on the video, but this this is something that the Conservative Church has kind of We don't want to talk about it. We're afraid of it. be Pollyanna in the view that that that mental illness is not inside the church, that you know it will never go on with my children, those kind of things. But these things, folks, are just not true. We live in a fallen world. When Adam and Eve rebelled against God and sin entered the world, you know, it doesn't it doesn't stop and does it doesn't skip the home of Christians The carnage of the wages of sin being death and the flesh struggling is everywhere, including Toby's heart. So these are the kind of things that we can engage in. It's a mission field that is the greatest opportunity right now. So I would encourage you that you would grasp and not gasp at these things. As we're here today, we're equipping, but we're also speaking directly to some that may be here, that probably are here, that are you're battling dark thoughts. Maybe you're battering battling some of the things that we talked about in in Sunday school hour from Psalm 139. I want to tell you something. You don't have to be embarrassed of that. You're not alone. There are millions of Jesus lovers that struggle with mental illness. Many, many people. I talk with pastors. There's a dear pastor friend who is a young man, brilliant man, but he confessed to me He says, you know, I don't tell people this, but I struggle to not take my own life I mean he leads a congregation, he preaches, and you you may not understand how those two things could possibly work together. Loving the Lord, being thankful in the Lord, being joyful in the Lord, but also having these suicidal ideations. Well, these things are extremely complex and uh they deal both in the spiritual thought world, but then also in the real DNA biological organ as an extreme or brain as an extremely complex organ world too. So I want to tell you if you struggle with these things that the Lord cares And and your and your family c cares. It's that you're not alone. Um your church family cares. You don't have to be embarrassed and and hide. One of the things that Amy mentioned that we have a whole message on stigmas in the church that keep people suffering mentally silently. And there are stigmas that need to be just dealt with and blown away that are just untrue. Untrue from a soteriology gospel perspective. And un untrue that uh from a a position that if you're saved you'll never struggle with any you know mental illness. That's just that's just not true. It's just a lie. It's like saying that, you know, if you're saved, you won't have kidney problems You know, the the brain is the most complex organ in the entire body. It is made up of of incredible of billions of neurons that connect together for neuropathways that deal uh electronically and chemically. And to uh to have this idea that that your brain can't have any problems, it's all spiritual matter, is just it's ridiculous, you know. So um, yeah. There is real help for you. God cares. It's extremely complex and hard. But please don't hide. Please talk with someone, please be willing to reach out, even to ourselves. Let's begin by prayer and we will continue. Lord, thank you for this time already. We pray that these folks would just engage, lean forward, and grasp the things we're about to deal with. We love you. We thank you that there's hope in you. We thank you for the songs that we've been singing. Pastor Jim chose incredible songs with the piano played, the song about being still all safe and blessed, we shall meet at last. Sorrows forgot, love's pure joys fulfilled. We long for those days, Lord, and we know that we're going to come to them, that Christ will return again, that we will be resurrected, and we will be like him, for we will see him as he is And we forever dwell with the Lord. And Lord, we can't wait till you wipe all tears from our eyes. In Jesus' precious name, Amen. You know, the biblical discussions of suicide have been historically extremely taboo in the church. I mean, just things that are not talked about. Mosa, the greater church has been historically ill-equipped to handle such things because, number one, we're just afraid of them. And I agree, I'm there too. I'm af w we're afraid to engage in those areas. We don't understand. God has put in all of us, you know, the extr very strong desire to preserve our lives. We a very selfish, if I can say it that way. We we don't want to hurt ourselves. And then we have a situation that comes along where you have someone who is self-hurting, whether it be cutting or burning themselves or ultimately taking their own life. Does not compute. Um it's a hard thing to consider how to deal with these things, how to help people this way We're afraid of them because there are also many unbiblical beliefs and stigmas surrounding suicide and mental illness. But we reach a time in history that we we must become equipped. We we cannot just push it out and keep singing every day with Jesus is sweeter than the day before, except the fact that I get darker and darker and I hate myself and I really would like not to be on this earth anymore. It is estimated that 85 people, 85% of people in America, including this auditorium, know someone who has died by suicide. either directly or like one step away. So that's like you know someone whose child or someone who's aunt or uncle or whatever. And there's no doubt that in in this congregation that you have family members in your family tree that have taken their life. 1. 7 million Americans attempt. Imagine what Amy said. Imagine 53,000 Americans dying last year, every year. from taking their own life. The age group that is most in danger is the age of our daughter, 28 years old, ages 25 through 34, is most in danger. I have some speculations of why. You know, you you work hard through high school, you you work hard through college, you're stuck with this big bill, you get out and you think you're going to be the CFO of a company and instead, you know, you're getting twenty hours working at Hobby Lobby every other week. You know, what what you thought was going to happen of this incredible life and these great career opportunities, it doesn't happen. And instead you you realize that that life is a grind and that it's hard to, you know, w I have my own speculations, but twenty-five to thirty-four year old, there's been a a thirty-three percent increase in suicide deaths in the last twenty years There's been a 16% increase in suicide since what? Yell it out. COVID. Since COVID. Suicide is the second leading cause of death among 10 to 14 year olds. Think about that. 10 to 14 year olds. We were in a church the other week and I'm I was saying this and that week a 10-year-old had taken their life that it was on the news. It's fourth leading cause of death to 35 to 40 four year olds. And and some of you say, yes, it is a bat is a horrible young person's problem. Since Abigail passed, I did funeral of a 75-year-old woman. who drove to the crest of the Delaware Memorial Bridge, four hundred and some feet to the water. She left her minivan door open and she jumped. It's not just a young peop person's problem. It is all ages. You know, the Bible says that the thief comes not to but to kill and destroy. Jesus said, I've come so that you might have life, you might have it more abundantly. We have an adversary that is greatly trying to fight against those who have been made in the image of God and those who have been redeemed by the blood of Jesus Christ. It is a flat all-out war. Think about 53,000, that number of Americans. Just think about that for a moment. Okay, so let me let me connect that to something. That is the the number of American soldiers who died in battle in World War I, just about the same number. That is just about the same number, slightly less than all U. S. military personnel who died in Vietnam. All U. S. army or excuse me military personnel who died in Vietnam. So we're basically what we're basically doing is we're having a world war of carnage every year. Except that the church and the greater public are just being hush-hush about it. I mean you hear about every once in a while. You see these walks for suicide and all these kind of things. This is the carnage of a world war every year in America. Having said that, it's happening in the Christian community as well. We have friends. We have a lot of friends now. You know Some of you know Ron and Shelley Hamilton, catch the pirate. Their son took his life Shelley goes to Amy's mother's church and she's written a book and being a been a blessing to Amy's mother. This is everywhere, okay? This is not and it doesn't you say pastors homes, yes, look at us, okay Having said all that, I'll simply say there are reasons why people take their life. There's reasons why people kill themselves. It's not random. It can be extremely complicated. I to discussed in in Sunday school the three big categories are health, environment, historic uh factors and I would add um mental areas that connect to spiritual issues. Many of these reasons are in the realm of medical health care. And that's something that's been hard for the conservative church to even admit. You know, the early days of of uh biblical counseling was a total denial that there was an organic factor to this. Which is kind of crazy. Not long ago, I spent five of the best days of my life in Christiana Hospital trying to get rid of kidney stone. And uh that was sarcasm, by the way. So so what actually happened was uh I had the kidney stone and I couldn't it was impossible to pass, so they put in the stent whatever during when they put me under I uh aspirated and sucked in bacteria and that led to emo pneumonia and that led to everything shutting down my body and not being able to breathe, not being able to get oxygen, and there I lay just whatever And you know what, during that time I just thought I would do something. You know, the Word of God is sufficient for all things. Do you believe that, Jim? So I started quoting scripture, this kidney stone. I started rebuking all sc every scripture I could. The devil whatever you say, well that's crazy. Sufficiency dells in the realms of spiritual promises, etc. That's the sufficiency. But yet biblical counselors at the beginning look that way towards mental illness and suicide that the scriptures are sufficient and so it should, you know, every issue that you have in your mind has to be a spiritual issue. Except that the the brain is so far more complex than my kidney. It it is an organic device that is extremely vulnerable and susceptible to infection and tumors and and things not firing right. And yes, electrical and chemical imbalances. Oh, I said it, Jim. It's hard because we know so little. We know more about the what's called it's not marinara, that's what you put on your spaghetti, right? Maranara trench. What is that trench? It's a deep trench, brother. It's a deep thank you. See I woke you up. We know more about the depths, the deepest depths of the ocean, than we do the physical brain. That's a a scientific truth. It's very we we're not there yet in science. And so a lot of it is spir experimentation. You know, when medic medicine is prescribed and these things, a lot of it, you different people do different ways. A lot of it is a giant experiment and it's just the truth, whatever. But these things are very real. But there's an area that believers can engage. There is a spiritual area that we can engage. And I talk about this this way, with the help, with the understanding of of clinicians, medical clinicians, it's like which came first, the chicken or the egg? So do the organic physical problems, do they initiate the thought ideations, the strange problems, or do these strang, you know, these strange thoughts about unsafe, wanting to hurt yourself, harm yourself, kill yourself, do they in some way irritate the organic medical mass brain issue. We don't know which comes first the the chicken or egg. But they both exist and they both stimulate each other. They both work against each other. The area that we can engage in believers is the thought, spiritual, mental side of this, to fight lies and ideations. that that star people in struggling are are having to help them to preach, fight, struggle against that with God's truth So let's call these unresolved issues in people's minds, lies, negativity, guilt, deceptions. And it's kind of like We our family uses Spotify, you know, it's a music service you and it has a shuffle feature. Some of you have got to walk back. Okay, there's these silver discs, they're called CDs. And you have a shuffle button like on your okay, it's still not there. So there's these cassette things and they have tape and they go around. Like I don't think you can shuffle them at all. Some of you are in A-track mode. Okay, listen. Just get up with the times There's this shuffle mode that you can on on modern technology that you can it plays whatever song that it chooses and it just keeps on shuffling and shuffling and shuffling until you interfere, push pause, or stop. It just keeps on shuffling These unresolved issues, these negative, dark thoughts are on shuffle mode all the time in people who are struggling's brain. They can be in service like this, but they're thinking about some unresolved issue. They're thinking about how insignificant they are. They're thinking about how they hate themselves. They're thinking about I'm not worth living. It's not, you know, I'm a burden to people. They're thinking about all the, it's just all of the time. And it's on shuffle mode constantly. Some people call that baggage. Some people call that demons of the past. Things that have happened that, you know, clear back and grade school maybe or maybe significant traumatic things, abuse, whatever, just always there, always there. It doesn't matter. They try they go to their jobs, whatever. They're working this nine to five. We're looking at the computer screen, but this is shuffling. This is always in the back. It's the background noise, the background music of their life. Some call it demons of the past, not the fallen angel kind of demons, but these unresolved issues, these things, destructive dark thoughts that seem impossible and hopeless to them Suicide ideations are complicated. There's no magic wand to fix them. All of those dark shuffle thoughts don't always turn into suicidal ideations, but that is the path. That is the road. So whether it it it it it ends up at destroying your body or whether it just destroys your relationships and your your thoughts and your your enjoyment of life, your joy, whatever, it's destructive, these shuffle thoughts. This is the place where the body of Christ can help. You may think, how could I help with someone? They're destructive meditations. How could, okay, stick with me. It became painfully clear through the years of conversations in journals and counseling, etc. , that Abigail had several key thought processes that she compulsively ruminated on that ultimately led to her losing all hope that anything in her life would ever change for the better. Darker, darker, darker, darker, the years, the months, the days rolling on. She had a great life in most respects. She really did. If I brought my our four living children before you, if you could come into our home and go on our vacations with us And and daily incredible love, incredible affirmation, and c incredible music of our home, joy filling our home. She was the same. She was there. But that's something also we learn. Those who die by suicide can't see the good things around them because they are too focused on the pain of a few hurtful things within them that are unresolved. They just laser focus on those dark lies or those dark unresolved things. I want you to think about these dark, unresolved things, the shuffle list playing, as like a bunch of bananas. Okay? You buy them, you bring them home, maybe they're a little green at first, you let them ripen up or whatever. They put them on your counter, but if you neglect them, what happens? If you don't eat them, they start getting these dark spots, right? It's okay at first, you know, freckles are good. But then it turns a little worse and they get darker and darker and darker and darker until finally, if you totally neglect them They are just totally mushy and disgusting and dark, and unless you're Martha Seward who puts them in the freezer and makes banana bread later, they are worthless. You start smelling. You gotta chuck them. You've got to get rid of them. And by the way, bananas are never a travel fruit. You they will smell up your car. They are not good. Then you have this the wrapper, you have the peel, what do you do with it? It's organic, throw it out the window, because it will sink up your car. Anyhow, these thoughts, these meditations are like those bunch of bananas. Over time, they shuffle this just plays and and then and it gets darker and darker and darker and darker until that point Like the the rotten banana until that point where they lose all hope and there's no coming back. The scripture often talks about things like this. It's consistent talking, this shuffle list, these thoughts. I'll remind you of verses you know before we get to our main text, Proverbs 4. 23. Keep your heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Almost every I would say probably everyone in this room knows this verse and has heard this verse. So let's break it down a little bit. Keep your heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. To keep your heart means to protect or to guard it. Guard what comes into it. And that's where most people just stop. No, no, it's not just what comes into it. You know, our thought life, our brains, our whatever hot, heart or meditation, we are, we are thought factories. We don't need to be destroyed by environment. We create our own destruction within. To guard, to keep means to guard what you Meditate on what you allow, the thoughts that you create, as well as what comes in from the outside. The word heart can be translated mind or thoughts or feelings in the verse. It's a broad term for our inner man. And the last part for garnip, why? Because out of these thoughts, these meditations, your heart is created the issues of life. Issues literally a spring. Okay, I'm I'm I'm a West Virginia boy. On the hills of West Virginia, you can have water coming up out of the ground at the crest of the hill. There are these mountain springs that come from the inner Earth the same way with your life. You know, what comes out of you is what is inside of you, what you have created, what you have meditated on, what you've ruminated. From these thoughts, these ideas from these meditations, flow the springs or the issues of your life. What what exits you, what what your actions, your reactions, your behavior, your direction of life, every t every turn, every decision. Those issues come from your inner man, your heart, your mind. So guard it and keep it And be careful what you're ruminating on. It's such a consistent teaching of Scripture. Jesus said it another way in Proverbs 15 this way. He says, Do you not understand that whatsoever entereth in at the mouth goeth into the belly timeout? So this is this classic scene where the Pharisees and scribes are are are you know critiquing Jesus allowing his disciples to to to eat corn at one place and then another place to to eat without the ceremonial washing of their uh hands and all that. And they're critiquing Jesus for all of this being unspiritual and hurting them. And so Jesus resplies this way. Don't you understand that whatsoever entereth in at the mouth, goeth into the belly, is cast out into basically the bathroom, expelled But those things which proceed out of the mouth, out, not in, out of the mouth, come forth from the heart, and they defile the man. It's the same idea of keep your heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Jesus is teaching the same thing, the fruit that comes out of you, whether that be your speech, your actions, your path of life. comes decisions, directions, not primarily primarily from your environment, but from within you, from your thoughts, the spiritual health of your heart Jesus repeats that in different ways in the Gospels. There's a classic verse that I had to learn when I went to Christian school, and we often teach in our Sunday school classes, junior church, Romans 12, 1 and 2. I beg you, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your body a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Great, we've got that. Verse 2, and be not conformed to this world, the sin of the world, but be transformed by the next part, keeping of a list of rules No, be transformed by the renewing of your mind Be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that by renewing your mind ye may prove what is the good and acceptable will of God. Where you go, what you do, the decisions you make, your speech, your actions are all ultimately controlled by what you meditate on, what you believe in your heart, what you have allowed to run through the shuffle list of your of your mind. You're going to be transformed by your thoughts one way or the other. It's not always good renewal. It's often destruction. What you meditate on is who you will become. You will be transformed one way or the other. We come to the passage of Scripture on your laps, 2 Corinthians 10, 1 through 6, it was read at the beginning, and it hits different, but it's the same point. It's an interesting passage. Paul is saying in context that he is bold against those in the Church of Corinth that would be that were listening to false teachers. And they were meditating on this false doctrine that these false teachers were speaking. And he was going to he was coming to them, and he was going to be bold and use God's mighty weapon of truth. The word of God, the revelation of God through the apostles that was being written down, he he was going to come to them to cast down and to captivate the lies that were being lifted up by the false teachers against the truth of God and were being meditated on by the the Christians in the Church of Corinth and being accepted and thought whatever. He says, you think of us as if our ministry is one of the flesh. Like we sit around as guys and make up these ideas. You know, we're in, you know, we we have fleshly bodies. But our ministry or our warfare is not like a bunch of guys getting together and deciding stuff. We have a mighty ministry through the great weapon of God's truth that will cast down these lies and heresies and wrong things. And you must by God's truth captivate this stuff, or it's going to wreck you. It's going to wreck Christianity. It's going to wreck your church. So what does this have to do with what we're talking about? Listen to the verses. I'll read them, 2 Corinthians 10, just 3 through 5. For though we walk in the flesh, Paul says, we don't war after the flesh. It's not a human kind of thing. For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, or the same idea of fleshly or physical, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. This is God's truth, the two-edged sword, the mighty word of God, casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ It's the same point as the other verses, though it's in a different context. And though it's in the context of casting down heresy and false teaching. It's the same idea of these negative lies and suicidal ideations in your mind. And the fact that you're worthless and the th the the the fact that you're of no value, you're of no significance, the guilt that you hold on to, all of these negativity, it's the same deal that need to be dealt with with God's powerful, mighty truth. Our minds cannot be allowed to run afoul and free with dark, destructive, negative, hateful, bitter False, sinful thoughts that conflict with God's truth of his grace and of his forgiveness and of his love and of his commitment to us, like we preached about this morning. of his ability to be able to help in time of need, of his ability to change life through things like prayer, that you're not always going to be in the same situation that you're in. The playlist we allow to shuffle in our hearts, what we ruminate on, will become the fruit of destroying ourselves and others Unless we take captive those thoughts, unless we replace those thoughts, unless we renew our mind with thoughts that are powerful through God's truth, not destructive through this world's truth, your own gut, your own feelings, through Satan's lies. The playlist of your thoughts will create your destiny, folks. Oh, you may never, like our daughter, kill yourself. But you sure will, by following those thoughts and listening to those thoughts and meditating on those thoughts, you will destroy relationships. You will destroy destroy your peace with God. You will push away your children, you will push away your parents, you will push away those who love you, you will destroy other things, and perhaps, like our daughter, it may ultimately lead to destroying your own body. Here's the connection with suicide and people who are pulled to the thought of ending their pain, pulled to the thought that things will never change. the thought that there's that there's it's imp resolution is impossibility. There are dark and unresolved thoughts ruminating in their minds that can be addressed. that God's word has truth for, that can be captivated and with God's help resolved, so that they are not the catalyst to literally pulling the trigger, as our daughter did. Abigail's dark dark thoughts are different than yours. Remember we're we're grasping, we're not gasping, okay? Abigail's dark dark thoughts are different than yours, your friends, those your burden for, those that you're hopefully will engage to minister to. But she was very open about them, but sadly, either unable or unwilling to resolve many of them with God's truth, unwilling to captivate them. Unwilling to make decisions to deal with the resolution of some of them. So I thought I would share just a couple of them with you so you understand, really understand. Number one. At age 17, Abby was raped by an adult adult coworker at Chick-fil-A. She was 17, he was 22. She never told us until she went through Bob Jones University and came back five years later. She told us. She suffered horrible fear every day and PTSD from the event when she went away it happened right before she went as a freshman to college and he by text taunted her. Said that she was gonna get pregnant, said said horrible, nasty things to her. She was always afraid that she would see him somewhere. He lived only several miles from where she lived when she got married, clear three you know, so she m many years later, then she got married and was married for three years and he only lived I think it was nine miles at one point from where she lived. We had gently encouraged her to prosecute, to to get this guy off the street. The fear of sitting in a courtroom, the fear of reliving the event with like most I do say most victims, they just cannot bring themselves to testify like that. It's it's very, very, very, very hard. And so it was unresolved. And so it's just always in her mind how she was abused Number two, she had PCOS polycystic ovarian syndrome, which probably many of you women know. It played havoc on her body and her self-image. PCOS causes many hormonal problems as well as insulin diabetic problems It causes weight gain and ca and reduces the chance of becoming pregnant. Um a month before she took her life, she was hospitalized and with 28 years old, beautiful young lady, diabetes, you know, she worked hard and got off the insulin before she died. She felt like her body was betraying her from the PCOS and self-image negativity filled the pages of her prayer journal. She begged God on one page. to heal her and to help her find her identity and just being his daughter and then you turn the page and she's bemoaning her looks She is saying how she wishes she was in a different body, whatever. PCOS gave her great anxiety about herself, her beauty, her value, her significance, her image. But don't believe me. Listen to her journal. All my life I felt like the dumb one, like the failure. I'm not like mom and the girls. I really wish that I could be Finn. I I I've never been. I've always wanted to be in a different body. My chest is too big, my rear is too flat, my stomach protrudes. I feel like my redeeming quality is my face, but even my cheeks and nose have been picked apart by people. PCOS has made my body into something I always want to cover. These were her constant thoughts. And and the concept thoughts of uh the shuffle list of many people thinking about not being pretty enough and and thin enough and smart enough and righteous enough and and rich enough and significant enough and popular enough. Never enough never enough Three, guilt. You may question why pastor's kid would have unresolved guilt. And this I struggle with this a long time. And I'm like, why is it so much that the pastor's kids are So bad. And then it it just occurred to me. It was like an epiphany right out of the sky. They're so bad because they hang around the deacon's kids. No, she struggled with the same temptations and problems you did. And although this although she could literally have debated you with incredible biblical sharpness about what justification means, about what imputed and pardoned and forgiven sin through the blood of Jesus Christ means. somehow there was a lack of that application of resting in the forgiveness of God. And some things had happened and In high school and including the rape thing of was it her fault? Did she cause it? These kind of things that are horrible, horrible lies by the devil She could not get past some of that guilt. These big lies and many others, several others that I can't tell you about, were the catalysts that pushed Abby to the edge. These thoughts shuffled through her mind constantly until that fateful night before she died, that she sat in our living room. She had called and asked if she could come down for a couple of days. Matthew, her husband, supportive. She wanted to stay in her old room. They lived about, whatever, 30 minutes from us to the north. She asked if she could come and just get some rest and and and be in her old room. Well, we didn't know she had a plan. That night before, that faithful night before, she sat she sat across from me in our living room Me trying to tell her about the truths of the Lord, me trying to encourage her, whatever, until her eyes stared off into the distance, and she just said, Dad, it will never change. She meant all the unresolved things. It will never change. Of course, me, a good pastor, a good daddy, you know, I had to interject like I did a thousand times. But God but God can change anything, Abby. You've seen him make changes and it didn't matter. The bananas were Completely black. They're rotten. They're done. She couldn't hear anything anymore. It will never change as a statement of entire, utter hopelessness. All hope was gone. We alluded to some of the stigmas that exists in the church, the conservative church. This is a whole crazy thing. I'd be happy on another day to work through it with you. She left us a very detailed video. And right near the end. She professed Jesus as my Lord and Savior. I believe that He died for my sins on the cross. And He is my hope of going to heaven. And He's forgiven all my sins. Even the sin that I'm about to do. Talk about messing with a a daddy's, a pastor's, a mama's mind. But Abigail is correct. When the scripture says that he died for all of our sin, there's not an asterisk there, is there, that you get down to the bottom of the paper, except for the sin of divorce, except for the sin of suicide, except for the sin of No, he died for all of our sin. Crazy thought, broken flesh. Thoughts are powerful things, folks, because the thoughts of our hearts become the actions and the issues and the springs of our life. It's not easy to believe God's word over the lies, as it I've struggled many, many times. Pastor Jim has helped me with some of those things in years past. But there are truths of God to obliterate, to captivate, and to destroy the lies of the heart. And it is an all-out battle. For you to take God's mighty weapon of warfare, to cast down imaginations And things that rebel and lift themselves up above the knowledge of God, the truth of God, and the obedience to Christ. And that's where we engage these powerful truths of God. Concerning Abigail, God said that her body was made in his image He said in Psalm 139 she was fearfully wonderfully made. That he wrote all her members, even PCOS in his book before he ever formed her That the gospel was her ultimate solution with the promise that God would give her a glorified body someday. Until then his grace would have to be sufficient. I am not in any way supporter of Rick Warren and his secret sensitive philosophy, but he lost a son to suicide. In one of his interviews I thought was so great, he said that we We need to understand that these things are above our pay grade. We understand that sometimes, like the Apostle Paul thorn in the flesh, God doesn't call us to miracle. He calls us to management. That we may struggle with those dark thoughts the rest of our life, but His grace is sufficient for us. His truth is truth above our feelings, though they we may fight against them. You know what? That gives actually that's not discouraging to someone with mental illness, that's encouraging. What's discouraging is expecting some kind of great conversion therapy or some miracle to fall from heaven that we won't fight against our flesh, including negative and dark thoughts. What is encouraging is that in this world you will have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. And there is grace and truth for each day to fight against the lies. God had said he would he answers prayer. There was hope for Abigail. Things could change. God said that he would not allow those who abuse the innocent to go free that vengeance was his. He would repay. And one of those tools that he would use was government to prosecute those who sinned in such horrendous ways. God had said many other things about her and his word that I wish, that we wish, that she could have made her own meditations. There are those there were that those were her destructive meditations, her unresolved issues and demons within that I don't know what yours are I don't know, but your deck your negative, dark, deceptive thoughts shuffling in your mind will turn into the direction and the destiny of your life. They've got to be faced head-on with God's truth. Concerning those who are around us, who are struggling with these things. We can't just stick our head in the sand anymore, folks. We can't just say we feel sorry for our neighbor whose son took his life. We can't just attend funerals and be shocked when it happens within the church and around us. So what do we do? We have to make a place that is safe for those who are struggling to not feel embarrassed and that there's they're weirdos and that they are crazy and unspiritual for having these thoughts. So how do we do something like that? I'm gonna make it extremely practical. Concerning these meditations, shuffle this thoughts. Can you take someone who you feel like is struggling to coffee or to your house or just quiet, very, very comfortable place? And can can you say, you know, I've been concerned about you, Felicity, to make her name Felicity. I've been very concerned about you. Do you trust me enough, Felicity, that you could tell me about some of these thoughts that are going on that you're hearing in your mind, some of the dark, some of the the struggles, the lies. Could I just listen? Could you tell me a few of of them? Maybe they'll trust you enough to share. But beginning to talk about this, we have learned in our training. is the very first step for someone to be able to change and get help and not hide anymore. Now they may tell you some things that you can immediately think about God's truth and very gently help them to begin meditating on the Putting off the lies, putting on God's truth and fighting daily. You might be able to become an accountability partner to them. So, whoa, I'm not a clinician. Listen, God's word is sufficient to help that side of things. Maybe it is above your pay grade. Maybe you can't, and you just don't, it just doesn't come to you what to do. Well, you have a pastor. You have godly other believers here in the church. Maybe it is the point of danger. You have a crazy West Virginia boy who came to you. And said, please reach out to us and we can connect them with godly clinicians that can help them, that will help them. But whatever you do, don't do nothing. Don't do nothing. Bad English, good truth. You say, well, I'm afraid to say something wrong. You can't kill them twice They're already headed to a destructive place. That's the devil's lie to get you not to say anything Listen, be extremely gentle. No imperative statements Point them to God's truth. Offer to become an accountability. And after meeting with them, talking with them, write on your channel or do whatever you have to do. Put reminders on your iPhone. Be there for them. Text them daily. Walk with them. You will be phenomenally excited about what the Lord can do to use you to help them. Unresolved issues and demons within, destructive meditations. May the Lord give you courage. To reach out to these people. Prayer is great. Prayer and talking to them is much better. So Lord, I pray that you would help this congregation. I thank you for the phenomenal truths, powerful weapons of truth God's truth that is found in Scripture, to be able to cast down and to replace the lies and the demons within. Oh Lord, spare people by your wonderful truth. Thank you for loving us and laying down your life for us. Jesus, you said that you have come to give life and to give it more abundantly. In the name of Jesus, amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon