That is the question, isn't it? What will we do with Jesus? We have seen through the history of really God's history from creation of mankind all the way to the birth of Christ, to the resurrection of Christ, and looking ahead to the coming of Christ. Really, his story is history, or history is his story. It's the story of Christ and what Christ has done. for the world and offering himself for the sins of mankind. The story that we have looked at, or the narratives that we have looked at, have emphasized darkness and light. Of course, during this time of year, we're familiar with lights. There's lights everywhere, aren't there? Uh a few weeks ago my family decided to go up to New York City. And um that was an uh a great a good experience overall. My family's favorite part of New York City was uh Rockefeller Center. Especially we w we kind of did a bunch of things, but then we ended up at Rockefeller Center at night with all of the beautiful lights. And I think that's somewhat appropriate, isn't it, that we would light up things during this time of year since Christ is certainly the light of the world. But when the world When the world sees, thinks about Christmas, and it views what Christmas is, do we really grasp the meaning of Christmas? What is what would the average person say if you were to ask them what the meaning of Christmas is? A few years ago, an article in the New York Times said this. The meaning of Christmas is that love will triumph and that we will be able to put together a world of unity and peace. Really? How are we doing so far with that? That we, somehow, by the belief in humanity will be able to put together a world of unity and peace. The truth is we are powerless to do that You can look at our world and we keep trying, whether it's political ideas or whether it's some sort of social reform, there are all kinds of uh theories on what we can do to make the world a better place so that we can all live happily in peace and for 2,000 years, or really long much longer than that actually, it hasn't happened. The truth of the matter is we do not have humanity. There is not in humanity to be able to live in peace because we're the problem. Darkness is in the world, but darkness is in our hearts. We are born, the Bible says, in darkness. The Old Testament, all as you go through it, you realize that people are walking in darkness. And the idea that we can somehow in our own strength, in our own humanity, in our own goodness Put together something that is light when we are all full of darkness were born that way is futile There is no way for us to think that we can in our own humanity come up with a way to shed light on this dark world. The truth is, darkness is all around us. One of the things that would be probably agreed on is that our world is full of darkness. And there have been many attempts to deal with this throughout our history. We read from Isaiah chapter 9 this morning. And in Isaiah chapter 8, it's interesting that the nation of Israel actually tried various methods, to their demise, actually, various methods to try to deal with the problem of darkness in their world. And in Isaiah chapter 8, verse 19, it says, And when they say to you, Seek those who are mediums and wizards who whisper and mutter, should not a people seek their God? Should they seek the dead on behalf of the living? To the law and to the testimonies? If they do not speak according to this word, it is because there is no light in them. They will pass through it hard, pressed, and hungry. It shall happen when they are hungry that they shall be enraged and curse their king and their God and look upward. Then they will look to the earth and see trouble and darkness and gloom of anguish, and they will be driven into darkness. The attempt of the nation of Israel to deal with the problem of darkness, to go to other things that are man-made, other contrived ways of dealing with it, were futile, and they remained in darkness. The only way to deal with the darkness of the world is that something otherworldly would come and shed light on this. And that is the light of Christ. Christ is the light of the world that penetrates this dark world so that we can respond to it. The question is: what will we do with Jesus? Vaklaiv Hevel, who was president of the Czech Republic, said this in dealing with the problems of our world. He said, pursuit of the good life will not help humanity to save itself. Nor is democracy alone enough. A turning to the seeking of God is needed. The human race constantly forgets, he added, that he is not God. That's from the President of the Czech Republic. He understood after s grappling with all of the problems of this life That it is futile to think that we can fix them on our own. The problem is that we must be rightly related to God. And the truth of the matter is, the problem in our own hearts can only be dealt with when we are rightly related to God, and that only comes Through Jesus Christ alone. What is the meaning of darkness? Well, darkness is evil and ignorance. That's what darkness is. We are living in evil and we are living in ignorance. Christ is the exact opposite. Christ is the light. He is purity. And he is truth. And so when Christ came to the world, he shed this light. John 1:9 says, that was the true light which gives light to every man coming into the world. The message of Christ Christmas, the true meaning of Christmas, is that things really are bad. Life is really dark, and we can't do anything about it. But Christ Can. Christ is, and Christ will. It's interesting that in Matthew chapter 4, verse 16, it says, The people who sat in darkness have seen a great light. And then it uses an illustration of the sun that is dawning. It says, and upon those who sat on the region, the shadow of death, light has dawned. It pictures going and complete being in complete darkness at 4 30 in the morning or something and then seeing the sun dawn out of the just rise. And it uses this as an illustration to help us to understand the light that Christ had when he came into the world, this picture of a sun. When we think of that picture, let's think about what the sun is. First of all, the sun gives us life. Without the sun, you wouldn't have photosynthesis. All of you all were going through a phase of winter where we're seeing less sun. And you're looking outside at your what used to be nice green grass and you're probably seeing something that's not so green anymore. Well that's because without the sun you don't have life. The sun S-U-N brings life, and the sun S-O-N also brings life. The sun brings life, and you know what our response needs to be? We must learn to depend on him. We are so quick to try to depend on everything else. We must learn to depend upon the only one who can truly give us life. Acts chapter seventeen, verse twenty says, It is in him we live and move and have our being. But the sun also shows us truth. You ever try to drive at night without headlights? Well, you are surely going to get in an accident if you try to do that. Why? Because you need headlights to show you reality But on the other hand, have you ever realized have you ever found it more difficult to drive at night than during the day? Well of course it's harder to drive at night during the day. Why? Because the sun is there and it shows reality everywhere, not just spots of reality. See, see, Jesus shows the truth. In fact, he is the truth Without Christ, you don't see reality. Without Christ, you have no hope of knowing what's really real and what really isn't. Christ is like the sun that sheds truth, sheds light, helps us to see things as they really are. 1 John chapter 1 says, this is the message which we have heard from him and declare to you that God is light. And in him is no darkness at all. If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. We must believe That Christ is the one that gives us the truth. We must believe what Christ says is true rather than believing what we think or what our hearts say is true. Number three, the sun is beautiful. You ever gone to a sunrise or a sunset? If you go over to Ocean City in the Atlantic Ocean, uh you're going to see over over uh If you look into the ocean in the morning, you'll see great sun rises. Actually, it's kind of neat on that because there's an island on Ocean City there, so you can actually go and see sunsets on the other side over the bay. But isn't there great beauty with the Son? And isn't there great beauty with Christ? I I kind of like this one because all these other things are true. I mean it's true that Christ is is truth and Christ is our life. But Christ is beautiful. You know what we're supposed to do with beauty? We're supposed to enjoy it. Did you know that Christ wants us to enjoy Him? He wants us to look at the blessings that He has given us and to realize they're from His hand. He wants us to realize the trials in our lives. Pale in comparison with Christ, with the enjoyment of Christ. Christ is beautiful, and we ought to enjoy him. St. Augustine said this: Our hearts are restless until they find their rest in thee. Folks, until we find the beauty of Christ and our rest in Christ, our hearts will be restless. We must, because of Christ being that great light, we must find our rest in Him. How do we respond to this glorious light? It's interesting, in Isaiah chapter 9, it says that He is the mighty God. The everlasting Father, but he's also the wonderful counselor and the prince of peace. These descriptions help us to understand what Christ is when he comes and sheds his light. And there's a lot that you could say about this actually, but I'll just mention a couple of things. One is this. He is the mighty God, and he is the everlasting Father. Jesus was no mere man. He was certainly 100% man. But Jesus is, was, and always will be God. He is the great God of the universe The God who is apart from his creation. The God who is a transcendent above his creation. The God who is full of majesty and God re- and Christ withheld and limited his own majesty and glory to come to earth. But one day we will see Christ in all of his glory, in all of his majesty, in all of his splendor. Christ is glory. He is mighty. He is an almighty, everlasting Father. There are no limits to his might or his power. There are no limits to the time with which he can which with which he is able to exist. Before anything was, Christ was there. And after everything is gone, Christ will be there. Of course, we that will never happen because we're eternal with Christ as well. But not only this. This great God of the universe, who deserves all glory and all praise is our wonderful counselor. He is our did you get that? He is our wonderful counselor See, Isaiah 9:6 tells us that he's close to us. That because he became a man, put on human flesh, went through this life That there are and and was tried and tempted in all points like as we are, yet without sin. He knows the struggles that we're going through. He understands the pain that you are feeling. He understands the suffering that you go through. And some of you today, Christmas is a beautiful, wonderful, glorious time, but there are heartaches during Christmas, aren't there? There are struggles during Christmas. There is difficulty during Christmas time. There are memories during Christmas. There are feelings of loss during Christmas time. And though I can't I don't know what you're going through, Christ does. Christ was separated from his own father. Which for us was a moment, but for him probably felt like an eternity. When he died for us, he was separated from uh from his father Christ knows. There is nothing you are going through that the wonderful counselor does not know. There is nothing that you are facing that the wonderful counselor is not aware of. He knows he is the wonderful counselor. And he is the Prince of Peace. And you know what that ought to cause us to want to do? To serve him. Because he knows us better than we know ourselves, because He knows our uprisings and our downright our down sittings. He knows all of those. He has many thoughts for about because of all of that, dear friend, we ought to just want to serve this God that we have. That he has saved us, if he truly has. Then the question really is: how does this light, this wonderful gift of the light of Christ, how can we get it for ourselves? How can we receive this? It's interesting that we have been in Isaiah 8 and 9 a lot. It's not until Isaiah 53, many chapters later, that we find the rest of the story. And in Isaiah 53, verse 5, it says, But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities, the chastisement of our peace was upon him, and by his stripes we are. Healed. The way you receive the light of Christ is by looking to the fact that Christ came and he was born. He was born a poor Uh child of a carpenter. He was born in a manger and he knows the struggles, economic struggle struggles, he knew them. He knows all of that. He knows what it means to be ostracized. He knows what it means to be vilified. He knows what it means to be betrayed. He knows what it means to be grief. He knows all those th Just click for the bigger. But he also lived a perfect life and then three and a half years after he was after uh uh uh after his ministry He died to pay the punishment for our sin. See, the problem of our sin, that's what it is. The darkness is sin. That's the problem. And sin separates us from God. God is holy, can't look on sin, and we, all of us, are sinful, we're born into it. One of the key evidences of this is that nobody ever had to teach you how to sin. When you were a child, I guarantee your parents never sat you down and said, This is how you lie. They never had to do that. We are born knowing how to do those kinds of things because we are born into sin It all came all the way from Adam and Eve. And the Bible says that the wages of sin is death, separation from God. And the Bible says that Jesus Christ died in our place, paid the punishment for our sin. And then he didn't stay dead, as we learned from just today. Three days later he rose from the grave victorious over sin and death. The Bible tells us in John chapter 1, talking about this whole issue of this light, he says That was the true light which gives light to the to every man coming into the world. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, and the world didn't know him. He came to his own, and his own receipt did not receive him. Can I ask you a question this morning? Is that where you are? Have you chosen not to receive Christ? Or maybe you've never really understood that you need to receive Christ. The Bible says in John chapter 1 verse 12, but as many, as many, anyone, but as many as received him. To them gave he the right to become the children of God to those who believe on his name. If the Bible says when we receive or take him as our very own Savior. That he will his light will come into us, and the darkness will pass, and the sin will be removed. And we will be clean before him positionally. Now we will still sin afterwards, believe me. But folks, the reality is that we are positionally right with God when we choose to receive Jesus Christ as our personal Lord and Savior. The way that we do that is very simple. First, we have to understand what Jesus did for us. But it's not not enough just to know it up here. We have to agree with God about that. We have to say, yes, Lord, this is the Christ is the only way, the truth and life. There is no other way. Christ is the only way. We've got to agree with God about this. And then finally, we need to accept or embrace him as our very own Savior. It has to be something where we give our lives to him. All of our hearts go to this. To the fact that Jesus Christ died to pay the punishment for our sin. And there's a lot of activities that are going to happen the rest of the day. I'm sure you have plans with family and friends, and tomorrow is Christmas. But our greatest my greatest heart desire for you and our greatest desire for you really is that if you are here today And you don't know for sure where you will spend eternity. You don't know if you are really rightly related to God. You're just not sure about those things Can I really encourage you that after the service you would come and talk with me or talk with somebody uh somebody else that you're comfortable with? And that there'll be some kind of interesting things going on at the service, but don't feel like you can't stop me or stop somebody else. And we'll be glad to take a Bible and we'll show you how you can know for sure that you will s can spend eternity with the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we thank you for the light of Christ. We would certainly be all men most miserable, weak, sinful, darkness. But Christ is that light. And I pray, Lord, that today would be a day that we would give him all of the glory for the light that he shined into the world 2,000 years ago. And I pray that we would not only receive that light, but that we would serve Christ because He is our light. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen.