And if you would, let's bow our heads together and ask the Lord's blessing on our time of his Father, we're grateful this morning. We bless you for your goodness and your kindness to us, Lord. We're so grateful and so thankful for how you have shown us such Mercy and such grace, and that you love us in spite of ourselves. We're thankful for Jesus Christ and what He has done at the cross. on our behalf, making it possible for us to be reconciled to you and become your children. And Father, we're thankful this morning that you left us your word and you have given us your Holy Spirit. to instruct us and to help us to understand and grow in our faith. I thank you this morning for your word. And I ask God that as we get ready to uh hear your word proclaimed to us. I pray you will help us to set aside all those cares and distractions that we have had this week and even as we came in this morning. Remove all the noise that we may hear your word this morning. And we ask that your Spirit will enable us to grasp it, Lord, and not only to understand it. but to apply it to our lives so that you will be glorified and lifted up in our lives. And we thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. Ecclesiastes chapter 7, verses 1 through 14. A good name is better than precious ointment. The day of death than the day of one's birth. Better to go to the house mourning than to go to the house of feasting, for that is the end of all men. And the living will take it to heart. Sorrow is better than laughter, for by sad countenance the heart is made better. The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth. It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise than for a man to hear the song of fools, for like the crackling of thorns under a pot So is the laughter of the fool. This also is vanity. Surely oppression destroys a wise man's reason And a bribe debases the heart. The end of a thing is better than its beginning. The patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit. Do not hasten in your spirit to be angry, for anger rests in the bosom of fools. Do not say, Why were the former days better than these? For you do not inquire wisely concerning this. Wisdom is good with an inheritance. And profitable to those who see the sun. For wisdom is a defense, as money is a defense. But the excellence of the knowledge Is that wisdom gives life to those who have it? Consider the work of God, for who can make straight what he has made crooked In the day of prosperity, be joyful, but in the day of adversity, consider. Surely God has appointed the one as well as the other. so that man can find out nothing that will come after him I say how much I appreciate Harry covering for me and others who covered for us. Last week my wife and I were able to just get away for a weekend. We don't of course do that all that often, but we're very thankful for the opportunity to be able to do that. We went up to Gettysburg and didn't do a whole lot Which was the idea, honestly. Uh we rested a lot and um and spent a lot of time together and so we're just very very thankful for those who are willing to cover for us and for your graciousness in allowing us to do that. And we're back in Ecclesiastes chapter 7 here, verses 1 through 14. And I want to begin by asking a question. How many of you have ever said in your life, and this is so obvious that I'm sure I think we probably have a unanimous yes to this, but how many of you have ever said in your life, why is this happening to me? I I can't imagine anybody here that said that has not said that. You have to be really, really young to have not said that. And even if you didn't actually say that, you probably at least thought something to that level. Why is the thing that's happening to me happening to me? Why are things happening the way that they are The truth is that when we think of the Old Testament and the mentality of those who are in the Old Testament, the Israel, Israelites, and Jewish people. They thought of those who were suffering as being cursed of God. And if you had prosperity, you were blessed of God. We see this in the book of Job. Remember Job's friends? Job is going through all kinds of trials and struggles, and they come to him, and essentially they say, there must be something that you're doing wrong because of all the trials that you're going through. That was the mentality of their thinking. And honestly, sometimes even us as Christians, we can think, what did I do wrong when I went through when I'm going Because I'm am I going through this because I did something wrong? Uh we we we don't know how in our thinking to handle the the issue of adversity. And we also don't, frankly, know how to deal with the issue of prosperity. Solomon's going to deal with both of these in this passage. Let me ask you a question, another question. Is it good or is it bad to be poor? Yeah, somebody said it. Yes. Now our initial thinking would be it would be bad, right? I mean if we wouldn't initially think that. But if you think a little bit more, there could be some spiritual advantages to being poor. Blessed are the poor, at least in spirit. Let me ask you another question. Is it good or is it bad to be rich? Most people would immediately say it's good to be rich, and yet it can be very bad to be rich, can't it? See, the truth is, I want you to go back to what the what Ecclesiastes chapter 6 verse 12 says. And I think this is going to be the key for us to understand chapter seven. Verse twelve of chapter six. Notice what it says, For who knows what is good for a man in life? all the days of his vain life which he passes. In other words, it's saying we don't know what's good for us. We don't know what's good. And the implication in that passage in chapter 6 is that God knows what's good, but we really don't know what's good for ourselves. And what Solomon is going to do in this passage is he is going to give us some examples. He's first going to help us understand the idea of adversity and how our thinking, when it comes to adversity Is not right. Our initial thinking is not right. God is the source of adversity and prosperity. Our thinking is often not right about prosperity. And yet God is the source of prosperity. And then we're going to find how we are to live out our lives, how are we to apply the truth when we begin to see both adversity And prosperity as coming from the hand of God. We pick up in verses 1 through 6 here, and we see the value of adversity with wisdom And there are four examples that Solomon is going to give here, and each of these examples are going to be a little bit surprising for us. We pick up in verse 1, it says, A good name is better than precious ointment, and the day of death than the day of one's birth. Now you read that and you say, what in the world is that talking about? And um I will notice a couple of things about this. First of all The idea of ointment in Scripture often has to do with it's symbolic for joy or happiness. In fact, Solomon wrote in Song of Solomon, your name is Ointment. And it's a fragrance. And then Ecclesiastes chapter 11, verse 9, it says, Rejoice, O man, in your youth, and let your heart cheer in the days of your youth. Walk in the ways of your heart and the sight of your eyes. So this point, this precious ointment is joy. And then it says the day of death is better than the day of one's birth. What's it talking about there? Here's what it's saying. Those who are the day of one's birth, the beginning of life, we are tempted as youth. We are tempted to just go for the joy and the happiness in life, to do everything we can to pursue joy and happiness and fun. And yet if that is all we pursue, we will not end up with a good life. We won't end up with a good name. So the first example here, he's basically saying, it is better to end well than to begin with happiness Now, we would not think of it that way. Our initial idea would be, no, I want to be happy. I want to begin in happiness. Maybe even at all costs in my youth, I'm going to pursue fun and happiness, and yet He says, isn't it actually better to end with a good life, a full life, a productive, meaningful life, a good reputation in life than to begin with uh vain fun that doesn't go anywhere? He's showing us something here. We move on to the next example. And example two Verse 2 it says this: Better to go in the house of mourning than the house of feasting, for that is the end of all men, and the living will take it to heart. How is it better to go in the house of mourning than the house of feasting? Nobody wants that. Actually, in the context of what he's talking about there is that mourning really has to do with going to a funeral versus feasting, going to a wedding. Most of us, if we had the choice between going to a wedding or going to a funeral, we'd pick a wedding. But Solomon actually says there is a sense in which it's more meaningful to go to a funeral than it is to a wedding. It's more purposeful and more helpful to go to a funeral than to go to a wedding. And you know why? Because what do you do at a funeral? You contemplate life. You think about the life of the individual that you're you're you're at a funeral. You're remembering their life. Uh you you think about your own life and what people might say at your at your funeral someday. Thinking about life and death is actually significantly more meaningful than having a party at a wedding. Example number two, mourning is better than feasting. Another example, example number three, sorrow is better than laughter. Notice what it says in verses 3 through 4. Sorrow is better than laughter, for by a sad countenance the heart is made better. Now that you think, what what huh? How anybody says, hey, you got two choices, laughter or sorrow. You get to pick. We would all pick laughter. I'd much rather laugh than cry And yet this passage tells us that there is a sense of which sorrow is better than laughter. Notice why. Verse 4. The heart of the wise is in the house of the mourning, and the heart of the fools is in the house of mirth. The word mirth is the idea of parting. You see, it's actually when someone comes into a trial, comes in uh up against adversity, the foolish person distracts himself with partying and laughter. But the wise person laments and grieves over the situation, processes it correctly so that it actually correctly heals his heart. We actually see this in Psalms all over the place. David pours out his heart before God. In Psalm 13, we see this, verses 1 through 2. It says, How long, O Lord, will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my heart daily? How long will my enemy be exalted over me? But by the end of the passage, we get to verses five and six of Psalm thirteen, it says, But I have trusted in your mercy. My heart shall rejoice in your salvation. I will sing to the Lord, because He has dealt bountifully with me. Which which one do you want? Sorrow or laughter? Oh, I'll take laughter all day long. But the thing that will heal your heart is actually lamenting and grieving to the point where you are processing it. And you are able then to come out in a way that is depending and trusting on God. See how it is we don't know what's good for us? We really don't know what the best thing is. He's giving us these examples The final example is verses 5 through 6. It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise than for a man to hear the song of fools. For like the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool. This also is vanity. The text tells us something that that that we again do not intuitively want. If somebody says, I uh do you want rebuke or do you want praise? Well, of course, we all want praise. We don't want to be rebuked. And yet, which is more profitable? Empty, vain flattery? Praise that really is just making somebody happy? Or genuine rebuke, genuine telling somebody where they need to correction. Ultimately, what is more valuable? It's actually the one, it's actually rebuke. It's actually the foolish person that just wants flattery and praise. It's fleeting. It's like the crackling of thorns under a pot. Now what does that mean? We don't usually burn things under a pot except, you know, we have a a you know most of us have a stove at home and you put a pot there and you do what you need to do. But which would you prefer if you're if you're boiling some water? Do you want to put crackling thorns into there or do you want to put actual coals or logs? Then you see the point. You can't if you if you put some leaves or thorns underneath uh and burn them underneath of a pot, you're not going to have a long-lasting boiling of water that way. So it's the same with our lies as as uh the the rebuke can cause us to be able to actually correct the direction that we are going and cause us to really live a better life, whereas just foolish praise, it's here today and gone tomorrow. So we have these four examples. All of these examples teach us something that actually calamity and adversity It's actually something that God truly can and does use in our lives for his purposes. The truth is, because we live in a sin-cursed world, we live in a fallen world. Because of that, we actually need adversity. We actually need suffering to purify us. We need these this in order to be able to live the life that God wants us to have. Jesus himself, when he came to this earth, he himself learned this. You say, learned? Yes, actually. It's quite an interesting verse in Hebrews 5, verse 8. It says, Though he was, talking about Jesus, he was a son, and yet learned obedience by the things which he suffered Jesus himself, though he is God, learned because he became human, took on human flesh, he learned obedience. How did he learn it? Through suffering. Some people say, well, what is the will of God for my life? You ever asked that question before? I'll tell you what is the will of God for your life? 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, verse 3. For this Is the will of God, your sanctification? Whatever you say about your life, Whatever you think is God's will, what you know is God's will, is that God desires to sanctify you, to conform you to the image of His Son. God, no matter what is going on, no matter the adversity that you have, the difficulties that you find yourself in, guaranteed if you know Christ is your Savior, God's will for you is your sanctification. He will use this in your life to make you more like Christ. Romans 8:29, for whom he foreknew, he predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. So that's adversity. Different perspective than our human perspective. Nobody wants to jump into adversity. And the truth of the matter is we we we shouldn't purposefully take on adversity. And yet, we should view adversity as something that is ultimately from the hand of God. But what about prosperity? He's now gonna transition in verses seven through twelve. He's now gonna transition to the issue of prosperity. And you might be actually thinking at this point, okay, well he is he is exalted um suffering, he's exalted adversity, so obviously he's going to downplay prosperity. Not so fast We uh we we think we understand God. We think we understand what's good. We under now look at look at what he's going to actually say here. Pick up in verse 7 Surely oppression destroys a wise man's reason, and a bribe debases his heart. He actually transitions now and begins to discuss the issue of being poor. And the downside of being poor, the downside of not having what you might need monetarily. And he says there is there are dangers there actually. There is a danger. One danger is the danger of destroying a man's reason. Somebody that is so poor. so oppressed in the sense that doesn't have what he needs, he begins to he can shut down. There can be we would call in our day clinical depression where we begin to not really think and not have a drive, not have motivation to do things. That can happen. And so that's one downside of of of being poor. Or a bribe, it says debases the heart, taking taking money for something that would be nefarious, something that would be unethical. If you're poor and you're struggling and you're certainly if you're destitute, you may be tempted to steal or to do something that is unethical for the sake of your family. And so he actually doesn't actually say, well, prosperity is bad and adversity is good. He says adversity is good and prosperity has its pluses as well. Look at verse 8. In fact,. I will say this. You'll notice in verse 8, there's another danger here. A danger of being poor, a danger of not having prosperity that you might not expect. And to really understand this, we need to, if we read through this, in fact what I'll do is I'll read through this text verses 8 through 10, and I want you to see that there's There is a repeated concept in here. And when you see repeated concepts, there's actually sometimes a reason for it in this kind of literature. Verse 8 The end of the thing is better than the beginning. The patient is in spirit is better than the proud in spirit. So notice he says verse 8a, the first part, the end of the thing is better than the beginning. But then keep going, verse 9, do not hasten in your spirit to be angry. For anger rests in the bosom of fools. And then as well he says, do not say why were the former things. He's talking about the former things again. He talked about them before, now he's talking about them again. Do not why were the former days better than these? For you do not inquire wisely concerning this. And what we have here in verses 8 through 10 is called a chiasm We've mentioned those before. They're in Hebrew poetry a lot. And you really, in order to understand what it's actually saying in verses 8 through 10, We need to understand that essentially you have a word sandwich here, a phrase sandwich, and we've talked about this before, and you see this throughout scripture. Where you have on the outside you have two equivalent or synonymous concepts, they're similar, and on the inside, you have the real meat of what is trying to say So uh you can see up there on the screen, hopefully it says uh the the the first part letter uh the first part of this is the end of the thing is better than the beginning. And then you have on the other side of the sandwich, if you will, you have, do not say, why were the former days better than these? For you do not inquire wisely concerning this. So you have a sandwich here. What's it talking about? The end of the thing is better than the beginning. And then you have further other further understanding. And why is the former things better than these? So So he's getting at something, but what he's actually getting at is in the middle in verse 9. Well actually starts in verse 8. The patient in spirit is better than the proud. Do not hasten in your spirit to be angry, for anger rests in the bosom of fools. So here's what he's saying when it comes to the issue of prosperity and not having it. He's basically pointing out that there is a great temptation toward impatience that leads to anger. When you are in a situation where you do not have prosperity. And of course, when you think about it, that certainly would be a temptation for us. Proverbs 12, verse 16 says, A fool's wrath is known at once, but a prudent man covers a shame. Job 5, 2 says, For wrath kills a foolish man, and envy slays a simple one. So when we think about the out we think about how to apply this, there's a few things we need to understand. When we are experiencing loss in life, It can lead to an unhealthy comparison to the past, which leads to impatience. Think about this. You ever said, boy, those were the good old days? How many have ever said that before? I I've said I've said it before. I'm old enough to say that kind of thing now. I think of the eighties and the nineties, you didn't have cell phones, things were much simpler, you didn't you know you just kinda ran into people and talked to them It's amazing what hap- you know, and and all you have all these misunderstandings now because of texting and and you look back and you say um and you say, oh things are so much better back then. And we can be tempted to do that. Especially when you get when you fall into hard times. You fall into hard times and you're constant the temptation is to look back and to constantly say, boy, it was so much better back when I wasn't going through the hard times. And that impatience can cause us to become angry and bitter. Actually, there's something that's quite interesting about how it's all phrased here. It actually points out that if we do fall into that temptation of becoming angry and impatient, it's actually and frustrated, it's actually a result of pride. If we find ourselves frustrated and impatient over a situation that we find ourselves in Truly, the frustration comes from the heart of pride. I deserve better than this. Things were better before. Why can't they be the way they were? It exp it it actually the impatience and the frustration tells us something about our hearts. And that's actually what it says in the text, that it can compromise and corrupt our hearts. And so he gives the command here: do not hasten in your spirit to be angry, for anger tests. Or resides, if you will, rests or resides in the bosom of fools. Just as a matter of good solid wisdom we have to we have to correct our own thinking and our own lies when it comes to pride and when we come into a place of of impatience and frustration It is very likely that there is an inner pride that's creeping in in our lives. Well then he moves on in verse 11. And he explains that there is a correlation between prosperity and wisdom. Look at verses 11 and 12. He says, wisdom is good with an inheritance. And profitable to those who see the sun. It's good with an inheritance and profitable to those who see the sun. For wisdom is a defense as money is a defense. But the excellence of knowledge is that wisdom gives life to those who have it. What is he talking about here? He is equating, actually he's equating prosperity and finances to wisdom, and he says, both Can be used to protect against calamity. Both can be used as a matter of protection and security. Now He doesn't fault wisdom or prosperity. It's limited, but he doesn't fault money or wisdom. when it comes to its ability, their ability to be able to preserve and to protect. So we have to think about this for a minute. Should money be used in our lives as a matter of protection? And this passage would teach that in a limited way it can be. We find in the book of Proverbs that the ant says that we to go to the ant and see that they save in times of plenty for time for to prepare in times of famine. It isn't wrong to save for times of famine. Now, if we hoard, or if we begin to do to depend upon that. Just as just in the same way we would depend on our wisdom, both of those things would be wrong. If we depend on our finances to protect us, if we think to ourselves, well, I've got a big bank account, so I'm good I got nothing can touch me, man, because I got a good uh or or then then then and we're depending on it. Okay, we've gone too far. That is that is beyond the limits of what money can do because haven't we already learned money can be here today and gone tomorrow. Wisdom is the same way though, isn't it? There's a sense in which wisdom is a good thing. Wisdom can protect us. in life, it can preserve life for us. I mean if you are wise in your life, it can help you to avoid calamity and maybe even to avoid death. A very practical illustration with this is if you're if you're very basic illustration, if you're wise when you cross the street, it's better than being foolish when you cross the street. If you cross the street and you're foolish and you don't look both ways, you're going to be hit by a car. Wisdom says, no, look both ways, make sure you've got enough time to cross the street, and wisely cross the street. Well, wisdom preserves you in that sense And yet there is this limitation here that Solomon wants us to understand, where he explains that we although we can limit, although it can protect us, We ought not fully and completely depend on it. You know what ultimately we see in the passage then as we move to verses 13 through 14? We see, and I actually want to look at verse 14 first, and then back up to the application in verse 13. We see that ultimately, as we've already said, these things come. From the hand of God. Both provision and adversity prosperity and suffering. We actually need to view both of them as coming from the hand of God. So that God can use both of them as tools in our lives to do what He wants to do with us. We've got to view it that way. Notice what the text says and what Solomon's conclusion is here. Look down at verse 14. It says in the day of the day of prosperity, be joyful. We'll come back to that in a minute. Surely God has appointed the one as well as the other. So that man can find out nothing that will come after him. God has appointed one as well as the other. He's appointed adversity and prosperity. And notice what it says, so that man can't find uh find out that man can find out nothing that will come after him. You can't figure it out. You can't figure out God's ways. When we try to outthink God, we get in trouble Proverbs 3 tells us that we should not lean on our own understanding, but in all ways acknowledge Him, and He'll direct our paths. There is this word that you see there up on the screen that I definitely should explain. It's a it's the word inscrutable. And the word inscrutable is basically the idea that God's ways cannot be completely understood. There are things that God reveals that we can understand. But there are things that we cannot understand as well. And we have to come to grips with the reality that although adversity And prosperity both come from God. We do not know exactly how God uses both of those in our lives to accomplish his will. Isaiah 55, 8 says this, for my thoughts are not your thoughts, nor are your ways my ways, says the Lord. For as the heavens are high, higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts higher than your thoughts. So we understand that adversity and prosperity are both coming from the hand of God. We understand that we cannot fully understand how God uses them both. How then should we live? Well, I want you to know this as we look at verse 13 of the passage. It says, consider the work of God. There are three things that we're going to see in verse 13. And and and the beginning of 14. Three applications. One, we need to understand God is working. As we go through life and we experience both adversity and prosperity, we need to be settled about the fact that God is working. Notice what it says in the text. It tells us for who can make straight, notice what it says there, what he has made crooked. Do you remember a phrase like that in the past in chapter 2? We won't take the time to look there, but in the past it said that no one can make straight what is crooked. But now we see a change in Solomon's view. His view is not just what's under the sun. He's looking above the sun now. He's looking to how God orchestrates things. We've seen that. And now he changes this to who can make straight What he, that is what God has made crooked. Now, I want to be clear. It is not saying that God is the tempter, he does not tempt us to sin. We know that from James chapter 1. It's not saying that God sins himself or tempts someone to sin. But here's what we know to be true. We have to know this to be true. That God in His sovereignty has allowed the things that He has allowed. He has orchestrated things in such a way, even the fall, even the curse. You ever thought about why in the world God allowed Adam and Eve to fall? Do you know why ultimately God allowed Adam and Eve to fall? Because God could ultimately show his redemptive character better by Adam and Eve falling. God could sh demonstrate his love, his grace, his redemption better by that by them falling than otherwise. It's a very deep concept, but it's something to understand that we do have to see all of everything as coming from the hand of God. And that he is directing us. We need to understand, first of all, God is working. Number two, it's fine to enjoy prosperity Now that doesn't mean to be bad stewards with prosperity or live it up or do things that are stupid with prosperity. But verse 14 says, in the day of prosperity, be joyful. If God prospers you, if he blesses you, Be joyful about that. You do not have to feel as though you're somehow a awful person if you have prosperity or Or you or feel like you actually have God's God's exceptional hand on you or something that you're like special because God's prosper. Both of those are extreme positions. But if if you pro God's prospered, you be joyful about that. Number three, and I think this is really key, we need to investigate adversity. It says, but in the day of adversity, consider The truth is, we, even though we cannot understand the ways of God, it is our privilege to ask the question, why? To ask why it is that God may be allowing this adversity in my life? Here's what we know: if you know Christ as your Savior, it is for your sanctification. If you know Christ your Savior, it is for you to become more like Christ. It is that. We know that But how when adversity comes, instead of here's what we do, here's naturally what we do, we have two possibilities. We flee or we fight. Fight or flight. We want to fight it or we want to flee from it. We want to run from it. And most of the time, neither one of those are the right options. Most of the time, what God wants us to do is to stand in it And ask God, Lord, why are you allowing this adversity? Now, that doesn't mean that if you are bringing adversity on yourself, that you don't change your ways and go another direction. That would just be kind of foolish. If you're actually causing the adversity, we'll stop causing it. But folks, isn't it true that there are many things in our lives that were not the cause of it? This is something that has a been orchestrated and it is outside of our control. We have the adversity in our lives because God ultimately has allowed it in our lives and he has providentially ordained it to be so. And so what we need to do is begin to ask the question, Lord, what do you want to teach me through this? What can I learn from this? How can I grow from this? How can I become closer and more dependent upon you from this? So that we don't waste the adversity. The truth of the matter is, remember, the world has no answer. Do you know how the world looks at adversity? The world looks at adversity as a distraction from their goals. It's true. Somebody, uh uh a non-Christian comes down with something like cancer, and they can't they have no box for that. There's no category for that in their mind. They don't understand how God could use something like that. They're not thinking about God at all. All they know is that they had a trajectory of whether it's their career or whether they're it's their family. They had a direction that they wanted to go, and this is an interruption at best. in their lives and certainly great suffering at worst. But the Christian does not look at adversity that way, or at least should not Adversity is not an interruption to our lives. Adversity is a God-ordained plan in our lives. Remember what James says. Count it all joy when you come into diverse trials and tribulation, knowing why? Knowing what? That the trying of your faith works patience. It works endurance. As our faith is tested and strengthened, we learn to endure and we grow. We have, in other words, we we have a meaningful category for adversity. And we need to investigate that in our lives as Christians. The entire chapter is really talking about wisdom, and you've noticed that there is a limitation to wisdom. The other thing that you have noticed, have you noticed this? That God's wisdom is not our wisdom. James talks about this, that there is a worldly kind of wisdom and a godly kind of wisdom. And there is a and the world does not see things the way that that Christians see things, the way God sees things. And I think maybe there's no better verse in the Bible that explains this than 1 Corinthians 1, verses 24 and 25. It says this. But to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, notice what it says, and the wisdom of God. Do you know what it just said there? It describes Christ as the wisdom of God. Christ is wisdom, godly wisdom personified. And yet, do you know what the world does with Christ? What does the world do? Verse 25. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. It's a play on words the way it's phrased there. It's essentially the foolishness of God. That's how the world sees God as foolish. The world sees Christ as not wisdom but foolishness. And yet, as we have seen as we go as gone through Ecclesiastes, The great truth that overrides all other truths is that Christ is wisdom and he is our Savior, and yet the world will reject that as. Foolishness. Maybe you're here this morning and you would say, Well, I I don't really know if I've truly accepted Jesus as my Savior. The truth is, um if you have not done that, you have the opportunity to do that today. It may be that you have said to yourself, well, I I got some things I don't understand. I got some things that I need to figure out. But understand, realize, that God's ways are not our ways. There is a sense in which it is a matter Accepting Christ as our Savior is a matter of trusting the wisdom that I do not understand. And perhaps you're here this morning and you don't really understand the wisdom Of God in Christ. The Bible calls you to accept it, to realize that you're a sinner. That Jesus Christ died to pay the punishment for your sin. And he calls you to accept that gift of eternal life for yourself. Of course, many many uh think of this particular Sunday as Reformation Sunday. I I do. I I think of this Sunday this way. I think of I think of the 31st as Reformation Day That wonderful day when Martin Luther understood that it is by grace alone, through faith alone, it's the Word of God alone. It's the by the and and and he nailed those ninety-five thesis to the wall. He understood that it is not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. He read through the book of Romans and he began to understand that what the Catholic Church was teaching him was not what the Bible was teaching. And he realized that. What every other religion does says Christ plus something or just works. There's two options that you see in the world. Christ plus works, or just works, get you to God. And yet that's exactly the opposite of what the Bible says. It's not Christ plus anything. It's Christ alone. The wisdom of God is that Christ alone is our Savior. I am the way, Jesus said, the truth and the life, and no one comes to the Father but by me. For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. So I have a question for you. Have you accepted the Lord Jesus Christ? Who died to pay the punishment for your sin, have you accepted him as your Savior apart from any of your own self-effort whatsoever? Have you done that? And if you say, well, I'm not really sure, let me encourage you, talk to someone today. Help talk to someone that you're comfortable with, that we'll take a Bible and we'll show you how from the Word of God You can truly come to know Jesus as your Lord and Savior, apart from any self-effort or anything you do to be saved. No, it is entirely what Jesus has already done. Your sin separates you from God. That's called spiritual death. Jesus Christ died in your place to take your punishment so that if you will accept the punishment that Christ made for you. then you can be rightly related to Christ and you can receive the righteousness of Christ. If you're not sure about that, please come and talk with me or somebody else you're comfortable with. And we'll take a Bible and we'll show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for your word this morning. We thank you for your truth. We thank you for this wonderful passage that reminds us of how your ways are not our ways. We don't really know what's good for us, but you do. And we thank you that you do use both adversity and prosperity in our lives for your purposes, ultimately as Christians, for our sanctification. Father, we thank you for that. And Lord, we pray that you would help us give us the wisdom to know to not know exactly everything you're doing. We can't figure all of that out. But to trust that the things that we are going through ultimately be, ultimately will be for our good and for your glory. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide This helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.