We are going to be in Zechariah this morning, and we are going to be in chapter 4. Through 14, which is the end of the chapter. So before we start, let's go ask God's guidance for us Father, we thank you this morning. We thank you so much for your goodness and your kindness to us, Father. How you brought us through this week by your grace and mercy, even when the trials rise, Father. Father, we need you desperately. I thank you this morning that we have this time when we will come together under your word, and I pray, Father, that you would help us to set aside all of those distractions from the weak and all the noise. And help us to concentrate upon your word this morning as Pastor Jim brings your word to us, Lord. I pray you'll give him clarity of thought, clarity of speech. And I pray that our ears and our eyes will be open to you, Father. And I pray that as we hear your word, Father, that we would not just hear it But that we would be doers of it. Help us, Lord, to be faithful in following your word. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. So chapter 4 of Zechariah, verse 1, begins. Now the angel who talked with me came back and wakened me, as a man who is wakened out of his sleep. And he said to me, What do you see? So I said, I'm looking, and there is a lampstand of solid gold with a bow on top of it. And on the stand, seven lamps, with seven pipes to seven lamps. Two olive trees are by it, one on the right of the bowl, one on the left So I answered and spoke to the angel who talked with me, saying, What are these things, my lord? And the angel who talked with me answered and said to me, Do you not know what these are? And I said, No, my lord. So he answered and said to me, This is the word of the Lord to Zerubbabel. Not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord of hosts. Who are you, O great mountain, before Zerubbable? You shall become a plane, and he shall bring forth the capstone, with shouts of grace, grace to it Moreover, the word of the Lord came to me saying, The hands of the rebbable have laid the foundation of this temple. His hand shall also finish it. Then you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you. For who has despised the day of small things? For these seven rejoice to see the plumb line in the hand of the rubbable. There are eyes of the Lord, they are the eyes of the Lord, which scan to and fro throughout the whole earth. Then I answered and said to him, What are these things, two olive trees, at the right of the lampstand, and at its left? And I further answered and said to him, What are these two olive branches that drip into the receptacles of the gold pipes from which the golden oil drains? Then he answered me and said, Do you not know what these are? And I said, No, my lord And he said, these are the two anointed ones who stand beside the Lord of the whole earth. I don't know why I enjoy doing this so much, but I enjoy telling my my older kids uh about what it was like when I was in college. And the reason is is because it's so different now. I rem I told my oldest who's in college now that we I we didn't have none of us had cell phones. We had one phone for the entire room. And y y she's like, Well how in the world did you ever connect with anybody? And uh, you know, we'd go to we'd we'd do lunch and just kinda go to lunch, like and there'd be people there and you'd sit down with them. It's like, oh no, we never do that. We have group chats and texts and all these things to I I I I told her we didn't even really have ac we didn't have much access to the internet. In fact, we really didn't use the internet that much at that at that point. And she's like, what I mean they can't imagine this. Like literally every day, many, many times a day, uh most college students use the internet. Do you all remember back when you had had to limit when you finally got when I finally got a cell phone, uh, which was like in seminary after college? There were limited minutes on the cell phone. You remember that? I explained, you know, you you didn't have unlimited minutes to call somebody. You had to you had to really budget your minutes throughout the month so you don't go over because over charges are really a really expensive. And um You know, you don't want to do that. And then nights and weekends got free, so you make all your phone calls and I you re you gu remember that? I I'm telling you, if you're I at cer you know, I don't know what if you're in your twenties right now, you're like, what in the world is all that about? Um then data then phones became unlimited, like as far as your calling, but data wasn't unlimited. Actually, that happened all the way up to 2017. There was a a brief time where everything was unlimited and they had to close it down. And then in 2017 was was when it became broadly uh phones were unlimited data broadly. Now the reason that things were limited, the reason there were limitations on data, the reasons there were limitations on phone use was because of something called limited bandwidth. Limited bandwidth is essentially a bandwidth is essentially the amount of data that can pass through a network. And at the time, the infrastructure of all these networks could not handle the amount of bandwidth going through the network. It's like a pipe. You say, well, look, I this that's below you know, I'm not into technology. It's like the amount of water you could put through a pipe. It's limited You ever heard somebody say, you know, I just don't have the bandwidth for that? What are they saying? They're saying I don't have the energy, the time, the motivation, the the the the the the resources to be able to do that. We're looking at a text this morning that is going to talk about ministry bandwidth. And what we're going to find in the text is that it's unlimited. There is no limits to the bandwidth. There's no limits to the supply of God for what He wants to do. Now, I want to we need to understand a little bit about the background before we understand this passage or remind us of you of you things. If you remember, of course, that Israel God's people are being called back to Jerusalem. A remnant is coming back to Jerusalem from captivity. And one of the central, the, the central aspect of the life of Israel was the tabernacle, and then later on the temple. So the different the different pieces of furniture, the different elements of the tabernacle and later later of the temple would have been extremely familiar, and there would have been immediate purpose associated with those different elements of the temple. I think that's important to understand. I think something else that's important to understand as we go into this text is that this is the fifth of eight visions, of eight night eight night visions. So the central, the two central visions of this eight are last Last week on in chapter 3 and this week in chapter 4. Chapter 3 focused on the high priest Joshua And this week is going to focus on the high priest or the I'm sorry, the governor that really almost functioned as a king. Of course, it wasn't there wasn't a kingdom. They were under rule, but He functioned as a king or the governor of Judah, as we'll find out. So you have you have the two major leaders, the spiritual leader and the and the governor kind of leader. You have uh in in these two passages, chapter three and chapter four. I think that's important to understand. The main point of this text is gonna is actually pretty simple. That God will accomplish His work His way. God will accomplish His work His way. And the question then is, what is his way? And we're going to see two major sections in this passage. One is God's supply in verses one through seven. And then in verses 8 through 14, we'll see God's strategy, God's supply, and God's strategy. So we pick up in verse 1, and we'll see God's supply. And we see here that he we start, it says, now the angel, of course, remember Zechariah is the prophet here, and he says, the angel who talked with him What talked with me came back and awakened me. He wasn't there for the previous prophecy, but he comes back and says and he and away and wakens him as a man awakened from sleep. Now some suggest that the reason that he was asleep was he He was overwhelmed by the previous visions. It was so exhausting that he needed sleep. Perhaps that's the case. The text is not clear on that. But he wakens him up out of sleep. to what is about to be said here in this text. And there is a vision that he sees. And the angel says, What do you see? And the answer to that that he gives is, I said, so I said, I'm looking there at a lampstand. Now, he sees a lampstand, and he's going to see other things as well along with a lampstand, but I want to pause here and and mention That for us to see a lampstand would be no big deal, but for him to see a lampstand, he would have immediately associated that with the temple. He would have understood that as he sees this lampstand, it was a major, major fur piece of furniture in the temple. Back in Leviticus, for example, it was it was said it was the Levites were commanded to keep this candlestick lit, these this lampstand lit. 24 hours all of the time. It was one of them one of the things that they had to do as Levites. So he sees this, and I want us to think just for a moment about what this is representing. The lampstand is representing two things. It's representing God's presence being in the tabernacle and in the temple. The presence of God resided in the temple. God desired to be with his people. And obviously, it represents God's light. And these two things are not, they're not disassociated from each other. The presence of God, from it comes the light of God. And God has called Israel to be a light. Isaiah 42, 6 says, I the Lord have called you in righteousness and will hold your hand, and I will keep you and give you as a covenant to the people, as a light to the Gentiles. Isaiah 49, 6 says this, indeed I say, it is too small a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to restore the preserv the preserved ones of Israel, I will also give you as a light to the Gentiles that you should be my salvation to the ends of the world. Earth God's intention for Israel was to showcase the presence of God, to be in fellowship with God, and to display the glory of God to the world. And that really brings us back to our purpose statement. And I want to review this for for a minute. The very purpose statement of the book of Zechariah, or like the my my purpose statement, I should say Say, not the purpose statement, but the way I would summarize the purpose of this book is this, as we mentioned uh before. Because God desires to dwell among his people and to display his glory through them. He calls them to return to him, ultimately leading to the establishment of his kingdom. In Zechariah chapter 1, we saw it opened up with A discussion of the temple. And we are now again, we are in the midst of the temple. We are focused on this temple, which which represented the presence of God and God being with his people. But there were some other interesting things that went along with this candlestick. It wasn't just a lampstand. There were other things involved. It says in the text that there was a solid it was solid gold with a bowl on top of it. And then uh there were an and and and it there were seven lamps inside of it But also, verse 2, there were pipes that went to these seven lamps. Seven pipes that went to seven lamps. Now, I think you could interpret the two different ways. You can interpret that as one pipe going to each lamp or seven pipes going to each lamp, so you'd have a total of forty-nine pipes. I actually was surprised at how many commentaries said it was 49. There were seven going to each lamp. I read it as just one going to each lamp. Either way, they were both, they were all completely supplied with the olive oil that was necessary to light these lamps. So I I used AI to to uh I took these verses and I dropped them in AI and I said, make a make a picture for me So this is what I what it what AI came up with or what it may have looked like if you can show that that picture. And if you can't then I missed it. You missed it. Ah. Okay. Well, I will email it to you or something if you're on the app. Anyway, okay, so so So um um so okay, well basically I can't do that. Anyway, so you uh there is this wonderful AI picture of all these pipes going to this lamp and uh and uh and also the uh uh the olive trees on either side. There we go. Thank you. That's it. See you just like that. Okay. Well that uh for for for Zach for Zachariah, he would have looked at this and said, that's weird He he would have said, I mean he would have other he would have recognized the lamp stand, but these pipes all going to it, he wouldn't have recognized that. And then two olive trees in the temple next on either side of this lamp. He really wouldn't have understood that. And so he asks the question. What are these, my Lord, verse 4? So he answered and spoke to the angel and talked with me, saying, What are these, my lord? He wasn't asking, but notice he says these. He doesn't say this. So he wasn't talking, he wasn't asking about the lampstand. Highly unlikely he's talking about the seven lamps. He's talking he's likely either talking about all these pipes going to to there, or he's asking about the olive trees, like these trees on either side. And later on, he reiterated reiterates the question and asks about these trees and the branches again. So he's very likely talking about the the trees and maybe he's talking about the pipes too to it. He's on he wants to know what this is. What are these things? Maybe he's also talk talking about the bowl that was above it. But he's asking the question, what are these? But I want you to notice how the question is answered. He doesn't answer the question by explaining what these are. Instead, he answers the question this way in verse 5. Then the angel who talked with me answered and said to me, Do you not know what these are? And he said, No, my lord. And he answered and said to me, now this is a very important phrase. This is the word of the Lord. When that phrase is used Something extremely important and emphasized and is of great priority is about to be said. It's going to be said again in verse 8. You see it twice, or something similar in verse 8. He says, this is the word of the Lord. In other words, this is what God wants to emphasize from this vision. It's twozerrubbable, by the way. Now remember remember we already said who's a rubble is. He was the governor of Judah. And so he is saying to Zechariah, this is the word of the Lord intended for Zerubable, and here's what he says. He answers the question not with a what, but with a who. He says this. Not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord of hosts. The question is asked, what is this? And the answer is: the thing, the priority, the thing that I want you to see, the emphasis that I want you to see from this vision is not The pipes or the trees, it is the supply of the Spirit of God It is God's supply. You see, a normal lampstand in a normal tabernacle would have had Levites that have had to constantly fill the thing with oil. But in this you have this ongoing supply, this constant supply coming from these olive trees, not just Not limited, no, these are growing trees that have olives and the pipes are coming from the olives, olive trees, uh to to this lampstand. It is an unlimited supply of olive oil that goes into the lampstand in order to light this lampstand. He wants them to understand that the way his work is going to be done, it's not by might, it's not by power. It's by the Spirit of God. Now, what is this might or power? Might is the reference to military strategy. Sometimes translated army, valiant, valor, wealth, strength, power, and ability. And the word power is really more of an idea of force. It's uh it and and so it of energy, of ability, is brute force. So one has the idea of of strategy, mental strategy, and the other has the idea of brute force and energy. How many times in our lives Do we try to get stuff done by outthinking it or just forcing it to happen? How often do we do that? We're we're kind of trained to do that, right? We're kind of we're kind of brought up to do that. You know, you when a w when there's a will, there's a way. You just gotta force it through, you gotta push it through. I It's like like like um splitting wood. I've been splitting wood more of my life tonight, I want to admit. And basically the way you split wood, you don't want to get you don't want to start off with a really heavy mall you know, like a twelve pound mall, you start off with something lighter because those will wear you out fast. So you start with something lighter. If that doesn't work, well you you you hit it harder and you hit it harder and you hit it harder And then if that doesn't work, you change malls to something heavier and you hit it harder and heavier. If that doesn't work, you get a splitting wedge and you hit it harder. I got some wood from somebody and it was the hardest wood I ever I I I could a ma I could ever imagine I mean it was just the hardest word I've ever I've ever split before. And I had a wood splitter at the time, and then the wood splitter broke. And then um I couldn't get it fixed and I knew actually my dad put an entirely new engine on it. It didn't work right and then he died of cancer. So it wasn't gonna I th uh this thing was not gonna work. So I decided, well, I better do it by hand. You just had to do it hard enough You just had to push hard enough. You had to force it as hard as you possibly can. And you know what? I've got all that stuff split. But you know what? That's not the way ministry works. That's not the way service serving the Lord works And we sometimes think, you know, if I just outthink it, if I just have enough resources, if I just have enough adrenaline, gifting, intelligence, education, experience, personality, money, then we'll be able to do what we need to do. He doesn't say that. He said it's by my spirit. It's by my spirit. Galatians 1. 14 says, So the Lord stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel. I'm sorry, this is not Galatians, this is Haggai. Stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel. the son of Sheel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua the son of Jehosedak, the high priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people, and they came and worked on the house of the Lord of hosts their God. The foundation was laid, and God stirred up their spirit. Now I think it's interesting that it says, saith the Lord of hosts. Do you remember what the Lord of hosts is? It's like the Lord of the armies. It's kind of interesting. He says, not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord of those who has all the armies he needs. Who has all the strength and power and might he needs. What's the point? The point is it's not by your might. It's not by your power. It's by my power, says the Lord of hosts. It's by my might, says the Lord of hosts. And by the way, what a good trade-off. Right? The Spirit of God says that he gets what needs to be done by his might and by his power, not by ours. And there is great benefit to this. There are three results we find in the text of the Spirit's supply. Number one We see barriers are removed. Verse 7. Puts it in the form of a question. Who are you, O great mountain? Who are you, O great mountain? Before his rubble you shall become a plain You know what it's saying there? See mountains are an obstacle. Mountains are, if a mountain is in your way, a mountain is a big problem. It's not easy just to move a mountain. It's not easy just to fix fix a mountain problem. Many of you have probably traveled through northwestern Pennsylvania or through West Virginia at least, right? And and there are and and you have major highways that and what do they do? They have three options. You go over the mountain, you go around the mountain, and sometimes you go through the mountain with a tunnel What you never see, never do engineers get together and say, well, there we get a mountain in the way. Let's flatten the mountain. That never happens. You don't see flattened mountains as much as all the excavation that uh equipment that we have and the explosives that we have available to us. Nobody's flattening mountains to put roads through them. Why? Because a mountain is an insurmountable obstacle. You don't just flatten the thing. And notice what the text says. It shall be a plain. The mountain will be a plain. What's the point? God is saying in this passage that the Spirit of God has unlimited supply to do whatever he wants to do. Where a mountain can become flattened. That thing that's in the way, the obstacle, all of the insurmountable problems that Israel, the remnant of Israel was facing and that Zerubabal was facing, and they They had all kinds of problems, one after another after another. They had enemies. They had mountains. They had all kinds of issues involved. And God says it is by the Spirit of God this is going to happen The temple will be built. It's going to happen. I'm going to do it, he says It reminds me of Mark chapter 11, verse 20, which says this. So Jesus answered and said to them, Have faith in God. For assuredly I say to you, whoever says to this mountain, be removed and be cast into the sea, and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that those things he says will be done He will what he will what have whatever he says. Therefore I say to you, whatever things you also things you ask when you pray, believe that you receive them, and you will have them. God says that mountains are no problem for him. God is the God of the impossible. Notice secondly that the work will get finished. He says, and he shall bring forth a capstone. A capstone was the topstone of a pinnacle. It was the final stone that established that the building was complete. He said, the work's going to get done. It'll be finished. And number three, God will be amplified. It is through the presence of the temple, the presence of God in the temple, and the light coming from the temple that you have this saying with shouts. The amplification of the work of God would be throughout grace, grace to it. And what does grace mean? Well, it actually means the same thing in the in the in the New Testament. The Old Testament it does in the New Testament. It's loving favor. It's translated loving favor in Proverbs chapter 22, verse 1. A good name is to be chosen rather than great riches, and loving favor rather than silver and gold. That is, when God does the work. He gets the glory. And it's not of our own effort. It's not of our own doing. It's not because of what we've done. It's because of what he has done. So it's recognized as grace. It's recognized as unmerited favor. That's exactly God's plan. His plan in the world is that he be recognized as the one who gives favor so that, and it's not of us, it's of him. And God's intention is exactly that for his people as New Testament saints as well. Remember what Christ said He said that he said to the disciples, you'll receive power. Acts 1 8. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you And you shall be witnesses to me in Jerusalem and in all Judea and in Samaria and to the uttermost power and to the end of the earth. You'll receive power when the Holy Spirit. See, God's plan was actually, if if anything, it was it's intensified in the New Testament Because now the presence of God doesn't just reside in the temple. The permanent indwelling of the Spirit of God resides in the believer. And in Ephesians chapter 2, we see that the very purpose that we have in Zechariah, where the presence of God is intended to then show forth God's light. We see that same kind of thing with us as a child church in Ephesians chapter 2. Verse 19 says this Now therefore you are no longer strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints, members of the household of God. Well what is that? What is the household of God? Having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone, in whom the whole body being fitted together grows into what? A holy temple in the Lord, a spiritual temple, in whom you also are being built together for a dwelling place of God in the Spirit. Does that sound familiar? Now he's not talking about a physical temple here. He's not talking about, he's saying that we, as the body of Christ, are indwelt by the Spirit of God, and so we are God's special habitation in the world today. But then notice what he says in chapter 3, verse 15. The very next chapter he says this, from whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named, that he would grant you according to the riches of his glory, to do what? Look at what it says. To be strengthened with might through his spirit in the inner man. God's desire for his people is to be strengthened with might through his spirit in the inner man. That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, that you being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the depth and length and death what is the width and length and depth and height to know the love of Christ which passes knowledge, that you may be filled with all of the fullness of God. Now to him who is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that you ask for, think according to the power that works in us To him be glory in the church, by Christ Jesus to all generations forever and ever. That's God's plan That God's people as his special habitation and this time would be empowered by the Spirit of God To do what God wants us to do, to glorify God. How does he do this? Well, he does this first of all by motivating us. Philippians 2 verse 13 says this, for it is God who works in you both to will and to do for his good pleasure. It is the Spirit of God who motivates us. It's also the Spirit of God who strengthens us. A very popular verse in Philippians chapter 4 is, I can do all things through Christ which strengthens me. But you know what? That has a context. When it says all things, it is not implying that you can do whatever you want to do and God will give you the Christ will give you the strength to do it. Notice actually the context, or at least a little bit of the context, says, I know how to be abased and I know how to abound. Everywhere and in all things I have learned both to be full and to be hungry, both to be both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. You know, sometimes Christ strengthens us to abound, but sometimes Christ strengthens us to be abased. This is not a health and wealth kind of a thing. God Christ through the Spirit of God strengthens us to do what he wants us to do. And in the context, it was definitely that for the furtherance of the gospel for the Apostle Paul and Philippians. And God gives the increase. I love 1 Corinthians 3, verse 6. I planted, Paul says, Apollos watered, but God gave the increase. So that neither he who plants is anything, nor he who waters, but God who gives the increase. It's God who does this. We're vessels. We're pipes, if you will. We're just tools, and God is the one who works in us to accomplish His will, to do what He wants us to do. And there are two wrong directions that we go that keep us from really relying on the Spirit of God in our lives. One direction is pride. I've already mentioned this, that we think we can do things in our own might, in our own strength, in our own intellect, our own ability. And we've got to be careful about that. We need to say as we've sung, Lord, I need you. God puts us in places in our lives where we have to say, Lord, I can't do this without you. I need you. But also insecurity. Where somebody says, you know, I can't do that because I don't have enough strength. I can't do that because I don't have enough might I I can't do that because I'm not intelligent enough. I I don't ha I don't have enough skill. I don't have enough ability. I'm not talented like that other person. I can't do that because of one reason or another. You know what? It's not by might And it's not by power, but it's by the Spirit of God that God does what He does in our lives. You and I have unlimited bandwidth to do what God calls us to do. If God truly is calling us to do it. Now the second part of this passage, it shifts quite a bit. To really help help us understand this, I want to ask, I want to reduce this down to something that I think will be very helpful in simplifying what's going on and how we can apply it. Let me ask this question. Um who who or what killed Goliath? Did God kill Goliath or did the stone kill Goliath? And you're already saying it. The answer is yes. They both killed Goliath. Now, were they equally important? Absolutely not. They're not equally important. Did God have to use the stone to kill Goliath? Could God just have struck him dead? Of course. But God chose to use the stone to kill Goliath. And what we're actually going to see in the text is that God, by his design uses human agency to accomplish his will. So sometimes we we sort of go, well, I wish God would do this, I wish God would do that, I wish God would do this. And certainly we ought to pray and live dependently and ask God and say, God, I need you. But there's another sense in which we need to understand that we're supposed to be involved. That God, by his design, has made it so that there is a codependency between the divine and the human agency. By his design. He doesn't have to do it that way, but he's chosen to do it that way. Notice what the text says, verse 8. Actually, notice the word hands Three times in this text it's used, twice in this verse. Moreover, the word of the Lord came to me saying, The hands of Zerubabel have laid the foundation of the temple. And his hands shall also finish it. It's kind of like he's saying, yes, it is by the Spirit of God. But the same hands that started the foundation are the same hands that are going to finish it. It's not as though there's going to be some sort of hocus pocus and it's just going to go poof and the Spirit of God's going to do it. It's going to be by the hands of Zerubabel. And later on, we're going to see the term hands again. See, it is God's design that the Spirit of God worked through the hands of his people. And he uses he says the Lord of hosts again. He says, notice what it says. Then you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you. Isn't that interesting? You know, it's kind of like somebody says, Well, what Lord, um He's not God's just not doing anything. I I I'm I'm praying, and God isn't really coming through for me. And I'm not really seeing him work. I'm really not seeing him do what I want what what I think he should do. And sometimes you just have to wait on the Lord. I mean that's true. Sometimes you have to just trust the Lord and wait on him and all that. But sometimes we're waiting for God to do something that actually He He wants to use us We're his hands. And it is and we're not really gonna see him work until we put forth the effort. See, that's what God values here. God values the effort of Zerubbabel, the effort in building the wall, the foundation already, and the effort in finishing the wall, and God is going to use the hands of Zerubbabel to do it. But there was a hindrance to these folks. There was a problem, and that problem often affects us as Christians as well. Notice in the text it says this, for who has despised the day of small things, verse ten. Who's despised the day of small things? And I think I've mentioned this before, but they were very discouraged because everything was small. The people were a remnant. It was a small group of people. The temple, the foundations that had been built, they were small. They were humble. They were likely looking around at the all of the armies, the soldiers, everything that was around them Whether or not they were around them in Jerusalem, they were fully aware that they were weak and small in nearly every way possible. In fact, in Ezra 3, verse 12, it says, But many of the priests and Levites and heads of the fathers' houses, old men who had seen the uh first temple. wept with a loud voice when the foundation of this temple was laid before their eyes. Yet many shouted aloud for joy. So that the people could not discern the noise of the shout of joy from the noise of the weeping of the people. For the people shouted with a loud shout, and the sound was heard afar off It's interesting in the text there in Ezra. You've got the people that didn't know of the glory days. They didn't know of those days, and they were thrilled at the establishment of the foundation of the temple And then you had other people that remember the quote glory days unquote, and they are moaning. They're lamenting over the establishment of the foundation of the temple. It depended on what your perspective was. Can we be that way? You know, if we're not careful, we'll look over our shoulder all the time. We'll spend all our lives looking over our shoulder. Are you that kind of Christian? Well you're you're looking over your shoulder. He's got it so much better than me She's got all these she she's got so much going for her. I don't have that. I don't I can't do that. They got resources, they got money, they got education, they've got they've got all these different things, and I don't have any of that So I have all kinds of excuses. I don't have a physical stamina. I don't have all those things that I'm saying. They're young. I'm older. I don't have what they have and I can't do what they do. Are you despising the day of small things? Churches look back over their shoulder all the time. They look back at the glory days and the the wonderful days, those glory days, and they're reflecting on them, and it hinders them from doing what God wants them to do now. Pastors look at other churches. That church has got a lot more bodies and a lot more buildings and a lot more bucks than our church does. They can do a whole lot more than we can do. Not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord of hosts. Don't despise the day of small things Don't despise what you have, what God has given. Realize that God doesn't need these things to do what God wants to do. You know what God wants? He doesn't need it, but He's designed it to make it work this way. He wants our effort. And that's what you see in the text. He wants our hands. And notice Notice then you have this divine design. We look at the problem, the human problem, but notice the divine design. It says, for these seven rejoice to see the plumb line. The seven probably referred back probably refers back to those seven candlesticks in the in the in the lampstand, right? What did that represent? Well, it represented the presence of God So the presence of God rejoiced. Notice what it says to see the plumb line. We've seen that word before, but I'll just simply point out that that phrase is probably talking about carefully Designed. Things that are carefully designed. And it says, in the hand of Zubbabel. That is, by God's design, you have rubbable using a plumb line to carefully map out the foundation of the temple to do what God wanted them to do. The presence of God was pleased with that And then notice this the divine perspective. They are, these are the seven, the they are the eyes of the Lord who scan to and fro throughout the whole earth. The all-knowing God, who knows everything, designed these people to be exactly where they were at this moment. To build exactly the temple that he called them to build, to lay the foundation he called them to lay, to finish what he called them to finish. God designed it that way. There's almost a rebuke here. Don't call small things what God is doing. It may not be like it may not be like Solomon's big massive beautiful temple. We're so focused on big beautiful. Thanks. We want big beautiful ballrooms and big beautiful bills and big beautiful things. You're like, oh, you're getting political. I I'm just saying, I keep hearing big and beautiful and I'm reading this and I'm going I'm not being political and I'm not trying to do that. I'm just saying that, you know, God doesn't have to have everything big and beautiful. God uses the small things, the weak things of the world to confound the wise. God uses his spirit. Second Corinthians Chronicles chapter sixteen verse nine says this for the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the whole earth to show himself strong on the behalf of those whose heart is loyal to him. Now, that's the main message. But Zechariah is watching all this and he is still curious about these olive trees. But he doesn't God doesn't want to be focused on what these things' functions are. But notice what it says in the text, verse 11, then I answered and said to him, What are these two olive trees? Let me be specific. This is what I'm looking for What are these two olive trees at the right of the lampstand and on its left? So he's very specific on what he's talking about. He says, it says, and I further answered and said, to be specific, what are these two olive branches from the olive trees that drip into the receptacles of the two golden pipes from which the golden oil drains. So he's getting very specific on what he's asking. And the answer is in verse 13. Then he answered me and said, Do you not know what these are? And I said, No, my Lord. Verse 14. So he said, These are the two anointed ones who stand beside the Lord of the whole earth. Now, it's possible that what he's saying here is that the two the two trees represent the priesthood and the king the kingship. And in the future, Christ will be both prophets, I will be both priest and king. Okay. But The anointed ones in this passage, I think the close, the context right there, the close context tells us that they're very likely talking, although it's not explicit in the text. It's talking about Joshua in chapter 3 and Zerabbul in chapter 4. They're the ones whom God is going to choose to use as they stand beside the Lord of the whole earth. God is going to choose to work through them, to bring about his will and to do his work. You know, it really is true. It's almost cliche Because this phrase has been used so much, the saying has been used so frequently, but it nevertheless is so true. Hudson Taylor absolutely said it right. God's work, done God's way will never lack God's supply. And from time to time, I think we need to be reminded of this. It is the supply of God. We never have to worry about if God is going to supply for His work His way. Those are the conditions. Now if I'm talking about God supplying my work, that's a problem. Or my way, that's a problem. There's no guarantee of that But God's work, done God's way, will not lack God's supply. See, God desires to dwell with us and shine through us. That is his that's he wanted this for the for the people of Israel. He wanted this for this remnant to dwell with them And shine with them, shine through them, and that's God's desire for us as well, to dwell with us, to be in fellowship with us, and to and to shine through us out to others. And the spirit's supply to accomplish this is absolutely unlimited. See, I let me encourage you this morning, brothers and sisters in Christ, let me encourage you. And I'm actually, I will just say at this point, I am I am grateful. For the folks in our church that serve in multiple ways, multiple ministries, serving the Lord faithfully, consistently. Um thank you. And I have experienced those who do that, those who serve faithfully in multiple ways like that, whether it's in this church or Other places, when they do that, you begin to see God supplying. You think I didn't have the bandwidth for that. And then you find out you do because the Spirit of God is working. You're depending on the Spirit of God. How many times do we hold back from doing what God wants us to do? How many times do we hold back from saying yes Because we're like, well I don't know if I could do that. I don't know if I I I'm not sure about that. I'm not sure if I have the strength, the ability, the intelligence. I don't know if I I don't know if I'm meant for that When God says, I want your effort, God's work, done God's way, will not let God supply. Number three, God chooses to work through our efforts to accomplish His will. It's through our efforts. It's not aside from our efforts. It's not we let go and let God. Let me just let go and let God. God's gonna do it. God will do it. No. God works through us to do it. He chooses to work through our effort to accomplish his will. Now I do want to end with this question. And the question is, and I mentioned this earlier. Is those who know Christ as their Savior are truly indwelt by the Spirit of God. And the Bible actually says In Romans 8, that the Spirit of God bears witness with our human spirit that we are the children of God. That is, we have assurance of knowing we are a child of God actually by what the Holy Spirit helps us to experience. And so my question for you this morning is, are you assured that you are a child of God? Are you, do you have assurance of that? Is that something that you're questioning? Is that something that you're not sure about? And I always do this at the end. Let me encourage you. The Bible actually says that those who know Christ as their Savior The Spirit of God dwells in them and gives us assurance of knowing that we are his children. And if you don't have that assurance, The assurance initially comes by trusting in what God's Word says. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. And the Word of God teaches us that we ascend, that sin separates us from God, that Jesus, who is, is God Died to take, took our sin on himself, died to pay the punishment of our sin, so that he can give us his righteousness, and so that we could be rightly related to God. If you're not short of that, let me encourage you, come and talk with me after service. I would be thrilled to show you how you can know for sure that you'll spend eternity Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we thank you for your word. We thank you for the truth of it. We thank you for the reminder. It's not by our might. It's not by our power, but it's by your spirit. Father, I pray, Lord, that you would help us to be reminded of this when we're prideful and we think we can do it in our own strength. Remind us, Lord, that it is only by your strength that your work is accomplished. When we're insecure, Lord, and we think that we can't do something because we don't have enough strength. Remind us again, Lord, that it is by your unlimited strength, your unlimited supply, that we can do what you call us to do. And I pray that this would be a reminder to us. Help us, Lord, to live dependent, responsible, obedient, but dependent on you. As we depend on your spirit, we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community here at BBC. you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide This helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.