Well good morning. We are going to be reading uh in Zechariah this morning. We're going to uh start in chapter 1, verse 18, and we're going to go through uh verse 13 in uh chapter two. But before we start reading Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning with grateful and thankful parts. You are so good to us, Father. You are gracious and kind. You are merciful. You are patient. You provide everything that we need. We thank you for your protection this week as we have been going through the snowstorm and all those things. Father, we're so grateful that you've allowed us yesterday the time to get things cleared out so that we could have worship this morning. We thank you for the strength and energy and the desire that you put in your people to uh Lord to be back together worshiping As we come to this time this morning, Father, as the hymn speaks, may you speak to our hearts this morning as we come to your word, Father. And we ask, dear Lord, that you would help us to set aside all those cares and thoughts of the week. Help us take this time now and Lord, that you would open our hearts and our minds. And our eyes to your word. And I pray that your spirit will do a mighty work in our hearts. I pray to give Pastor Jim this clarity of thought and speech as he brings your word to us, Father. And help us to have a heart that desires what you desire, that we would desire to hear from you this morning. And I pray that what we hear, Father, That we will not just hear it, but you will help us to meditate upon it and think it through and desire, Lord. To be obedient to your word for your glory and for your praise, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Zechariah chapter 1, verse 18 Then I raised my eyes and looked, and there were four horns. And I said to the angel who talked to me, What are these? So he answered me, these are the horns that have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem. Then the Lord showed me four crash And I said, What are these coming to do? So he said, These are the horns that scattered Judah, so that no one could lift up his head. But the craftsmen are coming to terrify them, to cast out the horns of the nations that lifted up their horn against the land of Judah to scatter it Then I raised my eyes and looked and behold a man with a measuring line in his hand. So I said Where are you going? And he said to me, to measure Jerusalem, to see what is its width, and what is its length. And there was the angel who talked with me, going out. And another angel was coming out to meet him, who said to him, Run, speak to this young man, saying Jerusalem shall be inhabited as towns without walls, because of the multitude of the men and livestock in it For I, says the Lord, will be a wall of fire all around her, and I will be the glory in her midst. Up, up, flee from the land of the north, says the Lord. For I have spread you abroad like the four winds of heaven says the Lord. Up Zion, escape you who dwell with the daughters of Babylon. For thus says the Lord of hosts He sent me after glory to the nations which plunder you. For he who touches you touches the apple. Then you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me Sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion, for behold, I am coming, and I will dwell in your midst, says the Lord. Many nations shall be joined to the Lord in that day, and they shall become my people, and I will dwell in your midst. Then you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you. And the Lord will take possession of Judah and his inheritance in the holy land, and will again choose Jerusalem. And be silent, all flesh, before the Lord, for he is aroused from his holy habitation. Young man will call him Drew had left an interview And his heart was still pounding with job and dreams. This was the job of a lifetime, one that he had always dreamed about ever since he came. And it went so well that he was convinced that they would call back, and indeed they promised that they would. He left that day it was a Friday and he actually thought that they would respond to him that day. In fact, they did not Went through the weekend and they didn't respond. Monday morning, he was eager to see them respond, and yet they didn't respond on Monday morning as well. He was constantly checking his phone and checking his email and checking his uh other devices and constantly wanting to to uh to get a response from them. Tuesday came around, then Wednesday, Thursday, Friday By the end by that weekend he began to lose hope. He thought they're not going to call. It's hopeless. I thought certainly that interview went well, and he thought where what went wrong, he started going over and over his mind, what happened But then the next week the next weekend went came and went, and on Monday they he received a phone call and he got the job. You ever been in a situation like that where you you you kept checking your phone to see if they're gonna respond or You kept wondering and thinking that something was going to happen, but it never happened, even though they said it was going to happen, and you began to say, I don't really know if they're going to come through All of us have been in that situation, and that's exactly the situation that Israel finds themselves in. God has promised many things to the nation of Israel. He promised they would go through 70 years of captivity in Babylon But he also promised after that captivity that he would free them and they would become a nation again, and he would be their people, they would be his people, and he would be their God But 70 years has come and gone. Even time after that has come and gone, and yet there seems to be no response from God specifically But it is true that the Medo-Persians, they allowed Israel to go, a remnant to go back into Jerusalem as we had learned before. But There were many that said, I don't know if I want to really leave Babylon. That area, the area that they were in, the area of the north. I don't know what I want to do Well, God has some choice words in the book of Zechariah for these people. And they come in the form of night visions. There are eight night visions overall As we recall from a couple of weeks ago, we saw the first night vision, the horseman among the myrtle trees. And today we're going to see two more night visions the four horns and the four craftsmen in Zechariah 1, 18 through 21, and the man with the measured line in Zechariah 2, 1 through 13. The point of this passage that we're going to see is that God remembers his people, and because of that, he calls them to return to him. He's going to explain this. We're going to see this, first of all, in three phases. We're going to see, first of all, in verses 18 through 21 of chapter 1, God will show that he remembers the nations. Then he's going to turn his specific attention to his people. And he's going to say, Hey, I remember you. It's like the callback of the interview. I remember you. I remember what I promised. I remember what I said. I remember you. We're going to see that in verses 1 through 5 of chapter 2. And then we're going to see him call his people to return to him. Now I thought about breaking these up into different messages, but there is something about the flow of thought here that I want us to grasp. God sees the big picture, he sees the nations, he knows He sees God's people and what and the predicament therein. He knows. As a result of who he is and how he intends to relate to his people, he calls his people to return. We first of all see that God remembers the nation, verses 18 through 21. We pick up at verse Verse 18 says that I raised my eyes and looked, and there were four horns Now, when we think of horns, we may not think the same way they do about horns. Horns were a symbol of power. In 2 Samuel 22, verse 3, it says the God of my strength and in whom I will trust. My shield, remember, and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold, my refuge, my savior, you save me from violence. Horns are power, strength, stronghold, a refuge And the angel comes then and says, or he asks, Zachariah asks, what are these? Where are these horns? And he answered, these are the horns that scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem. He had something specific in mind. Now to really understand this, I want us to remind us of our timeline here We showed this the first time, the first time we preached on this on Zechariah. And in this timeline, you'll remember, very beginning, you have the fall of Israel. And they went into Babylonian captivity for seventy years. But in 539 BC, you have them freed, and s and there's a de uh Babylon falls, Cyrus the Great becomes king. And he sets out a decree that there is a group of Israelites, they're able to go back into Jerusalem, and they're going to be able to rebuild Jerusalem But that's where there's questions that come. Is this really God doing this? Is God leading his people or they're just the Are those that remnant of people? Are they going? Should I stay? Should I go? There's all confusion about that kind of thing. And this prophecy is to show actually God's overall plan of these. horns and then we're going to see the craftsman. Now to really understand who what these horns are, these four horns, I think we need to go to to Daniel chapter 7. I have it up here on the screen for you so that you don't have a turn there, although you certainly can. In Daniel chapter 7, that becomes a very pivotal chapter for understanding this text In verse 3 of Daniel chapter 7 it says, and four great beasts. They're called horns and Zechariah. And actually later in Daniel, they're going to be called horns as well. But here it says, four great beasts came up from the sea. Each different from the other. The first was like a lion and had eagle's wings. I watched till its wings were plucked off, and it was lifted up from the earth and made to stand at two feet like a man, and man's heart was given to it. Then down in verse 8, we see that these great beasts were also considered horns. He says, I was considering the horns, and there was another horn, a little one, coming up among them. We won't take the time to discuss what that little horn is. But then in Daniel chapter 7, verse 16, it says this: I came near to one of those who stood by and asked him the truth of all this, so he told me and made known to me the interpretation of these things. Those great beasts, which are four, are four kings which arise out of the earth. There we see what they are They are kings of the rise of the earth. But the saints of the Most High shall receive the kingdom. There's a promise there. And possess the kingdom forever, even forever and ever. But based upon what we find in Daniel and what we see in history, we could come to the conclusion that the four horns in Zechariah are these four kingdoms. Babylon. You remember Nebuchadnezzar came after Israel, took him back, think of Daniel, all that Babylon, Meet of Persia, Greece, and Rome. And one conquered the other right after the other. Notice that Babylon only lasted 87 years. By the way, 70 years are the years of captivity. But before the Medo-Persians took over, but the Medo-Persians lasted 208 years before Greece with Alexander the Great took over And then Alexander the Great Great lasted one hundred and sixty-three years before Rome took over, and Rome did last a long time for six hundred and forty-four years. Notice, by the way, all of these kings that then also have kingdoms with the kings, most of them, except the last one, didn't last all that long before someone else conquered them. And Israel where is Israel in this? Well it's not. Israel is not a sovereign nation at this point. They are they are having to be At this point they're moved from Babylon to the Medio Persian Empire. Now they're occupied by the median Persians and they're given more freedom to do what they need to do, but they are not a strong, powerful nation at this point. But in this prophecy, you have these horns, these are these strong nations, but you also have these craftsmen And there's a reason that God uses this picture of a craftsman here versus the picture of a horn. If you think of a horn, you think of brute power, uh indiscriminate kind of just power that Makes a mess of everything, sort of spreads everything. Think of a bull that goes into a china shop with his horns and just wrecks everything That's the picture of the horn we have here. That's very much the way the Babylonians were, they went in, they destroyed, they desecrated the temple and all kinds of Crazy stuff and Israel was spread all out of them almost violently from where they were But he says the craftsmen are going to, and there's a sense in which we have this sort of picture of God behind the scenes as the craftsman as the craftsman He's the one that's moving the lever levers, if you will, behind the scenes. He he's the one, if you will, that is making one nation take over another nation, one kingdom take over another kingdom. God has this all planned out. He has prophesied it. He's prophesying here. And we see that he is in control. But we have these forecraftsmen. These are like Smiths You know, uh it might be might be uh blacksmiths or uh silversmiths or all those kinds of these are people that craft things craft things, but he uses them as a picture The text says, so he says, these are the horns that scatter Judah so that no one could lift up his head. The lift up his head has to do with the oppression of Israel, the fact that they couldn't get victory. They couldn't lift up their heads This is found in several other places in Scripture. For example, in Psalm 110, verse 7, it says, He shall drink of the brook of the wayside, therefore he shall lift up the head. This is showing what he's saying is that these foreign would not allow Israel to be able to have the victory that they would otherwise have And the purpose of these nations, it says, are to terrify these horns, to cast out the horns of the nations that lifted up their horn against the land of Judah to scattering. But there are four craftsmen. There are four horns and there are four craftsmen. There are four craftsmen. We are going to know that the first one is not Babylon, the first one is Vito Persia, because in the text it says the craftsmen. The craftsman destroys the horns. And so you have the Medo-Persian Empire. Then you have Greece as the second empire That's the second craftsman. Rome is the third craftsman. But then you have the Messianic kingdom as the fourth craftsman. We're going to see this in the passage, that ultimately Christ is going to be on the throne. He's the final craftsman. He is the final king over all This reminds us of something that is so helpful for us in our day and age where we there are wars and rivers of wars all the time. Isn't that Eric? You think of our nation and you think of all what's going on all over the world, we seem to be, but our nation particularly seems to be all over the place We're conquering and we're taking over things and we're allying and all kinds of things throughout the world. Here's something we need to remember. Daniel chapter 4, verse 17. The Most High rules in the kingdom of men. Did you catch that? The Most High rules in the kingdom of men. He gives it to whomever he will and sets over it the lowest memory. God is ruling now, in a sense. He's not executing his rule the same way he will when Christ sits on the throne. But God is ruling in the affairs of men And he does give rule to whoever he wills. In Daniel chapter 7, verse 12, it says this: As for the rest of the beasts, they had their dominion taken away Yet their lives were prolonged for a season of and season of time. I was watching in the night visions, and behold, one like the Son of Man coming with the clouds of heaven, he came to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him. Then to him was given dominion and glory and kingdom. That all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion, his everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom, the one which shall not be destroyed. There will be a day when Christ will set up his kingdom and it will not pass away. It will not be destroyed. Christ will be on the throne. God reminds his people that he remembers the nations. He reminds his people that he is in control. He reminds them that he is the one who is the great craftsman Who are taking all these things who are pawns in the hand of God to do what God will do in the nations according to his own sovereignty Now maybe the people, the nation of Israel, are going, well, what about us? What about we're not in that? We're not the horns, we're not the beasts, we're not the craftsmen, and who are we Secondly we want to see in verses 1 through 5, this is the next night vision, God remembers his people. He remembers his people. Notice what it says. Then I raised my eyes and looked and behold a man was with a measuring line as we have somebody with a measuring line. He's measuring something. Well why would you measure something Well, in that case you you're probably measuring something because you want to build something. And so you have a measurement. In Ezekiel, actually, all over Ezekiel, they're measuring stuff Have you ever noticed that when you read through Ezekiel? They're measuring this, measuring that, measuring this, all over the place, they're measuring things. Ezekiel 40, verse 3 says He took me there and behold there was a man uh whose appearance was like the appearance of bronze. He had a line of flax and a measuring rod in his hand and he stood in the gateway. So they're measuring all over the place. But was they So Zechariah asks, where are you going? What's going on? What are you doing? What are you measuring? And he said this, to measure Jerusalem to see what its width and what is its length. So this this in this vision, this person is going to measure Jerusalem. That you and I might think big deal. He's measuring. Like people do that every day. They got fake measures they measure things. And I think what what's the big deal of that? No, it's actually extremely significant See, Zechariah 1 verse 14, you'll remember already that God says he is zealous for Jerusalem and for Zion with great zeal. And later on says, I am returning to Jerusalem with mercy. My house shall be built in it, says the Lord of hosts, and a surveyor's line shall be stretched out over Jerusalem. There's a sense in which this is to symbolize that God is going to do what He said He will do. Jerusalem will stand again. Jerusalem will be preserved. Jerusalem will be built. I want us to think about how significant that is. Do you know how rare it is for a city to last hundreds of years. Certainly in direction, you realize how rare it is for a city to last thousands of years. The fact that Jerusalem is still a city Um as of nineteen forty-eight. S Salem was the was it what it was called before it was named Jerusalem. And that goes all the way back to Genesis chapter 14, verse 18. The Melchizedek king of Salem, which was later on Jerusalem. Psalm 76 verse 2 says, In Salem also is his tabernacle and his dwelling place in Zion. Psalm 48:2 says, Beautiful in elevation, the joy of the whole earth in Mount Zion, which is Jerusalem, on the side of the north, the city of the great king. God is in her palaces. He is known as her refuge. God is the refuge of Jerusalem. You know the very first very last time Jerusalem is mentioned? It's all the way in Revelation chapter 21. You remember the new Jerusalem. This is how important the city is. God starts off with a garden. Genesis chapter 3. And he ends with a city, New Jerusalem, Revelation 21. Revelation 21, verse 1. Now I saw a new heaven and a new earth for the first Heaven and first earth had passed away, and also there was no more seed. And I John saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. The New Jerusalem. So when it says that someone went to measure for the city, to build the city, There is the implication that this is a city that is that God is going to preserve. Why? Now say the key, and you see this and you read through the Psalms, and you see Zion in the Psalms. That's where God dwells. The special dwelling place of God is in Jerusalem in the Old Testament. Now the special dwelling place of God during this time period, now, the word of now, is actually we are the temple of the Holy Spirit, scripture says. But did you know that there will be coming a day when Christ returns this earth? But again, Jerusalem will again be that great city with the glory of God, once again, where God will dwell there Now, there's this promise here. This Jerusalem has been decimated. It was destroyed by the Babylonians. And yet God promises it will be rebuilt. This is in conjunction with Cyrus' decree that they can go and they can, the remnant can go and they can rebuild the Jerusalem. And many of them have gone. But he also wants to point out that there is a measurable promisingness as well. He says something quite striking, at least for the people of Israel, as they read this. Look at verse 3. And there was an angel who talked with me going out, and another angel was coming out to meet him. So you've got the angels are like passing the baton to each other. Okay, your turn. The point is this is a bit of a different prophecy. But this there's a distinction between what he just said and what would also be later on in the text. Look at verse 4. Run! There's an urgency about this. Speak to this young man saying, Jerusalem shall be inhabited as a town without walls. What? Now that doesn't sound that big a deal. It's like, you know, I can actually see Baltimore City from my house at nighttime, and there's no wall around it. Maybe there should be a wall around, but there's no wall around. We we don't usually put walls around cities now But back then that was your major way of protecting. There was constantly walls of cities. In fact, Deuteronomy 3. 5 says all these cities were fortified with high walls, gates and bars besides a great many rural towns. So you have cities that are protected by these high walls. Notice the reason that they that this can't that they can't do this. This can't happen. It's just because the multitude of men in the livestock, there are so many people in the city that it's referring to that it can't have walls, it just bursts out the walls. It's really describing like a metropolitan area Which would have been totally foreign for the people back then to understand. Like we kind of get it, right? We're in the middle of it, right? You ever notice there's not real it's like where where do we live where are we right now? Or we're in Limburning Bold no word Ferngale. Which is it? Are we in Ferndale? I don't know if we're from Burnell of the Brain. I've never figured that out. Our address is Woodburney Our location is Ferndale. What's the difference between Ferndale and I don't know? I I still don't hear that. I'll put Glenburning in the Ush with Ferndale. I don't know But but what's what is this? It's a big area of all kinds of people and houses, starting from Baltimore all the way down to DC in Annapolis. It's the Baltimore, Washington net metropolitan area, right? So so what we we kind of understand this. We're in the rat race. Well, he's saying that get used to it. Not really, because you won't have Senate and all that in the New Jersey. But you're going to have it is over there overabundance and there are no walls. But there's a reason why there's no walls. It's because Christ is going to be the wall. Look at what it says in the text, for I say the Lord will be a wall of fire around her. Christ is going to protect the city. This is all promised to these people that right now have nothing. They're almost destitute. They're trying to rebuild a temple. They're in a difficult situation, and yet he says, I am going to be a wall of fire around her. Now, that may not be that significant until we think about when fire was mentioned in the Old Testament. You remember the first time that Byrus mentioned it? It's actually in Genesis chapter 3, verse 24. When Adam and Eve were excluded from the garden, and there were angels that were set there, and they protected The tree of life with fire, with a sword of fire. And in Exodus chapter 3, do you remember? Who led the Israel? Well is the pillar of cloud or the fire by night. And it says in uh you think of the burning bush and God being in that the uh in that the bush. For Exodus 24:17, the sight of the glory of God was like a consuming fire on the top of a mountain in the eyes of the children of Israel. And notice what it says in verse 5 here of the text I will be with glory in her midst. Why is it that you will be a wall of fire for them? Because she, Christ, will display his glory in Jerusalem, in their midst, and that was to be something that would that they looked forward to But surely, folks, at this point, the question is, if we look back, when did this happen? You think it in Zechariah You've got Malachi next, right? When when did this occur? And the answer is it has not occurred yet. This hasn't happened. Jerusalem's been rebuilt to some degree, but it doesn't look anything like this. Why? Because it's still future. It's going to be during the millennial reign of Christ that we're going to see this. Now, we're then going to turn our attention, and all of this He's remembered his people. He promises what was going to happen to them. Isaiah is a perfect summary of this promise. Isaiah 60, verse 19 says, The sun shall no longer be light by day For uh for nor for brightness shall the moon give light to you. But the Lord will be to you an everlasting light, and your glory, your and your God, your glory. Your sun shall no longer go down. Nor shall your moon withdraw itself, for the Lord will be your everlasting light, and the days of your mourning shall be ended. That is still future for the nation of Israel But you know what God wants the nation of Israel to do at this point? He wants all of them, from the lands that they have been in for 70 years plus. He wants them to return to Jerusalem. He calls them to return. Now really understand what this, what the implications of this are. Understand that God actually called them to do this before Babylon ever took over, before Nebuchadnezzar ever came in. We find this in Jeremiah 29 verse 10. It says, For thus says the Lord, after seventy years are completed at Babylon, I will visit you and perform my good word toward you and cause you to return to this place For I know the thoughts that I think toward you, says the Lord. Thoughts of peace and not of evil to give you a future and a hope Then you will call upon me and go and pray to me and I will listen to you. By the way, they take that one verse and they put it on a bumper sticker. But you realize the context of that verse is that he is saying to God's people before they go into Babylon, hey, I will return to you, I will restore you. Verse 13 And and you will seek me and find me. Notice that they have a role to play. This is on can you s can you is this up there? Yeah. Notice that um They have a role to play. And you will seek me and find me. Then you will search for me with all your heart. I will be found by you, says the Lord, and I will bring you back from your captivity. I will gather you from the nations And from all places where I have driven you, says the Lord, I will bring you to the place from which I caused you to be carried away after. Now We then get to verses 6 through 13, and God is going to call the people to return to him. Well, it's very specific as to what that looks like. What does it look like when God's people return to him? And we see this in verses 16 and 13. Number one, he calls them to follow his leading. Notice what he says. Up, up, flee from the land of the north, says the Lord. He says, get up, get out! Leave your home, leave where you're at, leave your comfort, and go. Now, that might not be all that significant to you, but think about this. Before Israel went into the into captivity, God told them they should do this. Jeremiah 29, 4. Is it up there? Okay, it says this. Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, to all who were carried away captive, whom I have caused to be carried away from Jerusalem. What are they supposed to do when they're in Babylon? Build houses and dwell in them. Plant gardens and eat their fruit. Take wives and beget sons and daughters, and take wives for your sons and give your daughters to husbands So that they may bear sons and daughters, that they may be increased there, and not diminish, and seek the peace of the city that where I have caused you to be carried away captive, and pray to the Lord for it, and it is and in its peace, you will have peace. And you know what Israel did, very likely? They did just that. They were taken captive They started setting up homes, building homes, making families. They made a life for themselves. Seventy years is a long time I think of how old my house is. My house is almost a hundred years old. I've lived there most of my life, because I bought my house from my dad, as most of you know. I've lived there when I was seven years old when we moved there And it feels like a long time. 70 years is a long time. And what does he and and they're comfortable probably They're probably just fine where they're at. They've got their house, they've got their they they've had they've had kids, their kids have had kids, they've got a whole and everybody's everybody's comfortable in this place. Why why would they need to get up and go? God says, get up and go. Get out of your comfort zone. Step out. Then he says this, number two, how does God call us for return? Call these people in church. Escape from evil influence. Notice what it says in the text. Up Zion, escape, you who dwell with the daughter of Babylon, verse 7 The daughter of Babylon is a reference to the fact that these people, that these people are not good people. They're evil people In fact, in Psalm 137, verses 8 and 9, they are mentioned in reference to the fact that God is going to judge them for their evil. He's calling them to remember. Hey, hey, you're in the middle of paganism. Yes, I I allow I caused that to happen, and yes, you need to flourish in there. But when it's time to go, it's time to go That's what examined does. He even warned them about evil influences in Jeremiah 29, 8. And you know what we can though assume at this point because many of them have not had not some of them had gone back to Jerusalem, some of them were saying they were comfortable where they were, they had built a life And they were um and they were they were possibly being influenced, they were at least fine with the influence around them. And he says this in verse 8. He says, there's a reason that you need to go. He said, because I'm sending, I am sending someone. Look at verse 8. For thus says the Lord of hosts, he sent me after glory. It's actually a reference about Christ here. He sent me after glory to the nations which plundered you. For he who touches you touches the apple of his eye. Remember this. The apple of his eye is Israel. The apple of the eye is probably referencing the iris, which is the most delicate, but also the most that needs to be protected. And Psalm 17, verse 8 says, Keep me as the apple of your eyes, hide me under the shadow of your wings. Then notice what it says, then you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me. Here's what he's saying. He's saying, I am going to I'm going to destroy these people. I am going to punish them Remember, I'm the one that's behind the scenes, and they're going to get their justice. I am going to show my glory through my justice. You don't want to be there explained You need to get up and go. You need to move on. Psalm 61. 1 says, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me because the Lord has anointed thee to preach the good tidings of the floor. And notice then number three, what does he want called to do? To rejoice in Christ's coming. Rejoice in it. Verse 10 to 13. Notice recall it says, Sing and rejoice. Hey, he's coming. He's going to set up his kingdom Sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion, for behold, I am coming and I will dwell in your midst. I will do it. Verses 10 through 12. And I will dwell in your midst, then you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you. And then it says this, verse 13. But submissively, it says, be silent, all flesh before the Lord. For he is aroused from his holy habitation. He says, he's aroused. He's been watching, he's been waiting for the right time, and he is going to act on your behalf. So be submissively Reverent to them to the God who is going to act on your behalf. Now there are three things I think here that we as God's people, we're not Israel But I think an application we as God's people can ask ourselves, are we fully following after God? Are we truly, have we returned to God the way that He wants us to? Number one, following God's directions. Are you following God's direction? Are you trusting in the craftsman? Be trusting in the craftsman. A lot of times we don't follow direction of God because we don't believe what God says. We don't follow the direction of God because we doubt whether He's willing with us. We don't go the way that God wants us to go because we're afraid or we're comfortable or we're complacent or we're settled. God does not want his people to be that way. So he calls us to follow him. Number two, are you embracing Babylon? Are you fleeing in evil influence? It's interesting that in 2 Corinthians chapter 6, verses 14 through 16, he references, Paul references Ezekiel. which is really talking about this this very this very subject of leaving people. And notice what it says in 2 Corinthians 6 verse 14. Do not be unequally yoked together with unbelievers, for what fellowship has righteousness with lawlessness, and what communion has light with darkness, and what accord has Christ with Belial? And what part has believer with the unbeliever? And what agreement has the Temple of God with idols? For you are the temple of the living God. And as God has said, I will dwell in them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. You know what God says to us in 2 Corinthians chapter 6? He says that we are the dwelling place of God. That the Spirit of God dwells within us, those of us who know Christ as our Savior. And the notion that a temple of God could partner in concert with paganism or with an unb with with with with uh worldly worldly pursuits, worldly goals, that doesn't make sense. Those two don't go together So God places us in the world. We are not to isolate ourselves from the world. But folks, there's a sense in which we ought not to be comfortable with the world either. Does that make sense? We ought not to be comfortable with the evil pursuits of the world. We need to make a distinction in our mind between our pursuits as Christians and the pursuits of the world. Yes, we want to reach them and love them Yes, we want to interact with them and be friends with them, with folks. When it comes to partnering, we have different pursuits. We have different goals. We have different purposes And we have to remember that. Number three, are rejoicing in Christ's coming. Are you rejoicing in it? Are you waiting with joy or settling for comfort? Peters 213 says, looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearance of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. Are you looking for that? Are you looking to the reality that Christ could come at any time and take us home? Are we living in a way that we know that Christ could come at any time? He called them to sing and rejoice over the reality that Christ is coming and we can do the same as well as Christians. You know, I I've got to tell you that sometimes I find that Christians are not really really that concerned about the coming of Christ Not only focused on it, they don't really love his appearing, as Scripture says. They don't really pursue and think about the fact that Christ will come at any time. Why is that? In fact, I think sometimes we as Christians we don't want to look forward to it. Why? Maybe we're too comfortable. Maybe we're too uh we're a little too complacent. Maybe we forget That Christ will set everything right. For the Christian, we have been saved by God's grace to live in the world, to sh to make Him known, to know God and to make him known. That is our goal. That is our purpose. And every single day we are working upstream in the world, right? You go out in the world and you and you interact with non-Christians, they don't have the same goals. They don't have the same purpose. And if you are working for the purpose of God, you are going to feel the upstream, the upstream kind of resistance when that happens You can't wait for the coming of Christ. You look forward to it. You look forward to a day where your faith will be sighted. You look forward to day where your sin will be gone, where you will not have to fight your flesh anymore, where you will not have to fight this world anymore, where you won't have to deal with the corruption of the world, where you won't have to deal with the fact that we are we have to deal with ice. Everywhere. And all of us realize that this week Christ is coming again. We should look forward to that. And in fact, as we enter into our communion time, realize this. This is intended to be an appetizer for one day when Christ comes and we will we will Sit around the marriage supper of the Lamb, and we will fellowship and feast with Christ. We do this until he comes, Scripture says. And so as we are going to partake together and demonstrate our unity in the body of Christ, not based upon some sort of preference or some sort of kind of weird um thing that we all agree on. No, uh based upon what Christ did for us. We agree that Jesus died, shed his blood on the cross, and pay the punishment for our sins. We're we're in agreement in our belief on this We can celebrate it knowing that one day Christ will come again. I have one question for you before we go in, we begin our communion part of our service Has Christ saved you? I have to ask the question. You may not be looking forward to the coming of Christ because Because price isn't necessarily coming frequently. And if you're not sure where you stand with price If you're not sure where you will spend eternity with the Lord, let me encourage you, come and talk with me afterwards. And I can take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with the Lord And that you can look forward to the coming of Christ as well. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we're grateful for the wonderful truth that we found today in Zechariah. We thank you that you are a God who remembers the nations, and you are a God who remembers your people. And you are God and calls your people to return to you. I pray, Lord, that this would have challenged us to be To live for your purposes. To think the way you do, to value what you value And as we enter into our community time, I pray, Lord, that there will be a wonderful time of unity together around the body of Christ. Well, we thank you for this time that you have given us, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call, so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon