We are going to be in Galatians chapter 1 this morning, looking at verses 1 through 10. And before we go there, let's ask the Lord's blessing on the word. Father, we thank you this morning. We are so grateful and thankful for your goodness and your kindness to us, your great love wherewith you have loved us. through your precious Son Jesus Christ, our Savior, our Lord. We thank you this morning for your word. We thank you, Lord, that you have kept it all these thousands of years that we may have it even today. We thank you for your Holy Spirit. Which does teach us and give us understanding. It empowers us to do your will. So this morning I ask, Father, that as we come to this time to hear your word I pray, dear Father, that you would help us to set aside all the cares and all the concerns of this week and help us to concentrate fully upon your word this morning And may your Holy Spirit have free reign in our hearts and our minds. Plant this word deep in our hearts, Lord, that when we leave from here, we will be changed more and more into your image. And Lord, we ask that through your Spirit, you will enable us to continue to do your will for your glory. And we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Galatians chapter 1. Paul and Apostle, not from men, nor through man. But through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised him from the dead, and all the brethren who are with me Grace to you and peace from God the Father, our Lord Jesus Christ, who gave himself for our sins. That he might deliver us from the present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father, to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. I marvel that you are turning away so soon from him who has called you into the grace of Christ to a different gospel. Which is not another, but there are some who trouble you and want to pervert the gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel to you than what we have preached to you, let him be accursed. As we have said before, so now I say it again. If anyone preaches another gospel to you, then what you have received, let him be accursed. For do I now persuade men or God? Or do I seek to please men? Or if I still please men I would not be a bond servant of Christ. You're already in Galatians 1. That's our text for this morning. I'd like to begin by talking about pizza. I'm not sure every message to start with a commercial for pizza. But what do you think about pizza? Since I was young, pizza has been my favorite food. I I love it. Cheese, nice warm, gooey cheese. Nice a little bit spicy sauce. I like I like the sauce to be spicy. Crust. I like the crust to be kind of somewhat thin. I know there's some dis disagreements here. Chicago has I I'm not interested in the Chicago pizza. I like it to be fairly fairly thin. Needs to be good bread there. Pizza's good stuff. I can't eat it anymore, but I pizza is really, really quite, quite excellent. I love pizza. When I moved to Hong Kong about 15 years ago Uh I spoke no Chinese at all. I uh wanted some pizza one night. In fact, I think it was my daughter's birthday, Julia's birthday. And so we decided we'd try an adventure When you're in a foreign country and you don't speak the language and you order pizza by phone, this is an adventure. So I called them up and fortunately the person I was talking to Oh they understood what I was saying. They knew enough English that we were we we got along. I ordered some pizza. And of course they made some clarification. They wanted to know if I wanted the all-season wedgie pizza. Um or and there there was like some pizzas that had like lots and lots of seafood on it and so I made my order, I thought I was getting what I wanted. And then they send a little m uh a man on this little motorcycle and uh the the in the back there's like a little box there to keep the pizza warm and they they zoom out and we lived uh out of out of the city center in the in this village in a town called Bat Now Sek. Now at the time I couldn't actually say botnao sect, and I didn't know that it means white cow rock, but that's what it meant, and we live back up in this village. I don't know where the white cow or the rock was. Now it's just all all all all village And we were back up in there, and this pretty soon I got this call on my phone because that delivery man's not going to know where in the world it is. I thought it was going to come to my house, but this is the first time I tried it, and it did not come to my house I got a call on the phone and I heard somebody say and they go, okay, hibeen Delat. And of course at that time I had no idea what this meant. Now it literally just means where's your house? But I didn't know how to answer that question because I didn't know what the question was. So I realized Clearly he's not at my front door. I checked that first. There's nobody out there. So I wandered in the village looking for the random pizza man, and I saw no pizza man. So I called him up again and I tried to say something which he didn't understand and he said something I didn't understand. We had a fun time. And I didn't get any pizza. So I thought, well maybe he's by the bus stop. So I walked all the way out of the village, down through all the through all the narrow, narrow alleyways, got to the side the the the the the the side of the road and No pizza guy. Like this is gonna be a very sad birthday party with no pizza. Pizza party without the pizza. It's kinda like the time we had a bonfire and the wood was frozen, so we had a bonfire without fire. Doesn't work well. So I wandered around a bit. He didn't know where Battenhausek was and I didn't know where he was. I I wandered now down the road from going bus stop to bust up finally I found a pizza guy. It happened to be the right one and now I'm like you know half a mile from my house carrying a pizza, you know? But I had my pizza. It was great. So I get home, you open it up and it's You know, it's this is so exciting. That day was a success. Just the fact that I got a pizza, we had it, we had a party, it was great. But not long after that, we had pizza at the church And of course I ordered pizza again. We got it all out there. Now in Hong Kong, you gotta be careful when you order the pizza. The pizza can in many things that happen. They don't always look as good as this, although I really would say In fact, the olives. But um th th th they they sometimes they look like this, lots of seafood on top. In fact one place they were advertising a pizza where they put the entire lobster just on top. The pizza and splat, there's the lobster on the on the pizza. Like How do you cut this? I mean you get I mean I I I don't even know what to do with this. And other times, you know, you order a pizza and say, I will get the Canadian one and that meant it had corn on it. Corn pizza? Really? Canadian? My wife's Canadian. There is no such thing as corn on pizza in Canada Canada. But in Hong Kong, if you order the Canada pizza, it's got corn on it. But the worst surprise by far was the time where we were there in the church fellowship and I take a bite out of the pizza and I feel like I understand pizza pretty well. I mean I know I know what makes a pizza. There's got to be cheese first. Then there's gotta be tomato sauce, and then there's gotta be the bread. That makes a pizza. If you're missing any one of these three, this isn't pizza. I mean if you check out the cheese the the sauce, you know what you got there? That's called cheese toast. It's not pizza So I take a bite out of this pizza and I know immediately something is very wrong with this pizza. So I take a look at it. Do a check. Three items. Does it have cheese? Yes. Does it have crust? Yes. The crust wasn't that bad But what was in there? That was not tomato sauce. No, I'm thinking through all the flavors I've eaten in my life, checking them off, like what is that flavor? There's Thousand Island salad dressing in between the cheese and the bread. And there's one thing I immediately knew. This was not pizza. Somebody had perverted the pizza. The pizza this was not edible. In fact, from that point on, I learned very quickly how to w say the word Tomato sauce. Fanke jung, in case you're ever cat there and you need to know this word. Tomato sauce. The word tomato is extremely important. Just any old sauce won't won't do. There apparently Thousand Island works, barbecue sauce works, anything you can put it. That's not pizza I don't know what it is, but it's not pizza. Once it comes to our pastor today, it says nothing about pizza. But it says something about something much more important than pizza. Something that also, in a much more serious way, has been perverted. It says it's one thing, but once the change has happened, it is now something else. And what this passage talks about is the gospel. The book of Galatians is actually one of the first books written in the New Testament. The Apostle Paul wrote it right after his first missionary journey. In fact, if you put a chart of all the books of the Bible, like said chart, You would notice that very early. The first one probably is the book of James. It mentions the synagogues, or the churches that were still meeting within the Jewish synagogue. But the very next one, the very first one that Paul writes, is the book of Galatians And here in about AD 48, he's returned to the to the to the to the city of Antioch, which had sent him on his first missionary journey, him and Barnabas, and he began hearing Reports from those churches where he had just been. So he and Barnabas, they had left Antioch. They went down to Cyprus. That's where Barnabas was from. He had owned some land there in the past. Then they went up from there up to Perga, didn't spend much time in Perga. But this region here is is is Galatia, the Roman province of Galatia. So they went to Antioch, not the first one they started with, that's Syrian Antioch. This one is is Antioch Passidian Antioch. In fact there were I think eleven cities named Antioch after one previous uh Greek emperor who really liked his name and to stick it on cities But Antioch, they started a church there, got kicked out, persecution happened, then they went to Iconium, things, once again they planted the church, but they got kicked out again, ended up in Lystra, where Paul gets stoned And they have to move on. They go to Derby, but in each one of these places in Galatia they're starting churches. People are hearing the gospel. They're uh sometimes they're Jews and they move on to the Gentiles, they get In fact, if you want to read about this, we don't have time today, but Acts chapter 13, 14 tells a story of how Paul went to Galatia, planted churches, and now he's coming back to Antioch. He's giving a report It's like they're having their missions conference, like we're doing today, telling what the Lord has done in the places where they've gone when they preach the gospel. And then they start hearing some reports. Reports that there is some confusion. There are some other teachers that came after Paul and Barnabas, and they're saying something a little bit different. Yes, they're talking about Jesus. They're talking about the cross. But they're changing some things. And the gospel they are preaching is not the same gospel that Paul preached to them. The gospel they are preaching is another gospel, a different gospel. And when you change the gospel, it no longer stays. the gospel. And so Paul sits down to write this letter. Now this is going to become a bigger and bigger issue. Because the church now is now expanding. So the church starts in Acts chapter 2. um in Jerusalem. And almost all the people in the church are Jewish people. Jesus is a Jew. The apostles are all Jews. They plant the church there at Pentecost, which is a Jewish feast. The church begins, it grows But then you get to Acts chapter 10. The door of salvation goes to Cornelius and to the Gentiles. Then suddenly the gospel really starts growing in Antioch. The church is planted there. We see Barnabas and Paul is originally there Now you got a lot of Gentiles and Jews together. Now what do we do here? Now when Jews were getting saved, they just, you know, they kept their own customs and they trusted Christ as their Savior, and because they were Jews, they kept doing the traditions of the Jews. Now you got Gentiles entering in and they're like Okay, what are Gentiles supposed to do? They were never Jews before. Do they have to become Jews to be saved? Or maybe after they're saved, do they have to live like Jews? How does this work? And there was some debate going on. Now this debate was going to accumulate uh going to keep going until Acts chapter 15, where there have they actually call a church council together and all the leaders were going to discuss this issue. What do the Gentiles do? Do they, you know, do they have to keep the law? And they're going to debate this, but this debate hasn't happened yet. This decision hasn't been come to yet. We're like in between Acts 14 and Acts 15, when Paul hears these reports and the people are just confused. Yes, we need to believe in Jesus, but okay. No works before you get saved. You just get saved by faith. But do in order to stay saved, do you have to do works? Do you have to keep the law of Moses? They're confused. And Paul is hearing about these teachers that are coming and telling them, yeah, you're Gentile believers. You believe in Jesus, but are you keeping the law? No You aren't real Christians. You got to keep the law. You got to keep the Mosaic law. You got all the you know go back there. Read what that says. You got to do all that. Live like you're Jews And a lot of them were like, oh well, Paul came, he's a Jewish person, he came from there. Now these are coming from where Paul came from, from Antioch, from Jerusalem. Oh, and we must need this too. And so Paul writes the book to the Galatians. So these churches where he had gone and brought them the gospel And he tells them how they're supposed to live as Christians He reminds them what is justification by faith and how does it affect them once they believed on Jesus? How now do they live? And he warns them. You could probably pick that up from this passage as we read it through. Harry was reading through the passage here. It's a serious passage. He starts by saying, I marvel, I am shocked. That's what he's saying here I am I am astounded that you are turning away so soon. So he gets their attention. Usually a letter, like a pistol, like this. It'll start with the the the the name of the of the of the person that writes the letter. And then this one does that in the Greek Greek times, Roman times They didn't like say sincerely Paul at the end. No, they they but they did it, they put it in the front, which actually if you think about it kind of makes more sense. Why do you have to look at the end of the letter to see who's talking? No, they put it right in the front. Paul, an apostle And he does mention, not from men nor through men, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead. He gets right to the gospel there talking about raising him from the dead and where he got that message. Not from men, nor through men, but through Jesus Christ. He says, this is who I am. And usually there's like a grace and peace to you. If you read Ephesians, Philippians, there's a little commendation in the beginning He really doesn't really do a whole lot. He's got a little bit here. Grace, you and peace from God the Father. He talks, he says, I'm going to talk to you about Jesus who gave himself for our sins that he might deliver us from this present evil age. So he's going to talk about this time now. How do you live now that you're a Christian? But then verse 6, I marvel, I am astounded that you're turning away so soon. And this is serious. In fact, look what he says. You turned away from three things here. Number one, you turned away from God? Well that's a place to start. This is serious. I marvel that you are turning away so soon from him. English version, capital H. We're talking about God. Him who called you, who called them God himself. They were his people, God's people, and he says, now you're turning away. He says you are turning. They're at a point of decision. Paul is sending them this letter at a critical point. They've got to make a choice here. Which way are they going to go? And some of them, I don't think, have realized that they're actually at a crossroads here. They're thinking, okay, well these new teachers are just building on what Paul said, and no he said, no, no, no, you are turning away, one, from God. Second, you're turning away from grace. You're turning away so soon from him who called you in the grace of Christ. This is grace that comes from Jesus Christ, their Savior, the one who gave himself for them, the one who rose from the dead. He's already reminded them of those two things in verses 1 to 4. And now he says you're turning away from him. He called you into grace. Now what's grace? Grace is a free gift, not earned, not deserved. It's something God offers to us. Salvation is by grace, not through our works, not through any merit that we can offer and say, God, I'm pretty good, so you should accept me. No, no, no. Grace is saying God God, I know I'm unworthy. This is a gift you've given to me that I don't deserve. That's the gospel that Paul preached when he went there in his first missionary journey. But now he says to them, the very beginning, I marvel, I'm astounded, I'm surprised, I'm shocked. You've turned away from God. You are turning away from grace And here's the crux of the matter. You're turning to a different gospel. From the true gospel, he says, you're to a different gospel. And verse 7 says, which is not another. It says not the same. Use my illustration of pizza. It may look like a pizza. It may smell like a pizza. Everybody around you might be eating it like it's a pizza. But it's got Thousand Island dressing in it. Not a pizza This is way more serious. But it they called it a gospel. It sounded like a gospel. The people that came and taught it, they probably sound a bit like the Apostle Paul. It talked about Jesus, his death, his resurrection, but they had changed it in a critical, critical way. They had added work to the grace. And he says this is a different gospel which is not another. Now that seems a bit redundant. A different gospel which is not another. Does it say the same thing twice? Yes, she is. It's he's trying to get the point here. This is not the same. It's different. Now in in Greek there's two different words for another In English we got one word, another, another, another. But in Greek they actually have a little more specificity. There's another of the same kind, and there's another of a different kind. Now in English it's just all another. But in the Greek here, he's using the one that means another of a different kind This is in a completely different category. Let me illustrate. So last year, my wife and I were in Uganda, East Africa. And uh the place where we have our training, uh we do leadership training of national leaders in sensitive areas. So uh if you weren't here in Sunday school, we go to Egypt, Lebanon, Jordan. uh some other places. But we also go to East Africa and our campus is in Uganda. And in Uganda it's like blazing hot. So actually two weeks ago we were there and uh you all were having the ice storm Uh we Michelle was getting a sunburn. It was 90 degrees and there was no air conditioning. It's a real shock to your system when you come back from 90 degrees Fahrenheit and it's four degrees Fahrenheit. That's a jump. Um and then you have to shovel your driveway off of ice. I mean it was quite a quite a switch from the from the sun. Anyway, where we where we have our office, there's no air conditioner. Um we so we have all the doors open, all the windows open And there's this little like forest area back there. And there's all sorts of animals that come through. There's a massive stork that's about this tough tall and incredibly ugly. Um he's like a massive goiter that comes down like this. I mean it's just it's not good. But he's there all the time just kind of looking at us. If you if you see him out of the corner of your eye, you think a person's coming, but no, it's that giant ugly bird It makes the turkey vultures that fly around here look beautiful. Um, maybe not quite. That's hard to do. But uh and then there would be monkeys running around in there and different kind of birds, kingfishers, that kind of thing, and then My wife and I spotted this creature running across the ground. And we've not been to Africa that much. We lived in Asia for quite a while, but not Africa. We were sure we had spotted a mongoose, and I've always wanted to see a mongoose, they're pretty cool. They can kill snakes. I mean that that's a cool animal And so we're looking at it, we're we're talking back and forth. And uh so excited. You know, it adds a list of animals you've seen in your life, a mongoose. So I'm I go back to class and uh I'm teaching my my class to my my students And I thought, you know, I'm just gonna do an illustration. I forgot it was illustration of, but I do it on off the cuff right there, talking about seeing the mongoose in the in the in the in the back uh behind the office after class A student named Paul comes to me, he's from a rural area in Uganda and he said, Teacher, you did not see a mongoose. I said, What? I didn't see a mongoose? He says, I was there. I didn't want to tell you, but uh You saw a squirrel. That's bad because I've seen squirrels before. I have them in my backyard. It was a little bigger than our squirrels here He says if you saw a mongoose, usually there's not just one mongoose, there's like three or four, they go in a pack. So you only saw one. And I was there, I saw what you saw. It was a squirrel. So I looked up mongoose. You know, mongoose look like this. That's cute, right? That's pretty cute. Squirrel looks like this. You know, from a from a distance, you know, it looks similar, right? Mongoose, squirrel, squirrel, mongoose. I mean I'm not that off, am I? Mongoose is in the cat family. Squirrel is in the mouse family. I've messed up a cat and a mouse. They're very they're completely different things, not the same at all. From a distance from me, my inexperience, I uh identified the squirrel as a mongoose. It's not And maybe for these believers in Galatia, they're new to the faith. This sounds similar. They're talking about the same man, Jesus Christ. But no, these are two very different things, the gospel that they had believed when Paul came, and the gospel that's now being brought to them Completely different. And Paul explains more. This different gospel, which is not another. He says, there are some who've come to you. And they are teaching something different. Now the one that Paul brought, the gospel that Paul brought, it's pretty clear. Now a little bit after this, what Paul writes to the c the the Corinthian believers And he talks about this gospel. The same gospel he preached to the Galatians. He preached at all the churches. And he says this, for I passed on to you what I also received. So he said, this isn't my idea, kind of like verse one. He's not from men, not through men, but through Jesus Christ. He says, I received this message. In fact, if you look farther down in verse eight, He talks about the gospel we have preached to you. Verse 9 talks about the gospel you have received. If you look down in verse 12, he says, For I neither received it from man nor was taught it, but it came through revelation of Jesus Christ. So he said, I've gotten this message, the true gospel, it came from Jesus Christ. I pass to you what I also received. What is this gospel that you received from God? That Christ, number one, died for our sins, according to the scripture. So he's saying this is consistent with what God revealed in the Old Testament That talked about a Savior that would come and would suffer. Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day, once again, according to the scriptures Consistent with what God said in the Old Testament? Psalm 16 prophesies Christ's resurrection. Job talks about, I know my Redeemer lives. This is the gospel message. Salvation by grace through faith. It's centered on Jesus Christ and what he did when he came to earth. Jesus is God in the flesh. He came to die and take the punishment for our sins. And he rose again. This gospel that Paul brought to them, to the people of Ephesus, he explained, for by grace you have been saved through faith. Same gospel. Remember he said this? You've turned from him who called you in the grace of Christ. For by grace are you saved through faith. And that not of yourselves. It's a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. We don't do works in order to earn salvation. After we believe on Christ, we don't do works to keep our salvation. If you add works before or you add works after, this is a different gospel You've perverted it. Now, of course, if we kept reading to verse 10 in Ephesians 2, we'd see that we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works. But it's not to keep salvation. We don't do the good works to keep our salvation, to stay right with God. No, we do those good works because God has changed us. We're a new creation in Christ The good works, the fruit that we see is not to earn or to keep salvation. No, it's out of gratitude, a response to what God has done in us and for us. For by grace you've been saved through faith, and that not of yourself, it's a gift of God, not of works lest any man should boast. Paul emphasizes it again in Romans 6. 23, for the wages of sin is death A problem every single one of us face. Not just physical death, but spiritual death. Separation from God forever in hell. That's the wages of sin. That's what we are earning. We're not earning heaven through our good works. No, we are earning hell through the sins that we commit. But he quickly says, but the gift of God, that's the grace. The gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord This is the gospel that we preach when we go throughout the world. Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. This is the gospel that we preach. That we teach our students in Uganda, in the Middle East. This is the gospel that from the time of Acts has spread across the world, bringing people to know God, bringing people to reconciliation, to be made right with God. It's not by works. Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. The Bible could not be more clear what the true gospel is. But if that's not clear in our minds, we can be deceived. And that's what that's what was happening here. To the people in these Galatian churches. They were starting to turn away. They didn't have the gospel as clear in their mind as they should In fact, look what he says here. There are some, verse 7, there are some who trouble you and want to pervert the gospel of Christ. Here's the first thing. Two things he said that these teachers are doing. First, they're troubling you. And second, they're perverting the gospel. Trouble, what does it mean to trouble you? The word trouble literally means to stir up. To cause turmoil, to disturb, to throw into confusion. The true gospel of Jesus Christ does not create Disturbance. At least it can cause disturbance between people who believe and don't believe. But Jesus said this, peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled. Same word as the Galatians 1. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. You can have peace with God. You can have peace in difficult times because you know the truth, the gospel that gives you a relationship with God and a home in heaven. But he says, there's some who have come. They trouble you. In Acts 15, just after Galatians is written, they have that big conference. And they talk about the problem here. What do these Gentile believers do? Do they need to keep the law of Moses in order to stay saved? Acts 15, 24 says this. Since we heard that some who went out from us have troubled you, same word. They troubled you with words, unsettling your soul, saying You must be circumcised and keep the law, to whom we gave no such commandment. They troubled you. And why are they troubling you? Because they're perverting the gospel. They're taking something good, the message that would save you, give you a relationship with God. And they've added something to it and turned it into something different. They've perverted it. This word pervert, I think we're familiar with the word. You get the idea What does it mean to pervert something? You take something good. You know, God made all things. Science is a good thing. Nuclear energy is a good thing. But if you take that and make a weapon of mass destruction and blow something up, that's perverting. Someone builds an orphanage to care for helpless children. But then children in that orphanage are abused. That's perverting. Originally it was a good intent, it was a good thing to do, but now it's been perverted. Medicine It's been used, it's designed to heal people. But if you give a too high of a dose or you mix it up wrong to purposely kill somebody, you perverted the use of that substance. Paul says, this gospel message that I brought to you is good. It is healing. It's much more than healing. It's saving. But now they've added something to it. It's turned to poison. And it's very, very serious. Does this happen today? Happens all the time. Where I travel in Africa, we see perversions of the gospel all around us. In fact, they take a look at this, there's big signs. Here here we got this guy, Benny Hinn. You've heard of him? He's we we exported him from America, I think. Not something's coming from America, not so great You have false teachers everywhere. Prophets here, prophets there. Even driving down the street. You have billboards. A lot of them are by so-called Christian groups. and they're preaching a gospel that is not the true gospel. It's straight up poison. It makes people think that they know the God of Christianity, but in fact, what they've got is a counterfeit. The number of false gospels in the world are truly are a huge amount. I've got I've got a group uh two slides worth here. There's more than this. I mentioned the prosperity gospel. What's the prosperity gospel? It's the teaching that God guarantees wealth, health, and success if you have enough money or enough faith too, but enough money usually is involved too. You give to God, God will give back to you. God will open the windows of heaven. We'll take Malachi out of out of context. You just got to give to the church there. And so in Africa you'll see all sorts of churches that are like mud huts, if they even have walls around them. The parking lot, well you don't need a parking lot, people are walking there. But there's one car there. It's the pastor's car. It's a Mercedes. Why? Because everybody gave their money to him so they could get blessed It's not unusual. They reduced God to a vending machine for earthly gain. That is not the gospel. They talk about Jesus. They say a whole lot of Bible buzzwords, but this is not the gospel. We have that here. We exported it actually. Social gospel. Christianity's main purpose is improving society and fighting poverty, fighting injustice. Hey, those are good things. Fighting poverty, fighting inj injustice The Bible talks about those kind of things. But that's not the gospel. That actually should be a result of the gospel. If you're saved, God changes you, then Which is the result of the change, that fruit. We affect society. But the affecting society is not the center of the gospel. The center of the gospel is spiritual. God saving us from sin, the punishment of sin. But so often, you just swap it. You go to a church. If you go to a church in this town here, and you would hear the social gospel Liberation theology. Jesus' mission was primarily political, liberating the poor and oppressed. Once again, we're back to injustice again But the kind of like like Moses freed the slaves and brought them out in the Exodus so Jesus can free you and it's all about political and and and um dip uh uh uh deliverance from systematic repl repress repression. And it's not about your individual personal rebellion against God and your need for a savior We go to the universalist gospel. I've got relatives who believe this one. Basically, it's all roads lead to heaven. Eventually, no matter what you believe, you know, God's a loving God. And he is a loving God. That's why he provided the way to salvation. But they kind of ignore the whole holiness side, the whole the whole seriousness of sin. They say, no, everybody is going to go to heaven eventually, so don't worry about it But the Bible is very clear. Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes to the Father but by me. I mean, I didn't make that up. God Himself. He's the one who knows our problem. How serious it is. He knows our sin. He provided the solution. That solution is in Jesus. By belief in his death and resurrection. All roads do not lead In fact, the Bible is very clear. There's a way that seems right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. And an awful lot of people are walking down that road, thinking they believed the gospel, knowing the story about Jesus, wearing a cross around their neck and headed Not to heaven. It's a false gospel. We could go on. I'm not going to spend all this time teaching you false gospels. We're focusing on the true gospel. But Paul is warning them here, the very last one here. Here's the Galatian gospel perversion And really those variations of this have gone throughout all church history. You're saved by faith, but you live by works. You've got to believe in Jesus, but you got to keep the law afterwards in order to stay safe. That is not what the Bible teaches And so Paul very clearly warns, beware of the danger of false gospels. And you might think it gets a little bit extreme. You might think my slide's a little extreme. That's fire. But look what he says in verse 8 and 9. But even if we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel to you than what we have preached to you, let him be accursed. Ouch! Paul, isn't that a bit extreme? Let him be accursed. That word can't mean what you think it means, right? I looked it up. It means exactly what you think it means. Forever and irredeemably condemned to hell. Why would he say that? That's not unfeeling. That's not loving. Maybe he tones it down in verse 9. As we have said before, so now I say again, I feel like he's doubling down. If anyone preaches any other gospel to you than what we have received Let him be accursed. He starts with, I marvel, I'm shocked that you're turning away. And now he follows that up with repeating and saying that he's repeating. That if you go down the other road, the end is really not good. Let him be accursed Why would he be so so rigid, so negative, so strong in his wording here Do you have children? We've got a child. Maybe they're just in the lobby there. You know? The door is open after church. You see them there, and you're like, I want I I need them here with me. So you say, hey, Johnny, come. You're not angry, you're not mad, you just, you know, you just say come and them being your child and you being their parent, they should come, right? They're supposed to obey If they don't, you probably are not going to start screaming at them, right? I hope you don't. That's not good parenting. You're probably not, because you're in church and you're going to look really bad if you did that. There's a lot of reasons why you wouldn't do that. But you wouldn't. However, if your child was here at the edge of a cliff And one more step, they're going to die. I mean literally die. Not hypothetically, not metaphorically, but one more step, and you're going over. Your language is going to be a lot stronger. You're going to be yelling a lot louder. That's what Paul's doing here. He says, Galatian believers, I led you to Christ. You are my children in Christ. You heard the gospel, and you're on the edge of the precipice. It's very, very important that you listen and understand this gospel that you've been taught is not the true gospel. The consequences are eternal. Don't keep walking that way. He tells them, even if we or an angel Tell you a different message than what we told you the first time. Notice, he said, even if I come back and I say something different, don't believe me. You trust me, I led you to Christ, but if I come back and say something different than I said the first time Don't listen to me. He says if an angel shows up, now it's hard to argue with an angel, right? He says, if an angel shows up, comes from heaven, tells you something different than what I told you last time, don't listen. In fact, he said, worse than that, let them be accursed. Why? Because that's a wrong message. He says, I already told you the truth of the gospel. You received it. It came from not from men, not from Jerusalem, not from Antioch. No, it came from God. From Jesus Christ, I delivered to you also that which I received. How that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, that he was buried, that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. And he cares about them. That's why his words are so strong. Sometimes We care more about the person talking to us than the message that's being spoken. This happens a lot in places where I go and teach As a young child or maybe as they're first coming to learn more about the about Christianity, they build a relationship with someone, but that someone is preaching a false gospel. Sometimes the relationships are so strong that they The relationship with the person is stronger than understanding and believing the message from God. And Paul is saying here The relationship is not the most important thing here. The truth is the most important thing here. And actually, what he's saying actually is the relationship with God Is more important than the relationship with anybody else who comes and tries to teach you. Even if you've known them for a long time, test what they say against the scriptures, against the gospel that you have received. Because look at verse 10. For do I now persuade men or God? Or do I seek to please men? Here's the question How are you going to decide which to believe? Paul's argument is believe what God delivered to you. And if you believe something else You're trying to please the teacher that came. You're trying to please the person you had a relationship with for a long time. But the most important thing is what does God say? What is your relationship with God? Are you trying to please him? Because ultimately that's what matters. Who are you trying to please? Paul's argument is this, please God by believing, living, and preaching the true gospel. Do I seek do I now persuade men or God? Or do I seek to please men? For if I please men, I would not be the bondservant of Christ. I'm supposed to be serving Christ. But if I'm changing my message based on what people want to hear, if I'm changing my message based on relationship I have with people who I find out later on, actually they weren't telling me what the Bible says. It's different Who are you trying to please? God is the one who made the world. God is the one who knows your true spiritual situation that you are a sinner separated from God. God is the one who sent the solution, Jesus Christ. God is the one who sent you this message and let you know that there's only one way to be saved. That's by putting your faith in Christ alone If you go any other way, you're letting your relationship with someone else affect you more than your relationship with God. Please God by first, it all starts here, by believing the true gospel. And once you put your trust in Christ Please God by living that true gospel. Now the book of Galatians is going to focus on this, especially as it gets later on in chapter 5 and 6. But he starts in verse 4 about by saying this about Jesus Christ Who gave himself for our sins that he might deliver us from this present evil age? He wants us to live for him now in this world He wants us to live out that true gospel that we believed. So please God, first by believing the gospel, secondly by living that gospel. And third by preaching that gospel. And that really his mission is there. Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. The true gospel. The gospel that came from God, that He's given to us. We are ambassadors for Christ. We are his bondservants. We don't preach ourselves. We preach Jesus Christ and Him crucified. Please God by living, by believing, living, and preaching the true gospel. As we close, I'd like you to quick look at another passage and notice how Similar Paul's words are to the words of Jesus Christ. Turn to Matthew chapter 7. Matthew chapter 7. This is the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus. is coming to the end of this passage. But his words are are eerily similar to the Apostle Paul's. And I wonder if Paul was actually even thinking of some of these verses, although actually they hadn't yet been written, but that they had been orally passed on. The teachings of Christ in the churches. But look at these parallels between Paul in Galatians 1 and Jesus in Matthew 7. We have these three main ideas in verses 6 through 10. Beware of turning away from the true gospel. Secondly, beware of following false teachers. And thirdly, beware of the danger of false gospels. Number one, Matthew chapter seven, verse thirteen Beware of turning away from the true gospel. Jesus says this, enter by the narrow gate. For wide is the gate and broad is the way that leads to destruction, and there are many who go in by it. Because narrow is the gate and difficult is the way which leads to life, and there are few who find it. Does the gospel seem too exclusive to you? Well, that's the way God made it. The narrow gate. I am the way, the truth, and the life. Beware of turning away from the true gospel. Secondly, beware of following false teachers. Look at verse 15, Matthew 7, 15. Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves. You will know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes from thorn bushes or figs from thistles? Even so every good tree bears good fruit, but a bad tree bears bad fruit. A good tree cannot bear bad fruit. Nor can a bad tree bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down, thrown into the fire. Therefore by the fruits you will know them. He's talking about false prophets here. Watch out. Listen to what they say. Look at their lives They may look good on the outside. They may sound good. May look like pizza. Every other people might be saying this is pizza, but that's you that's not pizza. It's something different. It's a wolf, not a sheep. First time I went to our new location in Uganda, they warned us at night they would let the attack dogs out. So don't go out of your dormitory after midnight The problem is one of our teachers came in from his airplane, his flight at 2 a. m. and I needed to meet him. So I heard this message, don't go out after midnight, but then uh Yeah. Attack dogs? I don't want to be out there. But this guy's never been in Africa in his life and I gotta meet him and So I open the door after midnight to the door, and I'm looking out. I'm I'm looking. They the where's the I don't see any dogs. But this is not good. You know, they they can run faster than me. I so I I but I could hear the taxi had come, so I need to meet him, help him find his room So I'm being really careful going out thinking this could end really poorly. Attack dogs. That that that's that's not something you want to run into in Uganda. And then also I never want to see the inside of a Ugandan hospital. That's not one of my goals in life. You know if they told me, beware after midnight they let out the attack sheep, I wouldn't be nearly as worried But these are attacked dogs, like wolves, that kind of thing. Jesus is saying here, beware. They look like sheep, but they're not. Beware. This gospel looks harmless. It looks kind of the same as what you heard, but it's different Beware of those teachers. And finally he says, beware of the false gospel. Verse 8 to 10, actually in Matthew chapter 7, look what he says here in verse 21. A warning. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven. But he who does the will of my Father in heaven, many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in your name and cast out demons in your name and done many wonders in your name? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. There are many who claim to preach the gospel, who claim to do amazing things. I mean literally in Africa, there are people doing this, prophesy saying they prophesied in Jesus' name, cast out demons in his name, done wonders in his name, and at the end Their gospel is wrong. They're going to stand before God and God's going to say, I never knew you. You don't want to be one of those guys. Enter in at the narrow gate. Believe the true gospel that comes from God. Don't buy into the ones that have been created by man because it you know it sounds better to my ears. Everybody's gonna end up saved. That sounds good. I wish I could believe that. But that's not what God says. And so look to him. Seek to please him Believe the true gospel. Live the true gospel. Preach the true gospel. Understand it clearly in your mind so you can tell other people this gospel clearly. It's important. In fact, nothing is more important. This morning, have you believed the true gospel? The gospel that God gave to us It's here in God's Word. I've explained it very clearly to you this morning. Every one of us are sinners. We're separated from God. There's nothing you can do to change that. So many times we want to say, well, my good works outweigh my bad works. I don't know if that's true or not, but even if it were true, it doesn't work. That's not how it works. The Bible is very clear. It's not by works of righteousness we have done. But according to his mercy, he saved us. I preached this message in Uganda And after the message, a couple days later, because we're with them for over a week, this gentleman here on the left, nope, he's on the right. I'm the gentleman on the left. The gentleman on the right Came to actually my wife and a couple others and said, I've been thinking about Galatians 1. And I think I believed a false gospel. He'd been going through a hard time in his life. Very difficult. I'm not going to tell the story here, but it's very difficult. And someone came to us and said, if you come to Jesus, Jesus will solve your problems Well, he's got lots of problems. He wants them solved. Good plan. So he came to Jesus. He started going to this church, which was teaching a health and wealth gospel. Never was he confronted with his sin. Never was he challenged to believe in Jesus Christ alone. No, just come to Jesus, he'll solve your problems. So he comes to church. He gets involved He gets so involved that the that he that they recommended to come and get some Bible training. But in the first time he ever came for Bible training, he heard Galatians 1. He heard the difference between true gospel and false gospel and he said I think I believed the false gospel. And he was humble enough to come out and say so. So that week I talked to him. I said, okay, what did you believe? He told me. And I said, yeah, that's that's one of the false ones He says, I want to believe in Jesus now. I don't want to wait. And he wasn't embarrassed to do it here when, you know, everybody coming to our class, they're all supposed to be believers already In fact, we that's one of the questions in the application. This isn't actually supposed to happen. But it did, because things are so murky there in the churches about what the gospel is and what it isn't. But now that he heard what it was, he immediately realized I need to I I'm a sinner, I know it I'm going to believe on Jesus. Does Jesus solve problems? Yeah, he does. But that's not how you get saved. It's about your sin. It's about Jesus' death on the cross to pay the penalty for your sin. And it's about stop trusting yourself and trusting him alone. And Simon, right there. And that actually it was right outside the office where I was talking about before where the mongoose was, well the where the squirrel was. It was right there with that the ugly bird walking right by He prayed and trusted Christ as his Savior. This morning that could be you. You heard the gospel this morning. You've heard how serious God takes the gospel. There's one way to God is through Jesus Christ. And if today you're unclear about whether you truly know God, if you're unclear about whether or not you believe the true gospel, I like to do exactly what I did with Simon. Show you from God's word what God says. Because really, God's opinion is the only one that matters. Show you how you can know for sure that you know God and that you will have a home in heaven in the future. This really is the center of missions. Go into all the world, preach the gospel to every creature. You gotta have the gospel right before you can take it to every creature. And God makes it very clear to us what that message is. It's been changing lives for thousands of years. The reason why we're here today is because the gospel changes lives. And if you've never trusted Christ as your Savior Don't wait. The gospel is the power of God to salvation to everyone who believes. And that includes you too. Don't wait. Don't hesitate. If you have questions, talk to Pastor Jim, talk to myself, talk to one of the elders here. We'd love to show you what God says and lead you to know God. Let's pray. Dear Lord, thank you for your word. Thank you for the gospel message. Lord, I wish that all roads led to heaven, but that's not the way the world is. Sin is a terrible problem. Many are deceived. And Lord, help us not to be deceived. Help us to understand what you've revealed, our true condition as sinners. Help us also to understand how great your salvation is. Your love in sending Christ. And Lord, I pray today, if there's any here who's not trusted you as their Savior, that they would that they would not wait, but they'd make sure today. Lord, thank you for your work around the world. Thank you for many faithful men and women in many difficult places, missionaries, nationals. risking their lives taking this message to those who sometimes don't want to hear it, and often to those who've never had a chance to hear it. Lord, thank you for the church here and there. their commitment to missions, their commitment to your gospel, first of all. And Lord, I pray you bless the efforts here at home and abroad. In Jesus' name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community here at BBC. you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call, so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us. Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.