Wonderful morning. Glad to see everyone out. We are going to be completing our study in Ecclesiastes this morning. And we're going to be looking in verse twelve, I mean chapter twelve, verses nine through the completion of the chapter. And before we go there, let's uh bow our heads and go to the Lord. Heavenly Father, we are so grateful this morning and thankful to you that in all of your greatness And all of your love through your Son Jesus and what he has done at the cross on our behalf. And even now, today, Lord, having your word And I am grateful this morning, along with everyone else, Father, for your word. As we have been studying through this book, Father. We are grateful to learn all the things that we have learned about what is under the sun and what is above the sun. And today, Father, we look forward to the summation of this whole book. And I pray that you would help us to set aside all the cares and concerns of this week, all the noise, all the hoopla, Lord, and help us to concentrate this morning upon your word. And I pray, Lord, that your spirit will be working mightily in each heart here this morning. And Father, where we need conviction, might it be convicted. And where we need encouragement, might we receive encouragement. And where we need understanding, we ask that you would give us that understanding. And we thank you, Father. We thank you from the bottom of our hearts. In Jesus' name. Amen. And we are going to be reading again from chapter 12 of Ecclesiastes, verse 9. And moreover, because the preacher was wise. He still taught the people knowledge. Yes, he pondered and sought out and set in order many proverbs. The preacher sought to find acceptable words, and was written, what was written was upright. Words of truth The words of the wise are like goads, and the words of scholars are like well-driven nails given by one shepherd. And further, my son, be admonished by these. Of making in many books, there is no end, and much study is wearisome to the flesh Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God and keep His commandments For this is man's all, for God will bring every work into judgment, including every secret thing, whether good or evil. I trust that you've enjoyed this study in Ecclesiastes as much as I have, and uh has been helpful for me and my walk with the Lord, and I thankful to testify that others have show told me the same thing. And we are going to conclude this today. We'll look forward next week to the book of Zechariah. I'd encourage you to start Reading uh that book uh even ahead of time this coming week, as we look at a book that is largely unfamiliar to a lot of Christians. one that perhaps you haven't heard preach from before, one that I haven't preached from before, and uh looking forward to that book. But today we're in when e we're in Ecclesiastes and what the what Solomon is going to do is he's going to really focus this in on a singular truth that brings all of what he has taught us together. Focus is important in life. Focus is important in our thinking. It's important in our motivation. It's important in our setting of goals. Think of the following phrases. One phrase, everything was important, so nothing was excellent. Or busy hands, empty results. Or much motion, little direction Or a scattered life produces scattered fruit. How about this one? Energy without aim ends in exhaustion, not accomplishment. That last one is quite interesting. Isn't it true that you can be really, really busy and not accomplish a lot? You can do a lot, but if you're not focused, if there's not clear aim, if there's not clear goal in mind, clear objective. It ends in exhaustion. It does not end in an accomplishment. And it if you think of the sun, think of how the sun disperses light everywhere, and it is productive As the sun produces light and uh and then it and heat, you have photosynthesis that occurs and plants grow. But think of how productive it is when sun the sun is focused. You take a magnifying glass and you can focus the sun and make something extremely hot. You can burn something, you can cook something. with the sun. Or you can take a heliostat, which is like a mirror, a kind of a mirror that collects, focuses in the sun and then There can be receptor things that receive the sun, the sun's energy, and you have solar energy from that when it's focused in. Now think of even something even of greater concentration. Think of like of an arc welder. The heat from an arc welder is twice as hot, at least twice as hot as anything that's produced by the most focused point of the sun. Or even go further than that and think like of a nuclear reactor and how quote productive that would be. how uh what a difference that makes if and if uh if nuclear energy is used in a focused way And so what we what Solomon is going to do in this passage, we s we he has covered all kinds of things under the sun, right? He we we've talked about the pursuit of pleasure and the pursuit of riches and the pursuit of uh wisdom and all kinds of things. And now what he's going to do is he's going to focus us And he's going to point out that essentially everything collapses into vanity and emptiness and meaninglessness Which is why God calls every person, every person of his creation to be reverently obedient before him. The focus that we're going to see in this passage is reverent obedience. We'll see that. Solomon's first going to, in verses 8 through 12, he's going to demonstrate just how important what he has said is, and just how important he really cites it as being something from God, something from the great shepherd. We're going to see that. And then in verses 13 through 14, he's going to focus in on a very succinct conclusion. Fear the Lord and keep his commandments. First of all, in verses 8 through 12, we see the importance of this message. In verse 8, we see he says again, for a final time, vanity of vanities All is vanity. We have seen that over and over again through Ecclesiastes, and we have realized that what he is talking about is that that things that are under the sun, the earth, the world, things of temporal value, things, pursuits of mankind, all of it apart from what is above the sun ends up being utterly and completely meaningless In chapter 1, verse 12 through 69, we see human pursuits, different objectives. And in chapter 6, verse 11 through 11. We have all human wisdom is also essentially meaningless if not taking what is above the sun in view Now he's going to describe the approach that he has taken as he has written the last 11, almost 12 chapters. We see three, he summarizes this with three characteristics. First is intentionality. He says, I've been intentional intentional about what I have written. Verse 9 says, and moreover, because the preacher was wise, he still taught the people knowledge. He's referring them to himself, and he is already referring to himself, as the preacher. And I'll remind us that back then during that time you gained God's truth from three different sources. Either from a prophet Or a priest, or a teacher, a preacher, someone who proclaimed the word. And he is taking on the role as he has gone through this as one who is to convey wisdom, someone who is a preacher, someone who conveys wisdom, not as a prophet, not as a priest, and his role of being a king is not emphasized in this passage either. It's the emphasis of the one who is teaching the wisdom of God. He wants his readers to understand that what he is saying is wise And it is knowledgeable. He says that in the passage. He points to the knowledge that he has conveyed. We've seen Ecclesiastes 2:21 and verse 26 of the importance of knowledge. And actually we've seen the vanity of knowledge under the sun, but the importance of knowledge when taken with below the sun and above the sun in view In Ecclesiastes 7. 12 it says, For wisdom is a defense as money is a defense, but the excellence of knowledge is that wisdom gives life. It gives life to those who have it. Yes, he pondered and sought out and set in order many Proverbs. Proverbs 25, verse 2 says, It is the glory of God to conceal a matter, but the glory of kings to search out a matter. So he's been intentional about giving wise knowledge in his book of Ecclesiastes. And he's really, he's now In a sense, selling what he has said and saying, this is important. Listen to this. Pay attention. I've been very purposeful and intentional about how I have put this together. But he also said he's made it interesting. It's pleasurable. He said he's made it acceptable words. You could see a sense of artistry here in verse 10. Verse 10, it says the preacher sought to find acceptable words, and what was written was upright words of truth. He wanted the words to be acceptable, not acceptable in the sense of just made it pleased everybody. But he he wrote this in a way that there was it was something that the word means meaningful, purposeful. It also can mean beautiful or delightful or pleasurable It's the same word that we see in Ecclesiastes 3. 1, where it says, there is a time and purpose under heaven. It's the word matter in Ecclesiastes 3. 17 and Ecclesiastes 8. 6. So he's been intentional. He's been purposeful. He is intended to be delightful as he has gone through this, for there to be a beauty in the meaning of what he is saying. And now there also is integrity. He says, for what is written was upright. It was words of truth. The word upright means to make straight. We found that word in Ecclesiastes 7. 13, where it actually says, to make straight what was crooked. He says, the words that I have written, that which I have written is straight. It's truth. It's right. And there's a reason for that. Because it has divine origin. Solomon seems to recognize on some level that what he has written has been God's word. We see that where he says the shepherd has written this. Now, we then see in verse 11 that there is a divine purpose. He explains what the purpose is. What is the purpose of all of this wise knowledge? He says the words of the wise are like goads. Now that's not a word we use very often. It's speaking of a pointed instrument to prod something into a state of motion. Usually Usually in shepherding you might have a pointed instrument that you're trying to keep all the sheep together and you're prodding them on one side, prodding the other. Solomon is saying that the point of what he has written, the point of the truth of the wisdom that he has written, is intended to prod along, to motivate us, to cause us to move forward. It's kind of interesting, isn't it, because he says so often, oh, that's meaningless. That's meaningless. That's meaningless. I think if you read this wrong in Ecclesiastes, you might be unmotivated Because everything is vanity. You have to understand that it is vanity if all you are focused on is under the sun. If you are focused on that which is above the sun, it becomes quite meaningful. And he says that this should motivate us, this should prod us to action, a certain kind of action, which we will get to in a few moments. And also, it's intended to be a pro to provide a foundation. It says in the passage that uses this term nails, well-driven nails. The words of the scholars are like well-driven nails. Well what does that mean? Well nails are fasteners. They fasten things to other things. This is used in Jeremiah chapter 10, verse 4, to talk about Gentiles and how they how they built idols And they used nails to fasten them down so they didn't tip over. Now in that context, of course, it's used kind of negatively, it's pointing out that If you didn't fasten na fasten idols down, they would just tip over and fall over. They're worthless and utterly useless. But the point of nails is that they fasten things down to a to a firm foundation. The words of the knowledge of Scripture and certainly of Ecclesiastes are some things that should fasten us down And we should hold on to them. And they're intended to be given with divine guidance, he says, given by one shepherd. Here he, I don't think he's talking about himself. I think he's referring to the Lord. And we have seen, we see in the Old Testament that God is spoken of as a shepherd. In several places that's the case. For example, in Psalm 80, verse 1, give ear, O shepherd of Israel, you who lead Joseph like a flock, you who dwell between the cherubim shine forth. And this wonderful passage in Psalm 95, 6 through 7, O come, let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. For he is our God, and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand, today if you will hear his voice. Isn't it wonderful that God leads us along? He is our shepherd. And the Ecclesiastes is intended to prod us, to motivate us, to guide us. As a good shepherd wants to guide the sheep to green pastures, to safety, to the places that he wants the sheep to go. So God is using Ecclesiastes to do this for his people. The emphasis here is on the fact that God, through divine wisdom is using his words to direct his people, and that the recipients of ecclesiastes should listen carefully and heed obediently. This is important. It's important because there are all kinds of voices out there. There are all kinds of different advice, different things you can listen to. And he does something kind of interesting. He focuses in now on, he says, my son. I don't think he's done this in Ecclesiastes so far. We know in Proverbs, we see this over and over and over again. If you read Proverbs every chapter and several, sometimes multiple times in the chapter, He says, My son, my son, my son. Solomon obviously in the book of Proverbs is writing to his son and giving wisdom to his son. In Ecclesiastes, it's a much broader audience. But now he actually does focus in on his son, and he warns his son about something. This is really quite interesting. He says And further, my son, be admonished or be warned by these things. Of making many books there is no end, and much study is wearisome to the flesh. He warns them about something. He warns them, he warns his son about reading too many books. Now some of you are readers out there and you're going to say, What? I shouldn't read too many books? And there are others that are saying, I'm not a reader. I'm glad I'm off the I'm glad I I don't have to read books. Now what's interesting is I've been actually collecting books over the last week, just kind of figuring out my path to what what I want to read this year. And um researching different kinds of books and different things. What I the way that I do, I was telling one of my daughters the way I do it is I I get the the Kendall samples And I I'll collect a bunch of them and I'll read through the samples first on my Kindle and see if I like them and then I'll pick the ones that I think are actually worth reading. And I tell you, when you're doing when you're researching various areas and looking at different things, you do find that there are a ton of books out there. It's just amazing. how many books on any given subject there are. And then there are certain subjects you go like, this needs to be written about. What why why is nobody written about this? But anyway The amount of fiction books. I decided that I should try to read some fiction. I don't read much fiction. I decided I should try to read a little bit of fiction this year. And I looked into the fiction There are a lot of fiction books out there. Man, people do not like reality. Unbelievable how many how many people obviously get lost in fantasy. There's so much out there that you could read forever and never note that you're living in America and it's real What is his point? His point is that there is all kinds of advice out there from every place. Be careful about getting your advice from everywhere else. That actually it's just a suggestion here and a suggestion here and a suggestion here and a suggestion here. Try this, do this, try this, try this When the Word of God is very clear about things, and when the Word of God gives us focused, unchanging, discernible truth that we can apply to our lives and clarity. There there's a danger there, by the way. There's a danger that we we we're we're researching stuff online and we're We're we're constantly trying to figure out what the best way to do this and the and and what does this mean, I think, of all of the thousands of parenting books out there. I can't believe how many parenting books there are. The Bible is the best parenting book you can have. And it's simple and it's It's uh it's clear, uh it's uh uh it it's it's direct. And there's all these methods, this method, that method, and that method, and that method. Let me encourage you, read books, but make sure that if you're trying to find truth, it is tethered to scripture. That the applications of the things that you are reading are scriptural. Be careful about ever learning and never coming to the knowledge of the truth. There are people that live their entire lives discovering the discovery. Of the discovery. And you ask them, have you ever come to conclusions? No, I'm discovering And and you say, well, what are you discovering? Well, that's part of the discovery. I'm describing what I'm going to discover. There's some people that they talk that way You go into institutions of higher learning, and that's sometimes what you get. You get all of this professing. With no clear objective truth. No, this is what you can stake your claim on. This is where you can put clear roots in Understand the difference. Realize that true biblical wisdom has true, clear conclusions, and they are rooted in the unchanging Word of God. I'm not at all suggesting that we don't read, but I am suggesting that we don't read so much that we forget the book. That is the most important book we could ever read and study and know. And this is what we should be nailed down to. It is the word of God. Now, he places great priority and great importance on these things. And we then move. to what we are going to learn then from there. But before we get there, I want us to reflect on a few things about what this book has already said. Do you remember quite a while ago now where we talked about work and labor, chapter 1, verses 3 through 11? And how you can work and you can have your vocation and you can make money and do what you need to do, but ultimately that is In and of itself, vanity, meaninglessness. And you can pursue wisdom for the sake of wisdom, which we've kind of already mentioned Chapter 1, verses 12 through 18. And again, that is vanity. And you can pursue pleasure, one pleasure after another, and after another after another. Chapter 2, verses 1 through 11 And that too is ultimately vanity. Intellectual learning is ultimately vanity outside if it's just under the sun Working in our vocation is ultimately vanity if it's under the sun. And pleasure for the sake of pleasure is ultimately meaningless futility if it's just under the sun. I want to illustrate the importance of what we're about to go into in verses 13 through 14 with something that I think will be helpful. Uh most of us at one time or another um have have done some bowling. How many of you all enjoyed bowling? I'm curious. How many of you all think that you're a pretty decent bowler? Okay. How many hands went down on the second question. We have a lot of people who like it but are not not particularly good at it. Okay. Um I I you know it's ki it's kind of funny. Maryland has duckpin bowling. Did you know that's not like everywhere? I g I went down to college in Pensacola and said, You guys have ever done duck pen bowling? They're like, what in the world is that? Usually in a southern accent. And and um and I would say it's oh I I think it's a Maryland thing. I think they may have a Delaware a little bit. But but not not too many places. Um uh I learned to bowl from my mom. She was actually a pretty good bowler and uh and she always said the import they explain the importance of lining up three places, right? So so if you're bowling, you've got the you've got the line right that you're bowling to and you've got a dot And then you have an arrow, you know that arrow in the middle of the of the lane, and then you have the pin at the in the front. And she said you have to line those up. It's important to make sure that you're arm of the line with all of that correctly. And that's good advice. But I I realized something uh recently. Recent is all rel is relative when you're forty-five. But anyway, um I I realized something recently that that you can get so focused on that arrow that if you that you're not really looking at the the center pins and you won't do well if you do that. This is this is great advice if you're going to go up bowl soon so so you know this is for free for you. Okay But I learned that that what you actually have to do when you're bowling correctly is is you have to bowl and you have to you you you want to line it all up But what you're looking at and what you want to point your hand toward through and have follow through and everything is the pins, not the arrow. If you focus on that arrow too much, you will usually not hit the pins correctly in the center. Um I don't know if that's correct bowling or not. I just found that works for me. Carol Masserelli is a bowler. She's not here, not feeling well today. So she's not here today. But anyway, she's probably listening by by uh way of streaming. She can text me later and tell me if that makes sense to her. But anyway, uh either way, um uh there the you if you are just focused on the arrow, you are not going to be able to get a strike on the pins ahead Now, this is what we do in life too much. We focus on our sub-purposes, and we miss the ultimate purpose The ultimate purpose for every Christian should be to glorify God, to please God. And we're going to learn what that means in Solomon's mind in a few moments. But what we do too often is we focus on these initial goals. 2026, I need to lose weight. I need to read more books. I need to meditate on I I need to do my devotions even. These are all sub-goals. It's like focusing on the arrow in the in the bowling alley. as you're bowling, but you forget there's like pins ahead that you're trying to knock down and hopefully knocking the center of them down Now, with that in mind, I want us to see what as he narrows all of this down, as Solomon narrows all of this down, Of what he has said. Look at verse 13. He says this. Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter, of everything. He is all-encompassing when he is going to say this. Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. And he says, the whole matter is this: fear God and keep his commandments. For this is man's all. It's everything. See, it's the ultimate Goal. The ultimate goal is to fear God and keep His commandments. Now, I think it's important for us to understand again what it means to fear the Lord. Now, if you look at it, if you look throughout the Old Testament, there are, it is used a lot. And we have in past gone over what the fear of the Lord is. But for our purposes this morning in Ecclesiastes, I want us to think in terms of three things. When we think of the fear of the Lord, I think we can say pretty definitively three things. Number one, the fear of the Lord is an awe of God's character. Is an awe of God's character. It says this in Psalm four example, other places too, but Psalm one eleven verses nine through ten He has sent redemption to his people. He has commanded his covenant forever. Holy and awesome is his name. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. A good understanding have all those Who do his commandments, his praise endures forever. Holy and awesome is his name. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Secondly, it is the awareness of God's presence. All of God's character, but also the awareness of God's presence. Exodus 20:20 says, And Moses said to the people, Do not fear, for God has come to test you that his fear may be before you, so that you may not sin. Don't fear what man can do to you. Don't fear what What circumstances could do you, but have the fear of the Lord, have the presence of God, know that He is with you. An awareness of God's presence. Number three, an anticipation of God's evaluation. Now, we think of anticipation of God's evaluation. If you look at verse 14 for a minute, it says this: For God will bring every work into judgment, including every secret thing, whether good or evil. So when we're thinking about the fear of the Lord, we're understanding that the ultimate end game, if you will, the end goal is that there is going to be a judgment. There's going to be an evaluation For the non-Christian, there will be a judgment, and this is beyond the scope of what Solomon is saying, but certainly important by way of application. And for the Christian, there will also be a judgment. For the Christian, it won't be a matter of condemnation. We know that from Romans 8, 8. 1. But there will be an evaluation of our faithfulness, an evaluation of our stewardship. One day We will, as Christians, stand before the Lord. 2 Corinthians 5, verses 9 through 11 say this. Therefore, we make it our aim. whether present or absent, to be well pleasing to him. For we must appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that each one may receive the things done in the body, according to what he has done, whether good or bad. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men, but we are well known to God and all and also trust are well known to your consciences. Now, three things then. An awe of God's character, an awareness of God's presence, and anticipation of God's evaluation. These are three components, I think, of fearing the Lord. Now, with those in mind, all of God's character, awareness of God's presence. Anticipation of God's evaluation, I want us to look at five places in Ecclesiastes. This is kind of reviewing, we're going to survey the book. a little bit. We're going to use these these these times where got where Solomon has used fearing the Lord to do that. I want us to see the importance of fearing the Lord. And there are five. You don't have to write them down there in the back of your bulletin. And so they're all there. You don't have to feel like you've got to jot everything down. But I just want to go through these. So fearing God, what is that in Ecclesiastes? Number one Fearing God flows from recognizing His sovereignty and providential rule over all things. Do you remember when we when we covered this? The importance of realizing that God is in control, that He is sovereign, He rules, and He He providenceally guides us. And that there is a time and place for everything. Remember that passage See, knowing and realizing that brings us into a reality that we are in awe of God, that we are Fearing we fear God when we recognize His sovereignty and His control in our lives. Ecclesiastes 3:14 says, I know what that whatever God does, it shall be forever Nothing can be added to it, and nothing taken from it. God does it, and men shall fear before him. That which is also that which is has already been and what has what is to be has already been and God requires an account of what is past. Number two, fearing God restrains us from sin by curbing carelessness and impulsive living. Fearing God restrains us from sin by curbing carelessness and impulsive living. We see this in this wisdom section in Ecclesiastes 5, verse 6, it says Do not let your mouth cause your flesh to sin, nor say before the messenger of God that it was an error. Why should God be angry at your excuse and destroy the work of your hands? For in the multitude of dreams and many words there is also vanity, but fear God. The contrast to carelessness and foolishness and impulsive living is being aware of the presence of God. in awe of the character of God and anticipating the evaluation of God in our lives. Number three, the fear of God guards us from the twin extremes of foolishness and self-righteousness. We see these extremes in Ecclesiastes chapter 7. There is foolishness on the one hand and self-righteousness on the other. Verse 16 says, do not be overly righteous, nor be overly wise. Why should you destroy yourself? Do not be overly wicked, nor be foolish. Why should you die before your time? Is it good? It is good that you grasp this and also not remove your hand from the other, for he who fears God will escape them all. Fearing the Lord is the antidote to, on one hand, being foolish and on the other hand being self-wise or self-righteous If you are in awe of the character of God, you are aware of the presence of God, and you are anticipating the evaluation of God, you will not be foolish. And you will not be self-righteous. You're so preoccupied with God and who He is and what your responsibility is toward Him. You don't have time to be self-righteous and think about how wise you are And you don't have time for foolishness either. Number four, the fear of God protects us from standing under his unfavorable evaluation. We see this in Ecclesiastes 8, 11 through 12, other places as well, but also Ecclesiastes 8, 11-12 says this. Because the sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily. Therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do evil. Though a sinner does evil a hundred times And his days are prolonged, yet I surely know that it will be well with those who fear God, who fear before him. So if we are aware of the presence of God and awe of the character of God, and we anticipate the evaluation of God, it will keep us From having an unfair evaluation. One day we will stand before the Lord. And every Christian should want to hear, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. You have been A good steward of the things that I have given you. Maybe take some time this week and read read Matthew 25 again, the parable of the talents. And what God says there, that there will be a reporting, that we will stand before the Lord for our lives. Be aware of the stewardship that we have as Christians. Number five, the fear of God frees us from the frustration caused by unresolved injustice. We have lots of frustrations in life. We live in a fallen world. And we have noted in Ecclesiastes that That there are things that just are unresolved in this world, that aren't right, they're not equitable, they're not fair, they're not just, and we can get extremely frustrated by those things. You know what? If we fear God, if we're in awe of the nature of God And if we are aware of the presence of God, and if we are anticipating the evaluation of God, we're aligned correctly. We're aligned, aware of we're present in what God wants us to do, we're anticipating the direction that God wants us to go, and we don't have a whole lot of time to be frustrated about everything else around us. Now there doesn't mean we stick our head in the sand. Of course we are aware of what is around us and we pray for the things that we are concerned about and The fact that sin, we live in a sin-cursed world is something that we are constantly concerned about. But the fear of the Lord aligns things correctly. In such a way that the frustration is alleviated from living in a fallen world. Those are the five things, the five occurrences in Ecclesiastes. of the fear of the Lord before we get to our passage here. And I think it's a great summary to what we can really glean from this book as Solomon narrows down everything What is the responsibility of his created being, us, every one of us? It's to fear the Lord. And to follow his commandments. Reverent obedience. Now, of course, I haven't really talked a lot about keeping his commandments because that should be pretty obvious. It means to be in obedience to the Word of God, in obedience to what God says for us to do. And then we see in the text, in verse 14, it says, For God will bring every work into judgment. So when we have the different goals that we have in life: health goals, financial goals, spiritual goals, what is the ultimate? The ultimate in our mind should be One day we'll stand before the Lord as a steward. For example, you can have a health goal of losing weight so you can impress everyone. But if you do that, and that's your primary goal, it ultimately will end in meaninglessness. And vanity, in futility. Or you can lose weight to be a better steward of what God's given you. And that's reverent obedience. Or you can have the right financial goals. You can curb your spending in order to be richer, so that you can gain more wealth and you can die rich. Which is pointless. Right? Ultimately it's futile. Ultimately, it's vanity. Or you can curve curve your spending To support, to be a good steward of God's money. To be a good steward of what God wants. To steward what God has given us well. That would be reverent obedience. Or spiritual goals. You can do your devotion so you can check the box and box and feel good about yourself. Man, I nail it. Every single day this week I check the box. And ultimately, you die with a bunch of check boxes. That's futility. It's meaninglessness. Come to God, God says, Were you a faithful steward? See all my checkboxes? That's not the point. Or I could spend time with the Lord as a privilege, as was mentioned during the worship service. And as a result, that's reverent obedience. See, it's like bowling. You've got to focus, yeah, line everything up. You're gonna have these sub you're gonna have these sub-goals. There's nothing wrong with wanting to lose weight. So you feel better. I don't know about impressing people, but lose lose lose weight so you feel better, lose weight so you're more active, lose weight so you can spend more time with your kids. But the ultimate goal has got to be, I'm doing it to be a good steward, a faithful steward of what God has given me. to be aware that there will be one day an evaluation of my stewardship. And the stewardship that we see here, the the judgment that we see in the text, is every secret thing. You know what that tells us? It tells us that God deeply cares about our motives. Those are the secret things that nobody else can see. And in fact, God says we are not to judge. There is no way that we can judge the motives of each other, nor should we try. But God can't. And in fact, the Word of God is the discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. And we see that God will one day judge every work, including the secret things of that work. Matthew 10, 26 says, Therefore do not fear them, for there is nothing covered that will be will not be revealed, and the hidden will that will not be made known. 1 Corinthians 4:5, therefore judge nothing before the time until the Lord comes, who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness and reveal the counsels of the heart, the motives of the heart. And each one's praise will come from God. And that is who we are trying to please. The criteria is whether it's good or bad. Whether it's good or evil. We see that in the text as well. So in summarizing all of this up, I have three practical applications for us. Number one, we must, in thinking all about all this, we must live With an awareness of God's presence now and an anticipation of God's evaluation in the future. An awareness of God's presence now Anticipation of God's evaluation in the future. And with that, I'd like to ask you this question. Do you know what will happen in the future once you die? The Bible says it's appointed for a man once to die. We're all going to die Unless we're you know translated one day. But other than that, uh for the most the majority of the human race we're gonna die and then we're gonna meet Christ. We're gonna be the butt once to die, and after that the judgment scripture says. Have you thought about that? Have you thought about what will happen at the judgment The truth is that if you don't know Christ, if you don't have a personal relationship with Christ, you will actually be at a different judgment from those who do know Christ. You will be in a judgment where you will then have to pay the punishment for your own sin. Here's the facts. The Bible says if you offend in one point, you're guilty of all. So you will not fare well the judgment, and neither would I. That judgment is not a judgment you want to be at. Here's the reality. God knows this And God sent his own son to earth to live a perfect life, the life we couldn't live, than to take our sin on himself on the cross to die to pay that judgment, to pay that punishment for sin. And if you're here today And you don't know what would happen, where you will spend eternity. You don't know if you have a relationship with God. Maybe you're saying, I I don't think you can really know that. Well the Bible says these things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. Let me encourage you, come and talk with me after the service. I would be thrilled to take a Bible and know you and show you exactly how you can know for sure you'll spend eternity. With God. And that you will not face that judgment. But for those of us who know Christ as our Savior, there will be a day where we will stand before our Lord and our Redeemer Our Savior. And we will give an account of what God has given to us, what God has entrusted us with, what Jesus has entrusted us with as we as His servant. That should be something that we are focused on. Number two, we must align our near-future goals In light of eternity. It's like the arrow in the bowling alley. You've got to align your near future goals in 2026 in light of all of eternity. in light of what will really last. Otherwise you end up missing the mark and hitting the gutter. Or futility. Or vanity. Meaninglessness, as Ecclesiastes call it. The third one is really some advice that you can kind of infer from all of this. I believe that we must dwell in the present, dwell on the present and dwell on eternity and not dwell on the near future. Say, hmm, I'm not sure if I thought of that that way, but let's think about it for a minute. There are some people, and I've been tempted to do this, I have done this before, I'm definitely guilty of this, where I am preoccupied with the near future, with this what's going to happen in six months, what's going to happen in a year, what's going to happen in two years. Trying to control what is going to happen in six months Trying to direct that. And you dwell on that. And you fixate on that. And if you do, you are going to end up in a place of worry and anxiety, or of hopelessness and depression This is, I do not believe this is where God wants us to dwell. It doesn't mean that we don't look ahead and plan with the end in mind. That's fine, we can do that. God wants us. Or foresee evil and hide ourselves, Scripture says, it's prudence. That's fine. But for us to dwell there at the expense of dwelling in the present And focused on what matters for eternity will cause us to live lives of futility and meaninglessness. That's why it is so important for us to align everything correctly. How do we do this? By truly being fearing the Lord and keeping his commandments. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and we thank you for your word. We thank you for this book of Ecclesiastes that gives us wonderful wisdom. It reminds us unfailingly and repeatedly That our pursuits under the sun are absolute futility. Worldly pursuits, earthly pursuits of learning or pleasure. Or wealth or anything like that, Lord, ultimately ends up in futility and is and is not faithful stewardship. Father, we thank you, Lord, that you have exhorted us today to fear you and to keep your commandments. I pray, Lord, that as we look ahead to 2026, that we would have things aligned correctly in our lives. That this would be the focus of our lives. So that one day we can hear, well done, good and faithful servant. Lord, would you work in our hearts to stir that up in us, that we want to hear that. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We are, as as has been our tradition for many years now, are going to have communion from the first. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.