Father, we thank you this morning for your goodness and your kindness to us, Father. Father, you have been most gracious and merciful toward us, Father. We thank you for your patience. We thank you also, Lord Jesus, for your word this morning as we are getting prepared, Lord, to hear from your word. I pray that you will help us, Father, to set aside all the cares and all the distractions from the weak and help us to concentrate fully upon your word. And we ask for your Holy Spirit to Enable us, Lord, to take what we're listening and hearing and apply it in our lives, Father, that in all things you would be glorified and lifted up. And we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Zechariah chapter 6, verses 1 through 8. Then I turned and raised my eyes and looked, and behold Four chariots were coming from between the two mountains, and the mountains were mountains of bronze. With the first chariot were red horses And with the second, black horses, with the third, white horses, and with the fourth, chariot, dappled horses, strong steeds Then I answered and said to the angel who talked with me, What are these, my lord? And the angel answered and said to me, These are four spirits of heaven who go out from their station before the Lord of all the earth. The one with the black horses goes to the north country. The white are going after them. And the dappled are going toward the south country Then the strong steeds went out eager to go, that they might walk to and fro throughout the earth. And he said, Go and walk to and fro throughout the earth. So they walked to and fro throughout the earth. And he called to me and spoke to me, saying, See those who go toward the north country have given rest to my spirit in the north. How many of you all or heard, or probably both, the question, are we there yet? Everyone at some point or another has heard that question. Are we there yet? And many of us have said it. And if we haven't said it, we've thought it. You're going on a long trip and you hear the idea of, are we, you ask the question, are we there yet? In Scripture, we find, we're talking here in Zechariah about the nation of Israel. Who are the people of God throughout the Old Testament and into the New Testament. Of course, the people of God changed in the New Testament. But in the Old Testament, the people of God here are Israel. And in Genesis chapter 12, a promise is made to Abraham that is going to apply to these people. And the promise is this: I will make of you a great nation. I will bless you and make your name great, and you shall be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him who curses you, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. He says, I'll make of you a great nation. And the people of God As they as Abraham had children and uh went on and and the nation was developed, actually was sort of developed in Egypt under captivity and All of that as time went on, I'm sure that the people of God would say, are we there yet? They would sort of ask the question, is God going to do this? When is God going to do this? He's promised to do this, that we are going to be a great nation. There is going to be a great kingdom. And year after year, decade after decade, hundreds of years go by. And the nation of Israel is not made into a great kingdom. They have one problem after another. There is one kingdom that will o that will rule over them, followed by another kingdom that will rule over them. They'll have some peace in certain times, and then there's just if you look at Israel's history, you find all kinds of anything but a great nation. Yet God is very good through his word, through the prophets to encourage them along. It's kind of like, how many of you have ever seen the movie Overcomer? It's a it's a modern Christian movie. Um that movie uh in that movie Hannah is a is a runner, she's a teenage runner, and um it's an interesting backstory with her dad and things, but basically toward the Toward the climax of the movie, she begins to run a race and she's given some headphones and in those headphones her dad, who was a previous runner um is whispering in her her ear to give her encouragement and instruction along the way as she finishes the run. Of course, as any movie goes, she wins the run and uh w runs the race and everything So God's people need encouragement. And God, through the prophets, it's like they he constantly says to them He says, it's coming. I'm prophesying. It will come. I promise you it will come. We we are in a text in Zechariah here where where just prior we have the a time of Babylon where Babylon, uh Israel is captivated by uh is taken captive by Babylon. Just prior to that you have the pre-exilic prophets And in those pre exilic prophets like Isaiah and Jeremiah and those kind of prophets, you have promises that God will be with them in in Babylon, that God will bring forth his kingdom eventually, that God will bring forth a Messiah. Have all of these promises. And God is faithful to prophesy And then what we find here in Zechariah and we find here during this time is that not only we see prophecies, we see promises that God will do what he says he will do. And then we see those being fulfilled all the way in the book of Revelation. And so you have this, it's important to understand the continuity here. Where in Zechariah, you have God's people who are going into Jerusalem. They're told to rebuild the temple. They're told to establish Jerusalem once again. And these people Are wondering when is all of this going to happen? When is the kingdom of God going to happen? And in the various visions that we've been going through, we have eight nine, eight night visions total, in the various visions that we've been going through. You have these prophetic promises, and some of the promises are going to apply in the near future for the is for Israel. They're going to happen. Like he says, the temple will be built, chapter 4, for example. It's gonna happen. And that was going to happen soon. But as we go through these eight prophecies, and we're on the eighth one today, as we go through these eight visions, rather, we find that toward the end, it really begins to expand far beyond what is the near future for the nation of Israel. And I think there's a very important reason for this, and we'll see that in a few moments. We are here at the eighth vision, and to understand the significance of this vision We need to understand a little bit more of what's going on. Remember that as these eight visions have occurred, They occurred all in one night. This was not something that we've been going over and we've taken weeks to go through this, right? Well, this all happened in one night. Zachariah has this vision and it's one after another after another. And there are eight total And they the beginning vision vision, you'll r if you remember the the horses, and they're going to see the chariots at this final vision, it forms what I've mentioned before in other places is called a kiasm. The kiasm I've used the idea of a sandwich before where basically you have the meat in the middle and you have the outsides and really the core of what's being talked about is in the middle. And you have the same thing here Where in in um and and if you could just put that the next slide up there, um you have this chiasm with all of the different visions and the core, the heart of the vision The heart of all of it is in chapter 3 and chapter 4, where you have the the presence of God and the power of God that are that are m that are talked about in that passage. So first of all, the center is the presence of God. God desires to be with his people. Chapter 3, chapter 4 God desires to be with his people, the tabernacle or the temple rather to be built, and the presence of God to be there. But also On the outside of this, on the first and the last vision, we have the power of God. The power of God. And you have the horsemen, and then you also have the chariots. The horsemen are in chapter 1, and you have the chariots in chapter 6, which is today. And all of this shows us this, that God will faithfully accomplish every promise he has spoken. You're going to see that. You're going to see in in the first vision that the setting is there and everything's set in place. And you're going to see in the last vision that there is action that takes place. There is a carrying out. There is a fulfillment. of what God intends to do for his people. God will faithfully accomplish every promise he has spoken. And we see this being carried out in two ways, this being described in two ways. God unfolds his plan in verses one through three, and God fulfills his promises in four through eight. First, we're going to look at God unfolding his plan. And we see the vision here in chapter 6, verse 1. And the vision says, Then I turned and raised my eyes and looked, and behold There were four chariots. So we have four chariots here. Now, if you're just reading straight through from chapter 1 through chapter 6 You may put together the fact that you had horses in the beginning of this vision and chariots at the end of this vision To really understand the end of this vision, the end of this night of visions, we're going to need to look at Zechariah 1, verses 8 through 11. And I have this up there on the screen for you. This is the first of eight visions that Zechariah received from the Lord. And it says this, and we're going to we're going to cease, we're going to compare and contrast these, and that will help us really understand what this eighth vision is all about. Chapter 1, verse 8 says, I saw by night, and behold, a man riding on a red horse. The man we've already said last is the angel of the Lord, or it is Christ himself, is that man riding on that horse. And it stood among the myrtle trees in a hollow, and behind him were horses, red, sorrel, and white. Then he said, My lord, what are these? So the angel who talked with me said to me, I will show you what they are. And the man who stood among the myrtle trees answered and said, These are the ones whom the Lord has sent to walk to and fro throughout the earth. Notice that phrase. to and fro throughout the earth. That's going to be important. So they answered the angel of the Lord who stood among the myrtle trees. That's Jesus Christ himself, and said We have walked to and fro, do you see it again, walked to and fro throughout the earth, and behold, all the earth is resting quietly. The vision ends with the earth resting quietly. And as well, as good as that sounds, it's not a good thing. As Israel is in turmoil, as the people of God are not at rest, the rest of the world is at rest. And that's a problem. Because God c God promised uh the is Israel that they would establish that he would establish a kingdom that they would be a great nation and that's not what's happened. There's a small group of people that have been released and they're headed back to Jerusalem The remnant of Israel headed back to Jerusalem to rebuild Jerusalem at this point. It's nothing like a great nation. So it's not a good thing that all the people, the whole world is at rest when Israel has not yet received what is promised. We're going to see a real big change here in this eighth vision. So notice what the text says here. In chapter 6 it says, For I turned and raised my eyes and looked and behold, four chariots were coming from between two mountains, and the mountains were mountains of bronze. There is a definite article in there, and it demonstrates that these are two very specific mountains. And the mountains that are mentioned in this passage are Mount Zion and the Mount of Olives. Now in Jerusalem, really Jerusalem is on a mount itself, Mount Zion. This was the mount that they were most concerned about at this time, that the temple would be rebuilt, that uh that Israel would be established, that the wall around Jerusalem would be would be set up. This was what they were focused on. But God also mentions the Mount of Olives. Of course, the Mount of Olives was just on the other side of the Kidron Valley, to the east of Jerusalem. And this these mountains were both the Mount Zion and Mount the Mount of Olives. We see in the text the Mount of Olives are mentioned in Zechariah chapter 14, verse 4. It says there in that day his feet will stand on the Mount of Olives, talking about Jesus, which faces Jerusalem on the east And the Mount of Olives shall be split in two from east to west, making a very large valley. Half of the mountain shall move toward the north, and half of it toward the south. So this this they are going the cherries are going through this mountain. They're on the move this time, through these two mountains. And I think it really demonstrates the fact that you have Mount Zion that they're occupied with in the near future, but God is also pointing to a time where the Mount of Olives will be in view as well. Some of that we're actually going to save until we get to Zechariah chapter fourteen. But I'll mention this that in Matthew twenty one, verses one through eleven, which we won't take the time to turn down there now during the triumphal entry of Christ. Rem remember when he goes out he's he's sitting on a donkey and he goes in into Jerusalem there? Uh he does that and he quote he's coming from the Mount of Olives and he quotes Zechariah 9, Zechariah 9, verse 9, as a fulfillment of that. And he was presenting the kingdom to Israel, and at that point the Jewish people rejected that kingdom. God will one day, Christ will one day come back, and he will establish his kingdom. The word, the bronze, the idea of bronze has carries the idea of both judgment and victory. It said of Christ in Revelation chapter 1 verses 15 through 16. His feet were like fine brass As a refining in a in a furnace, and his voice as the sound of many waters, he had in his right hand seven stars, as a mouth went a sharp two edged sword, and his countenance was like the sun shining in its strength. This is a description of Jesus and what he is what he had come to do Now, we notice in the text in verses 2 through 3 that there are chariots. Before we had horses, but now we have chariots. It's kind of like the difference between having foot soldiers and tanks. I mean, tanks, the chariots of that day was like the tank of today. And so they're ready for battle. The chariots are ready for battle. They're ready to execute the plan. They're ready to move forward. And there were different colors here in the passage. We see here, verse 2, with the first chariot were red horses. With a second chariot, black horses, with a third chariot, white horses, and with a fourth chariot dabbled horses. Different kinds of horses. The red chariot, I'll just mention what they what these mean, and we get this from Revelation 6, which we'll look at in a minute. But the red chariot is uh means uh it's uh stands for war and bloodshed. The black chariot The horses, the black horses, rather, stand for famine and death, the white horses for victory, and the dabbled horses for pestilence and plagues. All four of these horses are mentioned, dabbled not by name, but the rest are all mentioned in Revelation chapter 6. Revelation chapter 6, again, it is the final fulfillment. You have this near fulfillment in Zechariah, but there is a final fulfillment of what God intends to do in uh in dealing with the enemies of Israel and dealing with Israel itself as a final chastening, in setting up the kingdom later on at the end of Revelation. All of it begins in Revelation chapter 6, where it says this in verse 1. Now I saw when the Lamb opened was uh when the lamb opened one of the seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures saying with a voice like thunder, Come and see. And I looked, and behold a white horse, he who sat on it had a bow, and a crown was given to him, and he went out conquering and to conquer. When he opened the sea the second seal, I heard the second living creature saying, Come and see. Another horse, fiery red, went out, and it was granted to the one who sat on it to take peace from the earth, and the people should kill one another. And there was giving given to him a great sword. When he opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature say, Come and see. So I looked, and behold, a black horse. And he who sat on it had a pair of scales in his hand, and I heard a voice in the midst of the four living creatures saying, A quart of wheat for a denarius, three quarts of barley for der for a denarius. And do not harm the oil and the wine. This passage describes the Lamb of God who is coming, and this time he is coming for jud in judgment. Ultimately, we're going to see the coming of Christ at the end of the book of Revelation. But it is Christ who is the judge even in the beginning of the book of Revelation. He is the one who is by his power and what he is doing and his work. that that God's people, Israel, at that point, they begin to be chastened by the Lord. Ultimately the goal is that God would indeed, Christ will indeed set up his kingdom Notice that in the text, as a a bit of a further description from the first vision, we see that all of these are strong steeds. They're strong horses. It's demonstrating the strength that Christ has, the power that he has. This is demonstrating that Christ ultimately will win the victory. He will do what he is called to do. He will do, he will judge the nations. But and he will set up his kingdom. But there's going to be great war. There's going to be devastation. All of that will happen first. And this text is explaining that. Now, what we can apply how we apply this to our lives today. I want us to understand this. This is so important. Do you know why we can be assured of the coming of Christ later? That He will come for us. Do you know why we can be assured of the hope of Christ and what will happen in the future? It's because of what God has already done in the past. You have these prophecies that are mentioned in the Old Testament, and even at the end of the Old Testament, in Zechariah, for example, you have the fulfillment of those prophecies. those literal fulfillments of those prophecies which makes us know that God has not done his work. There are certain things that have not come to pass yet. Really Israel has not The kingdom has not been fully set up yet. That is still in the future. And we can trust that God will fulfill all of his promises. And one of his promises is that he will come for us someday. That is the hope of the believer. The stage is set in verses 1 through 3, and that moves us then to verses 4 through 8. Where God fulfills his promises. Notice what it says in verse 4. Then I answered and said to the angel who talked with me, What are these, my Lord? And the angel answered and said, These are the four spirits of heaven. Now this is re a ra making a reference to actually very likely the four angels in Revelation 7, verse 1. The word Spirit can be translated wind as well as spirit. Revel in Revelation chapter seven, verse one, it says this After these things I saw four angels standing in the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth. that the wind should not blow on the earth, on the sea, or any tree. And notice what happens to these spirits. They go out from their station. They're moving out. They're moving forward. They're carrying out God's plan. God is fulfilling his promise in this text that we also see in the book of Revelation. And notice how they're going out. They're going out before the Lord of all the earth. The Lord of all the earth. That's a very significant phrase. When Scripture mentions the Lord of all of the earth, we need to pay attention In Zechariah chapter four, verse fourteen it says, So he said, These are the two anointed ones who stand beside the Lord of the whole earth. It said there. Do you remember chapter chapter four where you have You have Joshua and you have Zerubbabel as the as the representative of the priest and king, and you have this Lord of all the earth that is standing next to him. That is Jesus. He is the one who is ultimately the priest and the king. In Micah chapter 4, we find this said With this phrase, the Lord of all the earth, the Lord of the whole earth. Also, uh chapter uh chapter four, verse eleven says, Now also many nations have gathered against you who say, Let her be defiled, and let her eye look upon Zion. But they do not know the thoughts of the Lord, nor do they understand his counsel, for he will gather them like sheaves to the threshing floor. Arise And threshold, daughter of Zion, for I will make your horn iron, and I will make your hooves bronze, you shall beat in many places many peoples, I will consecrate their gain to the Lord And their substance, here it is, to the Lord of the whole earth. Now, what is it talking about when it says the Lord of the whole earth in that passage? Well in Matt Mau Micah chapter 5 it says this, and this will be familiar to us. It says in Micah 5, verse 1, Now gather yourselves in troops, O daughter of troops. He has laid siege against us. They will strike the judge of Israel with a rod on the cheek. But you, Bethlehem Ephrata, though you are little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of you shall come forth to me the one to be ruler in Israel. This is talking about Jesus Christ. whose goings forth are from old, from everlasting, therefore he shall give them up unto the time that shall uh uh that she who is in labor has given birth, then the remnant of the brethren shall return to the children of Israel, and he shall stand and feed his flock in the strength of the Lord in the majesty of the name of the Lord his God, and they shall abide for now, and he shall be great to the ends of the earth. And this one shall be peace. This is talking then about Jesus as the Messiah who will establish his kingdom, the millennial kingdom. This is prophesying this. This is this why are these chariots going forward? Why are these horses going forward? Why is all of this happening as you look at the book of Revelation and you see the tribulation period And all what is happening, it is all taking place as judgment before victory. It's happening so that one day Christ is finally able in righteousness to set up his kingdom. Now, in verses six through seven, we have some encouragement for this nation, for it, for this people, this remnant of Israel. In verse six We pick up here, and notice what it says in the passage. The one with black horses is going to the north country, and the white are going after them, and the dabbled are going toward the south country. You've got these this north country and the south country. What is the significance of that? Well, the significance of that is is to consider, we need to consider the history of Israel We need to understand the kind of situation Israel has been in for nearly all of its established existence. The North Kingdom is a reference to Babylon and to Assyria, and during this time period it would be Persia, all of that. That's the North Kingdom. The South Kingdom was Egypt. And if you look through Scripture, there are many times previously in the Old Testament where Egypt is battling Israel. So God has established that, okay, Israel, you're going to be a great nation. And sometimes Egypt from the south is coming up and they're conquering Israel. Sometimes Babylon from the north is conquering Israel. Sometimes Babylon comes all the way through Israel and conquers Egypt as well. I mean, you have all these things happening, and there's one thing that hasn't happened yet Israel has not established its own great kingdom. So what is he saying here? The two challenges for Israel came from the north country and from the south country. He mentions the North Country because that's the most imminent threat to them. They have been under Babylonian captivity. They are now under Persian captivity, and although they have been allowed to go in and establish Jerusalem, they're not their own nation. And how in the world is this ever going to happen? In some ways, this is a response to last week's message in Zechariah 5, verse 11, where you remember it says that Uh that the the the the woman who was in the basket that it would that would establish, it says in verse eleven chapter five, verse eleven, and he said to me, to build a house for it in the land of Shinar When it is ready, the basket will be set there on its base. What's it talking about there? It's talking about the fact that evil, wickedness, the world system would be established as an I uh in idolatry. Once again, it would be lifted up. But the North Country will be conquered by Christ. Christ again promises I will do what I said I will do. I will, the victory, the white horse, the victory is Christ's ultimately. And then the South Country is Egypt. Now I want us to notice something that I find that's going to be helpful for us. I have a map here, I want to show it to you. of this entire area. If you could sh uh yeah, broaden it out there. You have um you have on the eastern side of this map you have all the Persian Empire, eastern, northern, uh in the Texas north, north and then uh spreads out to eastern. That that was the the the the map that was the the land that was covered by the Persian Empire during this time. And in the south you have Egypt. That's all covered. And in the middle between Egypt And is and uh and Persia, you have this little land area called Israel. And even the smaller area called Jerusalem, city called Jerusalem, this hill, basically in Jerusalem Now, this is really significant. Do you know how large Israel is? I looked it up. Israel is about the size of the state of New Jersey. Just put that in perspective for a minute. You've got these massive areas to the north and these massive areas to the south and this little bitty little country size of a state. And yet the significance of Israel over the over thousands of years. It's amazing. It's incredible. Even now, what's happening right now in the Middle East? You've got all kinds of things being shot at Israel. Um it it's still a central a central theme in God's overall plan And it will be in the future as well. And what God is saying is these massive armies in the south and these massive kingdoms in the north Christ is going to come. He will do it. In this New Jersey-sized state of Israel, he is going to be come and he's going to conquer everyone in the north, everyone in the south. He will establish his kingdom. promising it again here. This is only something that Christ could do And in and in so many times in life, isn't this true that God puts us in places where we have to say it's only Christ. Christ is the only one that can do this. I can't do it myself. I don't know how I'm going to be able to handle this. Christ is the one is my only hope. And I'm convinced that that's part of what God had in God intends. He intends for the nation is of Israel to turn to Christ and realize that Christ is the only hope. Notice in the text that these that these horses, they're eager to go. They want to conquer. They want to establish victory. And the emphasis is on God's universal sovereignty. And then and act and we see this actually, it's going to be in a greater way. When we get to Zechariah 14, we'll see this in a in a more uh in a more detailed way, but I want to mention Zechariah 14 here, where it says, Behold, the day of the Lord is coming, and your spoil will be divided in your midst. For I will gather all the nations to battle against Jerusalem. The city shall be taken, the houses rifled, and the women ravished, half of the city shall go into captivity, but the remnant of the people shall not be cut off from the city. The Lord will go forth and fight against those nations as he fights in a day of battle. Then in the text we have a repeated phrase three times. Remember I mentioned as we looked at Zechariah chapter one, there was a A phrase that was mentioned twice there. It's mentioned three times here. Look at what the text says. It says, that they may walk to and fro throughout the earth. And he said, go walk to and fro throughout the earth. So they walked to and fro throughout the earth. That's pretty significant, says it, three times It's trying to get across something. What's it trying to get across? It's trying to get across that this is a this is it's like a bookend Where the first bookend is Zechariah chapter 1. This is an incalled inclusio. It's now booking end, the other end of this. Where now we have this phrase, go walk to and fro throughout the old earth. And what what God is pointing out by this phrase is that God's intention, it does go beyond Israel. God is the cent uh Israel is the center focus here in Zechariah, but God's desire is actually throughout the whole earth. He will conquer the whole earth The millennial kingdom will include the entire world. Everything will be made right. Everything will be at peace. In fact, verse 8 reminds us of this. Notice what it says in verse 8. And he called me And spoke to me saying, see, those who go toward the South Country have given rest to my spirit in the North Country. Notice that phrase rest to my spirit. This is talking about rest, rest to the God's spirit. Notice who had rest before in chapter 1? The nations had rest. Now, not so much. The nations are not at rest. Christ is conquering the nations. But who finally is at rest? Christ is at rest. Israel will be at rest. This is speaking, no doubt, of the millennial kingdom, the millennial period, where Christ does finally establish his kingdom. And there will be rest. I want us to remind us of two passages. What will it be like in that in that millennial kingdom? Well, I'll tell you what, there ain't going to be any bombing of Iran. And there's not going to be any upheaval in various areas, no, because Christ will be king and he will establish order and there will be true peace during that time. It promises this all the way back in Isaiah chapter 9, verse 6. It says this. You'll remember the passage. For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government will be upon his shoulder, and his name will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. We know that from Christmas time, but notice. Of the increase of his government and peace there will be no end. Notice what it says, upon the throne of David and over his kingdom, to order it and establish it with judgment and justice from that time forward even forever. The zeal of the Lord of horses hosts, the Lord of hosts, will perform this. Christ prophesied all the way back in Isaiah. It's prophesied that Christ will come. He will establish his kingdom. And 2 Peter 3 describes it this way. I love this. It says this, verse 4. Where is the promise of his coming? People ask that. Are we there yet? We started off that way. And by the way, have you ever asked that before? Look, every generation I know of Christians, I grew up as a I grew up as a Christian, uh as in a Christian home. And um and every generation thinks that Christ is coming Now. Like it will be in my lifetime. I I used to hear preachers saying all the time, Christ will come in my lifetime, and they're dead. Some of them We don't know when Christ will come. And every generation, I think, of Christians sort of says, when is he coming? Are we there yet? I mean, we've got to be there soon. And the people in the first century asked that. When is this going to happen? Notice what it says, where is the coming, where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of creation. That's the hope of the believer. It is the coming of Christ. Now, there are three things I want to take away from this. Number one. God was faithful in the past. He was faithful in the past. Such an important truth. What should we glean from this is uh by the way, if you're visiting today, not every text is quite this in-depth. Although Zechariah, there's a lot of those. But um but uh not everything we preach uh the you know you get from the New Testament you have much easier, much easier, much more easy to grasp What do we grasp from all these visions where we understand that God was faithful? He was faithful to the nation of Israel back then. He fulfilled, he did what he said he would do. Number two, God fulfills his promises in Christ. He fulfills his promises in Christ, and he will continue to fulfill his promises in Christ Not every promise in the Old Testament is yet to be fulfilled. Some is still to be fulfilled. And that's why you have the book of Revelation to show us it is coming, it will happen. And we can know, we can know without a doubt. You know, sometimes I think in our world we even used us as Christians, we sort of go, I mean, if Christ really gonna come in the clouds, like Like, come on now. Like, you know, aren't we like isn't that a little archaic to think that Christ is actually coming? Maybe maybe we don't really think that anymore, or something like, no, if you believe what God's word says, Christ is Coming. And we can hope in that and trust in that and look forward to that and know it's going to happen because God has been faithful to his promises in the past. And so our hope rests in Jesus. Our hope rests in Christ. That is the hope of the believer. Our hope doesn't rest in our good works, it doesn't rest in our church. It doesn't rest in In some organized religion, it rests in Jesus. Jesus is the author and the finisher of our faith He has authored it. That is, when Jesus came the first time in his first coming, he came and he offered the kingdom to Israel, but he also offered his life to us. He died to be the punishment for our sin. He went to the cross, lived a perfect life, went on the cross, and died to pay the punishment for our sin. Our sin separates us from God. What Jesus was doing at that point was that he was making, he was paying a price for us He was making a way for us to be able to come into the kingdom. So he paid the price on the cross to pay the punishment for our sin so that we could have our sins forgiven. We, our sin separates us from God. Jesus died to pay the punishment for our sin on the cross. So that all we have to do is trust in what Jesus already did in dying for us. Three days later he rose from the grave Why? Because one day he's coming back those who have placed their trust in him. He's made he's paid the price, he's made the way. Now there are those who will come to Jesus Place their trust in him so that when he comes again, the price has been paid, the gift has been accepted. And we can be in Christ's kingdom. That is the wonderful hope of all of the believer. Can I ask you a question this morning? Do you have that hope? Do you have the hope of Jesus? It's such an important hope. The world is not a place to put your hope. Our government is not a place to put your hope. Other governments of the world is not a place to put your hope. Christ is our only hope. Either we believe what the Bible says Or we are, the Bible says we are of all people most miserable. Today, I would just ask you the question: do you have your hope in Jesus? And if you say, I I don't I don't you know if Christ were to come, I don't know where I would st I don't I don't really know. I'm a good person, I believe in a historical Jesus, I believe in Believe that he, you know, I I don't not believe, but I'm not really sure if I've really trusted Christ as my Lord and Savior. I'm not really sure. Let me encourage you that you can be sure. You say, well, I'm not really sure. You can be sure. Well, the Bible actually says you can't be sure. The Bible actually says in 1 John chapter 5, these things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. Christ came to give you life, eternal life. It says that in the Bible. He came the first time. He is coming again. The question is, is do you know for sure whether you will be with him when he comes? And if you're not sure, come and talk with me after the service. Or talk with somebody perhaps that you're comfortable with, and we'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with the Lord. For those of us who know Christ our Savior, during hard times, during difficult times in our life, during uncertain times, look, let's not depend upon anything else but Christ. Let's resist the temptation to depend upon our bank accounts, to depend upon our retirement, to depend upon our government, to depend upon some earthly thing. Let's set our minds on things above, not on the things of this world. And let's put our hope firmly in Christ. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Father, we come to you and we thank you and praise you for your word. We thank you for this its truth, and we thank you that we have seen how you have been faithful to the nation of Israel and fulfilling various promises. And we thank you, Lord, that we can have confidence in knowing that you will fulfill the promises that you give to us as well. We look forward to the coming of Christ. That is our hope. The hope of every believer. We thank you for that. And we pray, Lord, if there is somebody here this morning that doesn't have that hope, I pray that you would work in their lives and their hearts, open their minds, and help them to see that they can have that hope of eternal life for themselves. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Gannam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call, so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for Please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.