Well good morning. We are going to be in Zechariah this morning, and we're going to be in chapter 7, looking at verses 1 through 7. And before we go there, let's ask the Lord's blessing on his word. Father, we thank you this morning. We are so grateful, Father, for your goodness and your kindness to us, Father. You have been merciful, full of grace and love, and we're thankful for your patience and kindness to us and the blessings that you bestow upon us. And as we come to this time this morning to sit under your word, Father, I pray that you would help us to set aside all the cares and concerns of this week. That we might take time this morning to hear from your word. And Lord, as we hear from your word, we ask that it would transform us more and more into your image. And I pray, Father, that we would meditate upon it and that we would take it to heart and become obedient to it, that in all things you would be glorified And lift it up. And we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Zechariah chapter 7, verses 1 through 7. Now in the fourth year of King Darius, it came to pass that the word of the Lord came to Zachariah on the fourth day of the ninth month of Chislev And when the people sent Sharazar and Rajem Melech and his men to the house of God to pray before the Lord and to ask the priest who were in the house of the Lord of hosts and the prophets, saying, Should I should I weep in the fifth month and fast as I have done for so many years? Then the word of the Lord of hosts came to me saying, Say to all the people of the land and to the priest When you fasted and mourned in the fifth and seventh months, during those 70 years, did you really fast for me? For me? When you eat and when you drink, do you not eat and drink for yourselves Should you not have obeyed the words which the Lord proclaimed through the former prophets, when Jerusalem and the cities around it were inhabited and prosperous And the south and the lowland were inhabited. A dad plans a special day with his teenage daughter. Uh they go and eat at their fa at her favorite restaurant and enjoy her favorite theme park and stop by her favorite ice cream place They talk together and they laugh together. And at the end of that day, the daughter turns to her father and says, Dad, now that we have spent the entire day together, can you buy me a new car? Now that would be a very sad thing for a father to hear at the end of a day like that, right? And my girls, by the way, would never do that, I I I assure you was not a reflection of any of them. I did not get this illustration from them. But anyway, it would be really a breakdown of a relationship if that were to happen. It would it would almost reverse and really would definitely reverse all of what happened that day. Sometimes in our relationship with the Lord, there can be a breakdown in our relationship of a similar kind. And actually, as we turn to Zechariah chapter 5 The question that the people are going to ask is in turn responded to by a question from God that reflects a problem with their relationship with Him And the same problem that the relationship that they had with him is, it's the same problem that you and I can have with him as well. So this text is going to help us really in a very practical way with our relationship with our God. And as we get into it, we will see that. We pick up here in the text and we see in the very first verse that there has been really a shift in thinking from the previous chapters. Of course, you remember all the visions of the previous chapters and the sort of interesting pictures of women in baskets and things like that. We turn our attention to chapter 7, verse 1, and we're advancing two years. Notice what it says in the text. Now in the fourth year of King Darius, in the And it came to pass that the word of the Lord came to Zechariah the fourth day of the ninth month. Notice it says king, by the way. In Zechariah 1-1, when it when it describes Darius, it doesn't use the word king. Here it does because the emphasis is the f is on the fact that this is King Darius. And as you'll recall from the past, the kingdom of Persia is in power. King Darius is on the throne. But King Darius has freed to a large extent the people of God to go up to Jerusalem, to establish the temple, to lay the foundation To begin to build walls and re-establish Jerusalem as a place where they could see as their place where God is and where the people of God Israel can be. This is two years after chapter one and all of those and and all the different visions that we have seen. And it's in the midpoint between the time that they established the foundation of the temple And when the temple would finally be completed, it's around December 7th, 518 BC. Now during this time, the people of God still felt the reality of Cyrus being the king. And that they did not have their own freedom and autonomy and their own nation, if you will. They were still under a different kingdom. And they realized from the past that there was a promise that they would be freed to be their own nation, that there would be someone who would come who would free them Even before they went into these 70 years of captivity under first under Babylon and then under other other kingdoms after that, uh they they realized that one day they there was prophecies that God would free them. And so there was a group of people that came to ask God a question. It says in the text, when the people sent Shareser with Regamelech and his men. And it says to the house of God. Now that's an interesting verse for this, an interesting phrase for this reason. Because it's actually referencing where they came from, not where they went to. The word house of God there is one word, Bethel. And that word, interestingly enough. But actually, Bethel Baptist Church is a good place, and Bethel is not, actually. Which which we will see. So there shouldn't be that much of a connection. It does mean house of God, that's what the word means. But two hundred and fifty times this word is used in the Old Testament, and it is my understanding anyway, I didn't look at every two hundred and fifty But it's my understanding that it's never used to refer to the temple, to God's temple. In fact, this word is referencing a location And it really is talking about from the these people that came from somewhere, not went to somewhere. The New American Standard and the ESV uh, I believe, get this correctly when they say, now the people of Bethel had sent Shara Shareser and Regamelech and their men to entreat the favor of the Lord. So as the people of Bethel that sent from them to Jerusalem. So there's this entourage of people, this delegation of people that came from Bethel to Jerusalem. It's actually extremely significant that we understand that, to understand what's going on in this text. You see, much, many, many, many years prior to even the captivity of of Babylon, uh and and even before that. The kingdom of Israel, if you think of Solomon's time and then after Solomon, the kingdom of Israel was broken up into two parts. The northern kingdom which was the northern kingdom of Israel and Judah the southern kingdom. You could put that on the on the screen there. You'll see that You have the northern kingdom of the sub kingdom led by Rehoboam in the in the south and Jeroboam in the north in the north in Israel And you'll notice some prominent cities, and you see the south, that very prominent city of Jerusalem, and you see in the north that that very prominent city of Bethel. It's on the southern part of the region. And that along with another city that we'll learn about later, was a city that Jeroboam set up high places. He set up essentially places to worship idols so that they wouldn't have to cross over into Jerusalem. That's all going to become very important in the story. It's found in 1 Kings chapter 12, verses 25 through 33, and it says in that passage, and he, meaning Jeroboam, set up one one in Bethel and the other in Dan. Now this thing became a sin for the people, went to the worship before the one as far as Dan. He made shrines on the high places and made breasts uh priests rather from every class of people and were not of the sons of Levi. He set up golden calfs, in fact. He referred back to back to Egypt and and the fact that these calves had brought them out of Egypt and he sets these things up in Bethel as well as Dan. And so Bethel becomes a really important city for us to think about and to remember. The fact that there was a group of people that came from Bethel and went down to Jerusalem is actually significant. It was showing That there was going to be a unification of God's people, that there wouldn't be this northern kingdom and southern kingdom anymore. There would just be one people of God, and they would all see that central place in Jerusalem and that central temple as a place uh where God was going to be. And so and so this was, in a sense, a good thing, and and their motives were probably pretty good in wanting to come And it says, pray before the Lord. They wanted to entreat the Lord, in other places translated, to seek the face of Yahweh. It was in the context of coming to seek relief from difficult circumstances. Well, what were the difficult circumstances that they were facing? Well, it wasn't Famine. In fact, it was this practice of fasting. Notice what the question, notice the question that they ask in verse 3. They ask this question, it says Verse 3, and to ask the priest, that's who they're going to be asking, who were the house of the Lord of hosts and the prophets, saying, Shall I weep in the fifth month? And fast as I have done for so many years. They come. This weeping is a kind of ceremonial weeping, a mourning, and a fasting that they had done for uh for 70 years and they specify in the fifth month. Why are they asking this question? Why aren't they coming to the priest and saying, should I keep fasting on the fifth month? Well, there's something we need to understand. The fifth month was the month that Nebuchadnezzar destroyed the temple way back 70 years ago. It's found in both Jeremiah 52, 12 and 2 Kings 25, verse 8. And so from that point, when Nebuchadnezzar and the Babylonians came in and destroyed the temple in Jerusalem, from that point they began to mourn and to fast. And that's reasonable if you think about it. Their temple, their place where they saw as where God's presence was and all that, that was gone And so they fasted as a result. They probably were very sincere about this. Probably they were really truly lamenting, and maybe even they were thinking about the fact that all of this occurred. As was prophesied by Isaiah, that this was actually as a matter of chastening for the nation of Israel. Maybe they realized that. This was coming about. Maybe they even realized their own sin and their own idolatry and their own their own sin that caused this. But over time, something happened to this fasting routine. It it became exactly that. It became something that they did on the fifth month and also on the seventh month, apparently. And it was something that they did over and over and over again every year. And so they asked this question, do we need to keep doing this? Why they why they ask that? I'll tell you why they ask it. It's they ask it because They began to believe that this fasting routine was to entice God to free them from captivity. That they just kept doing this and they were faithful in doing this. Maybe God would come and bless them. Maybe God would entice them. And they began to see that the temple was being built and they were sort of getting free from from uh from captivity. And yet in a sense they weren't all they weren't as well. And so they had questions. Was God was this the time that God was going to free them? Did they need to keep fasting in order to entice God to to get this uh to to free them from captivity? Actually, their question, though it was probably sincere, they were probably asking the question this way, Lord, what do you want us to do at this point? was based upon a wrong idea about this ritual that occurred. We see this in the text by the way that God answers. This text is not about fasting, actually. This text is about something else. This is a text about something entirely different that we're going to see in the passage. As we see that this relationship between God and His people, it was being robbed by something. And it's rooted out in verses 4 through 7 here. We see it says in the text, picking up in verse 4. Then the word of the Lord of hosts came to me, saying, This is God's, this is the word of the Lord, coming to Zechariah, answering this question. Say to all the people of the land and to the priests, let them know this as well, when you fasted, and notice the question When you fasted and mourned in the fifth and seventh months during those seventy years, did you really fast for me? For me? Why was he answering this qu asking this question? Why was God asking the question? Well, this wasn't a matter of fasting. That wasn't the thing that he was concerned about. In fact, in the very next question he's going to ask, he's going to ask about feasting. Look at verse 6 When you eat and when you drink, do you not eat and drink for yourselves? See, the question, the issue that God is concerned about is a matter of heart motive. It's not about ritual, it's about relationship. And he asked this question about feasting to remind them of a time these people from Bethel to remind them of a time when Jeroboam, the king of the northern kingdom that we talked about, uh where he set up feasts For idols. It actually ends 1 Kings chapter 12. It says this verse 32. Jeroboam ordained a feast on the 15th day of the eighth month Like the feast that was in Judah and offered sacrifices on the altar. But he did at so he did at Bethel, sacrificing to the calves that he had made. And at Bethel he installed the priests of the high places which he had made. So he made offerings on the altar which he had made in Bethel on the fifth day, fifteenth day of the eighth month. In the month which he had devised in his own heart, and he ordained a feast for the children of Israel, and offered sacrifices on the altar and burned incense. This was deplorable. This was horrible. Feasts were created to celebrate the false gods, these calves that Jeroboam had set up. And I think what God was doing here was referencing the fact that these feasts, it wasn't a matter of feasts, but it wasn't these feasts were in a sense for these idols which were ultimately for themselves and he is saying the fasting became the same thing. It became a ritual that they were doing for selfish reasons. Now before you think too too too poorly about these people Are you and I ever guilty of this? Do we ever find ourselves in a place where we are doing what we are doing Yes, we're doing it for God, but we're really hoping that God will bless us in a certain way if we do what He wants us to do. We're really hoping that he won't bring his that he won't punish us in another way if we do what he wants us to do Our relationship, instead of becoming, instead of being loving, becomes transactional. This transactional relationship, Lord, I'll do this for you if you'll do this for me Look, there are entire religions that are entirely based on a transactional relationship instead of a loving relationship. People go to a service because they think that if they come to a church service, that this will be something that God will look down on them. Almost like a maybe a good luck charm or that God will bless them the rest of the week if they come to this service. It's ritual with selfish motive. And this is what God says to them. He says Whether or not you should fast, that's actually not the question. For these last seventy years, have you been doing this truly for me? And the answer, the implied answer is you have not. You have actually been doing it for yourself. See, he's saying, you can't fast to somehow entice me to free you. It doesn't work that way. That's not the relationship that God intended for his people. And it's not the relationship that he intends for you and I either We can c we can begin to do this in our lives as we begin to do certain things. It can e it can even happen in ministry where we think if we're faithful in ministry and we do And we do certain things, then then we'll feel really good about ourselves or we'll do there's something selfish rather than actually doing it entirely entirely for the Lord. See, I wrote down five things. They're actually in your bulletins, but we'll also have them up on the screen. Five things when relationship turns to ritual. And we need to look at these things so that we don't fall into them ourselves. First of all, relationship turns to ritual when our practice is done in God when our practice is in God's name, but for our glory. Relationship turns to ritual when our practice, what we are doing, is in God's name, but for our glory. The very issue of fasting Jesus spoke of in Matthew chapter 6 in the Sermon on the Mount. He says, moreover, when you fast, do not be like the hypocrites with south countenance for they disfigure their faces, that they may appear to men to be fasting. Assuredly I say to you, that they have their reward. But you, when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face So that you do not appear to men to be fasting, but to your father who is in the secret place, and your father who sees you in secret will reward you openly. Now this is not a passage on fasting and whether and the merits of fasting or whether fasting is not not good. But if you're going to fast, Jesus says don't do it for your own glory. Don't do it so other people can look and say, boy, that is a really good Christian. Number two Relationship turns to ritual when our primary purpose is to receive from God rather than give to God. To receive from God rather than give to God. Jeremiah 29, 12 says this. Then you will call upon me and go and pray to me, and I will listen to you. And you will seek me and find me. Notice what it says in the passage, when you search for me with all your heart. See, God wants all of our hearts. He wants us to search for him and love him with everything, not to receive from him. And that's why we give to him. Number three, when our practices prioritize our values over God's values. When what we do prioritizes our values over God's values. We have to be so careful of this. This happened in in in David's time. Do you remember the story of David and do you remember the story of Jesse and all uh and all the the the the brothers and and how they were choosing the next king. What were the people looking at? They were looking at the appearance. And that is not God's value. God's value is something else than we find in 1 Samuel 16, verse 7. The Lord said to Samuel, Do not look on his appearance or at his physical stature. Because I have refused him. For the Lord does not see as man sees. For man looks at the outward appearance. The Lord looks on the heart. We look, it's so easy for us as human beings in a physical world to begin to value something that God does not truly value. God doesn't value riches. He doesn't value fame. He doesn't value fortune. He doesn't value success as the world sees it. He doesn't value those things. He values whether or not we give our hearts and our lives to him in service to him. You remember the story of the of Jesus at the well with the woman. And they talked were talking about worship. And remember what the woman said to Jesus? She asked, Where should we worship? Should we worship at Samaria, at our temple, or should we worship in Jerusalem? Where should we, where's the right place to go? You remember what Jesus says? He says, but the hour is coming and now is, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. For the Father is seeking such to worship him. God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. We value all kinds of things that God does not value. And when we value, and our priorities can be wrong, sometimes God values certain things, but not at the law value, not at the level that we do. Relationship turns to ritual when we begin to do what we do, but we're more concerned about what we value. than what God values. Number four, when our practice prioritizes our goals over God's direction What our practice prioritizes our goals over God's direction. Now, we all have goals. We can have a goal to lose weight Not a bad goal, if you need to. Some of you probably need to gain weight. That might be a fine goal too, if you need to. Most of us lose weight, but anyway But but if that is your end goal, if that's more becomes more important uh then God's objectives, then serving God, then stewarding what He has given us. If if we get things out of priority, it's very easy for us for our relationship to turn to ritual. It's like we gut it. of it's of of the true loving kind of relationship that God wants us to have. Sometimes our routines become rituals when to we begin to feel good about ourselves. There's a sense of control or a sense of c accomplishment. And those things become idols in our lives where we begin to do what we do so that we feel good about ourselves. Colossians 2 warns us of about this in verse 20 and 23 through 23. It says, Therefore, if you die with Christ from the basic principles of the world, why as though living in the world do you subject yourselves to regulations? Do not touch, do not taste, do not handle, which all concern things which perish with the using, according to the commandments and doctrines of men. These things indeed have an appearance of wisdom in self-imposing religion, false humility and neglect of the body, but are of no value against the indulgence of the flesh. Number five, when we think that our efforts will direct God's actions, we think our efforts will actually direct God's actions. Folks, that cannot happen. And it does not happen. God is sovereign. He is in control. And in fact, that is exactly the problem that we find in the passage. that they believed that there was some sense in which if they would keep this ritual up, they would they would it would cause them or have some effect on God to allow them to be freed. The truth is, God is going to direct them, their attention, to prior to the teachings prior and the prophecies prior to the the this captivity time, this time of seventy years where they were captive by Babylon And we find in Isaiah and Jeremiah and other passages, we find that God really begins to hate these rituals as they begin to unfold in the lives of the people of God. For example, in Isaiah chapter 1, verse 11, verse 13, he says this. Bring no more fuel sacrifices, incenses, an abomination to me, the new moons, the sabbaths the calling of assemblies. I cannot endure iniquity and the sacred meeting Your new moons and your appointed feasts, my soul hates. They are a trouble to me. I am weary of bearing them. When you spread out your hands, I will hide my eyes from you. Even though you make many prayers, I will hear. Your hands are full of blood. Wash yourselves, make yourselves clean, put away the evil from your doings. From before my eyes cease to do evil. In Jeremiah chapter 7, verse 22, it says, For I Did not speak to your fathers or command them in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt concerning burnt offerings and sacrifices. And this is what I commanded them, saying, Obey my voice, and I will be your God, and you shall be my people, and walk in all my ways I have commanded you, that it may be well with you. In Isaiah, or Amos rather, chapter five, verse twenty-one, it says, I hate, I despise your feast days, I do not savor your sacred assemblies. You see, any time rituals, any time practices, any time ministries, any time What we do, our behavior is for is for us or for others supremely When we think it's in the name of God, instead it's somehow selfishly for us, this is something that God despises. So how do we return? How do these people, what does God care about? How do these people return to Him? How is it that they can have this relationship restored? Notice the command it's given in verse 7. It's a question, but it's rhetorical. Verse 7 says, Should you not have obeyed the words which the Lord proclaimed through the former prophets? Should you not have obeyed what has been said? He points them to obedience He says, if you truly want to worship me, if you truly want to know what I want you to do, it's not a matter of doing the rituals you want to do in order you For you to gain something from me, you need to simply obey me. Obeying, obeying the Lord becomes becomes the method with which we express our love to God. Remember back in the Old Testament and Old Saul? But you remember what happened with Saul as he as he wanted to go to war and it's and he wouldn't he wasn't going to wait and so he decided to take upon himself uh the to to make a sacrifice uh to somehow create and something that God would then bless him so that the war would be successful And so Samuel comes, did one wait for Samuel, Samuel comes, and he says to Saul, Has the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices? As in obeying the voice of the Lord. Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice and to heed than the fat of rams. For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the Lord, he also has rejected you from being tame Hosea chapter 6, verse 6, for I desire mercy and not sacrifice, and the knowledge of God more than burnt offerings. God is calling his people to have a relationship where we are following after him, where we are obeying him from the heart, and we are doing so out of love for him. He points out in the text, he says, go back when Jerusalem and the cities around it were inhabited by and prosperous. Think back to those times where there was actually prosperity in the land. Go back there and realize that this was because you were in an obedient covenant relationship with me Negev was an expensive region, and Shepatah in this passage was a huge, inhabited, fertile region. But right now, at the present time, it was just Jerusalem and a few other areas. It expanded out a little bit, but they did not have the they did not have the land, they did not have the abilities, they did not have all of what they had before. And God says, go back to the time even prior to that, where you simply obeyed me. Now the truth, and and and what the prophet said, follow me. Follow what they said back then. Well, what did God say? Well, if we go back all the way back to Deuteronomy 11, verse 1, it says this. Therefore you shall love the Lord your God. And notice what it says. And keep his charge, his statutes, his judgments, and his commandments always. Jesus brings this into our first century when he says in chapter 14, verse 15, If you love me, keep my commandments. And in verse 21, he who has my commandments and keeps them, it is he who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him. And John, later on in John chapter 14 again, verse 23, Jesus answered and said, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word. And my Father will love him, and he will come to him and make our home with him. He will he who does not love me does not keep my words, and the word which you hear is not mine, but the Father's who sent me Now, what we see in these passages, both in the Old Testament and in the New Testament, that God's met God's desire for his people is to love him supremely. And to show that love through genuine obedience. And you go, obedience, that sounds hard. Obed wait a minute. I thought we were getting away from ritual and routine and all those hard things. I thought we were getting away from all of that. Now you're saying obedience is the answer? What gives? I thought I was going to like be freed from all these shackles of rituals. Well, notice what 1 John 5 says, verse 2. For this we know that we love the children of God, that we love God and keep his commandments. For this is the love of God that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not burdensome. Did you catch that? The true commandments of God for one who truly loves God, it's not burdensome. In other words, you want to do it. Isn't that true? When you truly love someone, you want to please them. When you truly love someone, you want to make them happy. You want to follow them. You want to do what they want you to do. And that's the relationship that we have. It's not a not intended to be a burden. It's intended to be a way for us to show genuine love to God. In fact, it's interesting what Jesus says in John chapter 15. In John chapter 15, verses 9 through 17, it says something that uh that's quite quite amazing. I want to set it up before we get to it this way. When we think of obedience, we often think of like enslavement Or a certain like servant. And of course, the Bible actually does describe us as servants of His in the New Testament. But in a different way, the relationship that God wants us to have is something different than just enslavement or servanthood alone. There's something else that God has in mind. If you have, if someone has a a servant or even a slave, And they give commands that slave or that servant just has to obey with and they just got to do it because they're going to be punished if they don't, right? That's essentially, or there are going to be some consequence, some punishment. But that is not the relationship that Christ wants with us, and that he is not set up for us. Notice what it says in the passage in John chapter 15 verse 9. As the Father loved me, I also have loved you. That's amazing by the way That the Father loves Jesus and Jesus loves us to the same degree the Father loves him. Incredible. I also have loved you. Abide in my love, he says. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. These things I have spoken to you, that my joy may remain in you, that your joy may be full. This is my commandment that you love one another. Greater love has no one than this. That a man lays down his life for his friends. But notice what it says in verse 14. You are my friends if you do whatever I command you. No longer do I call you servants For a servant does not know what his master is doing, but I have called you friends. For all things that I heard from my father I have made known to you. Do you know what Christ invites us into? He invites us into this loving relationship where we are partnering with him. To do what he is what the Father has called him to do, and we get to be a part of it. We are joint heirs with Christ, as Paul is going to later on say It's an incredible thing where we are together with him in this loving relationship. Yes, it's obedience. But it's an obedience that's not burdensome because we're going for the same goal. We have the same cause. We have the same mission. We have the same values. And when we get off on that We end up moving into ritual rather than relationship. So how do we apply this to our lives? Number one, I have three questions. Number one, have you attempted to apply the gospel using ritual instead of heart obedience? This is a very important question. It's interesting that in Romans chapter 10, verse 16, it says this, for they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed our rapport? So then faith comes by hearing. And hearing by the word of God. That's really an interesting couple of verses, isn't it? It equates obedience with belief. Now when we say obedience, we want to be careful here in this context that we're not saying that it includes self-effort. Of course, we know from Romans chapter 4 can't be saying that, chapter 3, chapter 4. But on the other hand, God's way, our God's way of us establishing a relationship with Him. Is not through some ritual. It's not through some practice. In fact, that actually is the point. We could even pray a prayer. Hey, do you know Christ as your Savior? Oh yeah, I prayed a prayer when I was four or five. Is it the prayer that saves you? Is it the ritual? Is it some act? Is it saying certain words? Is it doing certain things that brings you to a place where you have a right relationship with God. If you think that you may be deceived into thinking that you're a child of God when actually you are in this sort of transactional thing that God never intended. Notice what it says in just a few verses before in Romans chapter 10, verse 8. It says What does it say? The word is near you in your mouth and in your heart. That is the word of faith which we preach. That if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus, that word that means agree, agree, say the same thing With your mouth, Lord Jesus. And believe, notice what it says there, believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. You will be saved. For with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth, confession is made unto salvation. See, when we come to a personal relationship with God, it is when we are believing in what Jesus, in who Jesus is, that he is He is who he said he was. He is God in the flesh. He lived a perfect life. And he died. And he took our sin on himself. And he paid the punishment for our sin. And if we will believe with our hearts, then he will give us his righteousness because he has died to pay the punishment for our sin. See, that's different than any practice, any service, any ministry. It's different than any kind of ritual. None of that matters at all. The only thing that matters is whether or not you have truly placed your faith and trust in Christ. as your Savior. Have you come to a place where you understand that your sin separates you from God? Because God is holy and he can't look on sin. Have you understand that Jesus died to take your sin problem away? Do you understand that he will give you his righteousness if you will accept what he did by faith? The Bible says, if you will call on the name of the Lord, you will be saved. If you don't know, if you're not sure, if you say, well, maybe I just kind of said a prayer or just went through a ritual or I'm trusting in some sort of act There's only one act that matters. There's only one work that matters. It is the work of Jesus Christ when he died on the cross for us and rose from the grave three days later. Number two, Christian, have you somehow substituted loving obedience with ritual? This can happen so quickly. It can happen on it can happen so quickly. I was I was reading through Deuteronomy in my in my devotions, and um it was it it's pretty amazing How often God will say, obey me and this and I'll bless you. Obey me and I'll bless you. And I'll obey me and I'll bless you. But God is not saying that as some sort of transactional kind of thing where if you if you do this, then I will I'm sort of bound to do this. In certain ways he is, but not where I was reading in Deuteronomy See, see, he he's saying that he it's really more like this. He wants to bless his people. But he really can't bless them if they're in not in right relationship with him. But I'll tell you what happens as Christians a lot of times We begin to have a loving relationship with God, and God, as a good father, blesses us, and if we're not careful, we begin to value the blessings above the God who gave them. And if we're not careful, we begin to think, well, I gotta keep up this relationship with God, so I keep these blessings. And there's a switch that happens, and you have just moved from relationship to ritual. Be careful about that. Have you substituted a loving obedience with ritual? Number three, will you turn from a transactional relationship? to a loving relationship. Maybe you say maybe you say today, you know, I boy, uh you you may be on you may you may know Christ as as as your s as your Lord and Savior, but this is This has occurred. Something has happened in your life as a Christian where you sort of go, Well, I think this has happened. I am not really obeying and following God out of love for him. That's not really why I'm doing what I'm doing. Or maybe you have never actually been in that kind of loving relationship. Where you You you've always thought it's kind of like if if I do the right religious things, then I'll be in right standing with God. This whole idea of a loving relationship, I I don't really know anything about that. Either case either case. The answer, I'll tell you the answer. The answer is actually to realize God's awesome love for you. Did you know that? Here's what I mean. We do not have the ability to love someone as the source of love. In other words, we we cannot we don't we can't be the primary source of love. We don't have it in us to do that. If you try to love somebody in your own strength, I think of Ephesians chapter 5 where the Says that husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself for her. I mean, like, what? Like, how could I ever do that? And the answer is you can't. And I can't I must first understand the source of love, that God loves me Supremely. And once I know through the gospel how much God loves me Then I'm able, as a responder to the love of God, I can respond by loving him back. If you don't know Christ as your Savior, then you need to understand God's great love for you. And you need to respond by accepting that gift of eternal life. And if you are a child of God, if you are a Christian, you need to respond to by God's great love for you. And respond by choosing to love him with all your heart. If you have a heart love problem, the answer is to go back to the Word of God and to see how much God loves you. you. Romans chapter 8, nothing can separate you from the love of God. Ephesians chapter 3, this love that passes knowledge. When you know the love of God, when you are meditating on the love of God, when you see it in the gospel, the way that God intends, you cannot help as a Christian but respond. By loving him with all of your heart. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for your word and your truth this morning. We thank you for how this text reminds us of a problem that is so easy for us as human beings and even as Christians to fall into. And Lord, I pray that you would help us. Those of us who Maybe it may have fallen into a transactional relationship, sort of of we're doing what we're doing to feel good about ourselves, or there's some selfish motive or something's not right in our priorities. Lord, I pray today we would examine ourselves. We would be refreshed anew by the love that you have for us. And that we would respond in love for you through obedience. Because obeying you is not burdensome. Not when we're your friend. Not when we have that kind of loving relationship. And Lord, also, if there is someone here that they don't have that loving relationship. They the the idea of of having this kind of relationship with with you is maybe even foreign to their ears. I pray today you would help them to understand The wonderful truths that we see in your word and that you want to have a loving relationship with them work in their hearts as well. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community here at BBC. you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call, so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon