Before we begin, let's go ask God's guidance and direction for us. Father, we thank you. We thank you so much. And we're so grateful for all that Christ has done on our behalf. And Lord, we know that without you we can do nothing. And we are grateful and thankful this morning that you chose to use us through your Son, Jesus Christ. And as we come to this time, Lord, as we sit under your word and your teaching I pray, Father, that you would help us to really set aside all the cares and all the noise of this world for the next hour Help us to concentrate totally and fully upon your word. And I pray that your Spirit will do a mighty work in our hearts. Lord, bring conviction where we need conviction. Bring encouragement where we need encouragement. And bring peace to our hearts where we need peace. But most of all Help us to trust in your word and your truth, that in all things you would be glorified and lifted up in us in Jesus' name. Amen. Zechariah Chapter eight, verse nine through seventeen Thus says the Lord of hosts, let your hands be strong, you who have been hearing in these days. These words by the mouth of the prophets, who spoke in the day the foundation was laid, for the house of the Lord of hosts. That the temple might be built. For before these days there were no wages for man, nor any hire for beast There was no peace from the enemy, for whoever went out and came in. For I set all men, every one against his neighbor But now I will not treat the remnant of this people as in the former days, says the Lord of hosts. For the seed shall prosper, the vine shall give its fruit, the ground shall give her increase, and the heavens shall give their dew. I will cause the remnant of this people to possess all of these. And it shall come to pass that just as you were a curse among the nations, O house of Judah and house of Israel, so I will save you, and you shall be a blessing. Do not fear. Let your hands be strong. For thus says the Lord of hosts, just as I determined to punish you when your fathers provoked me to wrath, says the Lord of hosts And I would not relent. So again, in these days, I am determined to do good to Jerusalem and to the house of Judah. Do not fear These are the things you shall do. Speak each man the truth to his neighbor. Give judgment in your gates for justice, for truth, and peace. Let none of you think evil in your heart against your neighbor, and do not love a false oath, for all these things that I hate, saith the Lord. Have you ever lost motivation doing a particular task because you're doing it over and over again and you feel like you're getting nowhere, you're just spinning your wheels, you're not being productive. Like laundry, for example. I don't know if it's possible to ever say you're done your laundry. I mean practically to be finished laundry would mean that for at least a day Um someone would have to not you know, like the family wouldn't be able to wear clothes because like as soon as you finish your laundry, you've got more to do. So sorry for those of you who do laundry all the time. I have it's I don't do a lot of laundry. I that's why I had three girls, um, so I don't have That's actually not why I have no control over that. But anyway, um I don't do a a great deal of laundry. Uh but um but I can em I can imagine that it's one of those things that you just have to do over and over again. Or dishes or those kinds of things. Like it's never done. never really accomplished. And those kinds of tasks you can become quite frustrated over because It feels like you're really not making progress. The people to whom God is speaking to are in a time where they feel like they're not making a great deal of progress. You'll recall from sever about three weeks ago or four weeks ago maybe, that the people from Bethel, there was a delegation from north of Jerusalem, Bethel, that came down to ask the priests of Jerusalem a question about fasting. And that particular question they had in their mind was, should we continue this ritual to entreat the good graces of God to free us because we don't see things happening fast enough. Things are not being accomplished at the rate we we want them to accomplish? Do we need to keep doing this? And of course God's reply in chapter seven was, you don't get it. His reply was You have been doing this ritual for yourself and not for me. And you have been punished and chastened by my hand. Because you have essentially been focused on self instead of me. God says that essentially in chapter 7. In chapter 8, as we move into this text, we want to remember that as we've seen in verses 1 through 8. But God is now going to remind them of and guarantee, re-guarantee, if you will, the promises that God is not finished with them, that He will establish His kingdom. But remember the context, remember the background. They are this is during a time where they feel as though they are spinning their wheels, like they're not able to accomplish things. For example, in Haggai chapter 1, verse 6 it says, You have sown much, but bring in little. You eat, but do not have. You drink, but you have not filled with drink. You clothe yourselves, but do not but no one is warm. And he who earns wages earns wages to put it put into a bag with holes. Similarly, in Haggai chapter 1, verse 9, it says, You looked for much, but indeed it came to little, and when you brought it home, I blew it away. Why, says the Lord of hosts? Because my house that is that in is in ruins, while every one of you runs to its own house. Therefore the heavens above above you withhold the dew And the earth withholds its fruit. For I called for a drought on the land of the mountains, on the grain and the new wine of the oil. on whatsoever the ground brings forth, on men and livestock, and on the labor of your hands. These passages tell us that the people became so discouraged that they said, you know, I'm gonna stop working on the temple of God. I'm gonna start stop trying to serve for the furtherance of the kingdom, and I'm just gonna worry about my own house. I'm just gonna worry about my own home, what I need to do, what I need to get done. They diverted their attention. Why? At least in part because they feel felt as though they were not making the kind of progress that they wanted to make They looked at the foundation of the temple, as you'll recall, that they had built, and it wasn't anything like what some of the older folks had remembered from the previous Temple of Solomon. And as a result, they were losing motivation. This is why the text tells us in both verse 9 and verse 13: let your hands be strong. Let your hands be strong. Implied in that phrase, first of all, is that your hands, your ability to work, needs to be strong. Continue to work. But the strength that he is referring to in this passage is not so much a physical strength. There was not necessarily a physical weakness on the part of the people. It was it was Emotional and spiritual. It was motivational strengths. They needed to be motivated To work, motivated to serve God. I gotta be honest with you, as I look at this text and as I think about the people of God during this time I think to myself I can understand why it would be easy to get discouraged. I could understand why it would be easy to uh to throw in the towel or to say, you know, I've just got to deal with m what I wanna deal what I need to deal with in my own house. I'm not gonna continue to serve the Lord. I I get it. I can understand this. They have been looking for God to work and to establish his kingdom for many years, in fact a thousand years at this point, and that has not yet happened. Of course, it was it was largely to the it was Israel's fault. They had fallen into idolatry and They would it did not repent, and it was their fault that that had happened so far. Certainly they I I can imagine that they began to wonder, is this ever going to happen? I think likewise us as Christians sometimes we think to ourselves, is the coming of the Lord ever going to happen? Is Christ ever actually going to return? Uh the things that I'm doing on this earth, you know, like I don't see the service that I do, I don't see the immediate reward. I don't see the immediate results of the things that I'm trying to do for God. And you and I can become quite discouraged as well. We can want to throw on the towel. We can want to, we can think we're spinning our wheels. And so the things, the ways that God motivated his people in this passage are the same ways that you and I can be motivated as well. A very important verse in this text is verse 8, where God says to the people, Zechariah 8, verse 8, I will bring them back. And they shall dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. They shall be my people, and I will be their God in truth. and righteousness. But the next message that God has for the for his people in this passage Is now let me motivate you. Strengthen your hands for the work. God motivates us, his people, for his work. But how does God do that? Well, he motivates in four ways in this passage. He motivates by, number one, responding to those who pay attention. By responding to those who are actually already paying attention. We'll see that in the text, verse 9. He motivates by reminding us of God's grace. He motivates us by assuring us of his promises, verses 13 through 15. And he motivates us by exhorting us to be people of truth, verses 16. We first pick up in verse 9 and we see that he motivates God, motivates his people by responding to those who are paying attention. Verse 9 says this, thus says the Lord of hosts, let your hands, be strong. You who have been hearing in these days. He says, those of you who are already hearing, those of you who have been hearing in these days. These words by the mouth of the prophets who spoke in the day the foundation was laid for the house of the Lord of hosts, that temple might be built, that the temple might be built. God was speaking through Haggai, through Zechariah, through others, and those who were listening from the very beginning of the laying of the foundation of the temple. Remember now at this point they're at the midpoint of the of the building of the temple. This is at the beginning. He said, those of you who have stayed, who remember the beginning commands to to to to establish the temple, to build it, those of you who have been paying attention and are listening I want your hands to be strong. Let your hands be strong. Now, this by the way does not mean it It comes occurs to me that we remember back in Zechariah chapter four that he says, not by might, not by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord. And saying that he wants Their hands to be strong. He is not saying that he wants them to do it in their own strength. He is saying that I want you to stay motivated. to do the work. He says something similar in Haggai chapter 2, verse 4. It says, Yet now be strong, Zerubabul, says the Lord. And be strong, Joshua, son Jehosedek, the high priest, and be strong, all you people of the land, says the Lord, and work, for I am with you, says the Lord of hosts. God calls us to be strong, to do the work that He has called us to do, to serve Him faithfully. And He's speaking to those who are often already paying attention. God calls us to know the Word, to meditate on the Word, to be in the Word, to be attentive to the words of God. And as we are faithfully, God will motivate us. Psalm 19, verse 8 says, the statutes of the Lord are right. Rejoicing the heart. Do you sense that that kind of motivating that occurs as we see the rightness of the statutes of God? It rejoices our hearts. The commandments of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than gold. Yea, than much fine gold. Sweeter also honey in the honeycomb. Moreover, by them your servant is warned, and keeping them there is great reward. God not only responds to those who are paying attention, he motivates them by reminding them of his grace. Motivates his people by reminding us of his grace. Verses 10 through 12. He's now again going to refer to the previous chasing that Israel has gone through. And he points out that this kind of chasten that he went through is a kind of enslavement where they had experienced for seventy years under captivity. They had experienced working without pay. Or behold, verse 10, for behold, before these days there were no wages for man, nor any hire for beast. And there was great hostility. There was no peace from the enemy for whoever went out or came in. And God says that it's his fault that that happened. It's because he chose this to happen. He says, For I set all men, everyone, against his neighbor. He's reminding them again of his chastening work. But I want you to notice verse 11. Because now he's going to explain that in the midst of his chastening of Israel, he is now going to sovereignly work through a group, a remnant of people. The remnant in this text are those people who have chosen to go from all over the place over at this point the Persian Empire. They have all now uh a group of them have converged into Jerusalem to rebuild the temple and to establish the wall and and to rebuild the city. He says, but now I will not treat the remnant of this people as in the former days, says the Lord. He he says, I'm going I'm I'm prom I I'm going to guarantee something here. I I want you to understand that yes, I I was involved in the previous chastening. I was involved in what was happening, but now But that word is very important. But now I will not treat the remnant of the people in the former days, says the Lord. And by the way, if we look ahead from Zechariah to Malachi and on, God never did again. We don't see him treat even though they were not as faithful as they need they should have been. as you as you begin to as you look at the the the the final books of the Old Testament. On the other hand, God never brought them into this kind of chasten, this remnant into this kind of chastening again Instead, he wants to explain to them that I want to prosper you. Look at verse 12. For the seed shall be prosperous. The vine shall give its fruit, the ground shall give her increase, and the heavens shall give their due. Now remind us that that might not be a big deal for us. We go, okay, so my garden's going to grow. Okay, you know, some I don't even have a garden. Like w what does that matter? No. You y you understand that what this is talking about, it was an agrarian society, this is a farming Desire, this is saying you are going to be successful and abundant. God wants to prosper this remnant of people in this passage. And he He says, I'm going to do this. He says, I will cause the remnant of this people to possess all of these. Now I want you to notice something. Do you notice that in this text so far, when he says, I will do this, none of it has anything to do with what the remnant is going to do. He is saying, I am going to put this all on myself. I am going to do this. I'm going to cause this to happen for you all. And to a large extent, at least to some degree, that does happen. Um it doesn't happen how however it doesn't happen to the to the extent that it could have could have had they truly been faithful in fulfilling what God had called them to fulfill. So I want to step back now and I want us to talk about this idea of a remnant. And to look at God's big picture as we think about Israel. Now, remember that God has promised that He will establish His kingdom through Israel, and as we noted last week, that actually has not yet happened. I mean God prospered the remnant to some degree. He brought forth Christ in the first coming. But never had the kingdom of God, has the kingdom of God been set up In the way that we see in the beginning chapter, in chapter 8 of this passage, in the beginning of chapter 8. Why? What is the delay? I mean, God is ultimately sovereign, isn't he? What is it that's causing this delay? Why has this occurred? Has God, I mean you look now, has God decided to turn his back on the nation of Israel? Has he turned his back on his people? Is he not going to fulfill his promises? You may want to turn. I have some of these verses highlighted. We won't take we won't look through all these, but in- I want us to look for a few minutes at Romans chapter 11. Romans chapter 11, you may want to turn there. Verse 1, that question is asked and answered Paul says in Romans chapter 11, verse 1, I say then, has God cast away his people? Answer, certainly not. We fast forward all the way into the church age. And Christ has come and lived the perfect life, died, rose from the grave, ascended to his Father. This has all happened. The church has been established, and Paul says now, he still says, certainly not, God has not cast away his people. Now you say, I but he's delayed. And that's certainly true, isn't it? You think about thousands of years now, and God is yet to establish his kingdom, and you may wonder why that is. I had somebody ask that question this week. Why is it that God has delayed so long? This passage is going to help us with this. It's going to answer this question in Romans chapter 11. But before we get into the answer to that question, I want us to really picture God's perspective on this. And I only use an illustration. It's not a perfect illustration. It's mine, so it's definitely not perfect. But I want us to think of God as a father and we have a son and they're running a business together Father and the son are running their business together, and the son does something egregious. He embezzles money from the business so that the father does not try He was not he for a long pattern of time, the son was not acting in the best interest of the business, not acting in the best interest of the family. And so the father says to the son, he was part owner, but not full, and but the father had the full ownership, and he was the control controlling ownership. And the father says to the son You are no longer part of this business. You're out. For five years, you're going to be out. You've lost that privilege of being a partner of this business So he's out. But on the other hand, the father says to the son, but I am still your father. And I will always be your father. And instead of backing away relationally, he actually draws closer to him relationally. He begins to do things with him, spend more time with them, show his love more to him to him. And that is actually the picture I want us to understand about God. Even though God said to Israel, I'm going to set you on the shelf, or even I'm going to chasten you, because you have not been You have not been functioning with your idolatry and your rebellion. You have not been functioning in a way that is good for the family business called my kingdom. But he never has said, I'm going to pull away from you relationally. In fact, as as God anticipates his own chastening of his people, He says in Isaiah 41. 10, for example, fear not, for I am with you. Be not dismayed. For I am your God. I will strengthen you. Yes, I will help you. I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. Later on in Isaiah 43, verse 2, again, he's anticipating the fact that these people are going to be pulled from their own nation and they're going to be and they're going to be ripped away and they're going to be under the captivity of Babylon. And yet he says, when you pass through the waters, I will be with you. And through the rivers, they shall not overthrow you. When you walk through the fire, you shall not be burned, nor shall your the flame scorch you. So even though we see God's delay for thousands of years of establishing his kingdom. God to whomever desires as uh among the Jewish people to whomever desires to want to have a relationship, he is actually drawn closer to. You think of Daniel. Daniel's kind of a prime example of someone who had a close relationship with God and his friends As they were going through the Babylonian captivity, they still were close to their God. They still prayed the God. They still worshiped the God of heaven. I think we need to under remember that and understand that. But do you know why God has delayed so long, excuse me? Romans chapter 11 verse 2 says this. Again, he reminds us, God has not cast away his people whom he foreknew. Even so then, at this present time, there is a remnant according to the election of grace. And if by grace then it is no longer works, otherwise grace is no longer grace, but if it is of works, it is no longer grace, otherwise work is no longer work. What is this point? He is saying that God is orchestrating things in in his own all-wise, sovereign way to make it so that when he when Christ establishes his kingdom, nobody else gets credit. The people of Israel do not get credit. Only God gets the glory because He is the one who does it by His grace alone. It's only by his grace. It's not of works. It's not of self-effort. It's by God's grace. alone. And God is orchestrating su the things in such a way where Christ his son is lifted up. He is the one who establishes the kingdom, and he is the one who gets the glory for establishing And for giving the grace of God to others. Now, we move on and we see this, another reason, verse 25, chapter 11, verse 25, it says this. For I do not desire, brethren, that you should be ignorant of this mystery, lest you should be wise in your own opinion, that blindness People like the question is why has Israel been blinded? I mean that's the reason that they that's the human reason why they haven't been uh the the kingdom hasn't come, because they didn't accept the Messiah in the first the first in the first uh coming Because the blindness in part has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in, and so all Israel will be saved. Do you catch that? Do you know why God has delayed so long in establishing his kingdom? He's done it for you and for me. He's done it to give us the opportunity to accept him. He's done it so that his program could shift to the Gentiles, the fullness of the Gentiles is called in that time. So that not he doesn't he doesn't abandon his people. He hasn't ba abandoned Israel. No, but he is established he is now working so that people can come to him of every kindred tribe and nation. God's plan is awesome. It's hard to wrap our minds around. It's hard to really understand. And that's what Paul comes to at the very end of chapter 11 of Romans, where he says this Oh, the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God. Oh, how unsearchable are his judgments. and his ways past finding out. For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has become his counselor, or who has first given to him that it shall be repaid? For of him and through him and to him are all things to whom be glory forever. It's actually the incomprehensible nature of the wisdom of God that is intended to blow our minds, if you will. to cause us to go, his wisdom is past finding out. He is the one who gets the glory for all of it. Now how does this relate to us? It relates to us because of the way God has uh orchestrated things, there is a sense of which we then the remnant the that that privilege has been extended To us. How should the people of God respond to the grace of God? They must realize how blessed they are They are the remnant. They're not all of it all of the Jewish people of that time. God is going to work with this per specific group of people that God has removed the blindness. They've come to Jerusalem. They're they're now work God is working with those people. He says something similar in Romans 11. He's working with a select group of people. And we also understand as Christians that we are a select group of people as well. Ephesians chapter 1, verse 3 reminds us, Paul said, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in heavenly places in Christ. Now, God intends then for this grace, this unmerited favor, for us to realize it and to respond to it By saying, I am greatly blessed with God. I have every heavenly blessing afforded to me, every spiritual blessing imaginable And do you know there is something extremely motivational about gratefulness of the grace of God. In fact, it is really true, folks. It's really true. That if you as a Christian are struggling with motivation, then you have a small view of the grace of God. Your idea of the grace of God is nothing more than something in your mind that has become something that is just it's just a notion. Those who are truly valuing the grace of God will also be motivated by that grace. To respond in serving God faithfully. And so we see in this passage that that is what God intends as He says, strengthen your hands for the work He then motivates them by his promises. There is a heart condition That can cause us to become very demotivated. There's a heart condition that can cause, that can, that can bring paralysis. Functional paralysis to our lives. And that heart condition is fear. Fear. The Bible says in 1 John that fear has torment Fear can stop you from moving forward. Fear can stop you from serving God. Fear can stop you from doing what God has called you to do. Oh no, if I move forward, that might happen. This might happen. That might happen. I don't know. You become fearful, and fear demotivates. So what motivates actually realizing the promises of God And that's what he does here in this passage. God is going to remind them of his promises. And he makes an interesting connection here. He contrasts The curse on the nations that is uh that is among the nations, the curse among the nations that has taken place already with the promise of of the blessing. That is what he says in the passage, verse 13. And it shall come to pass that just as you were cur a curse among the nations It's like remember when you know you were a nobody that you were in Babylon in captivity and then later Persian all all the different uh kingdoms were there and you were a nobody, you stayed a nobody for a long time. Remember that? You are a curse among the nations? Actually, he says this by my own hand. He says this, O house of Judah, the house of Israel, so I will save you, you shall be a blessing. Yes, you have been cursed, but just as you have, by my own design, so that you can be chastened, now by my own design, you will be. blessed. And you will actually, I will save you, that you shall be a blessing. And what's he talking about there? A thousand years prior, God gave a promise to Abraham that he and his seed would be a blessing. Genesis chapter 12, verse 1. Now the Lord had said to Abram, Get out of your country from your family and from your father's house. to a land that I will show you, and I will make you a great nation. I will bless you and make your name great, and you shall be a blessing. I will bless those that who bless you, and I will curse him who curses you, and in you all of the families of the earth shall be blessed. God says, that promise you I gave to Abraham, I haven't forgotten it. That is going to take place. Through you, Israel, you shall be a blessing. I will save you so that you will be a blessing. Now, question. Has that been fulfilled? Has that been fulfilled? To a large extent it has. Not fully, not completely. The Abrahamic Covenant has some land promises that have yet to be fulfilled. But the spiritual blessings of the Abrahamic covenant absolutely have been fulfilled in Christ's first advent. Who was Jesus? He was a Jew. This remnant was preserved. The Isra Israel was preserved. If you look at the if you look at Matthew chapter one and you look at the genealogies and you look at what God did there, he preserved a remnant of the so that Christ could come and through Israel everyone, all families of the earth would be blessed through Christ. And there is a sense in which that will continue to take place as well. And so he says to them, do not Fear. I'm reminding you of this guaranteed promise. You will be a blessing. It will happen. Others will be blessed through you. You will be. This is going to happen. I'm guaranteeing this. He says For thus says the Lord of hosts, just as I determined to punish you when your fathers provoked me to wrath, says the Lord of hosts, I would not relent. He said as determined as as determined as I was to punish you because of your ongoing sin. That same determination, I am now going to move to make sure that verse 15 So again, in these days I am determined to do good, to do good to Jerusalem and to the house of Judah. Again, he says, do not fear. Now, Christian, I have a question for you. Are you fearful? Do you have a sense of fear about you? I can tell you this, that if that is the case, it is because you are not your view of God is not quite right. Sometimes, for some reason, we get this view of God that God is somehow out to get us. That somehow God is, God wants to punish us even though we're Doing the best we can, or something like that. We have this view that God is somehow a hard God, a hard person, and and that God's kind of ready to jump on us anytime we do something that's not quite right. That is not our God. Not. We serve a good God. We serve a God, a Father. If you know Christ your Savior, you serve a Father who wants to to bless you, who wants to be with you. He is not someone to fear in that sense, certainly to revere, but not fear like that. Understand this, that God wants the very best for you. It is God who works in you both to will and to do for his good pleasure. There are many promises in Scripture. The love of God can, nothing can separate us from the love of God. All of the different things that could be can't cannot separate us from the love of God. Let that view of God and the promises of God, as you look through Scripture in the New Testament, you see promises of his coming, promises that you will, if you know Christ your Savior, you will return to him safely home. You will be conformed to the image of his son. We sang about some of those promises in our hymns. It's already guaranteed. The victory is already won. Let that motivate you not to fear. Fear as torment. But perfect love casts out all fear. Number four, God motivates us by exhorting us to be the people of truth. Now it's interesting in the text that truth is emphasized. We see the word three times here. Speak each man the truth to his neighbor. Give judgment In your gates for truth. Let none of you think evil in your hearts, and do not love a false oath. Why is it that now God, after saying all these things, turns his emphasis to the people of God being people of truth? Why would that be important? I want us to think about this. What is a brute what happens when there is corruption and lies and deceit? Some take a family or church or culture. See, the the more corruption there is, the more lies there is, the more of those kinds of things there are. The less peace there is, the less of God's rule there is What is he saying to people? It's sort of like this. I sort of see it this way. He says, I'll do this, I'll do this, I'll do this, I'll do this. Don't mess it up. He's basically saying, hey, don't mess it up. Don't d be people that are truthful people. Speak the truth. These are verse 16, these are the things that you shall do. You need to do them. You're going to do them. Speak each man the truth to his neighbor. God really desires for us to be people of truth. Not sh not shady, not evasive people of truth. Psalm 15, 1 says, Lord Who may abide in your tabernacle? Who may dwell in your holy hill? He who walks uprightly and works in righteousness and speaks the truth in his heart Ephesians 4. 25, therefore, putting away lying, let each one of you speak truth with his neighbor, for we are members one of another. He says here, give judgment in your gates for truth, righteousness, and peace. These things go together. truth and justice and peace peace. Let your functioning and your lives and your judgments be based upon what is true, what is right, so that you can have peace. And internally, he says, verse 17, let none of you think evil in your heart against your neighbor, and do not love a false oath. Don't get into this kind of thing where you're thinking evil and how you can get over on your neighbor and how you can how you can one-up them. No, love them. Don't speak against them. Don't don't um um don't have false oaths where you uh don't get into this where you you say things in such a way that nobody really trusts you and so you've got to say, I promise, I promise, I I He said don't don't do that. Let your yes be yes and your no be no's, J James chapter five, verse twelve says Above all, it says in that passage, but above all, my brethren, do not swear, either by heaven or by earth, or with any other oath, but let your yes be yes, and your no no, lest you fall into judgment. We we we need to be people that ha that are internally truth. God desires truth in the inward parts. And he does that we desire external truth as we interact with others. And there could be look, there could be real temptations to have to devise evil in our hearts so that we can somehow get over on somebody else or profit on somebody else. I I'm gonna be I have a personal example of this. Um I uh most of you know that uh I've lived in I live in a house. I bought the house from my dad that I grew up in. And um I lived in that house uh most of my life, actually. Um my dad bought it 37 years ago And um he put he put two sheds on the property when he owned the property, both of which he thought were on his property uh were inside the property line. It turns out, and and you didn't have to pull a permit for the shred. Anyway, bottom line is um there were so so for 37 years this our neighbor was a field. Frankly, we liked it that way. But anyway, um and so 37 years later they come and tell me I've got to move both sheds off my prop property, off of their property rather. And actually the setback lines caused me to move I d I can't have them anymore. They're they're gone. Uh they I gotta they gotta be gone. Anyway, I don't have to go to the details of that. But basically I did think to myself, my initial thought was, we have been here for 37 years and you've done nothing. What how can I get over on these guys? I did look into some legal things that we don't have a leg to stand on, actually. But even if we did, I began to think, okay, how am I going to handle this? Am I going to be upset? Am I going to try to turn like I thought, no. I really, I had to I had to really think, okay, how how does the Lord want me to handle this? I feel like a certain sense of right to this, even though, I mean, like we've been maintaining the property and nobody's ever said anything for 37 years and all this And I finally I finally just came to this conclusion. I I gotta make sure my testimony is right. I gotta make sure that it doesn't really matter all this we just we need to be as peaceable as we can, we need to be as kind as we can Um we need to be as accommodating as we can. It is their property, it is legally their property, even though they haven't done anything with it for twenty thirty-seven years And I and I I'm doing my very best to work with them, to be to ha to do to to accommodate them And and and I'm not saying that to lift myself up at all. I'm saying that it is tempting in those kinds of situations, even as Christians, to try to fight those things. Folks, it's more important that we have a godly testimony and we do right, even if it's to our own hurt. God will take care of us. He will do what he wants to do. He is sovereign. He's in control. Be people that are that are don't think evil toward your neighbor. Don't think how can I how can I get over on that person or how can I fight and win? No no no Love them. Be truthful. Be up front. Don't think evil in your heart against your neighbor. He says, for all these things But I hate, says the Lord. I think, frankly, my neighbor has been a little bit surprised at how accommodating I've been, hopefully. And and working with me and he's kind of like I he said the sheds needed to be moved and I emptied one of my sheds the w the very quickly afterwards. I told him, hey, I'm doing my best And he's like, Wow, that was fast and anyway, so so I I hope and I pray that that that that remains peaceful and is a good testimony and that God can use that. It's more important than standing your ground on something like a property line. And so we, this is the kind of peace that we have. External and internal truth. 2 Peter 3, verse 14 says this: Therefore, beloved, looking forward to these things, be diligent and be found to be found by him in peace, without spot, and blameless. Four questions that we need to ask ourselves as we think through this text. The first question I'd like to ask is this: number one, are you paying attention to the voice of God? Are you paying attention to the voice of God? God spoke to the remnant. These were the remnant of people that God called from the from the different the large area of the Persian Empire to come into Jerusalem and he's called them to establish the temple and establish uh Jerusalem. And he began to and he continued to work with them. He continued to call on them. Are you paying attention to God's word as God uses his word to motivate you to serve Him. And maybe you're not. Maybe actually you don't really know the Lord. Maybe you've never seen the Word of God as the authority in your life. The Bible tells us, and as you read through the book of the Scriptures, it is self-authenticating. As you read through the scriptures, you begin to realize that this is This is authoritative. It is the authority of the Word of God, and it's God's authority to us. And if you don't know, if you don't have that firm foundation that then teaches us that Jesus is the way to pay the punishment for our sin, You don't understand and not sure about your relationship with God, please come and talk with me after the service. I'd be glad to take a Bible, show you how you can know for sure that you'll spend eternity with the Lord Number two, does the grace of God motivate you? Or are you fearful? Or are you unmotivated? Does the grace of God motivate you? to serve him faithfully, to work for him faithfully. Number three, are you holding to God's promises? Listen, if you're struggling with a problem of fear in your life, it is because you're not you're not meditating on the promises of God in a way that God wants you to. Take the promises of Scripture, particularly the promises to the New Testament believer, and go over them in your mind. Hold to them. Number four, are you fostering peace through truth? Are you fostering peace through truth in your life inwardly and outwardly. If we are doing these things, if we are following these things in our lives, if we are able to answer these questions affirmatively then we will stay motivated to serve God faithfully. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we thank you for your word We thank you for its truth. We pray, Lord, that as we look at your word and as we see here this morning the encouragement That you are a gracious God, that you are a God that has many promises that you guarantee for us. That you are a God who calls us to truth. I pray, Lord, that these things would encourage us to continue and motivate us to serve you faithfully. Lord, we confess to you that sometimes it does feel like what we are doing is just spinning our wheels. That what we're doing is not really accomplishing a whole lot. We thank you, Lord, that you call us to be faithful. And that you will reward us someday. You promise that you will. You promise that someday you will come for us. And Lord, may we be ready, and may you find us faithfully serving you I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.