It's wonderful to know that God is the one who holds us fast and keeps us in his care. Now this morning we are going to be in Zechariah chapter 5, and we're going to be looking at verses 1 through 11. And before we go there, let's ask God's blessing on the word. Father, we come this morning with grateful and thankful hearts, Father. We are so glad to be here in your house, Lord, together as your church. And Father, we're thankful for all the blessings that you bestow upon us, your kindness, your mercy, your patience, your love, your great love through Jesus Christ, your Son. And Father, as we come to your word this morning, I ask that you would help us to set aside all the cares, all the noise of the world today. And help us this next hour, Lord. Open our ears and our eyes to your word. Prepare our hearts. And Lord, I pray that as we hear your word That Father, your Spirit will work mighty in us and stir our hearts and our minds. And Lord, that we will take heed according to what we hear and not let it just pass by. I pray for your spirit to work mightily in us this morning, and we give you all the praise and the glory and the honor. In Jesus' name. Amen. Zechariah chapter five, verse one. I might want to put my glasses on. Then I turned and raised my eyes and saw there a flying scroll. And he said to me, What do you see? So I answered, I see a flying scroll. Its length is 20 cubits, and its width 10 cubits Then he said to me, This is the curse that goes out over the face of the whole earth, every feet Shall be expelled according to this side of the scroll, and every perjur shall be expelled according to that side of this. I will send out the curse, says the Lord of hosts. It shall enter in the house of the thief, and the house of the one who swears falsely by my name. It shall remain in the midst of his house, and consume it with its timber and its stones. Then the angel who talked with me came and said to me, Lift your eyes now and see what this is that goes forth. Okay. So I asked, What is it? And he said, It is a basket that is going forth. He also said This is their resemblance throughout the earth. Here is a lead disc lifted up, and this is a woman sitting inside the basket Then he said, This is wickedness. And he thrust her down into the basket and threw the lead cover over its mouth. Then I raised my eyes and looked, and there were two women coming with the wind in their wings, for they had wings like wings of a stork, and they lifted up the basket between the earth and heaven. So I said to the angel who talked with me, Where are they carrying the basket? And he said to me to build a house for it, in it, for it in the land of Shinar. When it is ready, the basket will be set there on its base. Appreciate Harry reading that passage. How many of y'all know what that's talking about? Okay, like four of you. Um, I will tell you this, I want to admit to you that when I first read that passage, I did not have a clue of what it was talking about. It's interesting that some passages you read and it's it's just crystal clear. You know, it's obvious what it's talking about The passage that Brother Matthew preached from last week in Galatians chapter 1 where he said it says the gospel that they were preaching was of a different kind because it included works. And it's all clear what it's saying And then there are other passages in scripture like this one that you read it and you're like, what's with the woman in the basket and the wings of a stork and the I mean you you read through that And it's not like obvious what the passage is talking about. And the reason I bring that up as we begin this is simply to point out that it is that God communicates in different ways through his word. This is a big book. And he communicates in different ways for different reasons In Galatians chapter 1, he is communicating for the sake of clarity. You want to clarify something When it comes to the gospel, they had allowed an element in the gospel that changed it into a different gospel. It was something that God needed to make clear in Galatians chapter 1. In this passage, God has an intention of a different kind. He wants us to really think He wants us to really examine this. We're going to actually have to go to other passages of Scripture to help and put things together in order for us to get this. And I think the reason that God does that sometimes in his word is in order for us to really, it slows us down and makes us really think about what is being said. And kind of f follow experientially along with how God is describing uh what we've describing his truth And so uh with that in mind, I will tell you at the outset of this that what God is dealing with as far to the nation of Israel, he is to this remnant of Israel, he is dealing with the problem of the influence of evil. Remember last time I preached on Zechariah? He went over the importance of the Spirit of God, not by might, not by power, nor by my spirit, says the Lord. There are there are eight various eight different visions in this passage, and we have come to this one, and it they all deal with something different that that the remnant of Israel is going through As they enter into Jerusalem and they are intended, God intends them to rebuild the temple and to rebuild Jerusalem. Remember that's the setting. And God intends for these visions to reveal something either about God or about his plan, his working, what he intends to do Or in most cases, if not all cases, both. Who am I and what is my intention? What am I going to do for you and with you Who are God's people. And this passage deals with the influence of evil, the problem of evil, and the influence of sin. That's still an influence for them. Now, I'd like to describe evil as it's described in Scripture, and we'll get into this as we go, but as a current of river, a river current that is a strong current. It's amazing. River currents are really amazing. Those of you who have fished on a river in a current. How many of you have ever done that before? You put waders on and you've gone in the middle of a current and you have fished. Okay, this uh some of you uh have you ever fallen over? I have on several occasions. I have I have fallen out tried to get over to a particular spot where you think there's fish because it just the setting looks right and you step Step either onto a slippery rock and you fall over and it's and the and the current just pulls you over. Think of the m think of the Mississippi River that that boats can travel all the way, you know, all the way up the the center of our country uh by its current or the strength and force of the Colorado River. There is a dam built on the Colorado River that really explains the how how forceful that current is It's the Hoover Dam. It's built during the Great Depression. The Hoover Dam supplies over 35, or 350,000 to 400,000 homes per year with electricity. That's how powerful that current is that runs through that river that then is dammed up and then used as energy. The power of a stream, the power of a current is not to be underestimated when it comes to a river, and the power of a current of a river is not to be underestimated when it comes to evil. In Ephesians chapter 2, verse 1, it says this, and you he made alive who were dead in trespasses and sins, in which you once walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience, among whom also we all once Conducted ourselves in the lust of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath, just as the others Now, when we think of what's going on with these people here in this passage, we need to remember that Israel, God's people, they were steeped in idolatry. I'm going to go ahead and put that put that slide up. They were steeped in idolatry. They had a problem with idolatry. The kings were had problems with idolatry. dealing with all kinds of problems of idolatry in the land. God had equated it to literally unfaithful adultery in their lives. They were unfaithful toward God. They were there was there was serious uh idolatry and it was one king after another after another. And God purged the idolatry out of these people by bringing them into a very idolatrous situation into Babylon. If you remember the Assyrians and the Babylonians, they cap they they captured Israel. They took them captivity and they had to move from their homeland into a place where there were all kinds of idols, yet in the process they lost all of theirs. And you remember Daniel, of course, he wouldn't even bow down to the idol that Nebuchadnezzar had set up because He had realized, along with his friends and and arguably much of the rest of Israel that was there, that this we cannot bow down to idols. They got the point Now they're coming out of Babylon and they're going into Jerusalem, and God is calling them to set up the temple and set up Jerusalem. And now you do not have idolatry the same way you did before, but you still have sin. They still remain sinful. Sin is not eradicated. Sin is still a problem. Just like it is for us, right? It's not done with. It's still a problem. And the influence of sin, both in their own hearts, And externally, as the world system is still there, it is still a problem. And now God is going to show how He is going to deal with this problem of the world system in this passage. God has a plan for dealing with sin. What is his plan? We're going to see three phases of his plan here in this passage. In verses one through four of chapter five, we're going to see that God judges evil completely. And then in 5 through 8, we're going to see that God restrains evil presently. He judges evil completely. He restrains it presently. And in verses 9 through 11, we're going to see that God directs evil ultimately. He directs it Ultimately, we're going to begin by saying that God judges evil completely. Now, this is a vision Zachariah is the person that has the vision. And it says in the text that there is a scroll. He says, I turned and I raised my eyes and I saw there a flying scroll Now when we see this scroll in this vision, we ought to think judgment. When God uses a scroll many a time many times in prophecy It has there is a judgment, there is a curse or a strong punishment, a judgment involved in that. In Jeremiah chapter 36, verse 2, it says Take a scroll of a book and write on it all the words that I have spoken to you against Israel, against Judah, and against all the nations from the day I spoke to you, from the days of Josiah even to the even to this day That's the nature of the scroll. So what he's going to hear is a judgment. And they asked the question, and he asked the question The text says, and he said to me, What do you see? So he describes what he sees. I see a flying scroll. Its length is twenty cubits and its width 10 cubits. Now that's not by accident. That is exactly the dimensions of the Holy of Holies from Ezekiel 41. 2. So it is there's he is essentially saying that there is this judgment coming that is dealing with the presence of that that is The sin is inhibiting the presence of God. And then says the passage that it goes over the face of the whole earth. The scroll is over the face of the whole earth And the idea is that it is going to judge the whole earth. God, in other words, it's saying that God's judgment is going to judge the entire earth And then it says this in verse 3. It says, every thief shall be expelled according to the side of this of this side of the scroll. And then it says in the text that every perjur shall be expelled according to that side of the scroll. Now what this does in understanding that there are two sides to the scroll, it reminds it connects two very important concepts. One And the people that read this first would understand this immediately. We would not understand it immediately, but they would understand it immediately that this would connect it to the Ten Commandments Because the Ten Commandments were written on both sides. Their minds would have said, oh, this is something that was done before in a sense The Ten Commandments were written on both sides. Now that's unusual for for a scroll to be written on both sides. But in the case of the tablets of the Ten Commandments, it was written on both sides. In the case of the scroll, there was writing on both sides. And it also connects it to Revelation chapter 5. In Revelation chapter 5, it says, and I saw the right hand of him who sat on the throne, a scroll written inside, and on the back, seated with seven seals. So there's a scroll in Revelation chapter 5, and it has seven seals, and in that passage, Christ is the only one who is able to open the scroll, and what opens is an unleashing of the judgment of God upon people in that passage. So it tells us that the point of the passage, the point of this, is that God intends to judge sin completely. Now let me just pause and say this. God has to do that. In order to truly be God, he must punish sin. He must judge sin. If he weren't uh judging sin, then sin would go rampant, there would be lack of justice Which would mean essentially that God is not God. God must be just. He is just. He must punish sin. He doesn't just overlook it. He doesn't just look the other way. He doesn't tolerate it. He judges it and he must judge it That's a very important thing to uh for all of us to understand. And sometimes we think that there's so much unfairness or un or or lack of judgment in the world, there is a a lack of justice in the world. We think that perhaps God isn't a just God. He's assuring the people here that he will execute justice completely one day. He promises it. And the standard by which he executes justice is the law of God. That's the Ten Commandments. Now he mentions only two laws here. He mentions theft and lying, essentially. There are ten commandments, not just two, but he mentions these two And I think he does so uh for a very important reason which we'll get into it get to in a moment. What is the nature of this justice? Well notice what the text says. It says, I will send out the curse says the Lord of hosts, it shall enter the house of the thief. So the judgment enters the house of the thief. And the house of the one who swears falsely by my name. So the seventh and eighth commandment are broken. He says, I'm going to go in, and the judgment is literally going to go and dwell in the house of the thief. And he's not, it's like it's not leaving until it's done. That's the picture. It's like somebody going into a house and saying, okay, I'm not leaving until this entire thing is destroyed. And that's what you see, that's the picture that you see in the text. In fact, it says, It shall remain in the midst of his house and consume it with its timbers and stones. The stones were the foundation of the house, and the timbers are the things that the house is made of, the framing of the house. God says that there is going to be one day where justice is going to come And it is going to, it is going to literally wipe out all of the sin The violations of the commandments, the violations of the law, he is going to completely execute as justice. Now this time, I think, is referring to ultimately to the tribulation period. You've seen that already. We've seen the connection in Revelation chapter 5. Now the question that I would like us to ask is this. Why is it that in this passage he focuses in on theft And lying. And the answer to that, I believe, is because of what the people were dealing with at this point. They were dealing with those two problems. See, idolatry wasn't an issue anymore. But the nature of the force of the current of sin is such that it finds tributaries. If you block it off in one area, it will go into another area. It will force itself into another area. And if you block it off in that area, it will force itself into that area. Unless it is entirely dealt with, unless it is killed, unless it is eradicated, it is going to find its way into other areas. And that's what you see in this passage. You see the people of God who do not aren't are not dealing with idolatry, the problem of idolatry anymore, but they're still dealing with the problem of covetousness And covetousness leads to theft. And they're still dealing with the problem of deceit and those kinds of things. In fact, we have indications of this over in the book of Haggai, it says this. Thus speaks verse Haggai chapter 1, verse 2, thus speaks the Lord of hosts, saying, the people says the time has not come, the time of the Lord's house should be built. Then the Lord of the uh then the word of the Lord came to Haggai the prophet saying, Is it time for you yourselves to dwell in your paneled houses and this temple to lie in ruins? What was the problem? They were focused on their own house. They were focused on building their own lives, doing their own thing, getting they were focused on building their there was some covetousness going on Now there's nothing wrong with building her house and making her house nice and everything like that, but they did it to the exclusion of what God called them to do. And very likely in the process they were they were sinning against God. In fact, we find Then in Mac Malachi chapter three verse eight through nine is the same time period it says will a man rob God You have robbed me. But you say, in what way have you robbed me? In tithes and offerings. You are cursed with a curse. You have robbed me even this whole nation. Now this is not a passage on I'm not preaching on tithing today or offerings today, but the point that it ha the what it occurred in the life of these people at least in a among some of them, is that sin continued, the course of sin, the current of sin continued to manifest itself in other ways. It created other tributaries once the idolatry was eradicated by God. And this is very applicable to us. You know, I don't in our Western world, if you step outside your door and you drive down the street, you usually don't see like monuments. of idol like idols that are just standing there, everybody's bowing down to them. Now other parts of the world you certainly see that in the Eastern world you see it all the time. You walk along the street in Hong Kong, which I did once, and and like there's literally places that you can just stop by and give incense to idols and there's not and you just stop by and pray to them for a little while, pray to your ancestors. There's that kind of thing. We we don't really have that in our Western world. But see, there there's different kinds of sin. It's all sin And sin finds its way into things like greed and and covetousness And pride and all those kinds of things, particularly covetousness, seems to be a big problem. When you don't have out and out blatant idolatry, there is a real problem still of inward covetousness. That's why why the Apostle Paul said over in Romans 7, if you remember, he said, I did not know sin until I realized I was covetous. That was the thing he realized in his life. He dealt with every other practical area. Philippians chapter 3 tells us that he was good with keeping rules. He was really good at rules. And he kept them perfectly. But when you got to the heart, and he reads the commandment that says, Thou shalt not covet, and he realizes that he does. He wants what God does not want him to have. It convicted him. And that's something we have to be careful of as well. Colossians chapter 3, verse 1 says this. you are raised with Christ, seek those things which are above, which Christ is sitting on the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on the things of the earth. For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in in God. When Christ, who is our life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Therefore put to death your members which are on the earth, fornication, uncleanness. Passion, evil desire, covetousness, and then it says this, which is idolatry. Covetousness, ultimately, if not dealt with, will lead you back to idolatry. It lifts up that thing or that person, whatever you are wanting, it lifts it up above God. And that in and of itself is idolatry. There's a man that's mentioned in 1 Timothy 6. And it says this in that passage. It says, For the love of money is the root of all evil, for which some have strayed from the faith. in their greediness and pierced themselves through by many sorrows. This is a problem for us. We resemble more, probably, the remnant of Israel than we do pre-Babylonian Israel. And yet we can we need to be very careful about covetous. We need to understand, as Christ said when he said in verse 21 of Luke 12, so is he who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. So what was influencing this covetous theft What was influencing even the dishonesty that apparently these these people were at least threatened with, at least some of them? We're going to find the passage, he's going to plunge in deeper to what is contributing to this, and we're going to begin to see here that God restrains evil presently. Look at the passage. It says, then the angel. So remember, he's in a vision. And he's seeing things. He's seeing a scroll And notice what the one says, then the angel who talked with me came out and said to me, Lift your eyes now and see what this is that goes forth. So something else is going forth. He says lift up your eyes. That's by the way something that's said often already. Lift your eyes. Pay attention. Pay attention. Look what's going on So he asked, Zacharias, so I asked, what is it? He said. And then notice what it notice the vision. It is a basket that is going forth And he also said, there is a resemblance throughout the earth. Now, he tells us something about this basket. Like basket? What's a basket have to do with anything? Whatever it is, it is a resemblance of something that goes out throughout the entire earth. That is a real clue to what this is. Now, it set says that there is that there is a certain number of bushels which equates to eight gallons of grain It's called, this basket is called an IFA, and it was used very frequently for commerce, for gaining and transferring grain. So there we're talking then about a relationship to material things. What's going on here? Notice what it says, here is a lead disc lifted up, and this is a woman sitting inside the basket. This is a picture. This is a vision. There's a lead disc. There's a basket. There's a lead disc on top of the basket. And inside the basket is a woman. Now, why do you suppose, just think about this, why do you suppose there would be a lead, a heavy lead disc or lens on top of a basket? Well, it's restraining whatever in that basket, right? It's it's holding it down, it's keeping it from from doing what it otherwise would do. And what's in there? A woman. Now, the woman's bad. We're going to see that. And I want to be up front and say that what this text is not saying is that women are somehow more inclined to evil than men or anything like that It's not saying that at all. That's not the point. But we find in the text it tells us what woman this woman is. It says, this is wickedness. So this is a woman, this is personifying in the passage wickedness. Now, as we begin to see what this is, we are going to have to make another connection to help us to really develop this. There's a woman in a basket. The basket has to do with commerce, and there's someone, there's something restraining the woman at this point. To really understand this, we actually need to go to Revelation chapter 17. In Revelation chapter 17, and I actually have it up there on the screen for you, verse 3 says this. So he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness. John's talking here, of course, in Revelation. And I saw a woman. Okay, there's a woman there too, right? I saw a woman, except this time she's on her basket, she's sitting on a scarlet beast which was full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns. The woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet and adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls. She's rich, got lots of money, lots of wealth, having in her hand golden cup full of what? Abominations and filthiness of her fornication. And on her forehead a name was written, Mystery Babylon. Oh, that's interesting. Mystery Babylon, the mother of harlots and the abominations of the earth. I would suggest to you that it's now talking about the same woman So what is this woman in Revelation? The woman in Revelation has to do with the world system The world system that at that point in Revelation it actually controls. It's not now, but it controls commerce, it controls all the Antichrist. There's all kinds of things that will control in the tribulation period. But for now, it's being restrained, and we would understand it to be restrained by God. God is restraining the world system. in in uh in this day, but also in our day. Now, we need to be clear, and it's already up there, we need to be clear on what the world system is. What is the world system? The world system is a counterfeit kingdom with a system of values, desires, purposes, and structures that oppose God. Okay, that's what the world system is. It opposes God. Its values and purposes and desires And there it's the current, it's the current in the river that's pulling us, that's forcing and pushing. It's that current in the world, the sinful current, that is a kingdom that opposes the kingdom of God. It's what we're talking about when we back in Ephesians chapter 2, which I mentioned in the beginning, it says the course of this world. according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience. Can you put that passage that passage up there? Among whom also all once conducted ourselves in lusts of our flesh, fulfilling our desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath just as are. It's the course of this world. That's the world system. That's why it says later in Ephesians chapter 6, for we do not wrestle against flesh and blood. But against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness in heavenly places. That's there is a spirit in other words, it's saying that there is a spiritual world that we are dealing with That is a force that presses you into sinning. It tempts you to sin. It draws you to sin. Draws everyone to sin. It's the world system. I'm reminded of back in Genesis, right after Adam and Eve committed th the the first sin. And in chapter four of that passage, you uh you remember Cain and Abel And Cain essentially sins by the way that he worships and giving the offering. And then God says to him, Cain, sin lies at the door. It's ready to find an opportunity to trip you up. That's my that's my paraphrase. And what happened. That's exactly what happened It's active. It was actively waiting to cause Cain ultimately to murder Abel. God was telling, he warned Cain, sin is active. It's a force, it's a current. And that's what the world system is. The wonderful truth that we find in this passage as an illustration is that presently God is restraining it. It is not at its full power, if you will. Now it's there. The world system is there, and it's an influence But at this point, there's a lead lid on it so that it cannot do all that it would do had that lead lid not been on it. And that's what the text is saying. Now, we have seen God restrain evil in the past. And I want us to understand this. It's a little bit deep, but I I I want us to really grasp what's going on here If we think back to the Old Testament and we think about when God has restrained evil, there are many times that we can think of it, but I want to point to one particular time. It's the Tower of Babel. Do you remember that story in Genesis chapter 11? God said he wanted them to be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth. He wanted them to scatter over the whole earth. But instead, they did not do that. Instead, they wanted to stay together and not scatter. It's interesting what Genesis chapter 10 verse 10 says. And the beginning of the kingdom was Babel, Erik, Akad, all these different kingdoms. And notice the land of Shinar, that's going to become important. The land of Shinar is the land of Babylon. By the way, that's exactly where Israel just was. It was from coming from Babylon. Now, in Genesis chapter 11, verse 1, it says this. Now the whole earth had one language, this is the Tower of Babel, and one speech, and it came to pass as they journeyed from the east. They found a plain in the land of Shinar. There's the land of Shinar again. And they dwelt there, and they said to one another, Let us make bricks and bake them thoroughly. And They had brick for stone and they had asphalt for mortar and they said, Come, let us build ourselves a city and a tower whose top is in the heavens, let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be scattered abroad over the face of the earth, the whole earth. And you know the rest of the story. They went against God's, they opposed God's plan. They were being controlled essentially by the world system. They were, and what did God do? God Restrain them. How do you restrain them? In that case, he confused their languages. He made them have different languages so that they couldn't work together to build this tower and stay. And the Bible actually says, verse 8 of Genesis chapter 11 So the the Lord scattered them abroad from over the face of the earth, and they ceased building a city. Now the reason I use that illustration is going to become important later. But understand that even now, in our time, the Spirit of God is restraining evil. But there will be a day where he is no longer doing that. 2 Thessalonians 2 verse 6 says this, and now you know what is restraining, that he may be revealed in his own time. For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work. Only he who now restrains will do so until he is taken out of the way. Talk about the Spirit of God. By the way, aren't you glad about that? That God is restraining this current. There's like a dam that's being that's restraining the current right now. That God has his lead disc, if you will, on the evil, the wickedness. And although there's influence, for sure, there is a restraining going on right now. The Bible says, greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. And yet, the world system is very real. And God warns us about this all over the place. 1 John 2, verse 15 says, Do not love the world. What's it talking about? It's not talking about the earth. It's not w we should love the earth in the sense that God made it. It's not talking about the earth, it's talking about the the world system. Do not love the world or the things that are in the world. If anything any one loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh. The lust of the eyes and the pride of life is not of the Father, but is of the world. Those things are of the evil world And there's a man in 2 Timothy 4 verse 10 that God uses to warn us. There's a man named Demas. And he identifies this man as one in that passage who says he says, has forsaken me having loved this present world. And it's departed for Thessalonica, the Cretans for Galatians, and Titus for Dalmatia. They loved this present world. We ought not love the world. And by the world, we're talking there about that world system. We ought not value that force of evil in the world. We ought not succumb to it. We must resist it. We do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, powers, and the rulers of the darkness of this present world. Now God then, we then turn and we begin to see the ultimate destiny of this evil world. God directs evil ultimately. Notice what happened in the text. You've got this, remember, you've got this woman. She's in this basket. You've got this lead on lead on top of the basket that's restraining the evil. And notice what it says, when I raised my eyes and looked, verse nine And there were two women coming with the wind in their wings, but not an angel, or uh the wind with their wings. What is this? Well W when you think wings and oh w two women you think angel. This is not an angel. Okay. These are not angels. Actually usually in scripture women are not just Angels are not described as women. But it's not in this passage. These are actually demons. How do we know that? Look at the text. First of all, we're gonna f we find that these two women with wings, they actually help the wicked woman. Okay, so they're not doing the right thing. They're doing the wrong thing. Okay, so that's one one clue. The other clue is that it says they had wings like the wings of a stork. Now, when we think of a stork, we think of this beautiful white bird that brings babies sometime Okay. I don't know where we got that idea, by the way. I did not research, I should have chat GPT'd that. Where does Stork how in the world we give the idea that storks bring babies? They don't, obviously. Okay. But they are not considered in the Middle East to be clean birds, and they're not in the Bible. They're defiled, ugly birds. And I and Matthew Conrad uh had this in in um uh he he took this picture and I asked for it so I could show you. That's the ugliest bird I've ever seen in my life. That is a stork. Okay. Now I'm not sure there all the stories to be clear are that ugly, because that one's a really ugly one. But the point I'm making by this passage is that This is not intended to be these woman with beautiful wings like an angel. No, this is a woman who is evil and has defiled wings. She is described here as a demon. And we actually find this in Revelation 18, verse 2. It says this, and he cried mightily with a loud voice, saying, Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen. Do you have that verse? Babylon the Great is fallen, is fallen, and has become a dwelling place of demons, a prison for every foul spirit, a cage for every unclean and hated bird. Do you see that? So it makes the connection. Now, what happens? What goes on? What do these women do? Notice what it says in the text. And they lifted the basket between earth and heaven. So they what would you assume you've got the lead thing on top of it, lead's heavy, the basket's lifted, what would you assume? The lid's not on the basket anymore, right? So they're lifting this thing up That's in between heaven and earth, and you say, well, why they do that? Well, Zechariah has the same question. Okay, so look at the text, verse 10. So I said to the angel who talked with me Where are they carrying the basket? Now notice what it says in the passage. To build a house for it in the land of where? Shynar? We've seen that before, haven't we? Where did we see Shinar? Well, we Shinar is actually in Samuria, which is the very first civilization that is known to known to man. And it's in the Babylonian area. And Shinar is exactly where that Babel, the temple, the Tower of Babel rather, was intended to be built until God messed up their plans. And Shinar is essentially where the Babylonian where Israel was taken into Babylonian captivity. Babylon becomes a picture of the world system by the time we get to Revelation. And what's happening to this woman who is named Wickedness, who is in this basket. What's happening to her? She is being placed back in Shinar. And what happens in the text? She's placed back in Shinar, it says, and when it is ready, the basket was being set there on its base. In other words, it's being lifted up as a pedestal. You know what's happening? She's back practicing idolatry. And there is rampant idolatry in the world again. And if you look at the book of Revelation, you find that there is all kinds of idolatry going on. And essentially it's like it's like The world system has been unleashed to do exactly what it wants to do Um it's kind of like if what would happen was the Hoover Dam just just uh broke up. I I I I researched that. I I actually asked AI what happens when what would happen if this happened. And I mean it would be hundreds of thousands of power would go out and things would be destroyed and actually would there would be a it would actually take do a uh um It would be a a um a chain reaction. There are other dams down the Colorado River that would ja actually just break those all those as well. It would be it would be catastrophic. And that's what you find in the tribulation period where you basically have the world system is is able then to control commerce and all that kind of thing, and it destroys everything in its path. And ultimately it moves itself to a place of self-destruction. Because what we find in the book of Revelation is once it's lifted up on a pedestal as an idolater in the face of God Then God deals with it. Revelation chapter 17, verse 14. These will make war with the Lamb, Jesus Christ. And the Lamb will overcome them, for he is Lord of Lords and King of Kings, and those who are with him are called chosen and faithful. Isn't that a wonderful verse? Christ ultimately will defeat the world system. He will defeat Satan. He will defeat sin. He will defeat it all. Why? He has already defeated it at the cross. He's just going to put it all into practice. Now, that's a lot of that's a lot of information, it wasn't it. Some of you are probably like, well, that's a little overload. I I want us to remember four really important points of this, to just understand this. Number one, judgment is certain. Judgment is certain. God, the Bible tells us that He is a just God, so He must judge sin. Look, nobody in their right mind questions whether there's sin in the world or not. Okay, just look around. I mean there's all kinds of sin. And so and so God has to deal with injustice. He will do that And the fact is he will deal with our injustice, our sin too. He must. Sin must be punished. Except I will also mention to you that Jesus came because God also loves us. And he died to pay the punishment for our sin. to take our sin on himself, to take the judgment of God. God's the God had to judge sin. And he took it for us on himself and died in our place so that we could have our sins forgiven, so that we could be then rightly related to God. That's the gospel. Number two, evil is forceful. We went through a lot of complicated things. These are as simple as I can make them. Judgment is certain Evil is forceful. You need to recognize that we are born into sin. We are born, the Bible says, in enmity against God. We are born separated from God. And the Bible tells us because of what Adam did, sin entered the world and death by sin, therefore death passed upon all men, for all have sinned. Sin is force, evil is forceful. If you have not accepted Christ as your Lord and Savior, understand evil is forceful. You need to accept what Christ did on the cross. Number two, or number three, restraint is real. Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. And God has restrained the world system. He is restraining the world system right now. It's an influence, it's to be it's something we must be warned about. But Through prayer and through the work of Christ and the Word of God, we can resist the world system. Greater is He that is in you than He is in the world. Number four, victory is coming. Victory is coming. God is going to make all things right. We see from this passage that God will deal with sin. He'll deal with the problems of the world. He'll deal with all the issues. God will do, He'll make it all right. Victory is coming. And we can all be grateful for that, can't we? We can look forward to the day where Christ comes again. Can you look forward to that day? If if you can't, if you say, well I don't know if I could I don't know how I'd work out so well if Christ came today, if I if the Lord came I mean, I don't know how that would work Let me encourage you. Come talk with me after the service. I'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with the Lord. Let's go to Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and we praise you and we thank you for your word today. As hard as it is to understand, and all the the symbolism is difficult, we thank you that as we go through it it can become clear to us that the world is forceful, the evil is evil is forceful rather, but you will judge it, you will deal with it, you have a plan for it. Lord, we're thankful for that. And we pray, Lord, that you would help us as we resist evil. We thank you for Christ and what he did for us. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide That helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.