And how many things no no I'm gonna go somewhere farther, Hong Kong University. You can smell the the the incense everywhere you go in Hong Kong. Well so many people take rocks from there that the the the government of Greece just every once in a while goes down and throws some pebbles there so somebody can take some things and I I don't know, but uh but this came from there The Stoics followed this guy named Zeno, and they were pantheists, so they worshipped many gods. He's with guys that are discussing Greek philosophy and they are pantheists and they're surrounded by false gods. There's a handy tool that was developed not by the Apostle Paul, but by a guy named, well, it was developed by this guy named Engel. Each person, they have their they make their own choice. They're like at minus, well, when he goes on the Sabbath to the synagogue, they're maybe at minus seven, minus six. And he he gets their interest. He made man in his own image. He quotes their own poets to say it. He says, therefore, based on what I've just told you, therefore, since we are the offspring of God, God is your creator. Since we're the offspring of God, we're made by him. And of course he talks about the judgment. We want to make sure we worship all of them. Maybe like nope, I need something more exotic. Yeah. He said, previously I wanted to go to Rome. You can just walk right up on top of here. Epicureanism, and other Greek philosophical ideas, right on their hill actually is Paul's sermon that we're about to look at here. But you can look up there, see the Acropolis, lots of idols up there. and has determined their preappointed times and the boundaries of their dwellings, so that they may seek the Lord, in the hope that they may grope for Him and find Him, though He is not far from each one of us. Yeah, we got different amounts of melanin, but it's all the same melanin, just more or less of it. Acts 4. That'll be the text today. If you read beforehand the passages beforehand, it seems like he's traveling along the along a famous, famous road there that goes through Greece, headed towards Rome, the Via Ignatia. So you see see this map here? going through Ampiphilis and Apollonia, went to Thessalonica, but Berea is not on this map. We're going to chase him down. But the people from Thessalonica, the ones who had persecuted, been persecuting him, they chased him, they figured out where he was, they chased him to Berea On my way to somewhere else, I stopped for some hours in Athens and I got the same impression. And even beyond that, what it represented, all these people not following the God who made them, not on their way to heaven, he's stirred up. Now here's the the marketplace. uh vacation in the summer. If we looked back at chapter 17, in verse 2, when Paul was speaking in Thessalonica, he also went to the synagogue there. Therefore he reasoned in the synagogue with the Jews and with the Gentile worshippers. uh converted to Judaism. Paul, as his custom was, went into them, and for three Sabbath reasoned with them from the Scriptures, demonstrating and uh explaining and demonstrating that the Christ had to suffer and rise from the dead, and saying, This Jesus whom I preach to you is the Christ. It's verse 17. You may not have waken up this morning and thought, I want to talk to some prominent thinkers, but these guys would do that. He says, verse 18, then certain Epicureans and Stoic philosophers encountered him. here randomly in the in the market, and some of them say, what does this babbler say? Seek peace, freedom from pain. Because he preached to them Jesus and the resurrection. I thought that was very interesting. I know a lot of guys. So what we have here, we start from ground zero, that black line at the bottom. N nothing right right there. I'd have to start all the way there, usually at minus twelve. Uh uh Minerva, here's you know the lost lots and lots of God, and here's one unknown God, no name, place name here, almost as you know So as I'm going to read through, you find attributes of God. He's in Genesis 1. He's bringing up things that this they're familiar with, as they've discussed philosophy. Clean cleanesthenes. Well what is God? The wrong response to this, now that you know who the unknown God is, he's the creator of the world. What was he talking about there? No, he's the God of all men. He says he commands all men everywhere to repent. a a summary of the things. We've walked through this message, and sometimes you get through there and you see the Greek poets and all these different things here, you know, making from one blood all men, and you miss the main point. This is not a command that, well, some people can, some people can't. Jesus when he died on the cross. There's an idol on an altar there to an unknown God. When we share the gospel, some are going to do that. And if that's you, come and talk to Pastor Jim. Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. Others said, He seems to be a proclaimer of foreign gods, because he preached to them Jesus and the resurrection And they took him and brought him to the Areopagus, saying, May we know what this new doctrine is of which you speak? Therefore, since we are the offspring of God, we ought not to think that the divine nature is like gold or silver or stone, something shaped by art and man's devising. For as I was passing through and considering the objects of your worship, I even found an altar with this inscription, to the unknown God. Truly, these times of ignorance God overlooked, but now commands all men everywhere to repent, because he has appointed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by the man whom he has ordained. But if you weren't doing my method of traveling, and you were actually going somewhere on purpose, where would you go if you want to see the most i can't iconic landmarks? Maybe you'd go to Paris. Some people like art. Oh, a lot more people going to Amsterdam. How many of you think I want to engage with prominent thinkers? Some people would say, well, you want to go to Oxford. Athens, Greece. the uh the orange and green areas there, Galatia where he had been on his first missionary journey. It looks like he wanted to go north. And in Greece, he picked up this via Ignatia or the Ignatian Road. And now they're trying to kick him out of, they stir everybody up, try to kick him out of Berea. into the marketplace and there are idols. But right next to that, right right in the shadow of that temple there to a false God was the Jewish synagogue. Th there's a remnants of all these all these statues there, even that that nice building there with all with the pillars today we might think, Oh that's a government building or a bank. I have a theory though that this Paul probably didn't step on this rock like I did. It says, well actually verse 10, when the brethren immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea, when they arrived, they went into the synagogue of the Jews. These were more fair-minded than those in Thessalonica in that they received the word with all readiness and searched the scriptures daily to find out whether these things were so. And look what it says, verse 12. Well you don't usually call them Epicureans, but that that's very similar philosophy. Right there on the side of Mars Hill, the place where philosophers got together for hundreds of years to discuss Stoicism He's starting, he's not going to the Gospels. For as I was passing through and considering the objects of your worship, I even found an altar with this inscription to the unknown God. It's not marble, so I think unlikely. And I know who that God is that you missed. But you know what? Let's look in detail about his sermon here. Because even though Paul is going to use, you know, the altar that's there, he's going to quote from the poets they're familiar with His he is his this sermon is very, very doctrinal. As also some of your own poets have said, for we are also his offspring. of his message here. He's the creator of all things everywhere. And Paul is saying it right here. He's the Lord of heaven and earth. We're all related to the same ancestor, Adam. But he's not a God like the Epicureans believe that, well, he made the world, but there there are gods out there, but they're not interacting with creation anymore. He's bringing them to a point of decision. little shrines in their backyard. to 2 Peter chapter 3, verse 9, where it says, The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men can't slackness, but is long suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. He says he commands all men everywhere to repent, because he has appointed a day on which he will judge the world righteously by the man whom he has ordained. This is a choice all must make. Perhaps he was going to go even further here, but we see their response. No one comes to the Father but by me. Of course he can give life and breath back. We must tell them who God is, a God who loves us and made us, a God who sent His Son to die for us and rose again. And Paul, as he preaches this message, he talks about sin. He quotes from their prophets, not to say, their poets, not to say that these guys are a source of truth, but to say, look, this is not as foreign as you think. So they can understand, better understand the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's what God says. Great. according to the Bible. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call, so we can walk you through this helpful resource. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. As we consider, Lord, these truths, we recognize that there are many, many who do not know you, many who We thank you, Lord, that although you are so high and lifted above us, that you condescend and you look to us and you care for us and you save us from our sins. We ask, Lord, that you would use this passage, you would use your truth to enlarge in our eyes and the scope of our lives beyond just what we see on a regular basis Therefore, he reasoned in the synagogue with the Jews and with the Gentile worshippers, and in the marketplace daily with those who happened to be there. For all the Athenians and the foreigners who were there spent their time in nothing else but either to tell or to hear something new. Then Paul stood in the midst of the Areopagus and said, Men of Athens, I perceive that in all things you are very religious. And he has made from one blood every nation of men to dwell on the face of the earth, and has determined their pre-appointed times and boundaries of their dwellings. So that they should seek the Lord in the hope that they might grope for him and find him, though he is not afar from each one of us. For in him we live and move and have our being, as also some of your own poets have said, for we are also his offspring. He has given assurance of this to all by raising him from the dead. Maybe you go to Rome. Nobody's going to see art. The Louvre. How many say no Berlin? Uh the the the the eastern part there uh the western part there of Turkey back then it was called the the Roman province of Asia. Go south. The church was not planted yet in Berea, so he leaves Timothy, he leaves Silas there in uh in Berea, and now Paul is wandering around Athens by himself. Like everywhere he's looking, he's seeing idols. The places are given over to idolatry. But he can't he can't not talk. He goes down the mountain. I had a chance to go there when I w was there. The the uh explanation here about this is where the synagogue was. So he went from his very intentional plan, I'm going to the synagogue, I'm going to reason from the scriptures, to I'm just going to randomly meet some people out here, see who's interested. Some people it was also called Mars Hill or the Hill of Aries. It's there's the well see the stairs here. But as he begins to speak to them, his method of preaching to them is a little different than what he did in the synagogue. See he was starting from an entirely different place. Previous generations, we could walk up to people and preach Christ, and we'd have a pretty good idea that they'd have an idea what we're talking about. And he says, this, men of Athens, I perceive that in all things you are very religious. An altar. And then it's not just another one to add there. Now I'm going to read the first part of the sermon. Nor is he worshiped with men's hands, as though he needed anything, since he gives to all life, breath, and all things, and he has made from one blood every nation of men to dwell on the face of the earth Basically, if you take out the phrase in the middle, it basically just says, God does not live in temples. There's a lot of different races, but Greeks are at the top. So that they should seek the Lord in the hope that they may grope for him and find him, though he's not far from each one of us. He's not saying they're born again. But he's our creator, and so we are his offspring. It's kind of like if we were sharing the gospel and we were to talk about the punishment for sin. He could have been pointing at individual statues that he said this. Therefore, since we are the offspring of God, we ought not to think that the divine nature is like gold or silver or stone or something shaped by art in man's devising. Something shaped by art or man's devices. God for a time is overlooking sin in the sense that he's not punishing them immediately. He is the Son of God. He gives all things to men, the things that we need. And then verse 31, he's going to judge the world. Here he is on the Areopagus. Here's the question. He died for you. But uh even in this passage that doesn't mention him, we see Paul Expecting the Holy Spirit to work. And it comes back to God who made us. God commands you to repent. He wants to save you. Who are you today? Lord, thank you for the gospel message and the assurance that you give to us that if we repent and believe on you, that we will be saved. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. But he wants to be your father in the sense that you have a relationship with him. But he's a heavenly Father who's with you all the time, who saved you, and who one day you will see in heaven Let's pray. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. What's just ahead of us. Now, while Paul waited for them at Athens, his spirit was provoked within him when he saw that the city was given over to idols. Yeah, Myrna's got relatives there. Yeah, you've already been there, right? But if you were to do so, where would you go? And there were two different groups, two different uh uh factions there that were particularly interested in what Paul was saying. Epicureans, they're all into pleasure. Greek capital letters, which is annoying to try to read, and modern Greek people aren't going to be able to read most of that there, because that's an ancient Greek Even today, as we share the gospel, our culture is changing. But it's called it's like a scale here. Um others, I always pray the Lord leads me to people at l about minus one, minus two. But a lot of people we come to now in the culture, they're not at minus one and minus two. And as he does this, he wants to hook their attention. That's why they got all these statues of the perfect human bodies in Greek art uh Greek architecture, Greek art. I mean you got the Nazis. Look what he says here. It's like the the idea is God did not punish them right away. Need to repent. Requires I mean preaching the gospel requires doctrine. The work of the Holy Spirit. There are many people seeking these kind of answers, and they don't realize those answers are in the scriptures. Live lives in rebellion against you, some overtly and hostile, others ignorantly. So Paul departed from among them. How many say nope, Boston, Harvard, MIT are up there? But actually let's go back and look at the Via Ignatia again. Look at verse 16. And that's where we find him here in Acts chapter 17 and verse 16. This is what it looks like today if you went to the synagogue. Doesn't look like anybody got saved. We're on our own. Do some people have that viewpoint today? He's going to preach Christ. I was there last year, I was like, I want to find this same altar. He's independent. He's made of one blood, from one man. But we've seen this already as we've talked through this passage. Are you going to remain unchanged? To change their thinking. Advanced technological people believing that somebody rose from the dead? When starting from ground zero, we need to know this. Christ died for all men. These are concepts you should be familiar with. But the Bible, God Himself, gives us the answers to these questions. This passage makes it very clear. But to see your heart for people and to see your love for others. Therefore, the one whom you worship without knowing, him I proclaim to you. But he looks around at his setting and he notices something. But people all around us are chasing things that are not God. Think of the Old Testament, the Ten Commandments. Right there on Mars Hill, under the Acropolis, looking over the city, no matter which way he's looking, there are idols. God is what? That's kind of what Paul's doing here. And who desperately need to hear the gospel and believe on you before it's too late. You stand above your creation, and you are Lord over all, sovereign over all So those who conducted Paul brought him to Athens, and receiving a command for Silas and Timothy to come to him with all speed, they departed. Then certain Epicurean and Stoic philosophers encountered him, and some said, What does this babbler want to say? Nor is he worshipped with men's hands, as though he needed anything, since he gives to all life, breath, and all things. I enjoy traveling. Well, if you live 2,000 years ago, the answer would not be Paris or New York. We don't really see that quite here that much. Why is that? Pleasure was not good. There is actually the rock, if you're at the Acropolis, that's what he's standing on right there, and talking with these gentlemen. He starts at a different point. He goes right to the cross. And about the judgment in the future. And this is basically his idea. The unknown God, he tells them, this God can be known. And then he focuses down more specifically, just like Genesis 1. And he's the source of living, moving, existing. Not only does God want to be known, he wants you, each one of us, to know him. This now knowable God, he cannot be ignored. If you do not change your thinking and believe on him, the known God can be known. Wrong response. We have our goals in life, the things we want to get out of this world while we live here. 12, neither is there salvation in any other, for there's none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Jesus died for all. To answer questions that people in every culture who speak every language ask We all ask these questions. And uh he went into the synagogue and this is what he does. He would go to the people most likely to respond to the gospel. As we're preaching the gospel, especially if we're starting at ground zero, we need to build bridges. What we do not deserve, you have offered to us freely as a gift through the work of your Son, Jesus Christ. Reading from Acts 17, verses 15 through 34, I encourage you to read along with me as we read the passage. This might have been what it would have looked like as Paul was walking through there on his way to the synagogue. And so little by little by little as truth comes, the theory is that they'll get closer and closer and closer to trusting Christ as their Savior. Here I run into somebody with a Catholic background. He was staring at temples each way he looked. But maybe some here, and definitely those around us, are making our own gods. You must tell what the Bible says about the condition of each one of us. Not sure. We'd love to start a Bible study with you so you can hear more, so you can understand the gospel and be saved. You're already already in Acts chapter 17. provoked within him. Are your is your spirit stirred up when you see other people chasing things that are not God? Are chasing things that will lead ultimately to their destruction. Attracting their interest. Each one, individuals. But hey you do this uh that's a familiar phrase. That he you know he he is going to judge the world and he gives assurance to all. Lord, I pray that if there's anyone here who's never trusted you as their Savior, that they wouldn't wait. And so he gets on a boat, and you see the little red arrow now, goes way south, and he ends up in Athens. Is your heart stirred up, provoked as people all around us He reasoned in the synagogue with the Jews and with the Gentile worshippers and in the marketplace daily with those who happened to be there. He could see the center of idolatry there in Athens. They had had had a frame of reference about Christianity. This unknown God can be known. And God says, I made you all from one blood. And he made us to seek him. The one that rose from the dead, perhaps they already heard about Christ's death and resurrection as he was walking through the marketplace Science tries to answer the question of where did I come from, apart from the Bible. And Lord, I pray each one of us here that our hearts would be would be moved, we'd be stirred to action when we see those around us who don't know you. He wants, he's not far from each of us. Yeah, but a God who made all things everywhere, the God who gave life and breath to all That's what he's doing here. You want to see the Coliseum? He's not far from every one of us. But the invitation is still there. Are you going to repent? Verse 4 says, and some of them were persuaded. So this this is a scale that's been developed to help think through, hey, when I'm sharing the gospel, where where do I start? And not only that, he gives all life. He commands all men everywhere to repent. God made you. Father, as we consider how we have sung of your greatness, we have sung of your majesty, we thank you that Maybe you go to see the Eiffel Tower, Notre Dame. The Greeks are not superior. God made all men everywhere. What is he like? There probably some discussion back and forth up there on the on the on the mountain there. You may not have known who he was before this sermon, but now you do know, and you're responsible to respond to this message. He's the propitiation for our sins. I mean I'm not too huge into art, but some people are really into it. Here's a picture of an altar. And it's very doctor, doctrinal. And if we missed one, at least we can say, okay, we missed you, but there it is. Maybe Florence, Italy. There's a lot of philosoph philosophical discussions there, ideas. Be careful, it's slippery. You can look at that one and that one and that one and that one. That's where he's starting. And he's saying this. Okay. And that's where we find ourselves in the book of Acts, chapter 17. Now some people do. Is your spirit stirred up? It's about so much more to having a whole lot of numbers with a whole lot of commas uh in your your bank account. You've got to start at a different place many times. He's transcendent. God exists. God overlooked? But Paul put this message before them. We can say that with confidence, because that's what the scriptures say. He made the world. Just live, you know. He's gonna transfer them from the thing that they know to things that they don't know. God says your thinking has got to change. But a few believed. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. Now, when Paul waited for them at Athens, his spirit was provoked within him when he saw that the city was given over to idols. So he goes to them and unlike other places, it seems like uh there was no response. Pain was not evil. Minus twelve we'll call that. They thought they were the Aryan race. Uh how many of you think no Florence sounds like more fun? But the Lord closed the door there and led them to go across uh the sea there to Greece. And the obvious next stop would be along that road. This is what it looks like today. He did die in your place and rise again. In fact, if we look back through the sermon, notice how often he is emphasizing this idea of all. Uh how many of you Dubai? Verse 26. For we are also his offspring. Therefore, based on all this truth, he's just told them about God. God made us. I tried to go to Rome, but I was prevented. Therefore many of them believed, and also a few Greeks, prominent women as well as men. He's going to emphasize the resurrection. Notice also, he continues, tells us something more about God. Paul had had been originally in modern day Turkey, East uh this is uh um I don't know if he was up at the Acropolis. Because you have a choice now. Today make sure. Dear Lord, thank you for your word. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. And so we ask, Lord, that you would do this work in our lives. I'm gonna go to Dubai, see the tallest building in the world. Okay. He walks along the road and there at at way at waypoints along the way there are just idols everywhere he looks He says, Look in your own writings. He's not affirming that these philosophers and poets had some divine revelation, had some truth. Well he made all things everywhere. And if they truly change their thinking about their sin, their sinners cannot save themselves. Are you going to change your thinking? Now, in this passage we don't see the Holy Spirit mentioned. He made the world, everything in it. There are yeah I go for a walk, I sometimes see that sometimes. Jesus said this in John 16, 8. He's not far from you. How many of you would say London? That's the Acropolis. Here is man making images of God. We ought not think that the divine nature is the gold, silver, or stone. It's cheating. We see it very clearly in this passage. Just be expected and keep sharing the gospel. Come and talk to myself after the service. One more t one more. Love your love other people. Time Paul went up there, it was not up there yet. But uh but when Paul was there, he noticed all these altars as he walked. He doesn't need man. And he's going to tell them even more about the one that God sent, Jesus Christ He created all men everywhere. As he comes to the end of this sermon and he talks about repentance, as he talks about the resurrection, he's bringing them to God's word. I tend to go to the same places over and over, but every once in a while every once in a while, actually as much as I can, I'll try to get a longer layover and take, you know, just a couple of hours in some some some place. He looks up. So he moves on. He's preaching that they think a strange God. Where did I come from? You are made by God. Before we read the God's word, though, let us go ahead and go to the Lord in prayer Now I'm not recommending any of these schools particularly, but you know, this is where people go. Does he like really hate idols? So many people have walked on there for thousands of years that the rocks are literally worn down. He's gonna impress upon them the urgency of this God He's introducing to them As I read, we've already read it once, so you're familiar with it, but as I read this the second time, look for, maybe even if you have your notes, some people take notes, jot down any attribute of God that you see here. But God is our father in the sense that He is our creator. However, some men joined him and believed. What's the first one? Now remember, Athens, it's a center of iconic architecture, it's a center of art, it's a center of prominent thinkers. Now he's up there. God commands all men everywhere to repent. He can raise people from the dead. In fact, you can see some of the uh the menorah there that's carved into the into the into the ground there. Now this rock may not have been stepped on by the Apostle Paul, but that stair was. Is God overlooking sin? He wants you to know him. We are the offspring of God. He was really stirred up. So here's Paul. He's infinite. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. He's close by. No, he commands all men everywhere to repent. Not for ours only. You can look down and see the entire city of Athens. So at any point along this scale, they could stop and say, nope, I'm not interested. The introduction is his outline. It's an amazing sermon. Not changing your mind. You're going to keep worshiping these false gods. It's famous. Notice we we look back at Acts 17, verse 2. Like, is there a God? He does not dwell in temples. Remember the scale there talked about the God-shaped vacuum. God cares about you. He's not just the God of the Jews. He is the resurrection. He lists them. It was just, you know, you just gotta pull yourself up by your bootstrips. He gets their attention. They had walked by it. Live your life. In the middle of the scale, I'll back up again. Well, they're not going to be at minus 12. The best. The Americans are not superior. Once again, that's that's all. The Acropolis and there are big old idols up there. He can't not share about God. Back then it probably looks a lot better, but once again notice there's the remnants of statues. That's up on top of the hill where all the gods well, there's gods everywhere. He's going all the way back to Genesis chapter 1 This God can be known. You can't preach the gospel without doctrine. We see at the end of the passage three different responses. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. Uh how many of you would go with with Rome? I want to go to Dubai. I traveled to Bali. And Paul sees this. You can ignore them. Maybe you go, nope, I'm gonna go to New York City. In Asia it's famous, here not so much. How many of you woke up this morning and thought I'd love to engage with some prominent thinkers? You can actually see on that map, but you can't see it very well. Have no other gods before me. So the Jewish people with the Old Testament scriptures talks about creation, talks about sin. But he goes to Athens. But they're interested enough and they say, hey, we've got just the place where we want to talk to you, talk to you. And you know what this now known God cannot be ignored. He doesn't want us to make our own gods. He calls them to repent. I'm gonna go to London. But in Athens, he's not with Jewish people. He's got uh according to this scale, they could talk about having a God-shaped vacuum. All men everywhere are sinners and must come to repentance. As we preach God's word, the Holy Spirit works. He's building bridges. They may not have let him be up there. He goes into that marketplace, in the throng there, and begins just talking to anybody, any Gentiles that he was, he's reasoning with them, he's talking with them. Live for now. It would be similar to this. I want to know. Therefore, the one whom you worship without knowing, him I proclaim to you. He's not changing doctrine to accommodate to the culture around him. It's very God-centered. You're familiar with this. Look, there's three responses here at the end. As we look at this passage, let's look at the clear, clear things we can see from it. Which one are you talking about? Verse 24: God, who made the world and everything in it, since he is the Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands. Notice the emphasis there. We're all related. Of course he can rise from the dead. How many of you say, nope, Paris again, the Sorbonne? This is this is literally where Paul goes. Sounds a little bit American. He reaches out to every nation. Dionysus the Areopagite, a woman named Demaris, and others with them. He's brought this message to you today. Thank you for the truth that we see there about you. I think there's two more. That never happens in other countries, does it? You got the Chinese. He's not only transcendent, but he is also imminent. Once again, God made you. You've heard about this God. At least not as obviously as in your face as in Athens a year ago In fact, that's one thing that got their curiosity when he was talking in the marketplace. He's all powerful. May the Lord richly bless you. I've seen the outside of both of those. He does what he always does does. And so that's where it goes. But today, you talk to people about the gospel, they don't have that same background. They don't think so. There's temples everywhere, and he says, No, God does not dwell in temples. Man needs God. He made us from one blood. He's talking about believers there. So you get Jews, you've got some other places we'll call them proselytes. If you're on top of the Mars Hill, you can see behind me, that's the Acropolis. God said, no, no, no, I made you in my image. These are quotes from a guy named Epimenides, the one for in him we live and move and have our being. There's a time, there's a space here, a time to repent. 1 John 2. He made all. He wants us to know him. Here talking about all, but in the sense of all of us as individuals. At this point, some start mocking him. Maybe they hadn't noticed it. Why am I here? This is probably when he was prevented. Be happy. Somebody who does not know anything about the gospel. I asked around, they said, It's gone, it's destroyed, everything's in ruins, and I guess that one got maybe this is a piece of it, I don't know. And Paul is preaching the resurrection. We're accountable before Him. And if you want to see the most iconic art, most world famous art, where would you go? Do you feel I want to tell them I want to tell them life's about so much more than just having a nice weekend. Now the Stoics they were a little more um wound a little tighter You got this God, you got that guy, you got that guy, you got that guy. And you cannot ignore this invitation because there comes a day when he will judge the world. He commands all men everywhere to repent. Now would not be a good time to go to Dubai. This really got him going. In fact, many times you've got to listen to what they're saying, understand where they're coming from to know where to start when sharing the gospel. And he commands all men everywhere to repent. Those things you've been thinking, that have been believing are wrong. You are one of those people in the all men everywhere. This now is his second one. They're way earlier. He made man He cares about your family. Like or in the past that there was a time when God just didn't didn't No, that's not what he's saying here. He puts this choice before them and he emphasizes He's not just the God of the Americans. The Royal Society is there. And so Paul's friends say, Paul, you've got to get out of here. Bali, you gotta watch where you're walking as you're walking uh along the uh sidewalk because there are offerings to the Hindu idols there. If the gods do exist, we haven't seen them in a while. That is not the altar from Athens. How many say no Boston, Harvard Square, that kind of thing? He went to Philippi where he planted a church and got kicked out. And he says his heart is provoked within him. What's the second one? So the Epicureans, what do they believe? Or maybe we could say it already has changed Look at verse 22. He draws it from things common to them. They call their country the middle country. You might say what goes around comes around. And he commands you, no matter who you are, no matter where you're from, no matter what your background is, no matter what your culture is, he commands you to repent. When he, that's the Holy Spirit, has come, he will convict the world of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment. Maybe you go to New York. In fact, the answer to all these questions would be the same There are idols everywhere in Athens. That's two thousand years ago. Doesn't say anybody's persuaded here. They grew up in a school system that told them there is no God. He wants to grab their attention, make them even more interested before he starts giving them solid doctrinal teaching about who God is. Very, very different from his other sermons. The Chinese are not superior. You are the offspring of God. Throughout the book of Acts, the Holy Spirit is mentioned over and over and over again. You are the offspring of God. A few moments, we'll be reading from Acts chapter seventeen. Yeah? Where would you go if you were trying to get a prestigious education? He gives all breath. The introduction is that you have an unknown God And he has made from one blood every nation of man to dwell on the face of the earth. He's reachable. He's introducing a lot of new ideas, but he says, Look, even in your even in the pagan writings, you can see this. We'd love to share with you from the Bible to make sure that you know God based on Jesus Christ and what he did for you. What's he talking about? They're going to know some things about God. See, guys, you missed it. He's transcendent. And he gives this assurance to all by raising him from the dead. He's saying he's not a strange God. He talks about righteousness. Maybe even today you're here, but inside you're kind of like, okay, they believe Jesus rose from the dead. It is called The Exchange. Even today you've got to pay a fee to get in there. He's over all. Don't keep making these idols of gold, silver, stone. They would have been familiar with those those quotes That's what Paul's doing here. Their emphasis was on discipline, self-control, self-sufficiency. What is he saying here about God? Not only does God not live in temples, but God's not worshiped by things made with men's hands. And as we share the gospel, we should look for ways to build bridges to help people understand, to go from unknown to known. How about uh New York? They're chasing money. Make no graven images. So you got Epicureans on one side, you got Stoaks on the other side. In the middle of the scale, what you can't see is that gray line. But not that's not a normal thing. That's not in our experience. And he puts it before us today I'd like to begin with a question for you. The Acropolis up at the top. Do people today have that philosophy? And uh he had some semi-curious listeners. That now you know they're false. But some some mocked. 2 says this. Maybe they had. He says he got their attention there, but something common to their culture. He can raise himself from the dead. In Jesus' name. And so he goes off the road to a nearby city, the city of Berea, where he preaches the gospel. I actually up here, you may have noticed I had a rock up here if you had really, really good eyesight. You don't have to make an idol so you can worship him. He made us from one blood. You wrote down those those attributes of God You're in his image. This is his this is his uh his And they see Paul and they think, this is interesting. He's the creator of all things everywhere. We're all made by God. Paul makes the argument: we are the offspring of God. Some mocked, and maybe this is where the sermon ended. You know him. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. Actually I've seen half of the Eiffel Tower. I went there. God who made the world and everything in it. But he's bringing them to a point of decision. But also for the sins of the whole world. May we capture that today. Stay here in the U. There's an awful lot of idols around here. Now that you know about him, there are consequences. And God's just not in the picture. Where am I going? And when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked. Paul, he says, I gotta do it. It's attained by avoiding excesses, avoiding the fear of death. And as Paul here in Athens comes to these people, he realized these are not people with a Judeo background, a Judaism background What in the world does that mean? Philosophy tries to answer that question, why am I here? We hope to see you soon. We ask all this in Christ's name. Among them Dionysius, the Arepagite, and a woman named Demaris, and others with them. But uh yeah, some choices there. There's another choice. Like these people that they're so into their idols that they're everywhere around here. God has already been working in their heart. You are responsible for him. You didn't know he was. There's time. And finally, we should lead people to the truth of God's word And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. And he knows this. He cannot be restrained by space and time. Verse 30, truly, these times of ignorance, God overlooked People can't get saved unless they know who God is. One, some people mocked. He goes there through the yellow part, and maybe not exactly in that, because his his his goal actually originally was You can see here you've got Philippi, he went there, and actually the Bible mentions So he's looking over all of this area, seeing these, he's surrounded by But at Athens, they're at minus twelve. That basically is saying heavens, that's up there, earth, that's down here. He's infinite. He's not just the God of the Chinese. They stop listening. We are all responsible before him because we are the offspring of God. Something to build, a foundation to build our life upon. And you can see his little red line there starting in Antioch goes up through the A lot of things have happened, and I wonder if Back then there would not have been as many houses as Guys, you missed it. Why? He says, you've got to change your thinking The resurrection of the dead? Yeah, quite a few of you. Well, God really hates idols. Others, well he seems to be proclaiming foreign gods He cares about He wants you to know Him. And it comes down to Jesus Christ, who He sent to die in our place and rise again. How many say nope nope New York City? The church was established. I don't need you to make an image. Maybe they had a whole backstory behind who this unknown God might be. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. If you had these four choices, which one would you go with? But uh Yeah, there you go. This one has no fee. He's not with people who are familiar with the Old Testament. Paul standing in the midst of the Areopagus. Things common in their culture to things that he wants to introduce them to. He gives everything. So not just one, all of them. Paul does what? They'll become a new creature in Christ. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, S. If you want prestigious uh uh education. They're chasing prestige. Paul is waiting for Silas and Timothy to join him. You don't want a whole history lesson here, I'm sure, but Epicureans and Stoics, they're kind of like opposite thinkers here You can slip right off that thing, which is not good because And he's preaching about Jesus Christ. They're going to know some things about sin. Because they're the best. Maybe that's not a good way to say to do You are accountable to him. He builds a bridge to them. Paul finds himself in Athens. Now he's looking around here as a Jew and a Christian. I'm rejecting Jesus Christ. That's because he reached down to us first. Verse 29, therefore Amen. The same again. But uh this is this is way up there. So God is transcendent, he is infinite. He's interested in individuals. But so often we do. That's crazy. God is going to judge the world in righteousness. He's not an unknown God somewhere far away. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. He's gone off the Via Ignatia. He looks down All men everywhere are sinners. There's a lot of things to see there. You've got to go somewhere that's off, that's not going to be obvious, somewhere a little farther away. AI is helping us out to go back 2,000 years. And this is basically, we'll get a little closer here. No, he's gonna teach them very good solid doctrine from the Bible You got an altar to an unknown God. Historically, that's never gone wrong, has it? The Jews are not superior And not only that Don't keep making those images. They don't know who God is, they don't know who Jesus is, they don't know any of the stories maybe of the Bible. So there's the center of his Why do you think Paul might have said that? No, he says there is a God. He's independent. Or maybe you're like the third group here, like, I I heard, I understand, today I want to believe But anyway, he goes all the way down. There's one passage in the Bible that really speaks against racism, and there are many, but this is one key passage here. Often we think we are our own gods. There's not a whole lot of gods, no, there's one. He's stirred up. They know all about altars and gods and statues and whatnot. Have you been He is your father in the sense that he made you. For you are bringing some strange things to our ears. God who made the world and everything in it, since he is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands. Why is Paris on every list here When he says God, they're going to be like which God? Verse 25 talks about God who gave all life. That's why Jesus could say, I am the resurrection and the life. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. Because the people that persecuted him in Thessalonica They're all kind of headless, but So he's going to start at a different point. Yeah, there's different ethnicities, but there's only one race, the human race, and we're all part of it. Now you know who he is, and you have a choice. You haven't heard of him, but he's the God of everyone. He is the propitiation for our sins. Only only uh there was clouds and then I'm not sure how high it goes, but uh seen half the Eiffel Tower Well, even though they got the statues everywhere, that's somewhere far away He reasons from the scripture, and what does he do? They thought they are the best. You call him the unknown God We don't know if a church was planted. The Bible is clear. This is not a command that's hypothetical. And we see here he worked in hearts so that Dionysius and Demaris and a few others came to Christ. Got a couple people going for New York on this one. Probably nobody thought that. I've traveled other places in the world, Hong Kong. It's not quite as obvious to say Athens, you walk around and the up there's the giant statue to Zeus, there's a giant statue to this guy, this guy. Go to Berea, just before this. How could you pay attention to all of them? As Paul's making this point. He's about to say he commands all men everywhere to repent, and actually this is very, very, very similar to That's crazy. Why do you believe something like that? In this sermon, Paul is answering these questions. We praise you for that. We confess, Lord, that there are many times that we can simply be focused on How many in New York? Amsterdam. They have this background. That's Paul's preaching the gospel. Everybody thinks they're the best. Your life is much about so much more than that So if you ever go there, this thing And uh to the right of the stairway there, there's this plaque, and it's in Greek Notice this emphasis. He made us to seek after him. We're making our own God. Christ died for all This morning, if you have never repented of your sins and trusted Jesus Christ alone as your Savior, How many of you enjoy traveling? And so all by himself, he just goes for it. He went to the synagogue. So when I was in in China, Atheistic. Verse 24, first full sentence there says. He made us to dwell on the earth. Nobody says that. Next, preaching doctrine. We're sinners. He catches their attention by saying, hey I mean You don't leave us guessing about who you are and what you're like. No last last last one And he had his regular way of doing this. They'll listen to Paul talking about Jesus Christ. So he's stay on on this big old rock right here, and maybe there were some buildings there at the time. He's prepared them. God wants each one of us to know him. Amen. The one group he talks about is the Epicureans Uh uh but they don't even know they have this Maybe you're like the second group. And Lord, the need is certainly great That's the line at which someone trusts Christ as their Savior Yeah. And as he starts He's the creator of all, specifically the creator of mankind. If they truly change their thinking about Christ, These are Gentiles, Greeks who have who have uh But now that he's got their attention. He wants to be our Father in the sense that we are born again and we become His spiritual children. In fact, you could call the book of Acts the Acts of the Apostles through the Holy Spirit, but that gets really, really long. Statue of Liberty, Empire State Building, many other things. This is an awful lot of ones. That seemed pretty obvious. That's the way he's going to take them. Earlier in the book of Acts it says He went to Thessalonica where he planted a church and got kicked out. He's not going to avoid doctrine, but he's got to start talking about doctrine at a different place. He's the Lord of all things everywhere. Once again, we don't have neighbors who are actually making Preaching the gospel also always involves But they would repent and believe. How many of you would say, nope, I'm going to go to Paris for the art? They're chasing leisure. No, that's a temple. A lot of people, most people went to church. So he's starting at a different place in his sermon. But he begins by saying, I saw an altar to an unknown God. You don't know who he is. I made you in my image. No, he's saying he's referring to these to help them understand what he's telling them about God. We may not have gotten the whole thing. Here's the the the the Now the Greeks, they thought they were the best race. But you know, he's not just the God of the Greeks People don't rise from the dead. But he will not wait forever. This change of thinking will result in a change of life Acts 17, 15 says How many would you go with number one? He goes to them, shares the gospel. Don't live by your emotions. So they might be at minus 7 or minus 8. Verse 29. They said, Really? We cannot save ourselves He's building a bridge to the truth. I'm preaching foreign gods, it was foreign to you, but actually He needs to speak. He made everything. Are you going to turn to him? It doesn't sound like just a sound like just a few people came to Christ here. They can't get saved unless they know about Jesus and his resurrection, his death in their place. So if you want to see iconic landmark, those are the kind of places you want to go to. He preached, some people got saved, goes to Athens, he goes to the synagogue Let's go to the Areophagus. You share the gospel, and now they are ready to repent and trust Jesus as their Savior No, no. Notice, notice he says here. Now I don't think he went to Athens on purpose. You are the offspring of God. But the main point is very, very clear. They were not interested in the gospel Don't think about death. I know who he is. He made us. That's from Epimenides. I've gotten behind my PowerPoint here Once again, Paris is a choice. He's looking and he's seeing all these graven images, all these idols He's saying in the past God overlooked them. This is a rock from right there where the synagogue was You can know God, but you're not going to find him in those temples that are all around you here. Look at verse 27. How many of you say no Oxford sound like a good one He goes down to the marketplace where the synagogue is There's idols everywhere. People don't rise from the dead That's everything. This may be more of a How about Amsterdam? There's one. He says, okay, you've got an unknown God. He says, no, this God, this is one you cannot ignore. God made you Really? New York? I forget which god it was. He was in Berea. He immediately demonstrates that Christ had to suffer and rise from the dead. He made you He gives us everything that we need. He has given assurance of this to all by raising him from the dead. He's right to punish people for their sin. Maybe they're just covering their bases, you know He can be known, and he wants you to find him. We are the center of our world. We see that right here when he says I need to hear more We're made by him. It's about so much more than having the great Look at that emphasis. Paris. Just be disciplined and march through life. You got temples to all these gods. You're accountable to Him That means he satisfied God's wrath. He's going to talk about God, all those attributes. Therefore we want to know what these things mean Not many on New York He goes to the synagogue. It's even labeled everybody's got a label. For real? There are temples And he's not far from you. Even today, you talk about cr you know modern So look at verse 17. Resurrection? They are permanently engraved on the side of Mars Hill. Another's is from two poets, Eratus and and I don't know how to say this guy's name. While others said, We will hear you again on this matter It's not quite time to speak. Though he's not far from each one of us Verse 30, of course, he commands all men everywhere to repent. Didn't get anywhere in the synagogue, and he starts. Everything that is, God made We don't make gods. Notice, keep reading, verse 30. Acts chapter 17, verse 11. They're living for the weekend instead of living for God. There were so many gods there There is a God, he does exist And just like in Genesis 1, notice You go to Paris You could step right in those things all the time Don't keep going towards Rome And he plants a church It says, You are the offspring of God. They're exposed to some Christian concepts. Well, let me tell you about him King James has winked at, which sounds a little strange. No, you give us your word. He went to Berea Others said, I think I need a little more time to think about this. One day we'll stand in judgment. For in Him we live and move and have our beings. You don't need to make another temple. Let me give you some choices. Now, he says, what are you going to do now that you know this? His team's not there. Now there's not Here's here's Aries, you know, here's here's He wants to know you. But we really would love to meet you in person. We live to serve ourselves But uh No, he made us Trust you alone for salvation. He's long suffering. We need to be made right with God. How about this? Look what he says here, verse 18. He always travels on a team. Maybe these aren't your choices, but You cannot forget. You must teach doctrine. Um name for the book. But um