To celebrate the resurrection of our Savior. And we want to invite you to go on a journey with us as we contemplate the death of Christ, His sacrifice, and his burial and then his glorious resurrection through uh prepared selections in voice and in instrument and then there will be different congregational numbers as well. So you'd want to pay attention to the cues for those. And so we are thrilled to be able to do this this morning. Our prayer is that it would be a real blessing. to you and would honor and glorify the Lord as we celebrate a risen Savior. Uh if you are visiting with us this morning, we're thrilled to have you and we hope that you will Get connected with us afterwards. There's a welcome center right out the doors here. We have a small gift for you and we'd love to have you connected with us as well. We're thrilled that you are here. Let's begin our time together of worship by praying together, and then we will begin. Let's pray. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you. We thank you for Christ. We thank you for the immense sacrifice that Christ gave of himself on the cross. He went to the cross willingly, obedient to death, even to the death of a cross. He took our sin on himself. He died in our place. And in proving that his payment was truly sufficient, he rose from the grave three days later, victorious over sin and death. And it is for those reasons that we are here this morning. It is for those reasons that we can hope and glory and joy in who God is, who you are, who Christ is, and what he has done for us. Father, as we glory both in the cross and in the resurrection today, I pray that you would be glorified and that we would be edified. I also pray, Lord, that if there is someone here that hasn't truly, genuinely believed on you. Maybe they're still searching, they're wondering, they're thinking about who you are, who Jesus is, what he did. I pray this morning that today would be the day that your spirit would work in through your word to bring someone to the saving knowledge of Christ. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Oh Lord of life would face his death and will we be God's rapid spell The Romans curge the mongery, the hanging curse of Calvary The Lord of life pursued his death and satisfied the Cedar said it's still the cross, it's still the blood It's still his star, he next of love, compelling me to spend my life In giving everything for Christ, in giving everything for Christ. The echo of his empty tomb, The Lord of life had bad himself, his fatal sing of making breath. It's still the cross, it's still the blood, it's still his dying acts of love, compelling me to spend my life In giving everything for Christ, in giving everything for Christ. The greatest love, the sacrifice, the triumph of the cross of Christ. The Lord of life demands my death to live for him with every breath It's still the cross, it's still the blood, it's still his dying act of love. Compelling me to spend my life in giving everything for Christ in giving everything for Christ Open this card in the door actually running. That with my friends. The city is full for Passover. The Lamb of God walks alone. This is not an accident of history. Not of the triumph of Rome, not the victory of jealous rulers. This is the hour foretold by the prophets, the servant wounded for our transgressions The shepherd giving his life for the sheep. We move today from the cross to a tomb, from weeping to wonder, from fear to faith. Listen carefully, for these things were written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life. He, bearing his cross, went out to a place called the place of a skull, which is in Hebrew Golgotha, where they crucified him and two others with him, one on either side, and Jesus in the center. Now Pilate wrote a title and put it on the cross, and the writing was Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews. Then many of the Jews read this title, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city. And it was written in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin. Therefore the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, Do not write the King of the Jews. But he said, I am the King of the Jews. He said, I am the King of the Jews. Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written. Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments and made four parts, to each soldier a part, and also the tunic Now the tunic was without seam, woven from the top in one piece. They said therefore among themselves, Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it. Whose it shall be, that the scripture might be fulfilled, which says, They divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. Therefore the soldiers did these things. By the cross of Jesus, his mother, and his mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Close, and Mary Magdalene, when Jesus therefore saw his father And the disciple whom he loved standing by, he said to his mother, Woman, behold your son. Then he said to the disciple, Behold your mother. And from that hour the disciple took her to his own home. After this Jesus, knowing that all things were now accomplished, that the scripture might be fulfilled, said, I first. Now a vessel full of sour wine was sitting there, and they filled a sponge with sour wine, put it on Hyssop, and put it to his mouth. So when Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished. And bowing his head, he gave up his spirit. What had been promised was now accomplished. The lamb was slain, the work was finished. I encourage you to remain seated as we sing our second hymn this morning, and can it be that I should gain? And can it be the life today? And we can deal with the one. I need for me because you may for me a day on me. Jesus ends his mind, alive in him my living head, and clothes in rising. My price mil The Sabbath passed, the stone was sealed, but death would not have the final word. Now, on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene went to the tomb early while it was still dark, and she saw the stone had been taken away from the tomb Then she ran and came to Simon Peter and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved, and said to them, They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him. Peter therefore went out, and the other disciple, and were going to the tomb. So they both ran together, and the other disciple outran Peter and came to the tomb first And he, stooping down and looking in, saw the linen cloths lying there. Yet he did not go in. Then Simon Peter came, following him, and went into the tomb And saw the linen cloths lying there, and the handkerchief that had been around his head, not lying with the linen cloths, but folded together in a place by itself. Then the other disciple who came to the tomb first went in also, and he saw and believed. For as yet they did not know the scripture that he must rise again from the dead. Then the disciples went away again to their own homes. Faith had begun to stir, but sorrow had not yet released its hold. But Mary stood outside the Weeping. And as she wept, she stooped down and looked into the tomb, and she saw two angels in white sitting, one at the head and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain Then they said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? She said to them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him Now when she had said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, and did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? She, supposing him to be the gardener, said to him, Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away Jesus said to her, Mary. She turned and said to him, Raboni, which is to say, teacher. Jesus said to her, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to my father, but go to my brethren and say to them, I am ascending to my father and your father. And to my God and your God. Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord and that he had spoken these things to her. Grief turned to recognition. Sorrow gave way to worship. It's extremely fitting to stand and join me as we sing Christ the Lord is risen today. Please join me. Christ the Lord is with today, Leluia, sons of men and angels. Say Ah Lelia, with your voice and cry of joy, A. And the three replies were in God. And we're in my All the guy can hard for your beyond. Always God, where thy name will be okay, will God. We now read our Then the same day at evening Being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut, where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst of them and said to them, Peace be with you. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. So Jesus said to them again Peace to you, as the Father has sent me, I also send you. The cross had brought forgiveness. The resurrection now brings mission. Where some rejoiced, others wrestled. The other disciples therefore said to him, We have seen the Lord. So he said to them, Unless I see in his hands the print of the nails And put my finger into the prince of the nails, and put my hand into his side, I will not believe. And after eight days, his disciples were again inside, and Thomas with them Jesus came, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace to you. Then he said to Thomas, Reach your finger here and look. at my hands and reach your hand here and put it into my side. Do not be unbelieving, but believing. And Thomas answered and said, My Lord and my God Jesus said to him, Thomas, because you have seen me, you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. And truly, Jesus did many other signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written. that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in His name. Please remain seated as we sing the power of the cross. And at this time, we will distribute the elements. If you are a believer and taking a part in believers' baptism, we feel free to have you join us in the communion today To see the talk of the darkest day Christ on the road to Calgary Tried by sinful man, torn in beating hand, nailed through a cross of war This is the part of the cross, Christ became for us Good blame for the wrath we've turned for giving out the wrong Oh the teeth of day bringing on your way bearing of Every day was every body or was we. Now the day like me, now a drown meeting, waker round is burning for the Get a race to life, but it is the biggest cry, it is the cross. Christy and for us for the wedding for the battle for the time. Oh to see my gaze making the world for your softly. Can it trust you find a live one you have in the world? And we want to just take a few moments to understand what this means. This is something that Christ instituted as an ordinance for us as believers, those who have placed our faith and trust in Christ. Those who have professed through baptism that we would have this symbol to be able to come together in unity To show that what unifies us is that we all believe that the death of Christ paid the punishment for our sin. And also to remember what Christ has done, to bring from the back of our mind to the forefront of our mind what Christ has done. And also to proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. And it's for those three reasons that we are today going to partake of the Lord's Supper together. If you know Christ is your Savior, and if you have uh been baptized, and you you're you're short of your salvation Let me encourage you to partake with us. If not, then certainly you can withhold. We have a little bit different way of doing it today, um, just to make things a little bit easier. So there's a uh a bread and there's a piece of You want to pull that back, and then underneath is this uh this uh bread that we'll take together, and uh um we'll do this in remembrance of Christ. Christ said these words in 1 Corinthians chapter 11. Take heed, take eat. This is my body which is broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me. Me. Let's partake together. And then Christ also said, This is the cup of the new covenant in my blood. This do as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. Let's partake together. And let's pray together. Father, we come to you this morning and we pray That you would today cause us to glory in the cross of Christ We thank you for the immense sacrifice that Christ made as He shed his blood on the cross, suffered incredibly, unimaginably, and was separated from you, living a perfect life Than coming to the cross, taking our sin on himself, dying in our place, so that we could have our sins forgiven. So that we could have Christ's righteousness applied to us. We thank you also for the resurrection. That demonstrates that Christ truly is victorious over sin and death. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. The messiah is dead A crown of thorns on his head, a spirit horses. His body lies in a tomb. His friends here sharing his term with his Christ is risen from the dead, he's risen, he's risen, Christ is God just as he said, He's risen, he's risen. A shout of joy dispells the gloom. Dear of that in his food. Christ is risen from the God, risen His S Sabbath draws to an earth, and Jesus, teacher, and friends. In the colours, the women weep as they walk Their hearts are done from the sharks in grief Christ is raising from the dead, he's risen, he's risen. Christ is God just as he said, He's risen, he's raised. A shout of joy is fell. Also we're all down the two right out, my dead in his Is risen from the dead, risen as head. Jesus claimed he was God, but was he merely a fraud? For how cool his teaching rang with the truth. His wonders none else could do, but was Christ is risen from the dead, he's written, he's written. Christ is God just as He says, He's risen, He's risen. A shout of joy dispels the gloom here of death. Death is to fight out. Life dead in his youth. Christ is risen from the dead, risen has he said. He's raised and he's raised, raised and John chapter 20. That has been where all of our readings have come from today, and I want to take a few moments to help us understand these readings and what exactly is God intending in John chapter 20 and what's going on here. As you read through the accounts of the of the crucifixion and of the resurrection, in the four gospels, you'll find varying accounts that do harmonize together. But in John's account particularly, you see that he has excluded certain things on purpose and he has included certain things on purpose. on purpose, in order to get across a particular point, he has a specific purpose in mind. And that specific purpose Is found in John chapter 20, verse 31, where it says this. But these things are written, these are written that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ. the Son of God, and that believing ye might have life through his name. As we read and thought through the crucifixion What Christ was doing there on that cross, he was dying for us. He took our sin on himself and died in our place. 2 Corinthians 5 verse 20 says, Now then we are ambassadors for Christ as though God did beseech you by us. We pray you in Christ's stead, be reconciled to God, for he hath made him to be sent for us who knew no sin. That we might be made the righteousness of God in Him. But the punishment that Christ bore for us, the payment that Christ paid for us, it can only be applied to us. If we have saving faith, if we have genuine belief, Ephesians 2, verse 8 says, For by grace are you saved through faith. And that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast You see, there are three kinds, or four rather, four kinds of people in this room this morning. Four kinds of people in our world. There are those who genuinely believe with confidence. Genuinely believe in what Christ did in dying on the cross and to pay the punishment for our sins. Genuinely believing in the resurrection of Christ. But there are those who genuinely believe with doubt. There's a genuine belief, but there is doubt. They haven't gained the assurance that they hopefully they will certainly gain at some point. There are some who don't believe, and they admit they don't believe. They will tell you, I'm a non-Christian, I don't believe in what Christ did on the cross for me. I don't believe in the the the actual bodily resurrection of Christ. But then there are some Who think they genuinely believe, but they don't. They think they do. They would say they're a Christian. They would say they know Christ. And yet. They really don't have genuine saving faith. This passage that we are looking at this morning that we have been Been paying attention to this morning. This passage is a passage that helps us to understand what genuine belief really is We see, first of all, as we see this narrative unfold, the empty tomb is there in that first day where Mary Magdalene comes and then you see Peter and John on the scene. You see that there is some confusion and there's some uh issues as they realize that Jesus' body is not there And you have two responses, one from Peter and one from John. We know from a passage in Luke that as Peter saw the clothes there, as he saw the empty tune, he marveled. He did not really understand. Luke chapter 24, verse 12 says, But Peter arose and ran to the tomb, and stooping down, he saw the linen clothes lying by themselves and departed, marveling to himself at what had happened. He didn't understand what was going on. He didn't really understand what was happening. The tomb was empty, yes, but what had occurred? But John very specifically, he says in this text in John, in his gospel, He explains that he really did believe. Notice what it says in verse 8 of this passage John has now come to the tomb. Peter got there first. He leaves. Now John is there. It says in the passage, then the other disciple who came to the tomb first went in also. And he saw and believed. He saw not the risen Christ. He saw that the tomb was empty. And from seeing the tomb empty, he believed. It goes on to say, for as yet they did not know the scriptures that he might rise again from the dead. Then the disciples went away again to their own homes. Jesus, or John rather, points out that he did believe without seeing the risen Christ. This was not normal Most of the other disciples, they did not believe until they actually saw. But when John saw the evidence, he believed. Hebrews 11, verse 1 says this, now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. It's the substance of things hoped for. But see faith is not a matter of seeing. It's looking at the evidence and then believing based upon the evidence, particularly what we see in Scripture. In Romans chapter 10 it says, so faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. See, some people will try to compartmentalize their faith. They'll put their faith over here and they'll put reality over here. And they sort of want to have their their their maybe their service they go to once a week or uh on Easter time or whatever. They they have this certain time they say, okay, well yes I have this faith, but faith doesn't ever bleed into reality The truth is, John saw the evidence in reality, and he believed based upon that. And that is the key to understanding belief is that the resurrection actually bodily happened. There are some that would suggest that well the rest the spirit rose from the grave there but Jesus his body didn't actually raise rose from rise from the grave they would make some sort of other theory so that this wasn't truly a miracle in reality And yet that is not a possibility if we're going to believe what the Bible says. It says in 1 Corinthians 15, verse 3 For I delivered to you first of all that which I also receive, that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to scriptures. But notice he was seen by many witnesses. It says in verse 5, and that he was seen by Cephas, then by the twelve After that he was seen by over five hundred brethren at once, for whom the greater part remained to this present, but some have fallen asleep. After that, he was seen by James, then by all the apostles, then last of all, he was seen by me also, as by one born out of due time. He was seen, he was seen, he was seen. It was the bodily resurrection of Christ. Jesus rose bodily from the grave. Our faith. Must be in reality from the Word of God. But secondly, genuine belief is inherently relational. It's inherently relational We see, we move on to the scene of Mary Magdalene, and she is there, and she's confused. She's very confused. She doesn't know what is happening and there she's hearing these announcements. But I think it's very interesting what happens in the text. In verse 15 it says this of John chapter 20. Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping whom you are seeking? She supposed him to be a gardener and said to him, Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away. Now, understand what's going on here. She's she's seeing this person, but she doesn't know who she is. It's possible Jesus did in in Luke 24, we actually see that Jesus did kind of conceal himself uh in other circumstances and maybe that's what's going on here as well but john emphasizes that it isn't until the word of jesus is spoken And then she realizes who sh who he is. He says, Mary. And then she realizes who he really is and says Raboni. It's the word of God that causes her to truly believe in who he is. There is a sense in which She actually believed apart from seeing in this passage. She clings to him because she's so joy joyful over who she who he is and he says hey hey look I'm not going anywhere right now um I will ascend to my father but I'm not doing it yet and uh and so you can kind of let go it's fine I'm not gonna go anywhere at the moment I need to go to the disciples and other things And then he says to Mary, Mary, I have a mission for you. Mary, I want you to go and tell. But what he says is just amazing. He says, I want you to go and tell my servants. He doesn't say that. He doesn't say, I want you to go and tell my disciples, even. He says, I want you to go and tell my brethren. This faith, this genuine belief, God's intention, Christ's intention is for there to be a relationship. Go and tell my brethren. And notice what the text says. He says it's it says in the text, um Picking up in verse um verse 17, Jesus said, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to my Father. But go to my brethren and say to them, I am ascending to my father and your father, and to my God and to your God. Look, this is not a faith that you can hold out here. The faith that John wants us to understand is a faith that brings a close relationship with Christ a brethren kind of relationship and a relationship where where we say, my God. My Father, my God. Hebrews chapter 2 says this, I will declare your name to my brethren In the midst of the assembly, I will sing praise to you. And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, here am I and the children whom God has given me. Romans 8 reminds us that we have received the spirit of adoption whereby we cry, Abba Father. And Jesus said in John 15, 15, no longer do I call you servants, for a servant does not know what his master is doing, but I have called you friends. For all things I have heard from my Father, I have made known to you. Christ calls us to belong. He calls us to purpose. He calls us to partner with him. This genuine belief is relational. Thirdly, this genuine belief includes specific components. We have here an example in Thomas's As Joe read, we have this example of Thomas who is very skeptical, who refuses to believe in the beginning. Notice in the text, John uh he says, I refuse- essentially refuses to believe. In John chapter 2, way back several chapters ago, we have a story of Jesus, and he is in a temple. And he is performing miracles. And it says in John 2, verse 23, it says, Now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover during the feast, many believe in his name. When they saw the signs, the miracles which he did. But Jesus did not commit himself to them because he knew all men. He did not, and he had no need that anyone should testify of man, for he knew what was in man He he saw their belief, but he realized that this was a belief in order to gain something. him. Later on in John chapter 6, he's performing more miracles. He's he's uh he's turning bread and fish into things multiplying it, those kinds of things are going on. And he says in verse 26, Jesus answered and said to them, Most assuredly I say to you, you seek me not because you saw the signs, but because you ate the loaves and were filled Do not labor for the food which perishes, but for the food which endures to everlasting life, which the Son of Man will give you, because God the Father has set his seal on him. He explains that they there is a kind of belief that is not interested in a personal relationship. There's a kind of belief Where if I do certain things and I if I have a certain kind of faith, then I will get a certain thing. It's like temporal salvation from something. There are sometimes people have testimonies. They say, well, I was in a car crash and I prayed to God and I thought I was going to die and I didn't die and I'm saved. That's not Faith. That's not saving faith. That's faith in temporal salvation, not faith in eternal salvation. And yet, what we have in this text is this. We have, as we go through this, we begin to see that there are characteristics that are true of this man Thomas. Notice, first of all, that there is true repentance. He says in the beginning, if you were listening as Joe read, he says in the beginning. He says, unless I see the hands and the prince of the nails, I put my finger into the prince of the nails and put my hand in his side. I will not believe. He refuses to believe. He says, I'm not doing it. I'm not going there. In John's mind, as he writes this, you have two options, not three, not four, not five, two options. You either refuse to believe or you do believe. So that if you are kind of believing, you're not believing. In this case, he clearly refuses to believe. He says, unless I see, touch, I'm not going to believe. But then when Jesus comes, he appears to him. Verse 27, and he said to Thomas, Reach your finger here and look at my hands and reach your hand here and put it in my side. Do not be unbelieving, but believing. John chapter 3 says this, verse 35. The Father loves the Son and has given all things. He who believes in the Son hath everlasting life. And he who believes not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him. What happened here in this text is you begin, you see Thomas, he goes from I will not believe to truly believing, where he says, my Lord and my God. Do you see the contrast? Do you see he is he is believing in self? Really what's really going on here, the reason he won't he won't believe in Christ, in the resurrected Christ, until he sees and puts his hand on his side is he's more confident in self than he is in Christ. He is more confident in what he in his own senses, his own, what he sees, what he can touch, than he is on the testimony of the disciples. But when he sees Christ, we see a second component of reverence, where he says, my Lord and my God. And by the way, he doesn't just say the Lord and God. He says, my Lord and my God. He makes it personal. This is a personal faith. He personalizes this. Finally, we see the third component is reliance. John specifically makes a point of saying what Jesus how Jesus had admonished Thomas after he believed. In John chapter 20, verse 29 it says, Thus saith the Lord, thus saith to him, Jesus saith to him, Thomas, because you have seen me, you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet believe. I think John knew, and of course Jesus even when he said the statement knew that that the majority of people that everybody after the disciples Would have had to believe the testimony of the disciples and to believe without seeing. Why? Because that's true faith. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not We cannot rely on ourselves. We must rely on what the Word of God says and believe based upon that. That's why 1 Peter 1 verse 8 says this, whom having not seen you love, though now you do not see him, yet believing you rejoice with joy, inexpressible and full. Now I began with mentioning that there are four kinds of people, and I want to end this way as well. There are four kinds of people. Number one, those there are those who genuinely believe with confidence. They have the kind of belief that we have described in this passage that we see here. There are some that do genuinely believe, but they have doubt. There are some that don't believe and they admit they don't believe. And there are some who think they genuinely believe, but don't As we go through this passage, as we went through the passage, can you say, you know, I thought I believed, but the kind of belief that I am seeing here by John's example, by Mary's example, by by by Thomas' example even, the way that they believe, I don't have that kind of belief. Let me encourage you. That you can today. These things are written that you might know that you have eternal life. You see, Romans chapter 10, verse 9 sums it up this way. that if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. For the Scripture says, whoever believes on him will not be put to shame. This morning, I wonder if there's someone here today who doesn't, hasn't really believed And the question for you is this, will you place your trust in Jesus, who paid the punishment for your sin today? Will you place your trust in him today? You say, I I really don't know. I'm I'm confused. I'm not sure about this. Let me encourage you after after the service Please come and talk with me or really anybody anybody up here that you saw that were reading the scriptures, anything, um please come up And we'll take a Bible and we'll be glad to show you how you can know for sure you will spend eternity with the Lord. That would be our greatest joy, and we can truly celebrate Easter together. For those of us who know Christ is our Savior, this is a wonderful day for us to celebrate what Christ has done. We serve a risen Savior It is the bedrock of our faith. It is the foundation of our faith. And we can be thrilled today that Christ is risen. Let's go to a little bit in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we again thank you for Christ, for what he has done in paying the punishment for our sin. Lord, I pray that if there is anybody here this morning who doesn't truly believe, don't doesn't have that saving faith, that genuine belief, oh maybe they've had some sort of belief in the past But it's not been that personal belief. It's not been that change from death to life, that understanding of their sin and their need of a savior. Lord, I pray today they would have understand their sin, their need of a savior, and be saved. Lord, we thank you for the cross We thank you for what Christ has done for us. We thank you for the resurrection. We pray that you would help us to live in light of that. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's all stand and sing together one of the songs that I think is most helpful in going through the entire gospel message together. In Christ alone. In Christ alone, my hope is found. He is my life, my faith, my faith. This corner stone, this solid brown, burn the wheels is brown and so I saw like that. Here I clearly sighed season, I don't burn her, I always hold fear in the love of Christ. In Christ alone goes on bless holy hell this way is the one and righteousness for our. And he came to say, Do you want a crossing? The rival satisfied for every same. He was made here in the death of Christ by deep surround his body made by the world by the way. Let's sing the fourth verse together. No guilt in life, no fear in death. This is the power of Christ in me From life prescribed by no breath, Jesus commenced my death in thee, no power of host me but man. Can ever fall me from his hand till he returned or caused his home? Here in the power of Christ I'll stand. Trust today that will be that is your your declaration that you stand in the power of Christ. alone and what he did on the cross for you. Trust that you'll have a wonderful rest of your day with your family as we celebrate Easter and have celebrated together today. If you are visiting with us, we are thrilled that you are here this morning. Please connect with us. We'd love to get to know you. There's a welcome center right out here. We do have a gift for you. And we're thrilled that you're here this morning and would love to connect with you. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community here at BBC. you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes. and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call. so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.