The grieving son stands in a medieval church, desperate for his father's soul in purgatory. A priest tells him, for a donation, I can shorten his time of suffering. He drops coins into a chest Again and again, because how do you put a price on something like that? This is what happened very frequently back in the medieval times. in churches all over Europe. Really wasn't until the Protestant Reformation that this was really objected to and was um was was really thought ul ultimately Repentance was something that could be purchased. Obedience was something that could be that could be a matter of economic enterprise. Instead of repentance being what true repentance is, a turning from sin and a turning to Christ. This was changed during the Protestant Reformation. It was clearly objected to by Martin Luther and others And this is it's something that's sort of interesting that as you think throughout both church history and the history of Israel, From time to time you have people that uh a group of people that get the idea that repentance and obedience can come through some sort of ritual. And if you remember last, not this past week, but the previous week, we realized in the book of in chapter seven, the first part of chapter seven That that was exactly what was taking place. They believed that their fasting and their rituals could replace their relationship with God. And God told them This is not ri the rituals that you are doing, both the fastings and even the feastings, you're not doing them for me. You're doing them for you. You're doing them for self-righteousness. I want to remind us of the purpose of Zechariah as we think through this passage in Zechariah chapter 7. The purpose that we stated all the way back in the first chapter, and I've mentioned on a couple of different occasions, is this. Because God desires to dwell among his people. and display his glory through them, he calls them to return to him, leading ultimately to the establishment of his kingdom. God desires to dwell among his people and to display his glory. But in order for that to happen, they must turn to him. Or in this case, in Zechariah, they must return. to him. And we've seen in Zechariah in chapters, in chapter one, that that was the call. The call was to return. to God to all to for for God to be able to dwell with them. But then you had all of these different visions to demonstrate how God was going to work through the nation of Israel, how he was going to establish a temple, how he was going to establish Jerusalem. And now we've come back to in Acts in Zechariah chapter 7, we begin to see now that God is pointing out the history of Israel and what how they have failed in the past. And in verse 7, it says, the words of the Lord proclaimed through the earlier prophets. Now I want to remind us of where we are in Zechariah, where we are in the timeline of Israel. looked at this timeline all the way back in first in the first chapter when we're when we're going over the first chapter. But um I want you to notice a couple of things A major time in Israel's life was when they came under back Babylonian captivity. And they were there for 70 years. You have the fall of Israel in 722 B. C. and the fall of Judah in 586 B. C. Before that time there were many prophets. There were prophets like Isaiah and Jeremiah that not only warned the people of the coming judgment. but called them back to obedience so that the people were without excuse. They were in idolatry, they were in wickedness, they were not in obedience to God, and God's prophets called them back. Of course, they went through this Babylonian captivity for 70 years. And then you find that the fall that they're at this point right here at 530 539 BC, you have the fall of Babylon and Cyrus the Great takes over. And then in 538 through 536 BC, that this time period is where we are now. And God desires to return and dwell with his people in Jerusalem in the temple as it is built. This is what he wants to happen. But their hearts need to change. Their hearts need to be turned to him. So he reminds them of Jeremiah's words, for example, in Jeremiah chapter 7, verse 5, where it says, For if you thoroughly amend your ways and your dealing and your doings If you thoroughly execute judgment between a man and his neighbor, if you do not oppress the stranger and the fatherless and the widow, and do not shed innocent blood in this place, or walk after other gods to your herd. He called them to do that. Isaiah chapter 1, verse 17, learn to do good, he says, seek justice, rebuke the oppressor, defend the fatherless. Plead for the widow. He is calling them to turn back to God. And when they do, their life, their behavior will look like this. And he's going to go over these things again. God calls his people to return to genuine. Obedience. In a sense, this is a message and this is a passage that's really quite simple. If we are to be rightly related to God, we must be in obedience to God. We must follow God. We must do what God wants us to do. And we're going to see that in this passage. There's This is organized in such a way that we're going to see, first of all, the dynamics of genuine obedience. Then we're going to see as the opposite of that the crux of genuine rebellion, which is the opposite of obedience. And then really the consequences of failing to repent in verses 13 through 14. So first we'll look at the dynamics of genuine obedience. In the very beginning it says here, then the word of the Lord came to Zachariah, saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts. Let me just pause right there. God is again calling them to something. This is the word of God. When Scripture in the Old Testament says, thus says the Lord of hosts, the Lord is speaking. He's calling them to listen carefully to what he's about to say. That's really where obedience starts, by the way. It is by knowing the word, reading the word, understanding the word, listening to what the word of God says, and following it. And he calls them by the very words of God to follow after him, to obey him, to repent, and to and to follow him. I think that what we're going to see here then is there are four four, and I'm going to call them gauges, four gauges of genuine obedience in this passage If you think of a car or a boat or a plane or whatever, uh take a car because I'm most familiar with a car, if you're you you you you see the gauges in the front? If you have a car that's well equipped with gauges, you should see a temperature gauge. That's an important gauge. If you overheat your car, you can blow a head gasket You can blow a s even a cylinder or a valve or and destroy the engine. If your oil pressure goes low in uh you have an oil gauge and your oral oil pressure goes low and you run out of oil Then you're gonna see that it and by the way, if you wait until warning lights come on, sometimes it's too late once the warning light comes on. By the way, they call that an idiot light, which means If you the warning light comes on, you stop the car and you call your dad. Um sorry, I'm I'm in dad mode again. Anyway, um uh So so make sure that um that's the case. If you see service sensors like teenagers driving teenagers like c like pull over, call your parents. Anyway, but there are gauges, and the gauges help you know the health of the car. The gauges help you know if there's a problem with the car or not. Well, we have gauges here. I think these are gauges, and they're gauges that will help help God's people know whether or not they're really following God, whether they're really obedient to God. Notice that prior to the Babylonian captivity, the real core problem was idolatry. But he still calls them to these things. to show them that they're not doing right in their lives and because they're not doing right in their lives, they need to go deeper to see why. And I think that's what you see here in the passage. The first gauge that we see passage in the passage is true justice. It says to execute true justice in the passage. Verse 9. Thus says the Lord of hosts, execute true justice. Now, what it's talking about, when it's talking about true justice, is this is really talking about public life. Later on in Zechariah 8, verse 16, it's going to say, These are the things that you shall do. Speak each man the truth to his neighbor, give judgment in your gates for truth, justice, and peace. Of course, the way that they did it back in that time is they would have leaders that would be at the gates, the gates of the city. There would be a certain place where they would gather. You see this in the book of Ruth, for example, and other places in the Old Testament Or they're gathering and they make judgment calls and determinations on things. And it's saying that God's people, if they are following the Lord, they're going to have true justice. There is going to be equity, there is going to be fairness as they make decisions for the people. In Deuteronomy 16, verse 18, it says, You shall appoint judges and officers in all your gates. which the Lord your God gives you according to your tribes, and you shall judge the people with just judgment. God, one of the gauges was to see if you're going to follow up to the Lord, if you're going to do what God wants you to do, you're going to have there is going to be a lack of there's going to be an impartiality to your judgments I think of some of the statues that you find on uh the you know the judgment statue, the justice statue that you find in in uh certain places in in DC, do you ever notice that that statue is blindfolded Why? Because the idea of true justice is that they are impartial. And I think we can make application here. We may not be sta standing in places of of governmental kind of justice, but if we are parents, if we are um if we have positions of leadership, we need to be very careful about not having partiality. James warns us that this as an application. James chapter 2, verse 1 says, My brethren, do not hold the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ the Lord of glory with partiality. The problem in that context in James chapter 1 was that they were favoring people or attempted to favor people that were wealthy, that were rich. And God says, don't do that. Don't favor people. Do we do that, by the way? Do we favor people because of their wealth or their intelligence or their giftedness or their attractiveness? Do we favor people, do we show partiality? Are we drawn to certain people because of certain things that causes us Um our gauge is a little off. We're not seeing every individual as an image bearer before God with a unique unique value that they can reflect God and his glory in a unique way. That's how God sees us as image bearers. Instead, we have partiality and it's so easy to do. We we tend to we tend to be drawn to people perhaps ba by the things that we personally value or are of interest to us or we s or we have commonality toward And yet, if we have a right, if we're in obedience to God and we're following Him, we're thinking the way God thinks, we are going to have an impartiality about us. that thinks in terms of every individual being in an image bearer of God and having value, frankly, equal value before God. And so we see that's the first gauge. But not only justice, and by the way, that also means justice, by the way, not only means that we're impartial But it also means that we're willing to take steps of of proper punishment when we need to. I I want to make a further application here for just a minute. Parents, are we willing to actually be just judges in our home? We don't like that. We want to be buddies. We want to be friends. And I understand that. And we we that's good. But folks, we also our par our kids need to understand what justice is. They need to have a sense of equity and fairness. They need to understand that when you do wrong things, there is a chastening for those wrong things. Sometimes what happens in our lives when we're not quite aligned correctly with the Lord, when we're not following after him, when we're not thinking the way God thinks, we we let things go we shouldn't let go Because we're we're maybe we feel guilty for the way we're living, maybe we whatever reason it is, we some we're not aligned correctly. This is a gauge for us. Are we showing partiality in our lives or are we more objective? But beyond that In our personal life, what should characterize our personal life is loving kindness. That's the second gauge. The second gauge is loving kindness in this passage. And there are two words, mercy and compassion, that are joined together to help us understand what this is Ultimately, this reflects the heart of God. In Exodus chapter 34, verse 6 it says, And the Lord passed before him and proclaimed the Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious long-suffering and abounding in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. by no means clearing the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children and the children's children to the third and fourth generation. Do you see in that passage, God is, on the one hand, merciful and compassionate and long-suffering, and on the other hand, he doesn't overlook iniquity either He is both just and he is loving, kind. He is merciful and compassionate at the same time. And if we are aligned correctly with the Lord, we will be as well. There are two words here. The first one that's translated mercy is a very common word in the Old Testament. It's the Hebrew word Hesed. And you find it a lot. When we years ago, we went through the book of Ruth, we found this word, it was a major theme in the book of Ruth. As you go through that book, you see this has said, it is a covenant loyalty. It is a genuine love, not a love that's based on feelings. It's a love that's based upon a committed relationship. That's the the the the idea here. And the idea, for example, in the book of Ruth is that you had some covenant relationships there that there needed to be loyalty. And and our covenant our relationship with God, there needs to be loyalty there, and there our relationship with other, because you'll notice in the text this is supposed to be toward brethren And in the in the context there, talk about other people and other Israelites, other other Jewish people, but in our context we certainly can say by way of application in the body of Christ as other as we relate to other Christians. There should be a covenant loyalty, a mercy there, and there should be a compassion Compassion is joined together. These two words are often together in the Old Testament, and they are here as well. This is a tender, a tender compassion. It conveys the idea of the pity of a mother for her threatened child. You remember back in the Old Testament under Solomon, two women came to Solomon, two moms. You remember the story? And they both they both argued that the child that was with them was theirs. And you remember what Solomon did to deal with the problem? He said he will cut the child in two in order to solve the problem and give them each half. And in that context, he was able to determine who the real mother was, because the real mother goes, oh no, don't do that. In fact, here's what it says, the woman whose son was living, the real the real woman, the real mother. was living, spoke to the king, for she yearned with compassion, there's our word, for her son And she said, O my lord, give her the living child, and by no means kill him. But the other said, Let him be neither mine nor yours, but divide him. Who's the real mom? Right? It's pretty obvious. The mother's tender compassion, the mother's protective instincts, the m- everything that the mom is would say, don't cut that child up. Uh I I I'd rather give him up than for him than than for him to uh to to die And so that's the that's the gauge, the gauges, this loving, tender kindness. And particularly, folks, this is what God wants us to have toward other brothers and sisters in Christ. Now you may say to yourself, well, I don't have a problem with this. The truth is, if we think practically, we don't have a problem with this until we do. We don't have a problem having loving kindness towards someone until they tick us off. Or until they annoy us, until until they kick us in the shins a little bit, until they do something that bothers us. And then The loving kindness, that kinda goes by the wayside. We we like the justice at that point, right? But when it's talking about personal, was talking about offenses against each other, was talking about um how we relate to each other as brethren, as sistren, as brothers and sisters in Christ. Our focus should be a loving, tender kindness to one another. Isn't that wonderful? That's God's disposition toward us. Isn't that yes he is just and he must he must be just and he isn't God if he's not just. We'll learn more about that in later on in the in the in the message. But understand that God's God's God's His disposition toward us is loving kindness. The third is one perhaps that you might be surprised by. Gauge number three is don't oppress needy people. We should not oppress needy people. This is really more in our vocational life. The first one is in public life, the second one is in personal life. But the third one is in vocational life. Don't oppress needy people. And he said, I don't have a problem with that. I don't go around oppressing needy people. Well, this is something that that throughout societies, throughout civilizations have been a real problem. Now, I want to pause and mention that when you see the word oppressed now Unfortunately, there is this world view that that is not biblical and erroneous that has this idea that there is this that everybody is in the is is is in either uh the category of the oppressed or the oppressor. And you see this all the time on the news and everywhere where these people are being oppressed and that people is being being oppressed and And there's this entire philosophy that says that those who are oppressed must rise up and oppress those who are doing the oppressing. and then that'll flip over and they're oppressed because always someone is oppressed and someone's not oppressed. That's not that's not the economics in the Old Testament. That's not the that's not what it's saying here But folks, on a practical level, it is true that when someone is truly needy, when they're really desperate, it is easy to take advantage of them if if you're a business person And he's saying someone who is aligned with the Lord doesn't do that. It is something to be careful of. And he lists several people that are in this needy category. He says, widows. fatherless, the alien or the sojourner, the person that's not a member of Israel, not a Jewish person And the poor, four different people in this verse, in this category. And if you think of the way things work back then, being part of a family, for example, a widow. Where did where do where did a woman get her get her um economic stability? It was from being married. It wasn't like it is today where a woman can go out and get her own job and and support herself Back then, that really wasn't even thought of as a possibility. So widows were definitely in a place of great need. And the fatherless were as well. See, see, if you weren't connected with the family and connected with the family business Even as someone who didn't have a uh who didn't have parents, if you didn't have, you could easily become destitute as a result of that. It wasn't like there was a welfare system to take care of you. It is interesting that in the Old Testament they did have God did set forth laws so that those who were needy could glean from fields that were not their own He did make provisions in that way. But I want you to notice what it says in Deuteronomy chapter 10, verse 18, it says, He administers justice to the Father. uh and the widow and loves the stranger giving him food and clothing and therefore love therefore love he says command he commands him love the stranger for you were strangers in the land of Egypt So God desired these people, his people, to be benevolent toward others, to be giving toward others, to not take advantage in business and vocation. And so it should be for us as well. I think of James chapter 1, verse 27, that says this: pure and undefiled religion before God and the Father is this. to visit orphans and widows in their trouble and to keep oneself unspotted from the world. Let me pause there and just ask the question. Why did James just identify those two kinds of people, orphans and widows? Well, it's for the same reason that we have in this in this passage, they're needy. There's more needs there There's nothing necessarily glamorous about helping an orphan or a widow. There's nothing that you are necessarily going to gain. There's no reciprocal relationship from an orphan and a or a widow. But no, when you're truly wanting to follow after the Lord and to please the Lord and to love God and to love others, to be able to minister to those who are in need is something that is a gauge to help us to know whether or not we are rightly aligned with the Lord. And number four This is in our internal life, our our our life uh internally in our mind. We should not plot evil toward anyone. We should be careful about plotting evil toward anyone. This is actually says among uh against his brother particularly. Later on in the passage is going to help us with this understanding what he's talking about. Verse 17 says Let none of you think evil in your heart against uh your neighbor. This is this is uh Zechariah eight seventeen. Let none of you think e evil in your heart against your neighbor, and do not love a false oath, for all these are things that I hate, says the Lord. What is he saying? Don't do harm toward your neighbor. Don't don't devise wickedness in your heart. Don't come up with evil plans or plans to do to be harmful Do not have and don't have don't love a false oath. Don't be honest. Be truthful. Don't be dishonest or deceitful toward those. And in this case, it says your neighbor. We should not be plotting evil. We should be, we shouldn't want and the word evil, it's in it's interesting. It it doesn't actually mean sinful. It means harmful. And the reason that that's now when you plot harm against your neighbor, that's evil. Okay? All right. So it it still it still has a moral moral uh mm i it it has um you know i it's described morally here but but but it is talking about some sort of harm. And I I wanna pra I want to make this really practical You know in our lives as Christians, and I've said this before, uh just as an application, what we should want in our business dealing with others should be not wanting them to lose as we gain. We want to do things where there's a win-win situation. Does that make sense? Ver very important I'm going to win over on somebody else even to their demise, even to their uh their hurt. No. We shouldn't want to hurt harm or hurt anyone. And when we do business, when we sell or buy or anything like that, we should want it to be both helpful for us and helpful for the other person. That is that's the heart of God. That's the heart that He has and He wants us to have as well. It's summed up, all of this is summed up well. With Micah chapter 6, verse 8, where he says, Who has shown you, O man, what is good? And what does the Lord require of you but to do justly, to love mercil mercy and to walk humbly with your God. This is some people's life verse, and it's a good one. What is it for you to do? What is good? To do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with your God. In the New Testament, in Luke chapter 6, it says this, verse 35, but love your enemies Do good and lend, hoping for nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be the sons of the Most High. For he is kind to the unthankful and evil, therefore Be merciful, just as your father also is merciful. Now, you think of these four areas. And they're pretty reasonable, right? I mean all three of all four of these, justice, do justly, have compassion, don't oppress people that are weaker than you. And um you know all of these are pretty reasonable. Why would they Israel fail with this? In fact, do you realize they failed over and over again throughout the Old Testament with these kinds of things? And God keeps reminding them you need to do these, and they don't do them. You know why that is? I think it's because of their heart, and we see this in the passage. The problem is the problem of the heart. Jeremiah 17, 9 says this. The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? I the Lord search the heart and test the mind even to give every man according to his ways according to the fruit of his doings The heart is deceitful and disdesperately wicked. And so we're going to see the crux of genuine rebellion. The nation of Israel constantly rebelled in the Old Testament. I mean, ever even from the very beginning after God brought them out of Egypt, they had to spend forty years in the wilderness. Why? Because they rebelled against God's direction. And so why is this? It is because of their rebellion. And we see their the rebellion, the dis Rebellion is described in verses 11 and 12. Notice what it says here in the passage. It says, but they refused, verse 11, but they refused to heed. shrugged their shoulders and stopped their ears so that they could not hear. Nehemiah says it this way in a parallel passage, verse 25 29, it says And they testified against them that you might bring them back to your law. Yet they acted proudly and did not heed your commands. But sinned against your judgments, which if a man does, he shall live by them. And they shrugged their shoulders, stiffened their necks, and would not hear. Now you look at that description. They refuse to heed. They shrug their shoulders. They stiffen their necks. What does that make you think of? What do you visualize? You know what I I visualized when I read that? I read that the first time I visu I visualized it, I thought of a rebellious child. It just Kingdom and I somebody that a a little child that somehow folds their or maybe a teenager that folds their arms, goes like this, and goes, not doing it. Or maybe they even cover their ears and they don't want to hear. Have have you seen that before? Some of you moms suddenly are like, yeah, I ha ha ha I saw that yesterday. Anyway, um Actually the text is actually more of a reference to animal husbandry actually uh than than child than than than children, but it real you you do see ri isn't it true that you see rebellion at a very early age? Um you can see rebellion even when they're real when they're babies. I remember years many, many years ago, no, many, many years ago. Yeah. Uh my mother I was old enough to sort of observe babies and we were watching a baby at one my mother was and not me, my mother was, and um the baby was in her I think crib in our house and was crying like a certain kind of a cry. Not I need Fed cry or I need you know a diaper change, but this like mad cry. And she was probably like five or six months and my my my mother turned to me and goes, That's called the sin nature. You could kind of tell the difference. From the very youngest of the young, we do have that, don't we? We do have a sin nature. We do we are w our hearts are rebellion uh rebellious against God and we can see it from the earliest stages. And and this kind of Shrugging shoulders, stiffening necks. Notice, notice why this happened. I really think the real key is they stopped their ears so they could not hear They didn't even want to hear what God had to say. They stopped listening. At the root, that was the problem. This is a reiteration of God's indictment that we find in 2 Kings chapter 17, verse 13. It says this, yet the Lord testified against Israel and against Judah by all of its prophets Every seer saying, Turn from your evil ways and keep my commandments and my statutes, according to all the law which I commanded in your fathers and which I sent to you by my servants and the prophets. Nevertheless, they shall not they would not hear, but stiffen their necks, like the necks of their fathers, who did not believe in the Lord their God And they rejected his statutes and his c covenant that he made with their fathers, and his testimonies which he had testified against them, they followed idols, became idolaters, and went after the nations who were all around them accord concerning whom the Lord had charged them that they should not do like them. What's the root problem? Verse 12. The root problem is this. They made their hearts like flint. Now I I think it's interesting. The Bible actually already, we already read this. The Bible actually says that the heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. But this isn't actually the way this is worded, it's not as though the heart came that way. It says they made their hearts like flint. Now that's interesting for this reason. On the one hand, our hearts were born with sinful hearts, but on the other hand, God sets it up in such a way that we are responsible for our own rebellion. That we have a role to play in this. It's not like oh I can't help it. I mean we can't help it. It's actually true we can't But at the same time, we are responsible. And he says they made their hearts. They of their own will, of their own volition, were s stubborn in their own hearts. They made them like flint, literally like diamond hardness. They hardened their hearts that way. Notice how they harden their hearts. Notice what it says, by refusing to hear They just refused to listen. They refused to hear. It says the law and the words which the Lord of hosts they had sent by his Spirit through the former prophets. In fact, the way it's worded there, it gives the idea that they know they even knew where this was coming from. They knew it was God. They knew it was legitimate. They knew it was from the Lord of hosts. They knew it was from the prophets. And yet they closed their ears off so they would not hear, and they hardened their hearts so they would not listen. They rebelled against what God wanted. And you see this multiple times in the Old Testament, starting from the very beginning of the forming of the nation with Moses and over and over again. Now, I want us to learn what God would have us to learn from this. And I want us to understand this from a couple two passages in the New Testament. In 1 Corinthians chapter 10, verses 1 through 13, but we'll look at particularly verse 5 through 11, it describes the Old Testament saints. And notice what it says, but with most of them, talking about, in fact, I'll pick up here, it says, more of a brethren, I do not want you to be uh unaware of your all your fathers who were under the cloud All passed through the sea, all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. All ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink, for they drank of that spiritual rock that flowed from them, and the rock was Christ. But notice what it says. But with most of them God was not well pleased, for their bodies were scattered in the wilderness. Now these things became our examples as Christians, our examples. to the intent that we should not lust after the things which are which uh the the things uh as they also lusted. And do not become idolaters as were some of them. As it is written, the people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play. Now all these things happened to them as examples, that they were written for our abonition, upon whom the end of the ages have come. You know God wants us to look at these Old Testament examples and to pay attention. To realize that They were disobedient time after time. God gave them so many opportunities. If you just read through the Old Testament, so many commands. So many prophets, so many opportunities to return back to him, and yet they just re continued to rebel. And God warns us in the New Testament, don't be that way. In fact, in Hebrews chapter 3, it says this, verse 12, Beware, brethren, lest there be any of you an evil heart, and the root it says here of unbelief. in departing from the living God. But exhort one another daily while it is called today, lest any of you Be hardened, and how are we hardened? Be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin Sin is deceitful, and as we participate in the deceitfulness of sin, our heart becomes more and more hardened. The Hebrews text goes on to say, For we have not become for we have become partakers of Christ if we hold The beginning of our confidence, steadfast to the end, that it is said, today, if you will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion. So the problem is the heart. That's the problem. And these people had a heart, their forefathers, they had a heart problem. And God is again warning them, don't go the same direction that your forefathers did. Change your heart. Turn. Repent. He's going to continue in verses 13 and 14 to describe the the consequences of their failing to repent after the prophets had Told them time and time again that they needed to. And we see in the text it says, thus great wrath came from the Lord of hosts. Maybe you think to yourself, well I don't want to think of God as a God of wrath. I I I I don't I don't want to think of God that way. Great wrath came upon them. What's that all about? Or maybe you say, well, that's the God of the Old Testament. That's not the God of the New Testament. Look, it's the same God. It's the same God. Is God a God of wrath? Yes. Is God a loving God? Yes. Do we have to experience his wrath? We do not. And we're going to learn more about that. But realize how many times God is a patient God. If you read it in context throughout the Old Testament, yes, you have these times where it says that God God poured out his wrath on on Israel or God poured his wrath on on a particular person or whatever. But you many, if not almost every time, if not every time, it's it's a re after repeated Repeated warnings, turn from your ways. It certainly was in the case that they're talking about here in the passage. And this Babylonian captivity was a prime example. Back in Zechariah chapter 1, verse 2, it says, The Lord has been very angry with you. Why did they end up in Babylonian captivity in the first place? It was because They would not repent. They hardened their hearts before the Lord. It says in the text, therefore it happened. that just as he proclaimed and they would not hear, so they called out, and I would not listen, says the Lord. Now Because they would not hear when they finally did call out there was a point which God had already turned on them as well. That's the consequence of sin. Verse 14, But I scattered them with whirlwind among all the nations which they had not known. Thus the land became desolate after them, so that no one passed through or returned. For they made the pleasant land desolate. Notice how they says that. They made the pleasant land desolate. Now God did the work of scattering them and And and as a consequence, but God saw it as a consequence of their rebellion, that they were the ones that were actually culpable. They were responsible for what had happened with God's consequences toward them. Do you know that Hebrews 10, verse 26 says this? For if we will if we sin willfully After we have received the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins. And in that same passage it says it is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Now, I want to make three applications this morning to us. What do we do with all of this? I want us to understand, first of all, that, and we've already said it, number one, the natural heart is evil. Do you know why ultimately the Israel could never comply with the commands of God? They never could fulfill what God wanted them to fulfill. They could never do it. You know why? Because Their heart was evil. And we are all born with evil hearts as well. It starts from sin, from Adam, and worked its way down to us. Bible says, wherefore as bore by one man sin entered the world, and death by sin, therefore death passed upon all men, for all have sinned So our hearts, our hearts are evil too. Ecclesiastes 9. 3 says it this way. This is an evil in all that is done under the sun. That one thing happens to all. Truly the hearts of the sons of men are full of evil. Madness is in their hearts while they live, and after that they go to the dead. But the wonderful truth of the matter is, because of what Jesus Christ did, it was even prophesied in the Old Testament. When someone understands their sin, when they repent of their sin When Jesus when they understand that Jesus died in their place to pay the punishment for their sin. Then they get a new heart. A heart that is inclined toward obeying God, that is able to follow after God In Ezekiel chapter eleven, verse nineteen it says, Then I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within them, and take the stony heart out of their flesh, and give them a heart of flesh. God prophesied this that this would happen. Ezekiel 36,2, thus says the Lord God, because the enemy has said of you, aha, the ancient of days has become our possession. In 2 Corinthians chapter 3, verse 3, it says Clearly, you are an epistle of Christ ministered by us, written with ink, but by the Spirit of the living God, not with tablets of stone. but on tablets of flesh that is the heart. See, when we come to Christ, God gives us a new heart. And that heart desires, that seat of desire desires to please God. And you may have, at the maybe you're in this room and you say, you know, I have never really, I've never really. Come to a place where I understand my sin and my need of a Savior. I've never really trusted in what Jesus did for me and turned from my sin and turned to Christ. See, it it's nothing that you do or I do. We can't do anything. We can't pay for it. We can't obey enough. We can't no. Our hearts are sinful. Our lives are sinful We must trust in what Christ did on the cross in paying the punishment for our sin. He took our sin on himself, died in our place. So that then we can have His righteousness applied to us, and the key is we do it by faith, not by our works of righteousness we have done, but according to His mercy, He saves us. And when he saves us, he gives us a new heart that desires to please him. It is true that if you have never truly desired to please God, then God hasn't given you a new heart. And you aren't truly a Christian. If you just prayed a prayer at some time in the future uh sometime in the past and and and made a decision sometime in the past so that you could kind of get out of hell and get into heaven um but you never actually desired to please the Lord. Well it's an indication maybe you actually were never given a new heart, you really don't know the Lord. But you can today The Bible says that if you will confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God hath raised him from the dead, you will be saved from your sin. But those of us who know Christ as our Savior, we've been given a new heart, you know, we still are tempted to sin, aren't we? We still have the deceitfulness of sin. We still have the old heart. We still have that old flesh in us. It's not gone away. Aren't you one day it will One day when we see Christ, that desire to sin, that tendency toward toward doing what I want, that tendency toward the rebellion, that will be gone away. But for now, we it's not And so we live with a new heart and an old heart in a sense at the same time. We live with a new desire, a spirit within us that desires to follow after the things of the Spirit. And we have that old flesh that desires to fall off of the things of the flesh. And so we need to also guard our heart. We need to guard our heart. The Bible says it this way, Proverbs chapter 4, verse 20, my son, give attention to my words, incline your ears to my sayings, do not let them depart from your eyes Keep them in the midst of your heart. Can I ask you a question, Christian? Have you been guarding your heart? Have you when you think about how your heart is toward the Lord, is your is your heart inclined toward the Lord? Do you desire to please him? Is it sensitive to the things of the Spirit of God? Are you desiring to love God and to love others? You say, well, I'm not I'm not really sure. Go by those gauges that we just went through Do you have a sense of impartiality and justice? Do you have a sense of loving, tender kindness? Go by those gauges and it will tell you whether or not you're really guarding your heart the way God wants you to do it. We need to guard our hearts and we need to feed the desires of the Spirit. Those things that God wants us to do When when we when we want to please God and we want to do things that please the Lord, we need to feed that. And we need to starve the flesh We need to not feed those things that are sinful. We starve that and we feed the other. We want that flesh to get as small as it possibly can. We want the desire to send to be as small as it possibly can, and the desire to please God to be as big as it possibly can. So feed the the heart that God has given you to follow after him. And guard your heart, for out of it are the issues of life. Problem with Israel, from the Old Testament on, was a heart problem. And if we do not follow after the Lord, that ultimately is our problem as well. But if you have never been given a new heart, let me encourage you. Come and talk with me after the service or somebody you're comfortable with. Let us take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with the Lord so that you can have this new heart that desires to please the Lord. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we praise you for your word and your truth. We thank you for this passage. And I pray, Lord, that as we think through these various gauges of obedience that that it would help us to understand where we are with you, where our heart is. And Lord, if we find in our heart that we're not as sensitive to you as we ought to be There's not a loving-kindness in our heart toward you and toward others. There's an impar there's a partiality toward others that's not good. Lord, if there are if there are areas in our lives where you have convicted us I pray that you would call us to yourself, that we would repent, that we would turn from having that kind of heart And follow after you. And Lord, may we not turn our ears away from hearing your word and understanding it and knowing it Lord, may we be open and ready to hear your word and to know it. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's all stand. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide This helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.