Heavenly Father, we are so grateful and so thankful that we can come to you this morning, as the song says. Father, whether we have a relationship with you or not, today is the day of opportunity. We can come to you today. And I pray this morning as we come to your word in this time of sitting under your teaching I pray that you would help us to set aside all the cares and the concerns and all the things that are going on in life this week. And all the noise. I pray that this morning your Spirit would enable us to hear and understand your word. May you grant us understanding, and not only understanding, but give us The desire, Lord, to be obedient to it, that in all things you will be glorified and lifted up in our lives. And we praise you and thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. So we are again Zechariah chapter 1, and uh I think this is one of the shortest readings I've done for you in quite a while. But uh we're only doing the first uh six verses, so follow along if you have your Bible It begins in Zechariah 1, verse 1. In the eighth month of the second year of Darius, the word of the Lord came to Zechariah, the son of Berechiah. The son of Ido, the prophet, saying, The Lord has been very angry with your fathers. Therefore say to them, Thus says the Lord of hosts, Return to me, says the Lord of hosts, and I will return to you, says the Lord of hosts. Do not be like your fathers, to whom former prophets preached, saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts. Turn now from your evil ways and your evil deeds. But they did not hear nor heed me, says the Lord, your fathers. Where are they? And the prophets, do they live forever? Yet surely my words and my statutes Which I command my servants, the prophets, did they not overtake your fathers? So they returned and said, just as the Lord of hosts determined to do to us, according to our ways and according to our deeds, so he has dealt with us. I want us to, as we begin here, consider the following scenarios. Consider a teacher who rereads an email five times and still can't process it. Or a manager who wakes up exhausted, relies on coffee every day just to function. Or a once creative employee who now counts the minutes until he can leave until quitting time. Or a parent who becomes emotionally unavailable because they have worked all day long and they come home and they have nothing left to give. Or a ministry leader who preaches the truth but he is actually spiritually empty inside Or a healthcare worker who begins to refer to patients as cases rather than instead of seeing them as people. Or a high-performing professional that suddenly can't get out of bed. These are all examples of people who have experienced burnout. And frankly, probably at one time or another, all of us have experienced burnout. Think of a time where you experienced burnout. Maybe it was physical burnout where you were just physically exhausted, or emotional burnout, where you were just tapped out emotionally. Or motivational burnout where you just felt like you didn't care about anything or do anything. Or spiritual burnout, which often leads to motivational burnout and the others. The people to which Zachariah originally heard this message were burned out. Let me explain what happened. To understand really what happened, we've got to go back a little bit. We need to look at a timeline. And so we have a timeline that's going to go up there You'll notice in the text that it says in the eighth month of the second year of Darius. That tells us then that this is during the time period where the Medo-Persians are in power. Israel is not in power, even Babylonians are not in power, the Medo-Persians are in power. But we need to go back before the Babylonian captivity, just a A little bit before the Babylonian captivity, and realized that there was one king after another after another after another after another from Solomon on That constantly got into idolatry and sin and problems. There were a couple of exceptions, but for the most part One after another after another did. And there was warning by the prop by one prophet after another after another. And there was no heeding to that warning. And so as a result, God said, I'm going to punish you. I'm going to chasten you. And the nation of Israel was captured ultimately by, if you remember, Nebuchadnezzar, the Assyrians, and then the Babylonians, and they were in exile. They did not have their own sovereignty for 70 years. After those 70 years, then you have the fall of Babylon, and Cyrus the Great comes to power. This is in 539 BC. Cyrus the Great is a is kind of an amazing fit uh figure. You find him in Ezra chapter one. We won't take the time to turn there, but I understand that the young adults are going to be going through that on on uh Wednesdays. That's great. It will line up very well with um giving you the background of Zachariahs in fact read read Ezra and Haggai as well this week in your devotions. I didn't encourage anybody to do that to give you more context. But for now, we have Cyrus the Great, who has made a decree that a remnant from Israel can or the Israel people can go into Jerusalem. And he actually commissions them to rebuild the temple that was destroyed by previously during the Babylonian beginning of Babylonian captivity. So they go in and they're probably excited and they go in and they re- begin to rebuild the wall. That's Nehemiah. And they rebuild the temple. That's Haggai. You have uh talks about that in there as well, certainly as well as in Ezra. But during that time you have the temple work is halted. If you could, yeah, good, perfect. So you move over to where the temple work is halted They stopped doing the temple work. They lay the foundation. That's in Ezra chapter 3, which we'll get to in a minute. But they they just stop Because they were, I'll put it this way, in our terminology, they were burned out. They no longer wanted to finish the work that God had called them to do through Cyrus. And this is where we find both Haggai and Zacharias's ministries and their books. This addresses this. Haggai addresses it more briefly and directly about the about the temple. And Zechariah addresses it certainly throughout his book, but he expands the idea of the importance of returning to God. And we'll see that in a few moments. Now that's that's important information for us then then to ask the question this question. Why did they halt the temple? Why were they burned out? Well, to understand this, we need to go to Ezra chapter 3, and I have it up there for you so it's easier to just follow along. But in Ezra chapter 3, verse 10, it says this. When the builders laid the foundation of the temple of the Lord, the priests stood in their apparel with trumpets And the Levites and the son of Asaph and with the symbols and the to the praise to praise the Lord according to the ordinance of the day of David, king of Israel. And they sang responsively, praising and giving thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endures forever toward Israel. Then all the people shouted with great shout. When they praise the Lord because the foundation of the house of the Lord was laid. The foundation of the temple is laid But many of the priests and Levites and heads of the house fathers' houses, old men, who had seen the first temple, wept with a loud voice when the foundation of this temple was laid before their eyes. Yet many shouted aloud for joy, so that the people could not discern the noise of the shout of joy from the noise of the weeping of the people, for the people shouted with a loud loud shout. And the sound was heard afar off. So you have this setting where the foundation of the temple has been laid And the younger folks, they're gloriously praising the Lord, but there's some older folks that remember what the temple was like before and they realize that this temple of Zerubbabel is not going to be nearly the magnitude or the greatness of Solomon's temple and their mourning at the same time. And all of this sort of disunity ends up causing them, among other things, causing them to give up on finishing the temple. One other factor is in Haggai chapter 1, verse 4. In that passage, we actually find that they begin to divert their attention over to building their own houses. Haggai 1. 4 says, Is it time for you yourselves to dwell in your paneled houses and this temple to lie in ruins? They moved their attention. They said, you know, it's not going to be like the old temple. It's not going to be like it was. It's not going to be like the glory days. We don't have the infrastructure. We don't have the money. We don't have all the things that we did in Solomon's time. And so I'm just going to worry about building my own house. I'm going to worry about fixing up my own house and doing the things that I need to to my own house and taking care of my own family. I'm going to stop doing what God commissioned the nation of Israel to do, and I'm going to start focusing on me and mine and ours They had local opposition according to Ezra chapter 4. They had an economic hardship. They were a small group, a weak of a small remnant of people. They were weak. And there was spiritual apathy and there was discouragement that set in. They were burned out And it is in this context that Ezra comes, and God speaks to the prophet Ezra, and he essentially says in his first six verses, and frankly, throughout the entire book, return to me. You'll see that in the chat in the passage, for example, you'll see in verse 3: Therefore say to them, Thus says the Lord of hosts, return to me, says the Lord of hosts, and I will return to you. This really gives us the very purpose of the entire book of Zechariah. I'm going to give you the statement, well let me, before I do, actually pull it off, take it off there for a minute. Sorry Yeah, thank you. Um I I I want us to understand this about the temple. What's what is important about the temple? The reason that the temple is so important is is it b because it represented two things. It represented that God desired to dwell with his people. And also represented the reality that God desired to display his glory through the people. to dwell with his people and to display the glory through his glory through his people. And in that regard, we can take great application, can't we? Because as his people now, though there are many differences, God desires to dwell with us and in us as the temple of the Holy Spirit. And he desires to display his glory through us. Now with that in mind, then I want to give you a purpose statement. Don't feel like you have to write this down because it's actually good. I had Pat put it up at the very end of the message So you'll be able to see it then. But the purpose statement of the book of Haggai is this, at least my purpose statement. It's like the purpose statement, but it's my putting everything together. I think a decent purpose statement is this. Because God desires to dwell among his people and display display his glory through them, he calls them to return to him. leading ultimately to the establishment of his kingdom. If nothing else, understand that God calls his people to return to him so that the kingdom of God can be established. And we're going to see how that fleshes out through the entire book of Zechariah. And it all starts in the first six verses of this chapter. Verses 1 through 6 lays the foundation for this idea of returning to God. Now, that was my introduction. Of course, we're starting a new book, and that's a longer-than-normal introduction. Now we're going to get into the sermon. We're going to understand that God calls his people To return to him. And we're going to see three movements in this. First, to return to reverence, to return to relationship, and to return to reliability. God calls his people to return to him, first of all, on the basis of his character. We see that in verses 1 for the first part of verse 3. And we see three ways, three aspects of his character. First of all, we see that he calls them to return to him because of God's word. Because of God's word. It says the word of the Lord came to Zechariah. That is actually a very important, significant phrase. The word of the Lord came. That is exactly what was said to Abraham when the Abrahamic covenant was started. The word of the Lord came, 15:1 of Genesis. And again, Genesis 15, 4, and behold, the word of the Lord came. In fact, when you think about the significance of the word of God, We need to understand just how significant it is throughout God's Word. Think of the very first chapter of Genesis and what happened. How did God create the Word? He spoke it into existence. It was the Word of God. The word creates. The word directs history. And the word speaks. We see all of this in Psalm 33. Verse six it says this, by the word of the Lord the heavens were made, and all the hosts of them by the breath of his mouth. He gathers the waters of the sea together as a heap He lays up the deep in storehouses. Let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. For he spoke, and it was done, he commanded, and it stood fast. The Lord brings the counsel of the nations to nothing, he makes the plans of the people to of no effect. The counsel of the Lord stands forever, the plans of the heart of his heart to all generations. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, the people he has chosen as his own inheritance. They need to return to him because the word of the Lord says so. But secondly, we see they need to return to him because God's character demands it. We have here a verse that strikes people the wrong way when they first read it. It says this: the Lord has been very angry with your fathers. How does that strike you? The Lord has been very angry with your fathers. There are many people that don't like to think of God being an angry God. And I understand that. I understand that, and I actually think that there's a reason for that. I think the reason is because people don't understand what it's saying when it says the anger of God. See, when we think of anger, we think of human anger. We think of somebody flying off the handle. We think of somebody who decides to just unload on somebody else and say everything that can come to their mind only to regret it later. When we think of erratic behavior and craziness, when we think of anger, we impose on a text human anger that causes us to think, how could God be that way? But I understand the asset of this, that God is not erratic. He is fixed. He is unchanging. God is not sinful. He doesn't get bitter. This anger that he's talking about, it's not something uh that is bitter, it's not a holding of grudges that destroys relationships. It's not those kinds of things. It's not lashing out at people. That's not the anger that is in this passage It's it's a different kind of anger that we need we need to understand. There are some people that diminish this, they want to glaze over it and look past it and act as though it's not there. But the Bible is very clear about this and it talks about the anger of God in several places. The wrath of God, if you will, we need to understand it. We shouldn't just glaze over it. We shouldn't just skip over and say, well, I don't like that. It doesn't make me feel good. On the other hand, folks, we need to understand exact we need to understand what it is. We understand, first of all, need to understand what it isn't, and we've discussed that But it is of a different kind than we usually think of. In fact, we need to understand from from Naaman that that um That God is slow to anger. That God is slow to anger. I want to use this illustration to help us with this a little bit. How many of you have been to the Baltimore Aquarium where they had the the dolphins? How many of you have have seen those, then have been over there? They have this there and certainly at SeaWorld they have the same thing where they have a splash zone. And you see the sign, it says splash zone. Now what does that mean? That means that if you sit there, you are going to get wet. You're going to get splashed. If you sit in that place, you're going to get splashed. If you don't sit in that place, you actually still might get splashed. But if you sit in that place, you're going to get splashed So if somebody goes and sits in that place and gets splashed, what do they do? Man, that dolphin had it out for me Man, that dolphin was angry at me. That dolphin, he just saw me and wanted to splash me. Of course not. Had nothing to do with that. You got in a splash zone, and so you got splashed See, God is a holy God. His holiness is unchanging. It's immutable. It doesn't change. His justice is unchanging. We change all over the place. God doesn't. And what happens is we get in his zone. His holiness zone. We get in his anger zone, if you will. Now that's a silly illustration to describe what I think is a very important concept to understand. But we need to understand that God is not a respecter of persons, he doesn't fly off the handle, he doesn't pick some people and others and he's What we actually find is even a man like Moses had to receive chastening from God, punishment from God, because of his disobedience. In Deuteronomy chapter 3, verse 26 through 27, the accounts of this, he says, But the Lord was angry with me on your account. And would not listen to me. So the Lord said to me, Enough of that, speak no more to me of this matter. Go up to the top of Metzgah, and lift your eyes toward the west and the north and the south and the east. Behold, it is with your eyes you shall not cross over Jordan. Because of what Moses did, he was he moved into that anger zone because he disobeyed God and God had to punish him. It was just for him to do that. So we need to understand that what God is actually and by the way, when God warns somebody of his anger, which he's doing here in this passage, he's actually warning them of his previous anger toward his forefathers. Folks, we should actually see great mercy here. See, when somebody warns you of something That should not be seen as, boy, you're a hard man, you're a hard person, you're a difficult live boy, what di No. When someone warns you of something, you ought to say, thank you, thank you for warning me. That's mercy, that's compassion, that's love. And that's what we see in this passage. Here's the problem. The problem is that their forefathers Uh think prior to the Babylonian captivity and for many, many years, they constantly fell into idolatry and were warned by the mercy and compassion of God over and over and over again. And they did not return. They did not repent. And so it says in 2 Chronicles 36, 15 through 16, and the Lord God of their fathers sent warnings to them by his messengers, rising up early and sending them, because he had compassion on his people. And on his dwelling place. That's why he warned them so often he had compassion. Why is he doing it here? He has compassion. Verse 16. But they mocked the messengers of God. Despised his words, and scoffed at his prophets, until the wrath of God arose against his people, till there was no remedy. See, God is a patient God. He's slow to anger, but but there is a limit to his patience. Because he is a just God and a holy God. as well. Finally, we see that he calls them to return to him because his power attracts it. Did you notice as Harry read this, did you notice how many times the Lord of hosts is used? Throughout the chapter, it's seven times. Right here, it's three times. Throughout the book, there are several many times that the word, the phrase Lord of hosts is used. Now, I want us to understand from the perspective of this remnant of Israel that's in Jerusalem of why that would be strange to hear. Remember that Israel, they're weak. They don't have any armies. The Lord of hosts means that you're the commander of armies You're the top lord. You're the master of the armies. And when he said this, I would imagine perhaps when this was read to them and they understood what was being said here, they went What armies is God talking about? The Lord of hosts? We are weak. We're not powerful. We could barely take care of ourselves. We're not strong like the Medo-Persians. We're not strong like Darius and his armies. We're weak. And yet over and over again, you see God saying that he is the Lord of hosts. And do you know why? And we're going to see this in this book. Because that is exactly where God wants his people to be. He wants his people to realize that they are weak. But he is strong. That is why he is going to later on in Zechariah chapter 4, verse 6, say this So he answered and said to me, This is the Lord word of the Lord that's derubbable, not by might, not by human might, not by human power, but by my spirit says what The Lord of hosts. The Lord who is Almighty and all powerful He is the one to whom we should cling to and depend upon. He will do it. We just need to return to him. And so we need to ask the question: what does this returning look like? So we find the command here in verse 3 is return to me. Now, when he said that, it's possible, as we see that when Zechariah maybe proclaimed this to the people and said, Return to me, God sang this to Zechariah first. It's possible that they went, what? Why would we need to return to you? Where are you returned to you? We're in Jerusalem. We returned. We were commissioned to return, and that's exactly what we did, and we're returned. What's going on? What's the problem? But God has something else in mind besides just physical, functional returning. First of all, we know objectively that they didn't finish what God had called them to do. They didn't finish the temple But I want you to notice from the text that what he is not focused on here is just having all of the right functions there in the right place at the right time. He says, and I will return to you. He has relationship involved here. That's the emphasis of the passage. I want you to return and to right relationship with me. Later later on in the chapter it's going to say, Therefore, thus says the Lord, I am returning to Jerusalem with mercy. My house shall be built in it, says the Lord of hosts, and a surveyor's line shall be stretched over out over Jerusalem. And in chapter 8, verse 3, it says this, thus says the Lord, I will return to Zion. and dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. He wants to dwell with them. He wants to be with them. He says, return to me so I can dwell with you. Remember, God's desire for his people is to dwell with them and to display his glory through them. And that is God's desire for us as well. Over in Haggai, he says this, for thus says the Lord, there we go again, the Lord of hosts. Once more, it is little it is a little while. I will shake heaven and earth and sea and dry land, and I will shake all nations, and they shall come to the desire of all nations, and I will fill this temple with glory, says the Lord of hosts. The silver is mine, the gold is mine, says the Lord of hosts, the glory of this latter temple shall be greater than the former, says the Lord of hosts. And in this place I will give peace, says the Lord of hosts. Now just by way of application, can I ask you a question this morning? Are you content to be in the right places and have the right practices? But to not have a close relationship with God. Sometimes we can. We've started our all of our goals in January, and you know, we've we're checking off our our calories, you know, our calorie counts and making sure we got our macros and I'm doing that. Anyway Making sure we have our devotions and we're meeting our goals for that. And we've got all these different goals and we're meeting all our goals and we're nailing it. And we could totally miss the relationship that we are supposed to have with the Lord, where he is close to us. And we are close to him, where we are drawing from his strength. James 4. 8 says, draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your heart, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. See, in verse 4 then, we see, we pick up here, and he says, Do not be like your fathers to whom the former prophets preached, saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts. He said, don't be like them. And I want you to notice we find in this passage What they did wrong, we then, they then have the opportunity to do right. We actually learn what it means to return to God from their bad example. And by the way, that's for us as well. First Corinthians chapter 10 verses 11 1 through 11, Paul says, now all these things happened to them as examples that they are written for our admonition. We can look at this and we can say, okay, we understand how to return to God as well. So how is it that someone actually returns to God? Well we see, first of all, returning to God requires turning. Well that seems obvious. But notice what the passage says. Thus says the Lord of hosts, turn now. This was commanded. to the people, to the fathers of these people, the forefathers. Turn now from your evil ways. Turn from your idolatry. Turn from your disobedience. Turn from those things and your evil deeds. Turn now. Turn away from your sin. Jeremiah 3, verses 12 through 13 give us an example of this, where it says, Go and proclaim the words toward the north and say, Return, backslaughting Israel, says the Lord. I will not cause my anger to fall on you, for I am merciful, says the Lord. I will not remain angry forever. Only acknowledge your iniquity that you have transgressed against me the Lord your God and have scattered your charms to alien deities under the under every green tree and you have not obeyed my voice. Over and over and over again, that was called that there was a call of mercy to repent from their ways. Number two, returning requires listening. The problem was is they were not listening. Now we mentioned this a couple of weeks ago in listening to the Word of God. That was why they never returned from their sin. They never turned from their sin because they weren't listening. Notice what the passage says, but they did not hear. The word means listen. They did not listen. Later on in Zechariah, it's going to expand on this, verses 11 through 14. Listen to what it says. But they refused to heed, shrugged their shoulders, and stopped their ears so they could not hear Yes, they made their hearts like flint, refusing to hear the law of the words of which the Lord of hosts had sent by his Spirit through the former prophets. Thus great wrath came from the Lord of hosts. Therefore it happened that just as he proclaimed, and they would not hear, so they called and would not listen, says the Lord of hosts. But I scattered them with a whirlwind among all the nations, which they had not known, thus the land became desolate after them, so they that no one passed through or returned, for they made the pleasant land desolate. They shrugged it off. They have prophets come and tell them the word of God and warn them of the coming judgment, and they shrugged it off. They didn't listen to the word of God. They were not attentive to the word of God. They didn't pay attention. Boy, we've got to listen to the word of God if we're going to return to God. If we're going to dwell with God and He is to dwell with us, we must be attentive to to the word of God. It is critical. It is it is primary. Jeremiah 17, 23 says, But they did not obey, nor inclined their ear, but made their stiff, their neck stiff. that they might not hear nor receive instruction. Returning requires obedience. They didn't heed it. It requires obedience, that you've got to do what you've listened to. They didn't heed it. Jeremiah 29, 19 says, Because they have not heeded my word, says the Lord, which I sent to them. by my servants and the prophets rising up early and sending them, neither would you heed, says the Lord. Now, what we then find in verses 5 through 6 is an argument that is made. It's an argument of why it is why they must do this. They must return to God. They must They must do what their forefathers didn't do. They must repent and turn to God. And we see, first of all, this, he says, your fathers, where are they? Interesting question. Um obviously they I I think it's probably a bit of a rhetorical question But what happened? Saying, hey, what happened? When they didn't do what they were supposed to do, what happened? The argument is God will fulfill his word. It will happen. If God says it's going to happen, it's going to happen. And it did happen And we see that from history now. We see that the Black Valleyans came in. They probably thought there's no way this could ever happen. And yet it happened. I mean, think of us being in the United States, and we think to ourselves, we we think of certain threats around the world, and we think to ourselves Well, there's a threat there, but it will never really happen to us. It won't we won't actually it won't actually we won't actually be invaded or anything like that If God says something's going to happen, it's going to happen. Verse 6 then says this, and the prophets, do they live forever? Even the prophets that told them, do they live forever? Yet surely it says, My words and my statutes which I commanded my servants, the prophets, that will stand. Argument number two, God's word abides despite the temporal messenger. It will be fulfilled. He'll do what he said he's going to do. And the messenger is not important. The messengers come and go. It's the word of God that stands. It's the word of God that abides And then argument number three, God's word proved true in the past. God's word proved true in the past. It says, did they not overtake your fathers? Didn't the the over the idea of overtake means to be overtaken from behind. It's like they're going along doing their thing, doing what they're supposed doing what they're not supposed to be doing. They're getting profits They're warning them of coming judgment. They're not listening to their prophets, and they keep going and going and going down this road. And suddenly it's like the word of God overtakes them. And they're captured by Babylonian captivity. Lamentations two verse seventeen says this: the Lord has done what he has purposed. He will fulfill his word, which he commanded in days of old. He has thrown down and has not pitied And he has caused an enemy to rejoice over you. He has exalted the horn of your adversaries. Now here's the point to the people that he was speaking to. Return, because I'm going to give you 14 chapters, a lot of content, about what God is going to do when you return. When you return to me, all of these things are going to happen. This is what and this is what it looks like We're going to have 14 chapters of what it looks like to return to God and what happens when you do return to God. That is what we're going to see in the passage. Notice what it says in the text. It says, so they returned, this is the forefathers, so they returned, just as the Lord of hosts returned determined to do to us According to our ways and according to our deeds, so he dealt with us. The saying there is that once they were in the once they were in the in Babylonian captivity, they reflected on it, like, yeah They returned mentally towards, they said, God did exactly what he said he was going to do. They recognized it. Israel returned from Babylon physically. But Zechariah is calling them to return to God spiritually. And in the same way, God does call us to turn to Him. I want to make two applications here at this point. Number one, I want to make an application to those of you who perhaps have never turned, never genuinely turned to God. Have you turned from sin and turned to God in your life? The Bible tells us If we, it says in Matthew 5, 46, and these will go away into everlasting punishment, but the righteous into eternal life. Remember we talked before just a few minutes ago about the anger of God, and there is a holiness and there is a justice of God. And that if you get into that zone of the holiness of God, the wrath of God is going to be on you. He's not flying off the handle. No, we have stepped into that zone. And sin steps us into that zone. In fact, we're born into sin, the Bible says, so that the wrath of God abides on us In other words, because of God's holiness, there is a punishment for sin that abides on us. But Jesus, who is perfect, who is God, took on human flesh, lived a perfect life that we could not live, and went to a cross and died. And took on the wrath of God on himself in our place, so that we could have the righteousness of God. John 3. 36 says this, he who believes on the Son has everlasting life. And he who does not believe the Son shall not see life. But the wrath of God abides on him. It's that simple. What will you do with Jesus Christ? Will you accept the fact that he has already paid the punishment for your sin on your behalf and rose from the grave three days later proving that he could do exactly that? Or will you continue to go the way you're going? If you're here this morning, I say this out of love, not out of anger or vengeance or anything else. I say this out of love. If you are in, if you are here this morning And you're born and you are, then you have the wrath of God abiding on you unless you have accepted what Christ has done for you on the cross to pay the punishment for your sin. Receive Him. You say, I'm not really sure about this. I don't know. Sounds a little confusing to me. Please come and talk with me after the service. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you will spend eternity with the Lord. Secondly, I'd like to ask this question Is your relationship with God only functional? Is your relationship with God only functional? This is for those of you who know Christ as your Savior. You're not under the wrath of God. You have his declared righteousness, but you're going through the motions. You're trying to do all the things. You're here on a Sunday morning. You're where you're supposed to be. That's great, wonderful, praise the Lord. And you're trying to do all the things. But you're missing the relationship part of a relationship with God. Maybe there is sin Maybe there's sin in your life that you haven't confessed to the Lord, that you haven't agreed with Him about, that you're continuing in, that's causing you to be away from God. And you need to turn. You need to repent. Repentance is both for the non-Christian, but it is also for the Christian. To return to fellowship with God. Your standing with God is secure, but your fellowship with God can be in jeopardy when you sin against Him. And maybe you need to say as first John one nine says, you need to confess with your you need to confess your sin so that you understand and realize his forgiveness. He is faithful and just to forgive you of your sin and to cleanse you from all of unrighteousness. Are you attentively listening to the Word of God? Attentively, are you into it? Are you taking it as your necessary food? Are you listening carefully to it? Is your relation with God only functional? I'm looking forward to this awesome book of Zechariah in the in the days to come. It will be a wonderful book, a wonderful uh It will help us in our relationship with the Lord. It will help us in our confidence of what He is doing also even in the future. And I pray that we will grow in our our understanding even of the strength and power that God has and our own weakness and learn how to how to rely on the Lord more from this wonderful book of Zechariah. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Father, we come to you and we thank you for your word this morning. We thank you for its truth. We thank you that you do call You call those who aren't your people yet to come to return to you, and you call your people to return to you. And Lord, if there is someone here this morning that doesn't know you as their Savior, I pray that they would return they would turn to you. They would understand their sin. They would understand their need of a Savior. And they would trust in the work of Christ on the cross to pay the punishment for their sin. And if there is a Christian here, or I I would assume there are many probably, who aren't in fellowship with you, who are are continuing to sin in an area and not seeing it the same way you do, not confessing their sin. I pray, Lord, that you Would cause us to reel our sin at our at its earliest movements and turn to you so that we can truly dwell with you. Help us to be attentive to your word. Allow your word, Lord, to Change us. And may we in this year and in the days to come draw close to you. If we know you as our Savior, your spirit is in us Lord, help us to be filled by your Spirit. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community here at BBC. you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide This helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon