Well good morning. Aren't you glad we don't have three feet of snow this morning? Amen to that, right? Well this morning we are going to be in Zechariah and we're going to be still in chapter one reading verses seven through seventeen. Before we do, let's ask God's guidance for the word. Father, we're grateful this morning that you have brought us here together We're thankful, Lord, for whatever weather we get, Father, whether it be snow or rain or sun. We are grateful and thankful for your goodness and your kindness, Father, to us. And as we come to this time in the service, Father, We lift up our hearts and our minds to you. We pray and ask that you would help us to set aside all the distractions and cares and noise of this world today. And help us to concentrate upon your word this morning. I pray that you would give Pastor Jim clarity of thought and speech as he brings forth what you have laid upon his heart from your word, Father. And I pray that we would have receiving hearts. Lord, that we would desire and delight in your word. And when we delight in your word and we receive it, help us to think it through And help us to meditate upon it, Lord. And I pray that by your Spirit you will change our hearts and our minds more and more into your image. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We are in, again, Zechariah chapter 1, verse 7 through 17. On the 24th day of the 11th month which is the month of Shabbat. In the second year of Darius, the word of the Lord came to Zachariah, the son of Barakai, the son of Ido, the prophet I saw by night and behold a man riding on a red horse, and it stood among the myrtle trees in the hollow, and behind him were horses red, surrel, and white. Then I said, My Lord, what are these? So the angel who talked with me said to me, I will show you what they are. And the man who stood among the myrtle trees answered and said, These are the ones whom the Lord has sent to walk to and fro throughout the earth So they answered the angel of the Lord, who stood among the myrtle trees, and said, We have walked to and fro throughout the earth, and behold, all the earth is resting quietly. Then the angel of the Lord answered and said, O Lord of hosts, how long will you not have mercy on Jerusalem and on the cities of Judah against which you were angry? These seventy years. And the Lord answered the angel, who talked to me, with good and comforting words. So the angel who spoke with me said to me, Proclaim saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts. I am zealous for Jerusalem and Zion with great zeal. I am exceedingly angry with the nations at ease. For I was a little angry, and they helped, but with evil intent. Therefore, thus says the Lord, I am returning to Jerusalem with mercy My house shall be built in it, says the Lord of hosts. A surveyor's line shall be stretched out over Jerusalem. Again, proclaim, saying, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, my cities shall again spread out through prosperity. The Lord will again comfort Zion and will again choose Jerusalem Have you ever been so focused on your particular situation, your circumstances, so obsessed? With what you're going through, that you become hopeless. It's like you've got tunnel vision and you don't see a way out of the particular situation that you're in To the point that you lose hope, become depressed, become discouraged. That is to some degree what we find as a at least as a possibility for the people of God as they begin to build or start again rebuilding the temple of God in this passage. It's interesting how perspective can either harm us or help us. Usually as when we're young, we have a very narrow perspective on life And as we grow older, that perspective broadens and matures. Think of a young person who says, this is the worst day ever. Because they got a bad grade on a test. Or because they had a breakup with somebody or something like that. The worst day ever, where the mature person says that's a that's one small moment in a long life. Or someone who says, a youth who feels like everybody is watching me. I don't er they feel concerned. conspicuous like everybody's watching where as you get older you realize pretty much people are kind of preoccupied with their own problems or a youth who says um rules restrict my freedom Or maturity that says, rules protect me from going down some paths I don't want to go down. Or someone who is young might say, if it hurts, it must be wrong. Where somebody that's older says Sometimes things have to hurt and it's necessary for growth. Or somebody says, I'm a failure. I failed, so I'm a failure. Or the mature person says, failures happen. They don't make up my identity. You see, see, there's a difference between a narrow perspective And a broader, more mature perspective. God desires to broaden our perspective In fact, he wants to broaden our perspective so that we have a heavenly perspective on life. That's why it says in Hebrews 1 verse 1, God who at various times, in various ways, spoke in time past to the fathers by the prophets. And the various ways that he spoke includes visions. As Harry read through the passage. Some of this is not particularly relatable. It's not particularly understandable. You might have a hard time grasping the point of what it's saying. Understand that it comes from a heavenly perspective. You see, in a sense, we struggle with that. We like things that are relatable. It's why um sitcoms like Everybody What Loves Raymond is so relatable and people relate to it and it's broad it was not is now, but broadly was broadly watched in its day or the Holderness family who are in their forties. And so am I. When I see a video on the Holderness, how many have you seen the Holderness family before? Not that many of you. Either you're young or old, that's why. If you're 40s, you're like watching going, that's exactly I got the same aches, I got the same pains, I got the same pro I can't work out anymore. I don't know, I'm losing I'm I can't lose weight as fast. All these kind of things. I'm like, yeah, it's relatable. It just kind of grabs you This passage isn't really that way. And a lot of the passages in Zechariah are not going to be immediately relatable because God wants us to have a God perspective. Not just a human perspective. Now, what we're actually going to find is that it was very likely relatable to the people that he was speaking to. But for us, as we read through this, we need to understand that God wants to broaden our perspective actually in order to comfort us. One of the most important verses, one of the keys to this passage is verse 13, where it says, The Lord answered the angel who talked to me with good and comforting words. God's desire for his people in this passage, why he revealed things, what he revealed, and the way he revealed it, was actually to comfort the people of God. You find in the passage in verse verse verse 7, you have the timing of this, and and the thing that we need to understand, the thing that we need to recognize. is that uh we saw in the last week we we understood the first prophecy. If you guys could show show the timeline, the first prophecy there We read we read that and going over that last time. Prior to that was the reconstruction of the temple resumed. And then you have Haggai's last prophecy in Haggai chapter 2, verses 20 through 23, where it talks about the world powers and how they'll be destroyed. And now we're up to the vision that we are up to. So the temple has resumed progress. It is now being built. But there is opposition. There is constant opposition. And there's a constant potential problem of discouragement. And so these prop these prophecies, these visions that we're going to see as we go through this book are to encourage and to comfort the people of God, particularly this one. To comfort God's people, God gives them a heavenly perspective. We're going to see in the text that God does this two different ways. We're first going to see in verses 8 through 13 that he comforts with his posture toward them, how he relates to them, what is his stance toward them, his posture. And then we're going to see in verses 14 through 17 his purpose. What are God's purposes? for this remnant of God's people in Israel. So we first see God's comfort with his posture So how does he comfort his people? We're going to see three ways here. First, we're going to see in verse 8 by reminding them that he is Almighty God. Notice what it says in the passage. I saw by night and behold. Now this is a vision, and it's important how this is introduced. Verse 8, I saw by night. A very important, if we're looking at Bible prophecy in the Old Testament, a very important text that's kind of a go-to text in the Old Testament is Daniel chapter 7. And in Daniel chapter 7, you have these words, verse 13, I was watching in the night visions. This tells us that this prophecy has an important uh important elements for the future. And then in Daniel chapter 7, verse 21, it says this, I was watching, and the same horn was making war against the saints and prevailing against them. Until the ancient of days, that's Jesus Christ actually. Until the ancient of days came and a judgment was made in favor of the saints of the Most High. And the time came for the saints to possess the kingdom. Now, what we see in the text Just keep all that, keep that in mind. And then what we see in the text in verse 8 is this I saw by night, and behold, a man riding on a horse, and it stood among myrtle trees. So you have this vision. Zachariah has a vision. He has a as a man riding on a horse. And you think to yourself, what's the big deal about the horse? Why is that important? Think about what a horse was. Back in those days, you didn't have tanks, you had horses. This represented military might. This is something that the remnant of Israel did not have. But the man in this passage was riding on a horse. He's in the middle of myrtle trees, which we'll see what those are in a minute, and there are horses of different kinds behind him. For those people that were there in Jerusalem trying to rebuild the temple, they would have understood that they were occupied by Persia, by the Medo-Persians. And very likely there were horses around that represented the fact that they were under someone else's rule. This man had his own horse, and he had horses with him. There was an army. He was the leader of an army. And it says, and and and we find what this army is. In fact, I'm going to tell you who this person is. We actually find who the person is in verse 11. Look there for just a second. It says, so they answered the angel of the Lord. This person is the angel of the Lord. Now who then is the angel of the Lord? Well, I'll tell you who the angel of the Lord is. In Genesis chapter 16, verses 11 through 13, we have the angel of the Lord who is appearing to Hagar. And this is what she says. She says to him, verse 13 of Genesis 16: then she called the name of the Lord who spoke to her, You are the God who sees. For she said, Have I also seen him who sees me? You are the God who sees So Hagar calls the angel of the Lord God. In Exodus chapter 3, verse 2 through 4, you'll remember the story of the burning bush. You remember that story? And you have in that text that the angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire from the midst of the bush. And in that passage it says in verse 4 that God called to him from the midst of the bush. This establishes that the angel of the Lord we're talking about is God himself. Particular It is Jesus Christ, a pre-incarnate Christ. Of course, we know we just celebrated Christmas when Christ was born on this earth But there were occasions in the Old Testament where Jesus appeared, sometimes actually physically, like in Hagar's case, or in this case, in a vision. And so this is talking about Jesus. Now, here is what is really significant about that. The last time the angel of the Lord was used in the Old Testament. Was an amazing time. In 2 Kings chapter 19, verse 35, it says in that passage And it came to pass at a certain at a certain night that the angel of the Lord went out and killed the camp of the Assyrians one hundred and eighty five thousand, and when the people arose early in the morning they were corpses all dead. The angel of the Lord, the last time he appeared to Israel, killed 185,000 Assyrians. That's pretty significant, isn't it? So he is this is a vision that's speaking of actually a pre incarnate Christ who is who is God, who says he has military power. They know probably that was such an amazing thing to happen that Israel would have remembered that And so, this is this man on this horse. He's on a red horse, and the significance of the different colors in the passage aren't really mentioned, but very likely the red horse has to do, has to sym symbolize military might. And and the idea of it being red had to do with has to do with power and deliverance. And the myrtle trees very likely, it doesn't say very clearly in the passage, very likely has to do with the nation of Israel itself Now these horses, along with this man, was in a ravine. It was in a ravine, it says it was a hollow or ravine. Probably it was talking about the Kidron Valley. You could notice the Kidron Valley here up on the map if you showed that. You've got the you've got Israel on the on Jerusalem there, and you've got the Mount of Olives in the in that uh sort of mustardy color green And right in between there you have the Kidron Valley. That is a ravine, a very well-known ravine in between. And if you look, if you you could actually see that it surrounded much of the city And would have provided a cover for protection for people that would have wanted to lay siege to the city. God is saying that he is there, he is almighty, he has military power. He says among the myrtle trees, probably referring to the nation of Israel there. His point is that he is almighty, he's powerful, he has military might, something that Israel at this point, that remnant that was in Jerusalem that was rebuilding the temple, they didn't have They were weak. They were poor. They didn't have this military might, and yet this vision is of a man who has it. Also, the passage shows that he is attentive. Notice what it says in the text. Zechariah asked the question. Then I said, My Lord, what are these? So the angel who talked to me said to me, I will show you what they are. He's actually, when he says, What are these? He's saying, What's the significance of this? And it says, I'll show you what there are, but then notice the actual the spokesperson, the person that actually gives the answer, isn't that angel. It's actually the man who stood among the myrtle trees. He's the one that answers. That pre-incarnate Christ. And he says, these are the ones whom the Lord has sent to walk to and fro from the earth. They're walking. This is somebody that's going to and fro from the earth. This man, along with the and on the horse, along with all these other horses, they're going, they're surveying, they're paying attention, they're watching, they're attentive, they're looking around. That to and walk to and fro about around among the whole earth was actually used of Satan in Job chapter 1 verse 7, where he is looking all over the place for someone that he can deceive to thwart the plan of God And we see here that they, this is used in a positive sense, where they're attentive to what's going on, they're aware, they're aware, they're aware of what's happening in the world, they understand What's going on with Israel? They understand what's going on with them being under captivity. They understand all of this. And so it says in the passage, verse 11, so they answered the angel of the Lord who stood among the myrtle trees and said, We have walked to and fro throughout the whole earth. And look, notice what they found throughout the earth. And behold, all the earth is resting quietly. Now, that's interesting. All the earth is resting quietly. Is that a good thing or a bad thing? Well, I like that idea, don't you? I like the idea of the world resting quietly. Is the world world resting quietly today? If you've been paying attention, they ain't they're not a lot of resting and not a lot of quiet going on in the world. And you would think that this is a good thing, but actually in verse 15 we find that this is not a good thing. Here's the picture. Is the people are the people of God, are they resting quietly? They are not. They're working hard. There are few of them. They are weak. They have struggled to build the temple, to rebuild the temple. They have struggled to do a little with a lot. I do a lot with a little rather. They struggled. And yet the rest of the world, they're fine They're comfortable. They're good with Middle Persian Persian Empire ruling things. They're fine. They're good. They're comfortable. They're static. They're resting while the people of God are not. You see the picture? By the way, let's make this practical, you ever find yourself in that situation as a Christian? You look around and you see all these people that are not even trying to do the right thing and they seem to be their lives seem to be going just fine. And everything seems to be going good. And your life is a r uh is hard It's difficult. You have trial after trial. You have struggle after struggle. And you're going, I don't get it. I'm trying to do the right thing. That's what the people of God. That was happening to the people of God. They're trying to do what's right. And everybody around them is being successful and powerful, and they're trying to do what's right, and it's really hard. What we see from the passage is that God is all powerful, he's almighty, but he's attentive. He knows. He knows what they're going through. He's paying attention. He sees. Well then we see that he is going to advocate for them. Look at verses 12 through 13 Jesus, this is really really amazing, a wonderful picture of the angel of the Lord who is a pre-incarnate Jesus. Jesus is advocating on the part of his people. Notice what it says in the text. Then the angel of the Lord answered, O Lord of hosts. Did you catch that? The angel of the Lord, who is Jesus, answered and said, O Lord of hosts. Which we the what then would have to assume is the Father. Jesus is speaking to his father. Now it's not It it's the point is not that he is a he is a heavenly father. That's not the picture. The picture is that he is the Lord of hosts, used fifty-three times in Zechariah. He is the all-powerful God, and Jesus is coming to him. He appeals to his might and resources by saying, O Lord of hosts, and he appeals to his compassion. He says, How long? Will you not have mercy on Jerusalem and on the cities of Judah? I could just imagine Zechariah going, yeah, how long? That's what the people felt. How long? How long is it going to be that we're going to be the minority here? How long is it going to be that we're going to suffer and have and be poor and be under somebody else's rule? How long? And then he says, against which you were angry these seventy years Why does he mention that? Now we remember from last week, remember that they were under captivity for 70 years. They were punished. Israel was punished by God for 70 years for their idolatry. You remember that, right? And he brings this up. Here's why he brings it up. He's basically saying the 70 years is up. What's going on now? Like what's happening? They've done their time. They've done their 70 years What what's happening now? He's actually appealing, I think, to the decree of God's will, to God's decreed will, because God actually said in Jeremiah that after seventy years God would intervene. In Jeremiah 25, verse 12, it says, Then it will come to pass when seventy years are completed, that I will punish the king of Babylon and that that nation, the land of Chaldeans, for their iniquity, says the Lord, and I will make it a perpetual desolation. Then later on in 29 verse 10 it says, For thus says the Lord, after seventy years are completed at Babylon, I will visit you and perform my good word toward you and cause you to return to this place. Now God did they did return to Jerusalem, and God was fulfilling his promise. But it certainly wasn't, I think, the way that they pictured this happening, which is so often the case. But now you have Jesus, the pre-incarnate Christ, who is advocating for them. He's saying, what how long is this going to happen? You are Almighty. You're the Lord of hosts. You can handle this. The seventh years is up. By the way, this is a wonderful passage because do you know, Christian, God is Christ is also your advocate. This is a picture of the of the, we can gain from this as by way of application the wonderful truth that Christ is almighty to us. He is attentive to us and he is our advocate. Isn't that wonderful? See, when you're going through really hard times and difficult times, you want to know if somebody cares You want to know if somebody knows what you're going through. You want to know that somebody is paying attention to you. It's like a little kid. They they they they fall down, they scrape their knee, they cr they cry for two reasons. One it they hurt and the other they want everybody to know They definitely want mom to know. They want attention. They want somebody to know that they're that they're hurting, that they need help And we want to know that as well. Understand that we do not have a high priest that cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities. He is, Jesus is with us. He knows what we're going through. Romans 8. 34 says this: Who is he who condemns is Christ who died, and furthermore is also risen. Who is even the right hand of God who also makes intercession for us? Hebrews 7. 25 says this, therefore he is able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. 1 John chapter 2 verse 1 says, I little children, these things I write to you, so that you may not sin. If anyone sins, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. You see, the truth is this, that Jesus, he has come to save, the Bible says, to seek and to save those who are lost. We have sinned. We are separated from God. We deserve eternal punishment. But Jesus died to take the punishment for our sin so that he can be our advocate. He actually took the punishment on himself. And then he is our advocate to say, hey, I took the punishment before God. And if you will accept what Jesus did by faith and dying on the cross for you, to pay the punishment for your sin, you can be saved. And Christian, if you have accepted that, then you still have Jesus, whoever lives and makes intercession for you who continues to be your advocate. When Satan reminds you of your failure, understand Jesus is advocating for you before the Father. When you are when your guilt is when you're overcome by your guilt, when you're overcome by past failures, when you have fear in your life that you're concerned about, understand Jesus comes alongside you. He is your advocate. We see that in this passage, and it ought to be a great comfort to us. Notice the text that says, and the Lord answered the angel who talked to me with good and comforting words. You see, the people of God wanted to know if God remembered what he had promised. Did he remember that they were still his people? Did he remember that they They still, they were still following after him. Yes, they were smaller, but they were trying to do what God wanted them to do. Did he remember what he had said? In Deuteronomy chapter 4, verse 31, it says, The Lord your God is merciful God. He will not forsake you, nor destroy you, nor forget the covenant of your fathers which he swore to them. You ever find yourself in a situation where you're wondering if that person remembers? Kids do this, right? Kids remember everything that you did promise and that you didn't promise to them. I remember one time when I was a kid, I was young, I was helping my dad. Um, I had I was helping him remodel our kitchen And um he mentioned by in passing, I you know those utility knives? I thought they were cool. Now I don't think they're cool, but at the time I thought they were cool. And he mentioned that he might get me a utility knife. Like when we go to the store and pick up supplies, which is like every day of this of this constant um you know, remodeling job that we were doing. He said, you know what, tomorrow when we go to the store, I'm uh I'll get you a uh a utility knife. I was so excited about that. I didn't tell him. He had no idea. I never I never say anything, but I was like, man Yeah, I'd love to have one of those utility eyes. It was like, mm, it was about eleven or twelve. I mean that's a big deal to eleven or twelve year old. And I thought I thought, man, this is great. This is a good idea. I'm forty-five and I still remember that. Now I got like five utility knives, just so you know. Anyway. But notice, I want you to notice who will never forget what he promises. He will never forget his guarantees. Isaiah 49, 15. Notice what he says here. This is really amazing. This is really incredible, he says here. Can a woman forget her nursing child, not usually, and not have compassion on the son of her womb? Surely they may forget. Yet I will not forget you. That's what God says. I will not. A parent, not usually a nursing child, moms don't usually do that But I guess it's within the realm of possibility. Or compassion on the son of a child. You usually don't forget important things with your kids. But God says, I will not forget And so we find exactly the reiteration of some promises here from this vision. Where God now steps in and he is going to show that he is going to truly comfort with his purposes So we pick up in verse 14 and it says, So the angel who spoke with me said to me, proclaim saying Proclaim saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts. Now God the Father is speaking here. He says, Thus says the Lord of hosts. I am zealous for Jerusalem and for Zion with great zeal He hasn't forgotten. Do you know what this is talking about? This zeal? This it's a covenant love. It is a jealousy. Now you think jealousy is bad. Not when God is jealous. In fact, from the very beginning of God's relationship with Israel in Exodus chapter 20, verse 5, we have this. You shall not bow down to them who nor serve them, for I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me You know, um to in our day and age, like I you know, twenty years ago it it kind of went like this, twenty-five years ago maybe. You had friends and then you were dating like that. Like you'd you'd have a friend who's a girl girl is a friend, she's a friend, and then you dated them. And then you were just a friend, maybe. Anyway, so you had friends. They don't do that today. Did you know they don't do that today? They have friends talking And then dating. I didn't know this. I did I was not aware of this until my daughter went to college And she's explaining to me, oh so-and-so's talking, so-and-so's talking. Like, why is everybody of course they're talking. What's the pr what's the what what's going on here? And and I realize this is like this official talking stage. Oh they're talking, they're talking. Oh, they're not dating, they're talking. And um I found out she was talking. And uh I I I was like, but you're not dating. She's like, no, I'm not dating. I'm just talking. Like like so finally f I finally said to her one time, this is a while back, I said Okay, if you're just talking, can if another guy comes and asks you out to dinner, the guy you're the other guy you're talking to, is that okay? And she goes, oh no. Why is that not okay? Because there actually is at least a little bit of a commitment there already. And actually there's going to be much more of a commitment when they're dating and then when they're engaged and then when they're married. It's not okay to be unfaithful, right? It's not okay. For a spouse to say, yeah, just do whatever you want, that's not loving. And for God to say, yeah, just do whatever you want. for the nation of Israel, for his people, that's not loving either. He is zealous. He's still zealous for his people. That's why he led them into Babylon. That's why he had to punish them. That's why they're now coming out and re-establishing the temple. Because he is still Zealous for his people. He still cares. He's still in a committed relationship with them. And I want you to notice what Ezekiel 23 says. Ezekiel 23, 19 says this Yet she, that's Israel, multiplied her harlotry. They were idolatry, they were worshiping idols, and God calls it harlotry. Multiplied her harlotry in calling to remembrance the days of her youth, when she had played the harlot in the land of Egypt, thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will stir up your lovers against you. For from you have alienated yourself, and I will bring them against you from every side, the Babylonians, all the Chaldeans, and Pekua and Shoah and and Koah, all the Assyrians with them, all of them desirable young men. uh governors and and rulers and so on. He says, I will delegate judgment to them. Verse 24. God was using them because he was still zealous for Israel. And that's exactly what he says in verse 15. He says, I'm exceedingly angry with the nations at ease For I was a little angry with Israel, and they helped, but with evil intent. Now remember last week we said that in Zechariah 1. 2, the Lord had been bang. Very angry with the fathers of the people that were there. Very angry with Israel. And God used this these other nations to chasten Israel to bring them back to himself. And now he says, these nations who are at ease, they're comfortable, they're complacent, the people of God are not, I'm going to execute my justice. So God says he will ultimately execute his justice, verse 15. Because ultimately they had evil evil intent And then he says this, therefore says the Lord, verse 16, thus says the Lord, I am returning to Jerusalem with mercy. He reassures them, I'm coming to Jerusalem with mercy, with compassion. God is a compassionate God. He says, the the punishment's over, the the chasing is over. Stay faithful, persevere, serve the Lord because I'm coming and I'm coming with mercy. I'm going to forgive, I'm going to restore. And he says, my house shall be built in it. They were really close to finishing the temple. But they were tempted to stall again. They were tempted with all of the opposition. He says, My house will be built. He promises them that that will happen. And do you know four years from this prophecy it was. We know that from Ezekiel, or Ezra chapter 6, verse 15. Now the temple was finished on the third day of the month of Adur, which was the sixth month year of the reign of King Darius. So that was complete. But then he goes on. And he says there is going to be a return of infrastructure. He says, and the surveyor's line shall be stretched out. over Jerusalem. It's an indication that he's not just going to stop at the temple, but that the whole city is going to be rebuilt. And we see the same kind of thing in Ezekiel chapter 48, verse 35. All the way around shall be 18,000 cubits, and the name of the city from that day shall be the Lord is there. But now we're getting into area an area where this is actually I don't think this has yet been fulfilled. Because what we find what we find in history is that Jerusalem was somewhat rebuilt, the temple was rebuilt, the wall around was rebuilt, but it never had become what it once was. Because that's actually still in the future in the millennial kingdom. That is a time in the future where when Christ comes. He will establish his kingdom on earth. And we're going to see this throughout there. He will establish his kingdom on earth. And he will fulfill the rest of the promises that he has yet to fulfill. In verse 17 it says, again proclaim, saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts, my cities shall again spread out through prosperity. It will happen. Then you sh uh Ezekiel 36, 28 says this, then you shall dwell in the land and that I uh that I give to your fathers, you shall be my people, and I will be your God. And it says this, the Lord will again comfort Zion and will again choose Jerusalem. Now isn't it interesting, by the way, that some of this prophecy was fulfilled four years later and some has yet to be fulfilled. Fulfilled. You know what that tells us? Our timing and God's timing are two different things. Isn't that true in life? You find that all the time. God's timing is not our timing. You're like, okay, Lord, why aren't you doing something here? I'm ready. Or um and and God's basically not ready. He has the bigger picture. God's timing isn't our timing. But God, look, God will accomplish what He says he will accomplish. He will do what He says he will do. With all this in mind, I have three questions for you. First question is this: Are you viewing your circumstances through Christ's heavenly perspective Or only through the limits of your present situation. See, God said this in the beginning, God wants, what was God doing here ultimately? God wanted them to have a heavenly perspective. He wanted them to have his perspective. He wanted them to know that he was almighty. He was an advocate. that he was he was uh attentive, he wanted them to understand this, he wanted them to understand that he still had purposes for them, that he was still zealous for them. He wanted them to see things from his perspective. Are you limited by your situation in such a way that you're not seeing God's perspective? Do you know the answer to that? It's God's word Set your mind on things above, not on the things of this earth This is why the Word of God is not always quickly relatable. Not everything in it can you just grab. You've got to delve in because you know what? Sometimes it's a really good idea to get out of town for a while You ever notice that, by the way? Sometimes it gives you no new perspective if you just kind of get away for a while You're in the middle of the daily grind, you're in the routine, and you step away. I remember this happened to me a couple, I don't know, a while back. Things run together. I'm old And and but anyway, it happened a while back and I I I went down to I went down to Greenville and I started praying about something and I started thinking about something and the fact that I was removed from the situation I said you know what I think I should stop doing a particular thing. There is something about stepping outside of your situation. Did you know you can do that right from the Bible? You read the Bible, you know the Bible. There are places in Scripture where you could go and pretty much it has no relationship to your current situation. And yet it does because you learn about the God who is your God. Who is your here to help you? Number two, are you leaning on Christ's compassionate advocacy or attempting to endure your struggles and self-reliance? How are you living your life? Are you living your life by being self-reliant? I can guarantee you that will never work no matter what you're trying to rely on, what you're doing. Some of you, you're trying, perhaps, some of you, you're trying, your relationship with God is based upon what you do. I need to be a good person, I need to do good things, I need to I need to have Follow certain sacraments or whatever it is. The Bible says, not by works of righteousness which you have done, but according to his mercy he saved you. You cannot come to God by your own self-reliance. You must come to God only on the merits of what Jesus Christ did for you. He died to take your sin on himself, and the only thing that you can do is depend on Christ. Who is the only one who can who is qualified to be your advocate before the Father, so that we can be rightly related to God. And for those of us as Christians, It's the same. Sometimes we rely on ourselves to try to deal with our own guilt, to try to deal with our own failure To try to deal with our own problems. Instead of relying on Christ, trusting in his grace, realizing he is our advocate and our friend and our helper and he is almighty, we need to depend on Christ. Number three. Are you resting in Christ's faithfulness to fulfill his word or measuring his promises by what you see now? Are you, in other words, are you trusting in what God is doing by what the Word of God says he will do? Or are you trusting in what God is doing by what you see now? Do you know the second option will never work? Outside of the Word of God, we simply do not have the capacity to see things the way God sees them. And when we live our lives and we're going through our lives and we're thinking through things and we're we're trying to figure out what God is doing and why he's doing it, and we try to we try to figure it out based upon what we see That's not faith. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. We've got to trust in what God says he will do by what the Word of God says. And here's the awesome thing about the Word of God, as we've seen today, and we'll see as we go through Zechariah. We not only see promises, but we see fulfillment of those promises. And do you know that the temple was built? It was restored. Both biblically, we know that, and historically it's verifiable. Why? Because God does, in his timetable, fulfill all of his promises. And we can trust what God's Word says. Let me just tell you, if you're if you're listening today and you don't know where you are with your relationship with God, let me really encourage you. Let me just encourage you and challenge you. To come and talk with me after the service. I am there, and if you came up to me and you said, look, I I want to know more about Christ, I can't think I I would love to sit down and talk with you. And show you from the Bible how you can know for sure that you'll spend eternity with the Lord. Or if there's somebody else you're comfortable with, somebody that you know is a Christian, take the time to say, Lord, I want to know more about this. You'll find many people here that would be thrilled to help you know how you can know for sure that you'll spend eternity with the Lord and that you'll be rightly related to Him. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for your word. We thank you for this book of Zechariah. It's a deep book. It's got a lot there. But Lord, I pray that it would help us and our perspective of you and what you are doing to broaden it. We thank you that what we see in your word clearly is who you are. In fact, we're reminded over and over and over about who you are from your word. Over and over and over you tell us that you fulfill your promises. Over and over again you tell us that you are that Christ is our advocate. Over and over again you tell us that you are Almighty God, that you are zealous for your people. We we s we know these things. Help us, Lord, to live in light of them, to trust you with all of our heart, to not lean on our own understanding. And to acknowledge you in all our ways, knowing that you will direct our paths. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community here at BBC. you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide This helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.