Okay, we are going to be in Zechariah chapter 8 this morning, and we're going to be looking at verses 1 through 8. Zechariah 8, 1 through 8. And before we begin, let's go ask the Lord to bless this time under His Word. Father, we come again this morning with grateful and thankful hearts. Father, you are so good to us, Father, and we are so grateful for your Son and what he has done on our behalf. And we are looking forward to the day that he returns. And I pray until then, Lord, as we come to this time being under your word, I pray that you would remove all the distractions and the cares and the noise of this week Help us to take this next hour and just concentrate totally upon your word. I pray that your Spirit will do a mighty work in our hearts and our minds. Plant it deep in our hearts, Lord. And I pray that not only would we hear your word, but we would be doers of it. And Lord, in doing so, it would bring glory and honor to your great name. And we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Zechariah eight, chapters eight, verses one to eight. Again the word of the Lord of hosts came saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts. I am zealous for Zion. With great zeal. With great fervor, I am zealous for her. Says the Lord, I will return to Zion and dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. And Jerusalem shall be called the city of truth, the mountain of the Lord of hosts, the holy mountain. Thus says the Lord of hosts, old men and old women shall sit shall again sit in the streets of Jerusalem, each one with his staff in his hand, because of great age. The streets of the city shall be full of boys and girls playing in the streets. Thus says the Lord of hosts. If it is marvelous in the eyes of the remnant of this people in these days, will it also be marvelous in my eyes, says the Lord of hosts? Thus says the Lord of hosts, behold, I will save my people from the land of the east and from the land of the west. I will bring them back And they shall dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. They shall be my people, and I will be their God in truth and righteousness. I first I think I first heard it when my was talking to my s my daughter out in in college and she talked about all the different activities she was doing and then how she was going to get locked in. And study. And I st I said, locked in and study. What do you mean locked in? You gonna lock yourself in a room or something What do you mean locked in? Apparently locked in means really focused. My understanding of what that means. And some of you on who are like in your twenties, like get Get with it. That's been around for a while. And and then there are others that are my age or older that are going, Yeah, I'm hearing that new lingo. Anyway We can easily get locked into things, but we can get locked into the wrong thing. You ever notice that about our lives, our minds? We get locked in on certain things And we don't see a have a broader perspective. It's kind of like somebody who spends four hours putting IKEA furniture together and it's wrong. Or someone who is at the grocery store on a mission to get milk and comes out with nachos and tor and uh and all kinds of different things and forgets the milk. Or someone who gets on their smartphone to check the weather and before long they're looking at uh they're they're watching a video about how medieval bread makers happen. Or GPS, you ever done this before? You're you're following your GPS and you're not even paying attention to your GPS. You're just kind of following exactly what it says and it finally says turn right into that lake. Uh nobody's done that yet, obviously. Uh but but we do. We we can kind of just get locked into what we're thinking about and we totally forget where we are. Have you ever done that where you're following your GPS and you're not really paying attention to how you got there and suddenly you're there and you're like, how did I get there? Hmm, that's interesting. I've done that before. You're probably scared to drive with me now. Anyway. But we do. We get locked into things. Uh we we get locked when we s experience emergency or experience grief. We get locked into those things. And we get sort of we we we don't we we need a broader perspective. See, there's something there's something really great about about seeing an open view. Like you go to the Grand Canyon and there it's just it's it's liberating. It's It's invigorating to be ac to go out and just see the grandness of something. Or even more locally, Grand Canyon is kind of far away more locally. If you want to try if you want to uh do a good a great hike up to an app Annapolis Rock. How many of you ever been up there? It's on the on the Appalachian Trail. Uh you hike up to Nash Anap I love to hike to places where you get a reward at the end. Like a a grand view, and that's one that's that that does the that that way. It's helpful for us to get a broader perspective. And what God is doing here in Zechariah chapter 8 is he is giving his people a broader perspective. You'll recall that there were a group of people from Bethel, north of Jerusalem, that have come down to Jerusalem, and they in the beginning of chapter seven asked a question about fasting. Do we need to fast in order to continue to compel God to restore Jerusalem and to restore the kingdom? And the answer that God gave back in chapter 7 was uh you weren't doing it for me in the first place. You were doing that for you. He's now going to answer the question by saying in chapter 8, I want you to see the broader perspective on what I am doing. and how I will one day bring my kingdom. Did you realize, folks, that God is determined to bring forth his kingdom with his people. And it is clear in this passage that this is the case. And the benefit that we can gain from this is that it's very edifying for us to move from being locked in to certain things in our lives. This past couple of weeks I've my wife and I have been kind of locked in on our property and our house and different things that are going on in our lives personally. But we've got to step back sometimes and we've got to get a broader perspective on life. and eternity. And when we do that, it frees us from getting locked in on certain things in our lives as Christians. God really wants And we're going to see in verses one through three his pursuit. And then we're going to see his pre-vision. He's going to give us a vision of what his kingdom is going to look like in 4 through 6. And then in 7 through 8, we're going to see God's plan. We're first then going to see God's pursuit in chapter one. We pick up here it says again the word of the Lord of hosts came saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts. You're going to see this phrase, word of the Lord of hosts, throughout chapter 8, ten times. He keeps saying it. It is the word of the Lord of hosts. He really wants to get across the truths that he is about to give them, this guarantee of a coming kingdom, this guarantee of God's working in his life, in their life. And we're going to see here what he says about this. We pick up and he says, I am zealous for Zion with great zeal, with great fervor, I am zealous for her. Says this passage that God is zealous. He is jealous for them, for Zion. Now we have seen we've seen this used before, this word Zion, which is a reference to Jerusalem. Deuteronomy chapter twelve verse five says, But you shall seek the place where the Lord your God chooses out of all your tribes to put his name for his dwelling place and there you shall go. Speaking of Jerusalem. Psalm 135, 21 says, Blessed the Lord out of Zion who dwells in Jerusalem, praise the Lord. God has put a particular blessing on the place of Jerusalem and his presence being in Jerusalem. All the way back in Exodus chapter 20, verse 5, it tells that he desires to be with his people, and he is in fact zealous or jealous for his people. Chapter Exodus 25 says, You shall not bow down to them, nor serve them. For I am the Lord your God, I am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generation for those who hate me Now we think of the jealousy of God and it concerns us sometimes. We think, well, how can God be a jealous God? What does that mean? But actually it is something that should be very, very encouraging and comforting that God is jealous for his people It's not a sinful kind of jealousy in the way that we would think of it. It's not an envy of someone else or something else. He is saying that he is, there's a sense in which he is possessive, he is protective of his People. I think of a uh uh um when I was up in Pennsylvania, I'd like to go I like to go hiking up there. And hiking up in Pennsylvania where I was up in the mountains, there were two things you had to watch out for rattlesnakes and and bears, black bears. And um and they told me two things you should be carrying with you. uh in a like in a revolver. You should carry uh bird shot for snakes and carry hollow points for for black bears. And although I'm not sure how well that would do actually. But anyway, uh and but they said black bears w they will run the opposite direction. You don't have to really worry about them too much. It's it but be careful about one thing, and some of you all know what that is. Do not get in between a mother and her cubs. If you get in between a mother and cubs, you are done for. Why? Because that mother has that maternal instinct of protecting her cub. That's the picture we see here of God being jealous for us. He is protective of us. If there is an enemy that's going to draw us the wrong direction, that's going to draw his people the wrong direction. Yes, he will if they they could go down uh into idolatry, and they did. And God would God would over and over and over again in the Old Testament, he would send prophets to prophesy to him them of the coming judgment if they did not if they did not repent. We see that. He is again going to say, because not only he say this, not only because I'm j not only because Because I'm jealous, am I going to punish you, which he did, I've chastened you. He's now going to say, because I am a jealous God, I'm going to restore you. And he's going to contrast this. He's been telling them, I have chased you because I am I am protective of you and I want to bring you back. Now he's going to say, I am jealous, and so therefore I am going to restore you. We see in this passage, he is a jealous, a zealous God, and God, and he has a particular desire to dwell with his people. It says in the text, thus says the Lord, I will return to Zion and dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. Now, I want us to think about the significance of this. Did you know that God created us? He made us for fellowship with him. He created us to be in his presence. Back in Genesis chapter 3, verse 8, it says, And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God. among the trees of the garden. Before this sin, before the fall, before the curse, they would walk with God in the cool of the day. There would be a presence there But obviously, because of sin, they had to hide themselves from the presence of God. Ever since Adam and Eve, God has been relentless in his word about him being with his people, him dwelling with his people. Leviticus twenty-six twelve. I will walk among you and be your God. You shall be my people. Exodus thirteen, twenty-one. And the Lord went before them by day in pillar of cloud to lead the way, and by night in pillar of fire to give them light, so as by so so so as to go by day and night. He did not take away the pillar of clouds by day or the pillar of fire by night from before the people. God led the people He desired to be with the people, and later on in both the tabernacle and the temple, he would dwell in the midst of the people. But at this point in in the life of Israel as the remnant has come in come out of the Babylonian area, the Assyrian area area uh w that's been occupied by Persia, and they've gone into the the remnant has gone into Jerusalem. They have not yet experienced the presence of God there again. And then it says this, Jerusalem. Shall be called the city of truth, the mountain of the Lord of hosts. What is he saying here, the mountain of the Holy of Hosts, the holy mountain, Jerusalem's called the city of truth? What is God pointing to when he says this? The picture is of this focal place, this central place that everybody looks to where God's presence is, and where the word of God goes forward. Isaiah 2. 2 says it this way. Now it shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountain of the Lord Lord's house shall be established on the top of the mountains. And shall be exalted above the hills, and all nations shall flow to it. Many people shall come and say, Come, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob. He will teach us his ways, and he and we shall walk in his paths, for out of Zion shall go forth the law and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. It it paints paints a picture of the into of not only the people of God, but all of the nations looking to this mountain of God. presence of God that they they can go to, they can get truth from. It's like this well springing up to give life and and the presence of God to all of the people. That's why Psalm 48, which we actually read in our opening call to worship, verse 2 says, Beautiful in elevation The joy of the whole earth is Mount Zion on the sides of the north, the city of the great king. And this holy mountain we see in Isaiah forty twenty-seven thirteen where it says, So it shall be in that day that the great trumpet shall be blown. They will come And who and they will come who are about to perish in the land of Assyria, and they who are outcast of the land of Egypt, and shall worship the Lord in the holy mount at Jerusalem. This picture is a picture that extends into Revelation. And in Revelation, we actually find that this kingdom has actually not yet come. Certainly, the people of Zachariah would not have imagined that it would be thousands of years. But frankly, God's timetable is not people's timetable. The truth of the matter is God can tarry as long as he wants, and as Joe mentioned in the worship and the music time, um he does so out of patience and out of loving kindness so that more people are able to come to him. In Revelation chapter 19, verse 11, we find this description of what will happen when Christ comes in his second coming. It says, Now out of the mouth goes a sharp sword, and with it he shall strike the nations, and he himself will rule them with a rod of iron. He himself treads the wine presses of the fierceness of the wrath of Almighty God. And he has on the robe and on his thigh a name written, King of Kings and Lord of hosts. Then I saw an angel standing in the sun, and he cried out with a loud voice, saying, To all the birds that fly in the midst of heaven, come and gather together for the supper of the great God. We can look forward to a day when this occurs. Now, I want to explain and put things in a proper framing here as we think through where the people of Zechariah are Where we are now. And there are some that would would attempt to take this passage in Zechariah chapter 8. And they would say that the fulfillment of this, of the kingdom being established in Jerusalem and the presence of God being in Jerusalem, they would say that all of this is actually fulfilled in the church. And those people, I have good friends that would say it would explain it that way. I love them and I appreciate them. They're godly people. But I have to tell you, I have a hard time as you go through Zechariah chapter 8 and all of the references to Jerusalem and going up on the mount and all of these different things I have a hard time spiritualizing all of this and just thinking that, okay, this actually is going to be fulfilled in some entirely non-literal way. And uh although I have good godly friends that I would that that would disagree, I think this is an actual literal fulfillment that is going to happen in the future. We would call that the Millennial Kingdom. And I have a chart up here just for you to take a look for a few moments. And you'll see in this chart that at the very beginning is the time of Zechariah. Now the truth is this. God promises that he will dwell again in the temple and with his people. But do you know that there is no indication that we have from that time until Christ came again? Came the first time. That the presence of God, the glory of God ever went back to the temple. Does that mean that this has not yet been fulfilled? That's how I would take it. I would take Zechariah 8 as not yet being fulfilled yet, that it is still in the future. Because as we move forward and as we look at we see the church age and we see the rapture of the church next, if you could move to the next slide there Then we have the second coming of Christ where Christ actually turns. Keep moving, keep going back, keep going. Perfect. Thank you. You have the the right the second coming where then Israel is restored and you have a thousand years This is the time period that we are still looking ahead to, after the tribulation period, where Christ will return, where he will set up his kingdom on this earth And this is a this is a time period where we still get to look forward to, where God will make all everything in the world right. It will be his kingdom truly on earth. What will that look like? What will it feel like? In the next section of this, in verses 4 through 6, it paints a picture of what it might look like or feel like to be in the Millennial Kingdom. With Christ ruling as king, with his people in subjection to him, having conquered all of his enemies, what would that time period look like? Well, I want us to think about what Jerusalem is like during this time period and even what Jerusalem is like now. I want us to think about this for a minute. What was Jerusalem like during this time period in Zechariah and even prior to this in the Old Testament? Was has Jerusalem been a place for on the whole, has it been a place of peace? I would suggest to you that overall it has not been. In Lamentations 4. 18 it says, they tracked out their steps so they could not walk in our streets. Our end was near, but our days were over, our end had come. There is a danger that has that has lurked in Jerusalem Throughout the Old Testament, certain times of peace, during times of Solomon and the kings and things, there have been certain times, but it has not been an established place of peace. for for hundreds or thousands of years. Even now, if you go into Jerusalem, you go into Israel, what's happening right now? uh there is constant threat of danger. There is constant threat of bombings from the outside. Uh many of the the the many peop that you will see you will see machine guns and you will see people carrying Machine guns all over the place out of a sense of fear and a need to protect. Jerusalem is not a place where you get this idea that you could just let your kids run all over the place and it's gonna be fine. It's not a place where you can just just it's just a place that's all completely peaceful. Now I I know when Christians go over there, they see certain places, they go into the into the Garden of Gethsemane and there's a sense of peace and really an awesome sense I'm sure of I haven't been there myself a often sense of what it's like to be where Christ was and that's wonderful But as a whole, this Jerusalem has is a is still a danger pretty dangerous place. I want you to see what the text says about what this place will be like. What the this look at the description that says this, thus says the Lord of hosts, old men and old women shall again sit in the streets of Jerusalem. What's his point? Have you ever gone into an area and you wondered if if it's a safe area? This is well I grew up, of course I grew up in this area. And it is this area is I don't know if it's weird or not, but it seems strange that you can drive a certain place and you can drive for fifteen minutes and it'd be a very safe area. And you could drive another fifteen minutes and suddenly you go, whoa, I don't think this is a safe area. And you can drive another fifteen minutes and like, oh what? This is this is okay. Uh what is it about what makes you sudden I I would do m suddenly I would you know we would be driving when I was a kid and my mom would be like, This is not a good area, make sure you lock your doors and all that What makes an area feel safe or not safe? What makes an area well notice notice the description here. You've got old men and old women, elderly people, they're just sitting in the streets. Not worried about safety, not worried about um being attacked or being mugged or anything like that. They're just sitting in the streets. It says, each one with his staff in his hand. Notice he says, because of great age, not for protection. It's not saying he has a staff for protection. These people are so old they need help standing. They need help walking. These are people that are, as the Bible would call it, the Old Testament or the King James, well-stricken in years. And and yet they're safe. There's total safety. There's total peace, total tranquility. Look at the next passage, look at verse 5. And the streets of the city shall be full of boys and girls playing in the streets. There's a good sign of safety. Elderly people, the people that are vulnerable, they're out in the streets, no big deal Children, they're outside playing ball, no big deal. Everything is peaceful. There is complete peace. Is that a place that you want to live? It's a place that I look forward we look forward to living. We look forward to being in the kingdom where God everything is peaceful, where the lion will lay down with the lamb. And that is the picture that we see here, the description that we see here of some place of total peace. Now I gotta tell you, when the people heard this, I guarantee you they thought that feels impossible I hate to say this, but it's almost like going into certain areas, not the whole city of Baltimore, but certain areas in Baltimore and thinking that somehow that's gonna be a place like this. I mean there I'm not gonna name certain places, I don't want offend anybody or anything, but there are certain places in Baltimore that I sort of go I sort of go. They've always been bad areas. I feel like that always will be bad areas. They're just areas that, you know, you you really try to avoid if you can. And for someone to say, you know what, that area is going to be an area where old people are walking around around will be fine and Y young people will be walking around will be fine and everything will be safe and peaceful. That's the description that you have here. And I guarantee you when the people heard this They marveled. And the text says that. Look at verse 6. Thus says the Lord of hosts. If it is marvelous in the eyes of the remnant of this people in these days, will it also be marvelous in my eyes? I'll tell you what he's saying here. He is anticipating the fact that in their mind this is going to be something that is impossible, something that is difficult, and something that they would be in awe and marvel at, that there would be this level of safety And yet, what he's also saying is, I am not going to marvel at this. There's a rhetorical question here. Will it also be marvelous in my eyes? The answer is no. It will not be difficult for God to make things peaceful when he decides to make things peaceful It will not be something of marvel. It will not be difficult. Why? Because God is an all-powerful God. Nothing is too difficult for God. In Jeremiah twenty thirty-two, seventeen it says, Ah, Lord God, behold, you have made the heavens and the earth by your great power and our and outstretched arms. There is nothing too diff too hard for you In Jeremiah 32, 27, later on in the chapter, Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh. Is there anything too hard for me? The answer is no. God is not only, His presence will not only be there, His peace will not only be there, but His power will be evident. in the kingdom. God is an all-powerful God. And folks, you and I need to remember that, by the way. We need to remember that God is all-powerful. There is nothing too difficult for God. We should not think in our minds, well, that'll never happen because that that because God just, you know, that that that just can't happen. If God wants it to happen, it's going to happen. You remember in Genesis chapter 18 when the men who was the angel of the Lord and the other two men who were probably angels as well came? came to uh Abraham and Sarah was in a tent with them. Abraham was there. She was in a different there was a partition between her and the other men and the men said uh to Abraham about his wife that she was going to have a kid And it says in the passage in Genesis 18, I will certainly return to you according to the time of life, and behold, Sarah your wife shall have a son. Sarah was listening in the tent door and was uh behind which was behind him. Now, Abraham and Sarah were old and well advanced in age, and this and Sarah had passed the age of childbearing. Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I have grown, shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also She's like, ha, that can't happen. You ever done that before, by the way? Somebody says something, you go, pfft, that can't happen. I unfortunately the older we get the more we're like that. My kids will say something, hey what about this? I'm like, pfft, are you kidding me? That can't happen. I think I said that the other day actually. Anyway. No. We we tend to do that. And and he sh that's essentially what Sarah is saying. And the text says, the Lord said to Abraham, why did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I surely bear a child since I am old? Is there anything too hard for the Lord? It's a great question. And the answer obviously is no. Listen, mark it down, brothers and sisters. Mark it down. Whatever hindrance we face, whatever problems we encounter, it is not because God is not powerful enough. The truth is, you and I experience all kinds of emergen of grief and struggle in our lives and dismay. We don't understand why God does what he does or allows what he allows And what we really need to do is broaden our perspective to see the whole picture. That's what God is doing here. He is helping the people of God to see the big picture. There are certain things in life that I sort I have a hard time wrapping my head around. Do you realize that I am 45? In three years, I will be the age where my mind my mom died of cancer Three years. How do I my how do I wrap my head around my mom being dying of cancer at age forty-eight? Godly woman, loved her, loved her kids, loved her one grandkid that she had at that point, Caitlin. I I think to myself, um Um why would why in the world would God not allow her to live so she can help raise my kids, be such a good influence on my kids as a godly woman? Why why would God do that And if I get locked into that particular thing, I can begin to say, get frustrated and not understand and all that. See what I have to do is I have to broaden my perspective. I have to s I have to it's like a telescope where you have to scope out a bit. You pull out and see the whole picture, and you realize that God's ultimate goal is the establishment of His kingdom. That in God's broad plan, there's not that much of difference between 48 and 88 or 98 or 108 or whatever. That in God's ultimate plan, He has it all figured out for ultimately his glory. Now, of course, somebody dies at 48 because of because of sin because the world is cursed It's because we live in a fallen world that that happens. But God has a way of taking all of that and ultimately using it for his glory. Everything. Romans chapter 8, verse 18 says, For I consider that the present time that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. For the earnest expectation of the creation eagerly waits for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility. Yeah, it is Not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope, because the creation itself also will be delivered from the bondage of corruption into notice what it says the glorious liberty of the children of God. You you get caught up in the bondage of corruption and you get focused on living in a corrupt world, and you get focused on living in a cursed, sin-cursed world, and the problems and trying to deal with the problems of the sin-cursed world, you are going to feel the bondage But if you will step back and look at what God is doing ultimately for his glory, for his kingdom. You will realize that the sufferings of this present time is not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed. You've got to broaden your vision. That's the only way we begin to see we are we we have a sense of liberty. It's like going up into Annapolis Rock and seeing that grand view We have that privilege of going into the Word of God and getting a grand view as we see passage after passage, both in the Old Testament and some in the New Testament, of what God is doing. For the sake of his kingdom. And we see that here. What is God's ultimate plan? We'll see this in verses 7 and 8. Verse 7, we see, first of all, that there is rescue. He says, Thus says the Lord of hosts, behold, I will save my people. I love that phrase. I will save my people. From the land of the East, he says, and from the land of the West. Most most locally and literally there, the land of the east was the Babylonian-Persian area, and the land of the west was other Gentiles. The land of the east was when where the sun rises, the land of the west was where the sun sets. And what he is saying here is that God will save, he will rescue his people. Most technically in the passage, most literally, he will rescue his people from everything. And there's a physical rescuing that is mu that is from the passage that we have to recognize. He's saying he's going to rescue him from the physical enemies. There's going to be physical peace. That's the emphasis, that's the primary emphasis of the passage. But later on in Zechariah 12, 10, it says this And I will pour on the house of David, on the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the spirit of grace and supplication. Then they will look on me whom they pierced. Yea, they will mourn for him as one mourns for his only son, and grieve for him as one grieves. For a firstborn. You know, and God's ultimate economy and the way that He set things up, we can look back and we realize that God's first concern was the spiritual salvation of his people in his first coming. And that one day we can look look look forward to the physical salvation of his people in his second coming. We see the rescuing in the passage, and then we see relationship. This is God's goal for his people. I, he says, verse 8, will bring them back. They shall dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. At this point, there's not many people in Jerusalem. You realize that only in Nehemiah chapter eleven, verses one through two, there was only a tenth of the people of of all the people of Israel that were in Jerusalem dur during this time. The idea that God would actually collect them, that would bring them all back, that was something that would be marvelous for them to understand. But it was prophesied all the way back in Isaiah 43 where it says, Fear not, for I am with you. I will bring your descendants from east and gather you from the west. I will say to the north, give them up and to the south, do not keep them back. Bring my sons far from afar and my daughters from the ends of the earth. Jesus is going to gather his people And they, notice what it says the passage, they shall be my people, and I will be their God in truth and righteousness. They will be my people, and I will be their God. This has been God's goal for his people from creation on. They would be my people, and I would be their God in truth and in righteousness Unadulterated by idolatry and sin and corruption. Jeremiah chapter 7, verse 22 says this But this is what I commanded them, saying, Obey my voice, and I will be your God, and you shall be my people, and walk in all the ways I have commanded you, that it may be well with you. Yet at that time it says, yet they did not obey and incline their ear, but followed the counsels and dictates of their evil hearts. And went backwards and not forwards since the day that your fathers came out of the land of Egypt, unto the day I have even sent you all my servants, the prophets, daily rising up early and sending them See, this, they will be my people and I will be their God. This is an indication that finally the people of God will follow God fully. The people of God will obey fully. There will be a day where this happens Exodus or Ezekiel eleven twenty, that they may walk in my statutes and keep my judgments and do them, and they shall be my people, and I will be their God. Over and over again in the Old Testament, you have this phrase, They shall be my people, and I will be their God. Do you know because of the grace of God, we are part of this plan. For us, as New Testament Christians, We do look forward to the coming of Christ as well. For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of an archangel, and with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first, and we who are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet them the Lord the Lord in the air, and thus we shall always be with the Lord. And this phrase is really important. He says, Therefore comfort one another with these words. Do you need comfort in your life? Do you need encouragement in your life? Do you need perspective in your life? Look to the hope of the coming of Christ, Titus 2. 13, looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. Brothers and sisters in Christ, be encouraged. Christ is coming again. Be encouraged. We should not get locked in just to our day-to-day lives. We must see our lives in the bigger picture of the kingdom of God and what he is doing on this earth and what he intends to do in the future And we will be, as we understand and are related to God's kingdom in the right way, it will bring a sense of fulfillment and many other things. In fact, if we go up, if if you can imagine going up and seeing this grand view of what the kingdom is, we will see these four things. Number one, in Christ's kingdom, we belong to the king. We belong. There is a human need to belong, to feel at peace and to know that you belong. In Christ's kingdom, we belong to the king. In Christ's kingdom We will find purpose in serving the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. We will be serving him for all of eternity. But that service starts now. As we serve the kingdom now, because one day Christ will set up his kingdom. Three, in Christ's kingdom we find fulfillment in this life and the next. We find fulfillment in this life and the next, and in Christ's kingdom, we find hope in life and in death. Brothers and sisters in Christ, broaden your perspective to see the kingdom of God But I want to talk to those of you who may not be yet brothers and sisters in Christ. Maybe there's somebody here that you've actually you don't really know whether you're going to be part of the kingdom of Christ. You're not assured of that. You're not really sure what to think. The Bible says these things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. God is, God is, Christ has been, He's been very patient. with this world in in in not coming yet. He could come at any time, Christ could. Before he comes, why don't you turn to him? If you don't know him as your Lord and Savior Today, you need to understand that your sin separates you from the presence of God. It's the whole problem in the very beginning. Your sin separates you from his presence. You can't be his people. He can't be our God. And because of the because of sin. And sin separates us from a holy God. But Jesus came because of his great love for us. He came, lived a perfect life, went to the cross, took our sin on himself. And died in our place. He suffered the wrath of God for us on our behalf. So that we could have his righteousness applied to us in exchange. And if we will trust, we will depend on what Jesus did on the cross and paying the punishment for our sin, and rising from the grave three days later, victorious over sin and death, if we will depend on that. The Bible says if we will confess with our mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in our heart that God raised him from the dead, we'll be saved. And if you don't know whether or not you are rescued by Christ, whether you are Whether you will be part of his kingdom. Let me encourage you. Get that nailed down today. Come and talk with me after the service. And I will be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you have eternal life with God. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Father, we come to you and we thank you for this reminder of the perspective of your kingdom. What it will be like and what we can look forward to and what we can serve now. Lord, you have called us to make kingdom citizens. Make disciples that will one day be a part of that kingdom. Lord, I pray that you would truly, as Christians, we would find your We would find a sense of belonging and fulfillment and service in being a part of that kingdom. Help us to see life from your perspective. Help us to set our mind on things above, not on the things of this earth. We pray that as we do that, we would have comfort and encouragement. And we pray too, Lord, that if there is anybody here that doesn't know you, As their Savior this morning, their Lord and Savior, I pray that they would understand their sin, their need of a savior, and they would be saved. Help them to come and talk with one of us after the service. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God. according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.