Well, good morning. Have the low roar. Good morning. Thank you. We're going to be in Zechariah again this morning. We're going to be in chapter three, verses one through ten. And uh before we go there, let's uh ask the Lord's uh guidance for us as we go into his word. Father, we thank you this morning. We thank you for your word. We thank you, Lord, that in all of your great mercy and your wonderful grace, that you save us and you give us instruction. And Father, we're grateful this morning that we can come together as your church, Father, and hear from your word. I pray that you would help us to set aside all the cares, all the concerns and distractions. from this world today, that we can listen to your word and Lord give us hearts that are pliable, that we would be willing and desiring to desire what you desire. And Father, we ask that as your word is brought forth this morning, we ask that your Holy Spirit will be working mightily in each of our hearts And that Lord, when we leave here today, we will be changed more and more into your image from what we have learned and heard in your word. We ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. So Zechariah chapter 3, verses 1 to 10. Then he showed me Joshua, the high priest, standing before the angel of the Lord, and Satan. Standing at his right hand to oppose him. And the Lord said to Satan, The Lord rebuke you, Satan. The Lord, who has chosen Jerusalem, rebuke you. Is this not a bran plucked from the fire? Now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments. And was standing before the angel. And he answered and spoke to those who stood before him, saying, Take away the filthy garments from him. And to him he said, See I have removed your iniquity from you, and I will clothe you with rich robes. And I said, Let them put a clean turban on his head. So they put a clean turban on his head, and they put the clothes on him, and the angel of the Lord stood by. Then the angel of the Lord admonished Joshua, saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts, if you will walk in my ways, If you will keep my commandments, then you shall also judge my house, and likewise have charge of my courts. And I will give you places to walk among these who stand here. O Joshua, hear, O Joshua, the high priest, you and your companions who sit before you They are a wondrous sign. For behold, I am bringing forth my servant and the branch. My servant, the branch. For behold, the stone that I have laid before Joshua. Upon the stone are seven eyes. Behold, I will engrave its inscription says the Lord of hosts, and I will remove the iniquity of that land in one day. In that day, says the Lord of hosts, Everyone will invite his neighbor under his vine and under his fig tree. So before this crazy snow slash ice storm that we just had, um I think it was fr the Friday before, I got my trusty snowblower out. and um decided to start it up to make sure it was working and it wasn't. And I wasn't happy about that. It had been working for fifteen years in a row and decided on this snowstorm to know to not work. And uh I thought, oh well, I guess, you know, it's not gonna work. And I I thought it was probably the carburetor. kind of I I put it in my shed around my workshop shed and um left it there and It snowed and it snowed and it kept snowing and um we kept shoveling and shoveling and kept shoveling and um and then the we got the ice on top of that, you know, and I was like, well the snowblower wouldn't even work for this uh probably until we you know, broke up the ice and we kept doing dealing with that and just like the rest of you all did. Um and then on I think it was like Tuesday of the following week, I heard there'd be another snowstorm coming. That the following weekend. It was a nor'easter. And I thought, oh no, I've got to get this thing fixed. Well, I looked up when carburetors would arrive, and carburetors were not going to arrive that weekend Thought maybe I could take the thing apart and clean the carburetor that's already there. So I pulled I I have Elizabeth and I actually I have my wife help me because Um she's very detail oriented and there were some details that I wanted her to catch if I didn't catch them with m putting screws in different spots and stuff. So anyway, went out there And we I pulled the thing apart, pulled the carburetor off, began to clean the carburetor, and I noticed something as I was doing all of that. The fuel line going from the gas tank to the carburetor was clogged. That's the problem. I thought, oh, it may not even be the carburetor. It might just be the fuel line going to the carburetor. I opened the gas tank and sure enough they're little floaty things. floating around in the carburetor. I had put stable in the carburetor for those of you some of in the not in the carburetor, in the uh gas tank, some of you might some of you will know what that is. And I guess it kind of formed a film inside the gas and created a problem rather than helping. It's not supposed to do that by the way. Anyway, and so I cleaned out the the hose, put everything back together, cleaned the carburetor since it was already up, put everything back together And it started up. It's amazing what happens when you have clean gasoline. You ever tried to run something that didn't have clean gasoline? It was it was all gunked up or something like that. It doesn't go very well. It doesn't in fact it often oftentimes won't even start because it'll mess up your fuel injectors or your carburetor. But if it does start, it's going to go clunk, clon, clunk, clunk, clunk, and give you all kinds of problems. You need clean fuel to go into your in-through your engines and create combustion to be able to run your engine Now the reality is Zechariah has been focused so far, the book of Zechariah, on rebuilding the structure of Jerusalem. But now God is going to turn his attention in chapter three to the internal the internal work that God is doing in Israel and the cleansing work that he is doing. And the reality is there was some serious filth that had to be flushed. There was some serious filth that occurred prior to the Babylonian captivity. And God, through that 70 years of chastening, was flushing out what was a serious problem of idolatry in their lives But now he was ready to restore that remnant to himself. And he was in the midst of doing that. In the different visions that we have been going through, I want you to see this. We started, like topographically, we started in that valley. And you remember in the very beginning chapter one, we've got the first vision, and you've got, can you guys show the screen, please? Okay. You've got the first vision. And you've got that that whole valley and it's full of men with horses, and there's a particular man with a horse. And we recognize that as Christ, actually, as a pre-incarnate Christ. We recognize the angel of the Lord there. The next couple of visions, those are the first two visions. The next vision, the third vision, which we looked at last week, focused on the city of Jerusalem. And God's choosing that city, starting all the way back in Genesis and Salem, and choosing to preserve that city of Jerusalem, all the way into the new Jerusalem in Revelation. That city represented God's work with the nation of Israel and his ultimate work that would continue to be performed and fulfilled. Now, we're turning our attention to the temple courts for the fourth and fifth visions. We'll look at the fourth vision today in chapter 3. We're going inside, if you will, the court of the temple. And what you're going to see there in the vision as we begin the vision is a vision of a court, and the high priest Joshua is on trial. Now the temple is not intended to be a trial court, but what we find in this passage is that it exactly is that, although the I think the temple can function that way. It's not primarily intended to be that way. But we are going to see this high priest, he is going to be on trial in this passage The man's name is Joshua. This is actually a vision of this man being on trial, but there's a lot that goes into this Three months prior to this vision, this occurred in Haggai chapter 1 verse 12. It says this Then Zerubbabel, the son of Sheotil, and Joshua, the son of Jehosedak. Those two men are going to become very important in this book of Zechariah. Zerubbabel is a governor and And Joshua, who is this totally different Joshua from the, you know, from in the beginning of the Bible, Joshua is the high priest. And those two are going to work as leaders together to bring about the restoration of Israel. That's God's intention. And it says in the passage, and all the remnant of the people obeyed the voice of the Lord their God. They're following this leadership. They're obeying the voice of the Lord their God. And the words of Haggai and the prophet as the Lord their God had sent to him, and the people feared the presence of God of the Lord. Then Haggai, the um The Lord's messenger spoke the Lord's message to the people, saying, I am with you, says the Lord. So the Lord stirred up the spirit of Zerebal, the son of Sheeltil, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua, the son of Jehosedak. the high priest and the spirit of all the remnant of the people, and they came and worked on the house of the Lord of hosts their God on the twenty-fourth day of the sixth month of the second year of King Darius So there was this great revival of the work of God by the remnant of God's people as they rebuilt the temple. But I suspect what happened in that three months' time is that Satan got in their heads. See, that happens a lot. Satan will get in our heads. Our flesh actually gets in our head too, in a sense. I think what happened as we I'm inferring this from the passage as we go to it, I think what happened is as God desired to restore these people and the Spirit of God is clearly working in their midst, they begin to think about the past. They began to think about how horrible they were perhaps even prior to being in Babylon. Perhaps they began to contemplate, is God really going to work with us? Perhaps they begin to think, hmm, is God really doing something here? Or are we just out on a limb here, a group of us together trying to do this ourselves? By the way, Satan really works that way, doesn't he? Has he ever worked that way in your life? He reminds you of your past, and he tries to bring you down as a result of it Well, as a result of all this, what we see in the passage is that God is going to encourage and strengthen and affirm the nation of Israel in what they are doing. Because Joshua as the high priest stands as the representative, the spiritual representative for the nation of Israel. And so this is much more about a man who gets new clothes. This is a man who represents an entire nation and what God is doing in that nation. The truth is, what we are going to see in the passage is that God is at work preparing his people to be his people and to do what he has called them to do. And it's going to be, there are conditions necessary. The three conditions we're going to see in the passage is divine cleansing in verses 1 through 5. Then we're going to see faithful service in 6 through 7. And then we are going to look ahead to the ultimate deliverance in verses 8 through 10. We'll begin by looking at this divine cleansing in verses 1 through 5. And we pick up and we have this man, Joshua. Let's think of Joshua this way in the passage. It says, then he showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of the Lord. Think of him as a defendant. Joshua is now a defendant. He is standing as the the judge is the angel of the Lord. He actually serves as a different role later, but for now he's there's a sense in which he is standing before him and he is the judge. And notice that, remember, we need to understand what's really going on here, we need to understand a little bit about Joshua. Joshua, as the representative of his people, realized the work that the high priest performed. In Leviticus chapter 16, verses 15 through 16, it says that the high priest performed an annual offering. And on this offering, in verse 16 of that passage, it says, so he shall make atonement for the holy place that's in the temple. Because of the uncleanness of the children of Israel, and because of their transgressions, for all their sins, so that he shall do for the tabernacle of meeting which remains among them in the midst of their uncleanness The high priest stood and the ceremony that he performed once a year was to cleanse the temple and to establish a cleansing because he was in the midst of unclean people, and he as a high priest represented the people. And now, in this vision, he is representing the people again. That becomes quite obvious later on. The angel of the Lord, we've seen him before, that is a pre-incarnate Christ. And this man is standing before him. But we have another character. This is a very uh important uh character, but one that we need to understand. It says, and Satan standing at his right hand to oppose him. Satan is there, and he is opposing Joshua the high priest. The word oppose has been and is translated accuse. And that is exactly the role of Satan. Satan stands as the accuser, in fact in Revelation, the accuser of the brethren. In Revelation chapter 12, verse 10, it says, And I heard a loud voice saying, In heaven, Now salvation and strength and the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ has come, for the accuser of our brethren who accused them before our God day and night has been cast down. That, by the way, is the ultimate the ultimate destiny of Satan. Satan functions, he works as an accuser He accuses us. He accused the nation of Israel. He accused Joshua in this passage. And we find that he is rebuked. The Lord said to Satan, the Lord rebuke you. The word rebuke means to pronounce judgment. He rebukes Satan for accusing Joshua. And what's the basis of his rebuke? Well it's not it's not the fact that he's just a that that he's just such a great guy Or that he did so many great things, and how could you, Satan, how could you rebuke the high priest Joshua because of what he's done? No, it says, because I have chosen Jerusalem. The Lord has chosen Jerusalem. Now, we understood now after last week of seeing the significance of Jerusalem. It represented the nation of Israel and what God intended to do with that nation. He says, I've chosen them, so he's saying, you are rebuked based upon my choosing. Now I don't have a lot of time to go into what this means, but I do want to point out something in Deuteronomy 7, verse 6. And through verse 8. It says this about this idea of God choosing these people. For you are a holy people to the Lord your God, it says in that passage, the Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for himself, a special treasure above all the peoples on the face of the earth. The Lord did not set his love on you, nor choose you because you were more in number than any of the other people, for you were the least of all peoples God didn't choose Israel because they were some great powerful nation or they were bigger than everybody else or anything like that. In fact, they were, he considered them the least of all the peoples. But because the Lord loves you, and because he would keep the oath which he swore to your fathers The Lord has brought you out of the mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of bondage from the hand of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. And I just want to make this parallel to us. If you know Christ as your Savior, you are secure in him because he loves you with an everlasting love. In Romans chapter 8, we see very clearly That nothing can separate us from the love of God. In the passage We clearly see that he is talking about the nation of Israel because he mentions Jerusalem, and then he says, is this not a brand plucked from the fire? Talking about Jerusalem, obviously representing Israel. This is our brand plucked from the fire. Now I have a fireplace at home. How many of you have a wood-burning fireplace? Okay, actually a little more than I than I realized If you're burning a fire in a fireplace, you can have large logs or you can have sticks. This is probably a stick here And a stick, if you put it in a fireplace and it begins to burn, it will burn and burn and burn until it falls apart and disintegrates into ash. Well, before it descended to grace of the ash, there's sort of this point in which the structure is still there, but just barely. And you have to actually, at that point, that it's just right before the whole thing disintegrates. And I think that's the picture here. This is the nation of Israel, but they are a remnant, and they're like this smoldering flame. There isn't any, there isn't any self-structure. There isn't any self- any any value or strength in and of themselves, they have been plucked from an outside force out of the fire For God's purposes. This was a rescue. And God says, I have rescued Israel. He rescued them at the last possible moment. It was a deliverance from certain destruction. And the survival was due entirely to outside intervention. You know why? Because God continued to have a very clear goal for Israel. It's interesting that in the Exodus 16, verse 6, we find God's original goal for Israel. It says this. And you, Israel, shall be a kingdom of priests, a holy nation. These are the words which you speak to the children of Israel. God had intended for his people, Israel, to be a kingdom of priests. So you have the high priests And you have the priests, the Levites under them, but they were all representative, intended to be representative of the entire nation of Israel with whom God dwelt. And they were to be a kingdom of priests, those whom God dwelt with. That was God's intention. But we know the story, you know the story, because of sin and idolatry and corruption in the nation of Israel. That really up to this point had not really taken place, at least fully. And there was failure after failure as a result. And God chose to use other nations to deal with and to chasten and to punish this nation, Israel, because of their sin. Joshua is a representative of that. So you'll notice in the next verse in verse 3 it says, Now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments and was standing before the angel. He's clothed with filthy garments. Now, this word filthy is a really filthy word. It's used in several different places in the Old Testament. It's used in Deuteronomy as refuse. In Ezekiel 4. 12, it is called the fuel of human waste. And in Isaiah 64, 6, it is talking about minstrel rags. This is a extremely filthy, disgusting kind of picture that's intended to be here. Isaiah 64, 6, but I but we are all like an unclean thing, and all our righteousnesses are as filthy rags We all fade as a leaf, and our iniquities like the wind have taken us away. A further description of this is in Ezekiel chapter 8, verses 10 through 18. And in that passage, verse 12 says this. Then he said to me, Son of man, have you seen that the elders of the house of Israel do in the dark, every man in the room of his idols? This is an indictment on the nation of Israel. This is actually in Ezekiel. This is during the Babylonian captivity. They're reflecting on the leadership of Israel and how they were involved in idolatry And then notice in verse 16 of that passage, it's uh can be up there on the screen for you guys go to verse 16, it says, so he brought me into the inner court In the Lord's house, and there at the door of the temple of the Lord, between the porch and the altar, were about twenty-five men who who their backs toward the temple, their backs were toward the temple of the Lord, and their faces toward the east, and they were worshiping the sun. Toward the east. And he said to me, Have you seen this, O Son of Man? Here's the question. Notice the question in this passage. Is it a trivial thing to the house of Judah to commit the abominations? Which they commit here. Now don't let that question pass you by. The nation of Israel Because of the deceitfulness of idolatry and the deceitfulness of sin, began to believe that all of that was a trivial thing. It is by no means a trivial thing to God when God's people worship something besides God. It wasn't something that was trivial. Verse 18 of the passage says, Therefore also I will act in fury, my eye will not spare, nor I will have pity, and though the cry of my ears with a loud voice, I will not hear them. And so as a result, they had to go into the nation of Israel had to go into this kind of chastening. But then I want you to notice the wonderful picture that we have here in the passage. He has these filthy clothes on, but they are removed. The angel of the Lord removes them. And who is the angel of the Lord? The angel of the Lord is the pre-incarnate Christ. It says in the passage, then he answered and spoke to those who stood before him, saying, Take away the filthy garments from him. It's like Isaiah 6. 6 when the seraphim flew and a live coal was in his hand and it touched the lips of Isaiah. But not only that, not only were these clothes removed, but also there were clothes that were replaced as a result. And it said to him, See, I, the angel of the Lord, have removed your iniquity from you, and I will clothe you with rich fest with rich robes. These are festal robes. Psalm 103, verses eleven through twelve say this: For in the heavens are high for as the heavens are high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward those who fear him. As far as the east, as far as the west. So far has he removed our transgressions from us. We have a wonderful, incredible picture of what Christ did for the nation of Israel of removing their their evil their their robes their robes of sin and placing on them robes of righteousness. Psalm 132 verse 9, yet the priests should be clothed with righteousness and let your saints shout for joy. Now, what does all of this mean? You can't help but see the picture here. In the immediate context, what's going on here, it's really referring to the cleansing of the nation of Israel to prepare them to work out um what they what they intend uh in restoring Jerusalem and restoring the temple. But The picture can't be missed. This is also a picture of what happens when someone comes to Christ. When their sin is removed, the filth of their sin is removed, and when they are given new clothes. Jesus told this parable in Matthew chapter 22, verse eleven, it says When the king came to see the guests, this is a story of a gathering of people into his court, into a wedding. But there were some that didn't have the right garments on. But when the king came into it to see his guests, he saw a man there who did not have a wedding garment. So he said to them, Friend, how did you come in here without a wedding garment? And he was speechless. Then the king said to the service servant, Bind him and hand and foot and take him away and cast him into the outer darkness. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth For many are called and few are chosen. He didn't have the right the garment the righteousness, the garment on that he needed to be in in order to be in that wedding. Isaiah 53, verse 11 says this He shall see the labor of his soul and be satisfied. By his knowledge, my righteous servant shall justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. Talk about Jesus there, and we're going to see more of this, but he bore the iniquities on himself so that he could, when he died on the cross for us, so that he could clothe us with his righteousness. First Corinthians five twenty one says it really well, he says, For he made him, that's Jesus, to be sinned for us who knew no sin, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. What a perfect picture. The song goes, it's got it right, his robes for mine, what wonderful exchange. And this is exactly what happens. The Bible tells us that we are born into sin That our sin separates us from God, but when we will trust in what Jesus did on the cross and paying the punishment for our sin, then he takes our sin on himself and he gives us, he clothes us with his righteousness as we accept that by faith. Have you accepted that by faith for you? Have you been clothed with the righteousness of Christ? The text goes on and says, let them put a clean turban on his head. A turban was was a normal uh a normal piece of clothing for the high priest And a clean turban demonstrates what it's talking about here. There's a cleanliness. He's going from filth to being cleansed. So they put a clean turban on his head, and they put the clothes on him, and the angel of the Lord stood by. I want to make another application here as we look through this passage. Do you notice something here? That when the nation of Israel, when they fell into idolatry, and when they were in sin and idolatry, they viewed sin as very trivial. But now that they have been restored, Satan is showing them their sin, and they don't, and Satan is showing them the severity of their sin even after. They have been cleansed. So this picture is to show them that the nation of Israel has been cleansed from their iniquity. And it foreshadows the truth that we all, if we will accept Christ by faith, also. can have our iniquity cleansed. But I think there's an important principle, Christian, for you here as well. Do you realize that is exactly how Satan works? Before we enter into sin, Satan and I think our flesh make it seem very trivial. It's no big deal. It's not a big problem. Maybe we're even deceived into thinking it isn't sin at all. We go through the sin. And we come out and we are chastened by the Lord or whatever. We realize our sin. We're convicted by our sin. We understand how horrible our sin is before the Lord. And so we confess our sin to the Lord And God forgives us, our fellowship was restored as Christians to Him. And then Satan comes and reminds us as an accuser, reminds us of that sin. that Christ has already forgiven. Trivial in the beginning, severe after it's already forgiven. And yet, that is exactly the opposite of how we must think of sin. As we are tempted to sin, we must realize how severe it is. It is not trivial. It is something that is serious. It will keep us from being able to be used of God. We'll see that in a minute. But once Christ saves us, Or if we're a Christian, once we are restored in our fellowship with the Lord, we realize our sin, we say the same thing He does about it, and we're restored. The Bible says if we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And do you know what's wonderful about that? That we, the Bible says in 1 John, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. He is advocating on our behalf. Satan is accusing you, and Jesus is saying, hey, it's it's it's paid for. And I think part of what's happening here is that he wants the nation of Israel to be encouraged about the cleansing work that he has done in their lives. And you and I, by application, can be encouraged, if we know Christ is our Savior, about the cleansing work that Christ has done for us as well. Now we move on, and we see in verses 6 through 7, we see the angel of the Lord, it says, admonishes Joshua, saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts. If you walk in my ways, and if you keep my commands, then you shall also judge my house, and likewise have charge of my courts. And I will give you places to walk among those who stand here. We move then to what God reminds Joshua that he is going to be able to have faithful service to the Lord. But I want you to notice in the passage, there are two conditions to this faithful service that he says essentially promises that Joshua will be able to have. The one condition is it says, if you will walk in my ways. And the second condition is, if you will keep my command. The word command there is actually a different word than usually It's translate command. It's the word charge or duty or responsibility. That is, God cares about this man's Attitude, walking in the ways of God, and his responsibilities. He says, if you will have the right attitude walking in my ways, and if you will have you will fulfill your responsibilities Then you will be able to do what I have called you to do. You will be able to serve the way that I have called you to serve. And there are three ways in the passage. One is to govern. The word judge means to govern. I will show you also how to how to judge my house. Then you shall also judge or govern my house And this is something that the high priest did in Deuteronomy 17, verse 9. And then there was the privilege of protecting. He said, you will protect. You will have charge of my courts. You will protect it from idolatry. You will guard it from sin. And then you will also, it says, I will give you places to walk. Among those who stand here, probably talk about angels there. But what he is talking about is the presence of God. You will have access to the presence of God, which the high priest did. Now, it's interesting that in order to have these privileges of serving God, there were conditions to that. He had to have the right attitude, and he had to be faithful in his responsibilities. Now, with all this in mind, there is a much larger larger significance to all what is going on. So we turn our attention to the ultimate deliverance in verses in chapter 3, verses 8 through 10. There's this ultimate deliverance. Notice what he says in verse 8. Hear, O Joshua the high priest, and your companions who sit before you, for they are a wondrous sign. This is really interesting. There's more going on here than just what is on the surface You've got Joshua, he's the high priest. The other companions, we would assume, are other priests that are serving with Joshua. You've got the high priest And the priests, and yet the text says that they are a wondrous sign to something else, or to someone else. And we see what that is There is a great high priest. The next verses are going to describe Jesus Christ. The fact that Christ is the great high priest. And he's going to use three terms that we find throughout the Old Testament. We're coming to the end of the Old Testament here in Zechariah. We find three terms throughout the we find throughout the Old Testament here to describe Jesus. The first is servant, the second is branch, and the third is stone. A servant, the branch, and the stone. Now I can't flush all of these out, but I want to very quickly go through these and help you understand what he's talking about here. He first of all calls Christ, he describes Christ as his servant. This is many times throughout the book of Isaiah, particularly, but in chapter 53, verse 11, it says this. He shall see the labor of his soul and be satisfied. By his knowledge, my righteous servant, that's Jesus, shall justify many. For he shall bear their iniquities. All the way back in the Old Testament, it prophesies that Jesus will bear the sins of people. So that they can be justified or declared righteous. The second picture we have is a branch Now this branch is an interesting term that's used throughout the Old Testament as well. And there are, we don't won't take the time to go through them, but there are four, at least four, descriptions throughout the Old Testament of what this branch signifies. We see, for example, in Jeremiah 23, 5 that that Christ is king Jeremiah 23, 5, behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, and I will raise to David a branch of righteousness, a king shall reign and prosper and execute judgment and righteousness in the earth. And then you have Christ as a suffering servant. In Isaiah 11, 1. There shall come forth a rod from the stem of Jesse, a branch shall grow out of his roots. And then you have, actually, it's in Zechariah 6, verses 12 through 13, Christ as a human being. And we'll get that get to that in future time. And then you have in Isaiah 4. 2, Christ as God, as deity. In that day the branch of the Lord shall be beautiful and glorious, and the fruit of the earth shall be excellent and appealing for those of Isaiah who had escaped. King, servant, human, and deity. Does that remind you of anything, those of you who are really paying attention? The New Testament Gospels. Now I'll be clear, a commentary showed me this. I did not I did not, I'm not that smart. But I want you to show just notice that in the Gospels, as you turn to the New Testament, you find that Christ is as is named as King in Matthew, the emphasis of Christ as servant in Mark. the emphasis of Christ as human in Luke, and the emphasis of Christ as deity in John. So he is the branch. This is clearly, no question, talking about Christ. Finally, he is a stone in this passage. He is the stone. It says, For behold, the stone that I have laid before Joshua, upon the stone are seven eyes. So what is this stone? This is also a term that's used several times in the Old Testament as well as in the New Testament. In Psalm 118 Verse 22, it says that Jesus is a rejected stone. The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. In Daniel chapter 2, it says, of the stone that it crushes the other kingdoms. And in 1 Peter 2, verses 6 through 7, we see it is clearly applied to Christ. Jesus is that stone. Now, it says about the eyes, the seven eyes, which demonstrate probably is talking about his omniscience and his omnipresence, that Jesus is aware of everything and knows everything, and he is the stone And then it says this, there's an engraving on the stone. Behold, verse 10, I will engrave its inscription, says the Lord of hosts. Well, why is there an engravement? Well, engraving is to do something permanently, to name something permanently. We don't know what's engraved on the stone in the vision. We don't know, it doesn't say But here's what we know as we look at it. First of all, there is divine ownership involved. There is finished intention-a finished intentional plan involved. And there is priestly redemptive purpose involved in this. And notice what it says then, and I will remove the iniquity of that land in one day. In that day, says the Lord of hosts, every one will invite his neighbor under his vine and under his fig tree. Now That day, when it talks about the day, we're going to see this later in Zechariah Morans, certainly other places in the Old Testament and New Testament, that day is clearly referring to the second coming of Christ and the millennial kingdom that follows. God, Christ, Christ ruling. That's that day. What's going to happen in that day? Well, it says that everyone will invite his neighbor under his vine and under his fig tree. What is that talking about? Well, uh Micah 4 helps us with this. Actually Isaiah it does, but Isaiah 36, 16 will help us with this as well. It says, Do not listen to Hezekiah, for thus says the Lord, make peace with me by the present uh present and come out to me. Every one of you who eat from his own vine, and every one of his own fig tree, and every one of you who drinks the waters of his cisterns. Talk about peace and prosperity. So the stone represents the fact that Jesus, by the way, Jesus becomes the corner stone. He is the one that establishes the foundation for for all that is going to come in the kingdom as well as the church. Now that got a little a little Mm-hmm to understand, right? A lot a lot of information. How do we apply all of this? How do we apply all of this to our lives as Christians Where do we fit? Look, you've been talking a lot about the nation of Israel. I'm not Jewish. This is not the nation of Israel. We're not the nation of Israel. How does this apply? I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to 1 Peter chapter 2. I actually like you to take your Bibles. I have some of the verses up there, but not all of them. And I think it'd be better actually if you just take it if you're able to take your Bibles to 1 Peter chapter 2. Now while as you're at Azure in First Peter chapter two, I want you to notice something about Ect Ec Exodus chapter sixteen verse six I mentioned that verse before, but we're going to mention it again here. And you can go ahead and put it up there if you would. Exodus chapter 19, verse 6. It says this, and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests. and a holy nation. This is talking about Israel. These are the words which you shall speak and the children of Israel. So God called them to be a kingdom of priests where God would dwell with them and they would then display that light to the whole world. So how does this work with us? Well, Peter actually cites much of what we talked about in his epistle in chapter 2, verses 4 through 10. In chapter 2 of 1 Peter, it says this, starting in verse 4, coming to him as a living as to a living stone. Well, okay, we see the stone, that's Christ. Rejected indeed by men, he was rejected by Israel, by the leaders of Israel and the Gospels, but chosen by God and precious. Then he says this, you also, as a living, as living stones, are being built up a spiritual house. A holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. Therefore it is also contained in the scriptures, behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone. There's Christ again. Elect, precious, and he who believes on him will by no means be put to shame. Therefore, to you who believe he is precious. To those who are disobedient, the stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. And a stone of stumbling, a rock of offense, thus stumble, being disobedient to the word to which they also were appointed. But you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation. His own special people that you may proclaim the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His marvelous light, who once were not a people, but are now a people of God, who had not Obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. Now, some would say from this passage that this shows that the church replaces Israel. The problem with that is that there are many many, many passages, both in the Old Testament and the New Testament, that demonstrate that all the promises of Israel have not yet been fulfilled. So this is not replacing Israel. But the purpose that God had for Israel of being the presence of God, of being the God dwelling with them. of being a kingdom of priests, of being a light to the nation. Different, different entity, same purpose God's purpose for us as a church, for his people today, is to be a light to the nations. is to be the dwelling, the habitation of God according to Ephesians. It is, we have a responsibility. And I want you to notice what Peter does here in the passage. Look at what it says in verse 11. We find then our responsibility. Beloved, I beg you, as sojourners and pilgrims, you're not, you're not, you're pilgrims of this world. You belong to him. I beg you, as sojourners and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which war against your soul, having your conduct honorable among the Gentiles. that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works which they observe glorify God in the day of visitation. God calls us to be that spiritual nation. It's not a replacement. But God calls us to be a light to the world, for them to see a difference in our lives, to display the glory of God in the world today. He calls us to do that. That means that's why, one of the reasons why, folks, we've got to remain pure and faithful to God. Why? Because that is the only way that we can fulfill what God intends. Now the truth of the matter is, regardless of what we do Christ will do what he ultimately will do. He will come again. He will set up his kingdom. He will establish his throne. But what God has for us today is to do what Israel never really did do. And that is to be the people of God, to be the dwelling place of God. To be pure and faithful in this world so that others can know the true and living God. So we wrap all what is our present application? Three things. Number one, as God's people, we are completely cleansed by Christ. If you know Christ as your Savior, if you have trusted Christ as your Savior, you are completely cleansed by Christ Don't forget it. It's nothing of you. It has nothing to do of your own self-effort. It's everything of what Christ has done. But I have to ask. Have you been cleansed by Christ? The Bible says you're not born that way. We're not born cleansed by Christ. We're actually born into sin. The Bible tells us that our sin separates us from God. We've all got it. We're all born with it. We all do it. And we are all separated from God because of it. But Jesus Christ took our sin on himself, died on the cross, so that we could have our sins. Forgiven, so that we could have a home in heaven, so that we could be part of what God is doing in this world. We could be used of Him. Do you know Christ? Have you your sins been cleansed by Christ? Are you are you you say, well I'm not really sure about all this. I don't really know. The Bible tells us in that in 1 John 5, these things are written that you might know that you have eternal life If you don't know about whether or not you've truly been cleansed by Christ or not, if you don't know whether you have trusted Christ as your Lord and Savior or not, let me encourage you Come and talk with me after the service. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure you'll spend eternity with the Lord and that you will be able to be part of God's people in this world today. Number two, to be used by God, we must walk in purity and faithfulness. To be used by God, we must walk We see that in the passage uh uh uh in with with with the high priest, but notice also in second Corinthians chapter six, verses sixteen through eighteen. It says this. And that and what agreement has the temple of God with idols? By the way, notice who's the temple of God now For you are the temple of the living God, and God has said, I will dwell with them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Therefore, come out from among them and be separate, says the Lord. Do not touch what is unclean, and I will receive you. I will be a father to you, and you shall be a son be my sons and daughters, says the Lord. As God's people, God desires for us to walk in purity and faithfulness. You know why? So that He could use us. He could use us the way he wants to use us. He could use us as his servants doing his work. Sometimes we think that, you know, it's really just a matter of I've gotten, I've got, I I'm I'm right with God, I've got My salvation, I've been cleansed by God, and I just need to I can just kind of do whatever I want, and then one day I'll die and go to heaven. God saved us for a purpose. He cleansed you for a purpose. And so in order to be used by God, we must remain pure and faithful to Him. Number three, we trust And the hope entirely in Christ, trust and hope entirely in Christ. Christ is going to one day do all the things that we saw in this passage. He is going to one day fulfill, set up his kingdom. He's going to fulfill all the promises to Israel. He's going to one day reign as king and he's going his people are going to rule and reign with him. He is this is we look forth. We look around right now and this is not Christ's kingdom. Right? Christ is not executing his kingdom on the earth right now. Right? This would be a disaster. I mean, that just doesn't make any sense But one day, one day Christ will. And for the Christian, we look back to the cross and we see what Christ did in dying on the cross to pay the punishment for our sin. And we become his child, but we also look forward to the future because the Bible promises both. It promised the fact that there would be, that there was, that now there was a a first coming, but the Bible calls us to understand that there will be a second coming as well. And we look forward to the coming of Christ who will set all this right. He is truly our hope. Titus 3. 13, looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus. Christ. Are you looking forward to that hope of Christ? He is our hope, and we can look forward to that hope one day. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and we praise you. for the truth of your word. We thank you for your sovereign and wise work and your people. We thank you that you made every provision and preparation for them to be able to do what you called them to do. And although Israel time and time again failed you, we thank you, Lord, that we have been allowed to be part of your work. and of your people through your Son Jesus Christ. And Lord, we pray that you would help us to fulfill the responsibilities that we have to be pure before you. And again I pray, Lord, that if if there is anybody here that doesn't know, they don't know if they have a relationship with you. They're not sure about where they stand with you. I pray today that they would understand just ha that that you love them, that you died for them And I pray that they would realize that they can trust you as their Savior. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Banam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community here at BBC. You'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes. and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called The Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide That helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.