Well, good morning. We are going to be in Zechariah this morning in chapter 6, and we are going to be looking at verses 8 through 15. And before we come into God's word, let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come this morning with grateful and thankful hearts And Lord, we come with some things on our mind, Father. Things that would distract us. Some are understandable and some are not. But I would ask this morning, Father, I am familiar with several who are struggling, Lord, with the loss of someone And Father, I would pray this morning for comfort for those folks, Lord, as we Mourn the loss of a loved one. And I pray not only for comfort, but for strength And for courage. I pray that you will enable us as we go through these deep waters. To keep our faith and our trust in you. For we do not mourn as one who has No hope. When our faith is in Jesus Christ, you are our strength, our comfort. And Father, we praise you. I thank you so much for the last hymn, and how appropriate that hymn is for our time so that we go through these struggles. And I pray as we come to your word this morning that you would prepare our hearts, understanding and knowing every deep thought, every Care that we have, Father. And I pray that you might enable us to be encouraged this morning by your word And I pray, Father, that you would help us to be able to concentrate upon it and be encouraged and strengthened by it. And I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. We are in Zechariah chapter six, verses eight through fifteen. Do nine? Okay. It did say eight, right? Make sure I wasn't mistaken Eight went with last week. Okay, let's begin in verse nine. The word of the Lord came to me saying, Receive the gift from the captives From Helai to Besha, Jerediah, who have come from Babylon and go the same day to enter the house of Josiah, the son of Zephaniah. Take the silver and gold and make an elaborate crown and set it on the head of Joshua, the son of Jehosadak, the high priest. Then speak to him, saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts, saying, Behold the man whose name is the branch. From his place he shall branch out. And he shall build the temple of the Lord. Yes, he shall build the temple of the Lord. He shall bear the glory and shall sit and rule on his throne. So he shall be a priest on his throne. The council of peace shall be between them both. Now the elaborate crown shall be for a memorial in the temple of the Lord. For Helam, Tobijah, Jediah, and Hen, the son of Zepaniah, even those from afar, shall come and build the temple of the Lord. Then you shall know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you. And this shall come to pass if you diligently obey the voice of the Lord your God. From Genesis to Revelation, God's design has been to create a people whom he would then and whom would want to be ruled By God. And Genesis starts with a garden. Revelation ends with a city, the city of God, the fulfilled kingdom of God. Yet the road to get there between Genesis and Revelation is not a straight road. And up to the point that we have seen in this text Up in Zechariah here, God has yet to establish his kingdom on earth completely and entirely. Thirty thirty-five hundred years at least have transpired from Genesis, the creation of the world, to this point in Zechariah. And the kingdom, the dominion kingdom that God mentions in the very beginning in Genesis chapter 1 and mentions and promises over and over in the Old Testament has not yet been fulfilled. It's astounding. On top of that, you have God's people, Israel, who have now been reduced from probably Upwards of 150,000 before the Babylonian captivity to probably around 50,000 after the Babylonian captivity. And that's that's the backdrop of millions of people. In fact, did you know that the largest empire per uh um ratio of the entire world is in the Guinness Book of World Records for the Persian Empire during this time at 49. 4 million people. And that's out of at an estimated amount of time amount of 112. 4 million people. That's in the Guinness Book of World Record records for the largest amount of people in one kingdom. Imagine Israel, you know the the remnant of Israel, these 50,000 people going, God, this is not a great kingdom You promised this and that's not what we are. And you've got this massive Persian kingdom that covers almost 50% of the entire population of the whole world at that point. How are you ever going to establish your kingdom? These are the kind of thoughts I'm sure that the people had. What if God wanted to not just tell them, but show them that God continued to guarantee? That his kingdom would be established by his king. How would he do that? Not just tell them something it would have to be something memorable. It would have to be something that would get their attention. It would have to be something that would well be something that would well illustrate his plan. And that in this passage is called a sign act. Now, I want to illustrate what a sign act is for you to help you understand it. So I have this backpack up here. You'll see why it's there in a minute. So imagine, for example, that I'm teaching on the burden of sin. And I'm trying to explain to you that sin, because it rebels against God and causes you to rebel against God, is a great, it's a great burden on you. Well, that's fine to teach. But what if I had it demonstrated? Well, that's what we're going to do. So, Julie, come on up. My youngest daughter is going to come up, and she's going to come up here and she's going to show you. Now, what I did with this backpack is I filled it full of books. There's an expandable thing on here. I expanded it and filled it more with books. I thought about getting a young child to do this, but I didn't want to embarrass anyone and I didn't want to I there's a liability problem. So I'll just let my wife my my my daughter do. Alright. Ready? So I want you I want you to take it to the other side. Okay All right. That's a little bit of a burden. I mean the fact that she's walking across the stage and it's a heavy full you're gonna you're gonna be okay. You're gonna you're gonna make All right, let me let me get it off for you actually, because it is pretty heavy. All right. All right, good job. Thank you. All right. That makes it a little bit more memorable, right? I mean she's come across the stage and She's shown you, this is a sign act, if you will, to show you the burden of sin. Well, that's what actually what God wants to do here in this passage He's actually going to demonstrate through an act of a sign that Christ is going to establish his kingdom. And he's going to do it in an extremely striking way You might read this passage and you go, I just don't get it. I just don't really understand what the point is. But they in that time period would have would have witnessed something something like this. Certainly Zechariah would have witness witnessed this and others around would have witnessed this and they would have had a very different response than just I don't understand. Maybe they wouldn't have understood, but it they would have a had a different response than that. And so you'll see this as we go through the text The point of the text that we're going to see is that God is reiterating the guarantee of his kingdom and that is going to be established by this Messiah King that we know today as Jesus Christ. And by the way, it's still future. Christ has yet to come and establish his kingdom. He is still going to do that in the future and fulfill all of the promises of the Old Testament. And we're going to see those as we see some of those anyway as we go through this. We're going to see, this passage is broken down basically into three sections, and we're going to see the signal of God's kingdom in chapter 6, verses 9 through 11. Then we're going to see the significance of God's kingdom plan in 612 through 13, the beginning of verse 13. And then finally we'll see the stewardship of God's kingdom plan. Which is in chapter six, verses fourteen through fifteen. And so we'll pick up here in chapter six, verse nine. It says this: Then the word of the Lord came to me saying Now, this is something that we've seen before in Zechariah, where God wants to speak something very profound, and so he is about to give them a some commands, a series of commands that he wants them to f fulfill and to obey immediately. Now again we're talking here what he's going to ask them to do is what is called a sign act We mentioned I I showed you what a sign act would look like in modern day uh modern day illustration, but if you think of Ezekiel eating a scroll, that would be another example of a sign act where God commands Ezekiel in chapter one to to eat a scroll to show that God's revelation is is is satisfying and and it's actually actually brings judgment on people, but also is ultimately satisfying to God and to Ezekiel. Th there are there are sign acts like that. There are not very many in the Old Testament, but th but there are some like that and we're going to see one here today Now remember that we've got this remnant of Israel. Some of them are still in Babylon and they're coming over, and some of them have established, they've established the temple or the foundation of the temple. established the presence of um of some people there, they begin to establish the priesthood, at least some semblance of the priesthood. And God says this to them. We see actually the people here, the generosity of the people, it says, receive the gift. It could be an offering. Receive the offering, he tells Zechariah. From the captives. These are the people that were held captive in Babylon. Now they're coming out of captivity up into Jerusalem. We've seen that before. And he says here, notice in the text, he says, verse 9, or verse 10 rather, receive the gift from captives. And we have some names here. From Heldi to Biah and Jediah, who have come from Babylon and go the way someday And go the same day and enter the house of Josiah, the son of Jephaniah. Okay, so we have these people. He's mentioned three specific people. And it's a little bit difficult to know why he has identified these specific people. We know why he's specific he's mentioned Josiah, the son of Jephaniah, because Zephaniah rather was a priest. He was a s uh he was a he was a a pretty significant priest in the Old Testament. And Josiah, of course, was was was his uh offspring. So we understand that. He was from the priesthood These three names, it's a little bit difficult to know why they're mentioned, but we do understand, we do know that the meanings of their names uh they have an interesting meaning to them, each one. Now we don't want to, when we when we're going through scripture and going through the Old Testament, we don't want to put we don't want to interpret an entire text by the meaning of names. We want to be careful not to do that But I'll just mention that these that the word that the name Heldai means enduring, Tobaijah means Yahweh is good, and Jediah means Yahweh knows. And perhaps, maybe, Zechariah has in mind, God has in mind with Zechariah those thoughts that Yahweh is good and Yahweh knows, and they are going to endure. But that's not the main point here. The main point that is that we see here that they are to take this gift to the pre to the priest. the house of Josiah, the son of Zephaniah. And they're supposed to do something with this gift, with this offering. In fact, it says, do it immediately. They are supposed to craft a crown in chap in verse eleven. This is takes the silver and the gold and make an elaborate crown and set it on the head of Joshua, the son of Jehosedek, the high priest. Now we've seen Joshua before. Joshua was back in chapter 4 along with Zehable, chapter 3 as well. Joshua was introduced in chapter 3. He is the high priest, the rebbable is the governor. But Rebel's not on the scene in this. He's not mentioned here for a very important reason, because he doesn't really play a part in this whole scene. Who has they said God says make an elaborate this must have been quite a crown with silver and gold make an elaborate crown and place it on the head of Joshua Now, you may say, okay, well, what's the big deal? I want you to understand that the idea of placing a crown on a priest Is an extremely foreign idea. That is not something that happened probably ever in Israel The biblically in the Old Testament in the Torah you have they're supposed to be from two separate lines completely. The priests were supposed to come from the line of Aaron, and kings were supposed to come from the line of Judah. To have a crown placed on a priest, that would not make sense. In fact, in 2 Chronicles chapter 26, verses 18 through 19. You actually find that King Uzziah, he tries to take the place of a priest. He's a king. Tries to take a place of a priest. And listen what it says. It is not for you, God says, It is not for you, Uzziah, to burn incense to the Lord, but for the priests, the sons of Aaron, who are consecrated to burn incense. Get out of the sanctuary, for you have trespassed You have no honor from the Lord. Then Uzziah became furious. He was angry about this, and he had a censor in his hand to burn incense And while he was angry with the priests, leprosy broke out on his forehead before the priests, and the house of the Lord beside the alt the incense altar. He was struck with leprosy because he took on part of the role, as a king, these two offices were not supposed to mix. And yet God says, put a crown on that high priest. Something doesn't go here. That's what would strike the people. This would be a striking illustration of something. These things aren't supposed together It's like a fish, a whale, a dolphin, and a bicycle. It doesn't go. Or a dog, a cat, a rabbit, and a refrigerator. They don't go together. Or an apple, a banana, an orange, and a hammer Something's wrong. A bread, milk, cheese, and a baseball bat. These don't go together. There's something they don't these things don't go together. And the and the nation of Israel will have been like what why are we crowning a high priest? To give you even a more close-to-home illustration, suppose I had a throne up here and sat on it, okay, and I'm not a priest, pri pastors and priests are different things, and I sat on it and suddenly in the middle of service a couple of deacons came up and put a crown on me. That guy thinks he's a king. What in the world? It's just m does it's uh is a problem So what you have here in this text is a striking, memorable sign act to demonstrate a very important truth. Here's the truth. There is going to be some way, someday, there's going to be someone who is going to sit on the throne, who is going to function both as king and as high priest. And that is now what the question is, why is that necessary? Why would it be necessary for there to be somebody who could be both king and high priest? And the answer is to look at a few passages in the Old Testament. I'll remind us again that in Genesis chapter 26, chapter 1, verse 26, You have this idea of a dominion. God made us in his image to have dominion. And you have that kind of language. throughout Genesis in several different places. But the problem is so God has desired established a kingdom. When he made us, he wanted us to be under his rule. And he would be the king. And we would do what he told us to do. And we also, another sense, would rule with him. We would rule the his kingdom with him. That's what God originally wanted us wanted to happen. And yet we did not want to stand under his rule, did we? Adam and Eve, as our representatives, they went and they they rebelled. And they want they want to do what they wanted to do. And in fact, you have a lot a long line of people that want to do what they want to do. Think of Cain, who killed his brother. God says, sin lies at the door and you must rule over it. He says to Cain, you're going to have to rule over sin. Otherwise, sin will rule over you. And what happens? Sin ruled over Cain. Then you have Genesis chapter 6, where it says, the heart of man was only evil continually. And Genesis chapter 11, where you have the Tower of Babel. They decided to make their own kingdom. Forget God's kingdom. God said. . Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth and scatter. And God's people and the people said, no, we want to stay together and build our own kingdom. The problem isn't God in establishing his kingdom. The problem is us. The problem is our sin. our rebellion against God. It's our desire to go our own way and do what we want to do rather than doing what God wants us to do. We find promises throughout the Old Testament. Despite the rebellion of mankind that we see over and over again in various examples, we have promises in the Old Testament. We have a promise to Abraham. He says, I will make you a great nation, he says to Abraham. And we have a promise to Moses It says, Now therefore, if, and there's a condition here, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my command my covenant, then you shall be a special treasure to me above all people people, for all the earth is mine, and you shall be to me a king of priests and a holy nation. These are the words which you shall speak to the children of Israel. He says, you'll be a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. He promises this. This time go went on, a lot of time went on. They wanted they wanted a different king besides God. 1 Samuel 8 verse 7 it says, And the Lord said to Samuel, Heed the voice of the people in all that they say to you. For they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them. We we don't want to be under God's rule. We don't want to be under his reign. Another promise to David. Still, you've got this constant rebellion from people and sin from people. Another promise to David Now this is a very important promise, and it's a little bit lengthier part of scripture, but it's important for us to understand what's going on here in the next part of this passage. 2 Samuel chapter 7 says this, verse 12. When your days are fulfilled and you rest with your fathers, I will set up your seed after you, who will come from about your body and will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. Talking here to David. And I will be his father, and he shall be my son. If he commits iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men, and with the blows of his of the sons of men But my mercy shall not depart from him as I took it from Saul, whom I removed from before you. And your house and your kingdom shall be established forever before you. Your throne shall be established forever. Over. Twice it says that. Now, what's the point? Such an important point here God reiterates again to David, your throne is going to be established forever. I won't take it away. I may chasten, I may punish your descendants, but my mercy will never be away from you. I will continue to be your God, and you will I will one day set up the throne. Yet from David's time all the way to this time in Zechariah, you still do not have the throne of Israel set up under uh uh uh as a as a descendant of David. You did you don't have it. Now That brings us then to the second point, the significance of God's kingdom plan, in verses 12 through 13a. Notice what the text says. It says, Then speak to him, saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts, saying Behold, the man whose name is the branch. I'm going to tell you up front, this is talking about Jesus Christ. There's no question that this is a prophecy of Jesus. It says a name name is a branch. What's the significance of this idea of a branch? We've already seen it branch. We've already seen it before in Zechariah chapter 3 verse 8 where it says Here, Joshua, there's the high priest again, you and your companions who sit before you, for they are a wondrous sign, for behold, I am bringing forth my servant, the branch. Again, speaking of who Jesus is. So it calls Jesus a branch. The question is, why? What's the significance of this idea of a branch? Well, four things, I think. Number one, a branch means it's branching out. And the text and it reads, from his place he shall branch out. Four things I think at least. Branch out he will b the the the branch will branch out from David's lime. Isaiah eleven one, there shall come forth a rod from the stem of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out of his roots. So a branch comes from David's line. Number two, a branch comes out to produce beautiful fruit. Isaiah 4. 2 In that day the branch of the Lord shall be beautiful and glorious, and the fruit of the earth shall be excellent and appealing for those of Israel who have escaped. Number three, he will branch out to be king. Jeremiah chapter twenty-three verse five. Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, that I will raise to David a branch of righteousness. A king shall reign and prosper and execute justice, judgment, and righteousness in the earth And number four, he will branch out to be Savior. We have an extended view of this in Isaiah 53 We won't read all of those verses, but in Isaiah 53, verse 2 it says, He shall grow up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of dry ground. He has no former comliness. And when we see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows Yet we esteemed him stricken, spit of God and afflicted, but he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities, the chastise of our peace was upon him. With the stripes we are healed, all we like sheep have gone astray, we have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. I skipped verse two on three on purpose, by the way. Th God made it. God set it forth so that the branch would come out and he would end up this same branch would be the savior. He is from David's line. He is going to produce fruitful fruit. He is going to be king and he's going to be savior. All those things. That's Christ. Now, why is it so important then that he be, that Jesus be both king and priest? Well remember Why has God not yet set up his kingdom? Why? The problem boils down to everything else in the world is the problem. It's sin. Sin's the problem, right? Sin is the problem, that's why, because sin is sin is essentially rebellion against God. That's what sin is. And throughout the Old Testament, you have one rebellion after another after another. You have failure of leadership, one after another, after another. And what we find is we need someone who is going to be able to set himself up as king, but he's also going to have to be able to perpetually deal with the sin of people at the same time. Because if you solve the sin problem, then you solve the problem and you can set up the kingdom. Make sense? And so what is Jesus? He is both. He is king and priest. Now, why is he both king and priest? Notice in the text, it says, he shall build the temple of the Lord. And it says, He shall build the temple of the Lord, he shall bear the glory, verse 13a, and he shall sit and rule. Three things going on there. You have the presence of God. the glory of God and the powerful rule of God. This all culminates. It's all going to happen together. Where the temple is built. The presence of God is there. The glory of God shines forth and the and he will sit and rule on his throne. Folks, has that happened yet? I mean, have we have we is there a historical point that you can point to where Jesus has done this on earth? Where anyone who is both a high priest and truly a king and all that, no, it hasn't happened. It's still yet to happen. This is this is prophecy that's pointing to how God will do this. And Christ when he came to earth the first time, you know, he did present himself as the king to Israel. That's what we see in the book of Matthew. And what happened? What happened when he presented himself to Jewish people? They rejected him. Same thing that happened. And throughout the Old Testament, that we saw over and over and over again, same thing happens again. He presents himself and they reject him. You see a pattern here? So what does Jesus do? He presents himself the Savior. He deals with the he presents the abil he presents the offer of salvation to anybody who will receive it. So that they can have eternal life and be made right with God, so they can deal with the problem of rebellion so that now He then can truly rule. Now, notice what the text says. It says, he shall be a priest on the throne. Now, Hebrews tells us actually that it's a different priesthood. It's not the same priesthood from Aaron. A different priesthood. Same, interestingly enough, same line of kings. He comes from Judah. Uh but but but different priesthood. Totally different. Why? Well he is a perpetual high priest that never dies It never ends. How did Jesus become our high priest? And I want to say this in simple, simple terms. There's a lot to this that you go into, but very simply, Jesus became our high priest. because he died he died to pay the punishment for our sin. We'll see that in more detail. But basically What you have is you have him being having his righteousness taking on our sin And giving us his righteousness if we will accept it by faith, so that when God sees us, He sees us, He sees His righteousness on us, and then we're able then to enter the kingdom. Without sin. So, we see then finally the stewardship of God's plan in verses 14 through 15. He calls the people that are there to three things, three three calls. First of all, we see a call to remember God's promise in verse 14. It says, Now the elaborate crown shall be a memorial in the temple of the Lord, for Helam, Tobijah, Jediah, and the H And hen the son of Zephaniah. These are all priests. They're all sons of Zephaniah. We would all presume that they are all priests and probably all uh godly men at that point. And we we see here it says it's to it's to be a memorial. They he said set a crown, set this elaborate crown, and set it as a constant reminder that one day in this temple there is going to be A king, priest. There's going to be both a priest and a king. And we know now that is in the person of Jesus Christ. In verse 15, it says this, even those from afar shall come and build the temple of the Lord. And you shall, notice what it says, you shall know. that the Lord has sent me. There's a call to remember God's promise. There's also a call to anticipate Christ's coming. You shall know, for the Lord has sent me. That's been said several times. You shall know, you shall now do this, and you shall now know. He wants, God wants his people to know To know what his plan is, to know what he intends to do, to know that he will carry out his plan He wants them to have assurance. The m much of the book of Zechariah is assuring the people that he's got a plan and that they can know his plan and there are signs to make sure that he unders that they understand his plan. That you should know. Zechariah 2. 11, then you will know the Lord of hosts has sent me to you. Zechariah 4. 9, then you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you. I didn't mention this earlier, but I should have. Earlier in the passage, when it's talking about the branch, notice how many times it says he shall, he shall, he shall. Many times in the passage you have this he shall. What is he trying to do? He's trying to get across the fact that this is still going to happen. It will happen. Christ will set up his kingdom. It's going to take place. And he wants to assure the people of that. Now notice the con there's also a condition here. Notice it says, and this shall come to pass if, if you diligently obey the voice of the Lord your God. He tells the people that there is a condition and and look that let's face this does that not make sense? If you're gonna have a rule, you have to be a there has to be rule that there has to be a rule, there's gotta be a ruler, and there's gotta be those who are ruled. He says, you have to diligently obey the voice of the Lord your God. And you know, that has always been the problem. The problem is that people have not diligently obeyed the voice of God. So as we wrap all of this up, let's ask the question. Let's work through this. How can we apply this to here and now? How can we think through this? Understand this. That at the core of what a kingdom is, it's just God's rule. At the core of what a kingdom is, it is a ruler and those who are ruled. Now, when it comes to God's kingdom on earth, that is still in the future. When Christ comes again, his second coming, he will set up his kingdom to rule. We know that from Scripture. So what is our relationship to the kingdom now? Three things. Number one, God calls us to prepare for his rule. He calls us to prepare for his rule. In Matthew chapter 7, verse 21, it says this: Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven. But he who does the will of my Father in heaven. The one who does the will of the Father in heaven, he is the one That will be able to enter the kingdom of heaven. First Corinthians chapter 6, verse 9 says this: Do you not know that the unrighteous will not enter, inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor homosexuals, nor sodomites, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners will inherit the kingdom of God. You have to do the will of God in order. You have to follow the rule of Christ in order to order to be in the kingdom of God. What's the problem? None of us can. None of us can perfectly follow the king, follow the will of God. We have all sinned. We all know that. We know that we have sinned against God. We know that our sin separates us from God. We know that we have a problem called sin that keeps us from being rightly ruled by God. Back in Christ's time, he told of a story in Matthew chapter 22 of a king who had a wedding, a wedding party. And there was in during this wedding feast, um I won't go into the entire story, but during during part of the time there was a person that was somehow led into the wedding feast, and he didn't have what back then was called a wedding garment. And in the story, in verse 12 of Matthew 22, it says this, he said to him, friend, how do you come in here without a wedding garment? And he was speechless. Then the king said to the servants, Bind him hand and foot, take him away, and cast him into outer darkness. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth, for many are called, but few are chosen. You have to be clothed a certain way in order to be in the kingdom of God. That's why it actually says in John chapter 3, verse 3. Most assuredly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. See, we are sinful. Our sin separates us from God. Our sin keeps us from being under the rule of God. In fact, if we are to die, apart from being clothed spiritually the right way, if we are to die We will not enter the kingdom of God. That's what the Bible says. But 2 Corinthians 5, verse 21, says this. For he that has made him that Jesus, who knew no sin, to be sin for us that we might become the righteousness, that's the clothing, the righteousness of God in him. Now catch this. It says in the text, 2 Corinthians 5, verse 21. Christ came, he lives a perfect life, which by the way we couldn't do, right? We are born sinners. We're born sinful. We can't help but sin. We can't help but go our own way. Yet Christ was born, lives a perfect life, he is, because he is God, he is sinless. He goes to the cross, and he has made sin for us who knew no sin In other words, he took our sin on himself, and he died in our place, so that what the Bible says this, so that he could clothe us with his righteousness. So that when we die, we're able to be in the presence of God. And then when Christ comes again, we can be part of His rule, His kingdom. See, uh it says the secondly we need to understand that God calls us to accept his son as our personal high priest. He is the one that that removes our sin forever. The high priests in the Old Testament, the priests in the Old Testament, the High Priest would offer us offer offer an annual offering once a year. Uh that that didn't take care of the sins of the people. That didn't remove the sins of the people. That that helped with the defilement problem problems and to remain to keep the presence of God there and to keep the keep everything holy But it wasn't until it wasn't until Christ the High Priest comes and pays the price for our sin. that he is able to to deal with the problem of sin completely, individually in our lives. Hebrews 2. 17, therefore in all things He had to be made like his brethren that he might be merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make propitiation for the sins of people, to pay the price. for the sins of people. Number three, God calls us to be ambassadors for him until he comes. So there are some people, there are actually some people that believe that Christ's kingdom is happening now. How's that going? Is Christ's kingdom happening right now on earth? Now, I'm not saying God Christ is not universally king, he is But when it comes to God actually mediating his kingdom on earth right now, I think, you know, you just go to like, I don't know, Iran. And y you realize that Christ isn't doing that right now. You look at this the descriptions of the Old Testament and how everything is peaceful, even in this text, that the everything is completely peaceful when Christ comes as king, and that is not what we see. So what is our relationship? If Christ if the king if if if we if there's not king uh the kingdom is not mediating now, what is our relationship? You know what our c we're called to do We're called to be ambassadors of the king. Right now the king's away. And and we're called not We're we're called not to usher in the kingdom. That has never worked before in the Old Testament. People don't can't usher in kingdoms. We don't see any command in the New Testament to do that. That's not our goal. That's not got what God says. But you know what God? We do have a role in the kingdom. Our role is to introduce people to the king. Our role is to be ambassadors of God's kingdom. Our role is to present Christ so that when they accept Christ as their Savior, they become whoever we're talking to, they actually become future citizens of the kingdom. We're not trying to bring the kingdom down to us. Christ has got that all covered. It's all him and none of us. What God's called us to do as Christians What he's called us to do as kingdom citizens is to prepare others to be kingdom citizens so that one day when Christ comes, we're ready. That's why the Bible actually tells us, watch, be ready. Christ could come at any moment. Second Corinthians 5, verse 18 says this: Now all things are of God who has reconciled us to himself through Jesus Christ. And it's given us the ministry of reconciliation. That's our ministry, to reconcile people to God. That is, that God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself. Not imputing their trust that passes to them and it's committed to us the word of reconciliation Now then, we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God were pleading through us. We implore you on Christ's behalf. Be reconciled to God. That is our goal, to implore people to be reconciled to God. Be reconciled to God. Get right with God. Be in right standing with God. It is as simple as placing your trust in the finished work of Jesus Christ on the cross, who died in your place, so that you could receive the righteousness of Christ. So that you could be clothed and prepared for the coming king. Are you prepared? Are you ready? And are you helping others to be ready? If you're here this morning and you say, I'm not sure I'm ready for that. I don't really know where my standing is with God. I I don't really and I I I know that in my own heart I I have a desire to do what I want to do and often I want to do what I want to do rather than what God wants me to do. I I I get that I don't know if I have ever actually placed my trust in what Jesus did to pay the punishment for my sin on the cross. By the way, he rose from the grave three days later showing that he was completely victorious over sin and death. I don't know if I've done that before. I don't even know if I could know that I've done that before. The Bible says these things are written that you might know. That you have eternal life. It's not something that God wants us to be seeing in the text. He wants us to know. He's not hiding things from us. He's revealed things to us in his word. He wants to show it to us. 1 John 5, 13, these things are written that you might know that you have eternal life. If you don't know today whether or not you have eternal life, please come and talk with me after the service. Or talk with somebody that you're comfortable with, talk with uh talk with Enrique who was up here before he was leading the singing or uh or sor uh anybody that was up here. We'll be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure you'll spend eternity with the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we thank you for your goodness to us. We thank you for Christ We thank you for who he is and what he has done. We thank you that it is that it is narrowed down to simply placing our trust in Christ alone. He is our Savior and our King. And I pray, Lord, that you would be with us. Help us to realize our responsibility in our relationship to the kingdom, that we are to be ambassadors of you. I pray, Lord, that if there is someone here that this morning that doesn't know you, I pray today might be the day that they understand their own sin and their need of a savior. And that they would come to you through Christ. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's all stand together Hello, my name is Jim Gnam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community here at BBC. you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family We can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, or if you just have a need we can pray for, please email us. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.