Please take your Bibles and turn to Proverbs, Proverbs chapter three this morning. Proverbs chapter three. Hope you're enjoying fathers, you're enjoying your Father's Day. I really I have been enjoying it so far today myself. I um I'll be really honest with you. Um My kids really made it special for me this morning. And I know I'm not here to talk about them, but um I really uh it was very special to me. I uh they their cards were meaningful. I you know, when they get to a certain age, y uh those of you who have young kids, just wait a little while. When they get to a certain age, man, they start really sh being able to express their appreciation and love and uh they did that for me. They uh one of the cards said that I am what did it say? Something like I'm an I'm an awesome dude. That was good. Awesome dude. I'll take it. That's all right. So and uh there are other things that uh some I got it they gave me a certificate this morning. They said um To the world's greatest dad who ever roamed the earth. So uh and then they gave me all kinds of candy and things for my roaming days when I roamed the earth. So anyway. No. I didn't know I was roaming the earth. But anyway. Uh no, I really it was it was something I was enjoyable and and uh I I I definitely I I gotta tell you, I love being a dad. I do. Of all the titles I have, husband and dad are up there as the highest. Oh well, Christians first. That's the most important. But uh I'll tell you uh uh and I'm the older I get, I know I'm getting old. I'll tell you why I know I'm getting old. I don't mind going shopping with them Now what I usually do is I like yesterday they wanted to go shopping and so we went shopping. I spent about 10 minutes in Walmart with them. and brought a book and went and read the book in the car. But I'm fine with that. Like I I just I'll cart them wherever they want to go. They I'll pick 'em up, I'll drop 'em off and I'll read a book, but at least I get to be with 'em. I used to be like, go, just go. I I don't want to go shopping. I don't want to see a store. I don't now I I I just whatever I can to spend time with them. It's I'm I'm getting old. But uh I enjoy being a father. I love it. And um the long the older I get it seems like the more I I appreciate it and like it. The older they get Uh hopefully they appreciate me. I don't know. They express it this morning for sure. And that was a blessing. And I I just got to tell you this from a from a very biblical standpoint. Fathers are to be a blessing to kids, to their kids. Fathers are something that, from a Bible standpoint, are necessary and helpful. And frankly, we are living in a society. One of the reasons that I decided to actually preach a fa an actual Father's Day message, which I don't always uh when it comes around to Mother's Day and Father's Day, but Sometimes I just stick with the text that I'm in, but is because I really feel like our society is not appreciating fathers. In fact Um it is estimated today that over fifty-five percent of homes are fatherless. That's a travesty. A U. S. Census Bureau was recently taking 2017, I'm sure it hasn't improved. Nineteen point seven million children in the US uh are without a father in their homes. And I'm very thankful that the Bible teaches us that God is the father to the fatherless. But on the same level, I want us to understand that biblically a father role is a very important role. In fact, we have the weight of the responsibility on us as we stand before the Lord for how we raise our children. How we teach them, how we instruct them. Moms will stand accountability before the Lord, but we have the primary responsibility to teach our children well. And to instruct them and to raise them. And the weight of responsibility is great. And the reality is that we are living in a society where the soci where society now in our country Is really downgrading the responsibility and the viability even of fathers. One particular movement that's pro prominent in our world says in its belief statement, we dismantle the patriarchal practice that requires mothers to work double shifts so that they can mother in private even as they participate in public justice. That particular Hart makes the point that in many cases fathers all over this country have abdicated their role as providers. But then it goes on to say this, we disrupt. We disrupt. The Western prescribed nuclear family structure requirement, the Western prescribed nuclear family structure requirement by supporting each other as extended families and villages that collectively care for one another, especially our children, to the degree that mothers, parents, and children are comfortable. Removes fathers entirely from the statement. That is a very serious situation we find ourselves in. And we want to just for the few moments that we have recover the importance of godly fathers and understand that they are important. And that is not to say that if you don't have a father or that you didn't grow up with a good father, that you are somehow doomed, and it's not to say that at all, because we have a heavenly father who can stand in the gap. But we as fathers do have a responsibility to be the fathers that God wants us to be. With all the dreams we have for our kids, I think most of us dream about what our kids may end up being. We look at our kids and we see different gifts and talents and interests that they have and We want to steer them in different directions. We think about, hey, you could do this or you could be this. It seems like you'd be a good whatever it is. Good nurse or good teacher, good mother, whatever. And uh you can tell I have three girls, the positions I mentioned, but anyway. Um but really really we we we ought to think as fathers, what are the the most important The primary things we want all of our kids to have in their hearts. Solomon is writing in Proverbs chapter 3. Remember, this is the beginning of Proverbs. This is a most of the Proverbs are written to his son, Solomon's son. And he pleads with Solomon's son to be wise. Solomon does. And the first chapter, his primary thrust of the first chapter of Proverbs is stay away from wrong influences. It's that important. First chapter, out of the gate. Make sure your influences will make you what you are. You will become like your influences. Number one chapter in Proverbs, first chapter. The second chapter teaches us of the importance of godly wisdom. Godly wisdom being absolutely necessary. Godly wisdom. After that, we come to this passage. And I think what we find in this passage is exactly What we need to get down to brass tacks as to what we want our child's hearts to become. What do we want the heart of our child to look like? Notice what it says in the passage in Proverbs chapter 3. It says, My son, do not forget my law, but let your heart keep my commands. Let your heart keep them. Notice how often you see the word heart in here. For length of days and long life and peace, they will add to you. Let not mercy and truth forsake you. Bind them around your neck, write them on the tablet of your heart, and so find favor in high esteem in the sight of God and man. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. And lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct your paths. Do not be wise in your own eyes Fear the Lord and depart from evil. It will be health to your flesh and strength to your bones. Honor the Lord with your possession and with the first fruits of all your increase. So your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine. My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor detest his correction. For whom the Lord loves, he corrects. Just as a father, the son in whom he delights. Can you see the emotion and the passion with which Solomon says this to his son? These are the things I want to be written indelibly on your heart. This is a plea to a son for his heart to be a certain way. Our focus is fathers and mothers. Our focus must not be on external conformity alone. Our focus must be on the heart of our children. And this is not something that society will teach you. In fact, society will teach you that you need to have your kids follow their own hearts. But if you read Proverbs, if a child follows his own heart, he's going to end in destruction. The Bible actually says, train up a child in the way he should go. And when he is old, it will not depart from him. The word train means to develop the palate. It means that you have a role to play in the instruction of your children, in developing their desires, in steering their desires the way they should go. Certainly, you should factor in how God's created them, what talents God has given them, what interests they have. But it is your responsibility, fathers, to direct your ch your sons and your daughters. Hearts and their desires the right direction. It's your responsibility and mine. That's fatherly kind of leadership in Scripture. Well, what are we how are we supposed to guard our children's hearts? What how are we supposed to guide them? Number one, as fathers, we must guide the hearts of our children to cultivate both kindness and truth. We need to cultivate in our children's hearts kindness and truth. Notice what the passage says. Do not, my son, verse one, do my son, do not force forget my law, but let your heart keep my commandments for length of days and long life, and peace will they add to you. Let not mercy and truth forsake you. The coupling of mercy and truth is throughout Scripture in Psalm 25 and Proverbs 14, again in Proverbs 16. Actually, if you look In many places throughout the Old Testament, you have this concept of mercy and truth. And the word mercy is a very interesting term. It's the word that is used for covenant love and faithfulness. Do you remember in the book of Ruth? We several years ago went through the book of Ruth. And in the book of Ruth, you have this term highlighted. It's the word, the Hebrew word hased. It's more than just simple, okay, I'll be merciful, I'll be nice. This is a covenant kindness, a loving faithfulness, a binding of one's person to someone else. In Ruth chapter 2, actually verse 1, chapter 1, verse 8, it says, And Naomi said to her daughters-in-law, Go return to each of her mother's house, the Lord deal kindly with you. And then later in Ruth 2. 20, it says, that Naomi said to her daughters-in-law, Blessed be he of the Lord who has not forsaken his kindness. in the living and the dead, and Naomi said to her, the man in is real in relation to ours is a close relative. Talking about Boaz. And then And then we find Ruth falls on her face before Boaz and says, Why have I found favor? It's the same word, favor in your eyes, that you should take notice of me since I am a foreigner. That's this word. It's the idea of covenant love, of loyalty. It's something, folks, that's missing in our society today, largely. We are fickle people. We want things the way we want them, and if we don't get them the way we want them, we we want to leave. We want to get out. We want to try something else. We're not loyal. We're not committed. We're not lovingly committed. And God says to us, and Solomon said to his son, This needs to be written indelibly in your hearts, this covenant love, and also truth. Joshua chapter 24, verse 14 says, Now therefore, fear the Lord, serve him in sincerity and truth, and put away the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the river and in the Egypt, and serve the Lord. It's covenant kindness coupled with truth. This is character. And this is what we ought to pray for, and this is what we ought to cultivate, this is what we want in the heart of our children. And the truth of the matter is, we can't do it, can we, on our own? Fathers, you have no ability to be able to do this on your own. In fact What is necessary in order to have a heart like this is the gospel itself. Really, this points to the gospel. And I don't always think that we understand that Proverbs points to the gospel. And it does here. It points to the gospel. It says that bind them about thy neck and write them on the table of thine heart. In Jeremiah 31, verse 3, it says, But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord. I will put my law in their minds and write it on their hearts. I will be their God and they shall be my people. If you think of the history of Israel as they begin in Exodus and move all the way through the Old Testament into Into the Babylonian captivity and into Malachi after that. I mean, if you look at the whole thing, you have the constant desire for faithfulness on the part of God's people and the constant failure. And in Jeremiah, there's this prophecy, I'm going to give you a new heart so you can finally obey me. I'm going to give you a new heart so you can finally follow after me. And we get into the New Testament and we see That the gospel does exactly that. It produces within us a new heart. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away, and behold, all things are become new. You want to know whether or not you have a new heart? You want to know whether or not you know Christ as your Lord and Savior? Well, you have that covenant kindness, that grace, that favor that you can only give when you've received it yourself? And are you stalwart in the truth and standing on the truth no matter what? Those things only can come through the gospel. Ezekiel 36, 26 says, I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you. I will take the old heart of stone out of your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. So that person that has a new heart, that person that has that covenant kindness and that truth. That are the pillars and foundation of his life. What does that look like then? Well, number two, as fathers, we need to guide our hearts, the hearts of our children, to trust God and not self. To trust God and not self. Notice what it says in the passage, trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways, acknowledge him, and he will direct your paths. Do not be wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord and depart from evil. It will be health to your flesh and strength to your bones. The passage says to trust in the Lord with all of your heart, with all of it. And it says in parallel thought, and don't lean, don't depend on your own understanding. You know the enemy of fully trusting God is not depending upon someone else too much, it's trusting yourself too much. The enemy of trusting in God fully is your own selves, is our selves. See, it's not hard for us in America to say, well, I've got to pull myself up by my own bootstraps. I can't trust anybody else because any other people let me down. But I I I I just gotta trust myself, and that will be your downfall. God says, trust in the Lord with all your heart, and don't lean on your own understanding. In all your ways, acknowledge Him. And he will direct your paths. And don't be wise in your own ties. We like to trust God when it's convenient. We like to trust God when it makes sense to us. We like to trust God when we got all our ducks lined up in a row and everything lines up the way we want it to. This doesn't passage doesn't say that. It says, trust the Lord with all your heart, all of the time. And don't lean on your own understanding. Fear the Lord and depart from evil. And if you do, this says that there will be health to you, strength to your bones. Strength comes from fully depending on Christ, not from depending upon self. We need to teach our children this. Folks, on a practical level, how do we do that? We need to example it. In our roles as dads, do we set the example of I am dependent upon God? Or do we set the example of I'm dependent upon myself? See, as men, we tend to want to do that. We tend to want to Trust in self and rely on self and depend upon self and we gotta watch that We rather need to constantly explain to our children that we are reliant on God From our necessary foods to our well-being to the plans that we have, we are fully dependent on God. I need to get self out of the way. And I need to trust in God. How do you know if you're doing that? I mean, just for any of us, how do we know if whether or not we are fully trusting in God? It's easy for us to say, well, I trust in God for all those spiritual things, but the physical things in my life, I mean, those things, I've got to do that myself. And there's no question that God gives us a responsibility to work with our hands and to be diligent and those kinds of things. There is a level of responsibility that we certainly have in those areas. But even for our food, even for our our our material things, God wants us to fully trust in him. And you know how we you know how we know whether or not we're fully trusting in him? Well, it's actually in the next verse. Look at verse 9. Chapter 3, verse 9. It says, Honor the Lord with your possessions and with the first fruits of your increase. So your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine. My sons do not despise the chastening of the Lord, for nor detest his correction. For whom the Lord loves, he corrects, just as a father, the son, in whom he delights. Did you catch what it says in verse 9? Honor the Lord with your possessions and with the first fruits of all your increase. You know how you know you're trusting in God with all of your heart? When it boils down to even your possessions and you say, Lord, Any increase I have, I'm going to give of the first fruits to you, no matter what. I'm just going to give it to you. I'm going to trust you. I remember when I was first married, that was hard. We didn't make hardly anything and we were living in a shack and I mean it was a shack. And uh even when we moved to an apartment that was a step up from a shack, but not much And really didn't have a lot of extra money. And and to make the decision, I j okay, I'm just gonna give the fruit first fruits of my increase because that demonstrates I'm trusting in God, not myself. I think with our when it comes to our kids, our fa as we as fathers, we need to never say, oh man, I gotta give a tithe again. Oh man. It's gonna be a hard month for that. I'm thankful I never I don't recall ever experiencing that kind of talk when I was growing up. There was a joy and a desire to give to the Lord And and it wasn't always easy growing up. Sometimes we had to heat the house by burning wood, and that wasn't a bad thing either, Frank. And there was other challenges as we were growing up. But I always knew that my parents were going to give faithfully, no matter what. How do you know where you're trusting in the Lord? Well, it comes down to brass tacks. It comes down to what you're doing physically, how you're depending on the Lord physically with things We need, as fathers, we must guide our hearts, the hearts of our children, to honor God practically Matthew chapter 6 verse 20 says, But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt. And where thieves do not break through nor steal, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. And then finally, you'll see in this passage as well that it says, Don't despise the chastening of the Lord. How do you know you're trusting the Lord with all of your heart? It's when times get tough and God's trying to teach you something through the hard times and you don't despise it. Did you catch that? See, this chastening is instruction with difficult circumstances associated with it. And it's easy to receive instruction when everything's going well. Yeah, yeah, that's good, yeah, that's good. But when things are go are difficult and God is actually trying to teach me things Through difficult circumstances, I have either the responsibility to, I'm either going to accept it and say, Lord, I'm willing to be taught what you want to teach me through this. Or I'm going to be disgruntled and I'm going to complain. And brothers and sisters in Christ, when it comes to our lives as Christians. If we complain every time God tries to teach us something through circumstances, our children are not going to learn. To accept the chastening of God in their lives. But instead, if when we go through difficult times If we go through times that are hard and trials, for the Christian, trials are always going to teach us something. Always Count it all joy, James says. And when you're going through a trial, if you will choose to say, Lord, I want to read Receive your instruction through this trial. I'm looking for your guidance. I've just depended upon you to do what only you could do through this trial. When you express that to your kids, and when they see you growing and learning and changing As a result of it, then they're going to look at the things and they're going to say, you know what, maybe being under God's instruction isn't so bad. We need to trust, teach our children to trust God with all their hearts, but that's going to practically work its way out into what do we do with our finances, what do we do with our physical world. And what do we do with the circumstances we find ourselves in? So summarizing all of this, number one. We must pray for our kids and set an example for them in the following areas. Number one, we need to have a heart that's committed. We want our kids and ourselves, frankly, to have a heart that's committed to gracious, kindness, and truth. Frankly, that is only going to come when they come to Christ. So we've got to pray for the gospel to penetrate our kids' hearts. So that they can have new hearts that are not of stone, but are moldable. That is, frankly, that is the only way that you get a heart that's committed to gracious kindness and truth. their entire lives. Number two, our heart would depend on God, not on self. We want to teach our children that their hearts need to be dependent upon God and not on self. And number three, we want to teach our children To honor God with our possessions and to submit to God's correction. This is a tall word for us as fathers, isn't it? But it's one that if uh if you if you really want to boil things down to the most important things, wouldn't we would we not have to agree that these are the most important? Let's pray together. Father, we come to you. Lord, we know that everything is against us as fathers in this world. Or it feels that way anyway. Our society just seems to be adverse to fathers And we admit before you that in our history it may be well because fathers have abdicated their roles. They've sort of said, I'll leave up the child rearing to my to my wife. Father, I pray, Lord, that you Would help us as fathers to fulfill the role that you want us to fulfill. So many of the things that are ailing our society now can find their route ultimately back to the gospel, the rejection of the gospel, but really really can also be rooted back to the family unit not being what it's supposed to be. Help us as fathers in this church to be what we ought to be. For your glory. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.