As we worship you today, I pray that we'd be able to put away the distractions in our minds, and may we really reflect on who you are and what you have done for us. If you want to take your Bibles, you can turn there. The one thing they probably knew was what this word Emmanuel meant. We can overcome poverty, injustice, violence, and evil. The root problem of darkness in the world is sin in our hearts, and the only solution is Christ. Worship Christ the newborn king, shepherds in the field abiding, watching o'er your flocks by night. All the years are imagined tonight, for Christ is born of merry and gathered all of the. Midnight clear that glorious song of old From angels bending near the earth To touch their hearts of gold peace on the earth. In Psalm one twelve says this Blessed is the man who fears the Lord, who delights greatly in his commandments. And worship, almost worship, worship Christ the newborn king. His name's all star calm and worship, calm and worship, worship Christ the newborn King, saints before the altar. Number one ninety-four, it came upon the midnight clear. Receive himself, the dear Christ enters in. Through the cloven skies they come with peaceful wings unfurled, And still their heavenly music floats for all the weary world. When with the ever circling years shall come the time foretold When the new hem north shone the friends of peace God even said, Isaiah even says, God's willing to give you a sign that you are going to, that He will take care of the situation. Your real problem is something way deeper that only God Himself can solve because we find this prophecy in Isaiah 7. And the one thing they probably were able to pick up on is that the real issue is, the real root problem, is that God was no longer with the nation of Israel. Why? The reason it's said this way is that it's such a sure prophecy, it's as though it's already happened, even though it hasn't happened. You understand what I'm saying? And finally, we're going to see the source of that light. And they eventually came from the south, and everything was oppressed. And for 70 years, that's where Daniel has taken place. He was humbling the nation of Israel. who walked in darkness. In Psalm eighty-two it says that they know not, neither will they understand. In other words, we have the light within us. and the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, and of the day of Midian, for every warrior's sandal from a noisy battle, the garments rolled in blood, will be used for burning and the fuel of fire We see three results, uh actually four uh three results here from this passage. They wanted to know when God was going to set his kingdom up on earth so that we could have all these things, that there be burdens lifted and joy and peace and all these things. Now there's no doubt that one day Jesus will come, he will rule and reign on this earth, and everything will be set right, and he is the light of the world, and we'll see the things that we mentioned happen, happen upon the throne of David and over his kingdom to order and to establish it with with judgment and justice from that time forever, even forever, or forward forever. the temptation, everything. Now, he goes on to explain how he'll order it and he will establish it and that will happen in the second coming. which you have prepared before the face of all the peoples, a light to bring revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of your people Israel. That whoever believes in me should not abide in darkness. His descendants will be mighty on earth, and the generation of the upright will be blessed. Under the upright there arises light in the darkness. Surely he will never be shaken. His heart is established, he will not be afraid, until he sees his desire upon his enemies. The wicked will see it and be grieved and will gnash his teeth and melt away. As we enter into this Christmas season, we pray these things in Christ's name. While mortal sleepy angels leap their watch a wandering law, O morning stores together proclaim the We hear the Christmas angels, the frequent hidings tell, Oh come to us, abide with us, our Lord. The painful steps and slow look now for glad and golden hours, come swiftly on the wing, or rest beside me. Weary road and hear the angel sing, for lo the days are hastening on by prophets foretold. And so this morning, Lord, as we look into your word, Father, and we remember what we are celebrating this week And Father, we ask that as your word is presented this morning, that Father, we would set aside all the cares and all the thoughts of this week. Help us to concentrate upon your word. That you are that great light. about your coming and that that would be what we celebrate, that we would lift up your name. uh your word, Lord, as we see a lot of decorations and all going up and everything, that they might come to know the true reason that we celebrate this time of year will be changed more and more into your image, we ask in Jesus' name. and the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, in the day of Midian. From that time forward, even forever, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. When we think about the you know the past difficulties that we've had over this last year, uh whether it's the difficulties of a virus or the difficulties of Really, to understand what's going on in Isaiah 9, we first need to go a couple of verses, a couple of chapters back to Isaiah 7. And I want to set it up this way. Of course, the problem is that God said, don't make, as Israel, don't make alliances with other nations. You're hearing this prophecy about which you said you didn't want, but God's giving it to you anyway, and you're hearing this prophecy, and the sign is that there's going to be a childborn And what needed to happen is that God would again be with the nation of Israel. It's dark as it is as dark as Israel probably ever was. Through legislation, through social programs, we keep trying to solve them various ways. And the first verse is actually going to describe for us the darkness. that it's talking about Zebulun Naphtali. that they were overtaken by Assyria. The word distress is an interesting word. innovation of man, every glory of man, every every uh every accomplishment of man will all end in total ruin if you look at science alone The world either has deceived itself into thinking that somehow they'll be okay by their own efforts, or if they're non-religious, they actually believe that this is it. And you can't solve the darkness problem with political or social or military solutions The problem of darkness has to be solved in the heart, and the heart of the problem is sin. for the whole winter, that that that everything is, that you have an abundance of harvest. uh when gideon came and uh and and god used gideon um among uh 300 people 300 ar army of 300 to to to to uh win that battle They knew that there was a time in the Old Testament that prophesied that all of this kind of thing would happen. Unto us a son is given, and the government will be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. So it becomes now very personal for us. The Prince of Peace is one who rules and brings peace to the earth. To them gave you the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. So that I can read it, I don't have a bolt and uh uh a hymnal up here. Oh hear the angel voice says, Oh night divine, oh night when Christ was gone. various reports of various things happening, what is actually right, what isn't. And yet, Lord, we know that you are described in your word as light. It needs your righteousness, and that righteousness comes by Christ alone, as He is the only one that can apply your righteousness to us through the cross. And Lord, we confess before you often that we look to other means to clear up the darkness. As Christ as Savior and Lord of our lives. Now residing under shines the infant light. Stages leave your contemplations, brighter visions beam off arms. Bending, watching law and hope and fear, suddenly the Lord descending in his temple shall appear. stores go by yet in the dark street shine with me everlasting lies the hopes and fears of all Holy birth and praises sing to God the King and peace to men honor O little town of Webham House, till we see the lie of thy deep and dreamless sleep though, silent. Angel sing And ye beneath my frushing load, Whose forms are bending all Whose toil along the climbing way Father, it is because of what you have done in sending your only begotten Son. And it is for your glory and for your praise I pray you would be with Pastor Jim. And men rejoice when they divide the spoil. and garment rolled in blood will be used for burning and fuel of fire, for unto us upon the throne of David and over his kingdom, to order it and establish it with judgment and justice. You have multiplied the nation and increased its joy. The Bible teaches that darkness has a different has a different root problem. The Southern Kingdom is run. And blindness and darkness in our world. You're the king of Israel, the south, and you realize you're outgunned. He was getting backup. The implication really of that passage in Isaiah 7 is the idea that your real problem is not a military problem. Therefore, the Lord Himself shall give you a sign. is not capitalism or socialism. It's interesting what he says. Now, with all that in mind, we can now delve into Isaiah 9 with a right background, and we begin to see that Isaiah is going to prophesy of a time where Israel But this is in the past and present and in the Hebrew per present perfect tense. We have this distress happening. My people who walked in darkness have seen a great light, and who dwell in the land of the shadow of death The nature of darkness in this passage, we've got two words here that help us. Well death is darkness because outside of the light, death ends in hopelessness. Can the soul's habitation henceforth be safely built? The problem, according to God's word, the reason that people are in darkness is because they are blind. In fact, the New York Times actually suggests that that's the meaning of Christmas. The world is in darkness because of the problem of sin. was an extremely this king remember we talked about before this man was an extremely wicked king he was so wicked he literally sacrificed his own children Emmanuel, God with us. We find in the passage exactly what the world looks like. This what happens when a kingdom is is right and there's light there. said to him, what are the signs of the kingdom? It will. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. But it's one thing to be able to perform miracles. Do you remember what he talked about last Sunday? That has suffered more than you'll ever suffer, that has been tempted greater than you'll ever be tempted, and yet he is the miracle worker. But I want us to move here to what we can learn from this. There was a man. And with great hope in his future reign. The way that we receive him is this. Without the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sin. And they would trust you. And uh let's go ahead and have you stand and we're going to sing about what we've been talking about, oh holy night. Born to be our friend, he knows our need. Be ho your king be all in the body Moria more proclaim his life and glory. In paying the punishment for our sin on the cross. uh to to do things our own way, to fix our own problems, to fix the world in uh political ways, or And the it will continue to be darkness until Christ shines his light. Angels from the realms of glory, and let's stand together as we sing. Good will to men from heaven's all gracious key the world in solemn stillness lay to hear the angel sing still a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government will be upon his shoulder, and his name will be called wonderful Counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace, and of the increase of his government and peace, there will be no end You you don't you you're really in a bad position. to and tells them tells him, no, don't do that. And when at first he lighted he lightly esteemed the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, and afterward more heavenly oppressed her, heavily oppressed her By the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan in Galilee of the Gentiles. And the idea of a it's like a wide, a pitcher with a with a wide spout, but as you pour it, it narrows. And that's the idea here: that there is a constricting, there is a narrowing, there is a confining, there is a pressure that's being added, and people are being distressed. And under slavery, they were under that kind of oppression. We've heard that phrase before, haven't we? Even more purposeless, more void of meaning is the world which science presents for our belief. The slogan in her life, Don't let anybody take my light away. We find that burdens are lifted in this passage. First coming of Christ. Now, I want us to, for a moment, put aside everything we know about Jesus. Because he is the one who is able, because he came to earth and lived among us and un and went through everything that we could ever have gone through and more, the suffering An eternal dependency, that we can depend entirely on God. It isn't as though God isn't present with us as in He's not omnipresent, but you do not have God dwelling in the hearts of men. On our own ways, but to rely on your truth Excellent singing this morning. for his coming. 1 through 7. And when at first he lightly esteemed the land of Zebulun and the land of Nephtali, and afterwards more heavily oppressed her. By the way of the sea beyond the Jordan, in Galilee of the Gentiles, the people who walked in darkness. Have seen a great light. of the social problems that we're having and there's just and not even knowing what's were what's being reported is right or wrong. It caused a man by the name of Vaclave Havel, who was the first president of the Czech Republic, to realize that the answer to the world's problems Will come out of darkness and be and the light of the light will shine. It was, they were full of themselves, and they had gotten to the place, arguably, where they thought that nobody would be able to overtake them, and yet that's exactly what was going to happen. That no heroism, no intensity of thought and feeling, no preserv no can preserve an individual life beyond the grave They rejoice before you according to the joy of harvest, as men rejoice when they divide the spoil. The second illustration there is dividing is spoil. It will happen where there is an increase of joy and rejoicing, where there is where burdens are lifted, where their oppression ceases, where there is complete victory. But I want us to think in these terms. In other words, someone could be able to do the miraculous. Now that is done very simply. Live for Him. Lord, I pray that you'd help us to understand that there we cannot solve our problems politically or militarily. A new and glorious Lord fall on your knees. You will set all things right. Mighty God, everlasting Father, and Prince of Peace, Lord, we thank you that that can be a reality in our lives now because of the work that Christ did. Father, as we come to you, we thank you and praise you that you are the light. We are thankful for how you have blessed this church and how you've blessed us. is three three phases of this. It says, nevertheless, the gloom will not be not be upon her who is distressed. And that's exactly what we see happening here in this passage. In fact, there are philosophers in our world that actually would suggest that you can't really understand how to live in the world unless you understand that the world is actually hopeless. It's all going down the wrong way. It's kind of like I'm I I get sick. The light. Father, we do confess before you that we look to ourselves rather than to you for light and righteousness, and I pray, Lord, that you teach us to do exactly the opposite. sing about the season and our savior that was born around two thousand years ago. And it's really a very appropriate passage to really be thinking about, perhaps even specifically, because we really can see a lot of darkness in our world today, can't we? And Israel, though, has two different kingdoms at this point. By a massive army, massive Assyrian army, by the guy, a guy by the name of Tiglas Pleaser III. A turning to and seeking of God is needed, he says. There are two attitudes, if you will, that you see here, darkness. God is actually going to use the darkness for his purpose. It's talking about there, it could be translated that he lightly esteemed or he humbled. But he then we we then begin to see in in even clearer detail in verse two, it says, My peop the people And our world, why is our world so dark? This is the most encouraging thing you'll ever read. Life is hard, and then you die. The Bible tells us that darkness is associated with something else. And the darkness in Israel got so bad that we find clearly that the root of the problem was sin. You don't solve your pro you can't solve your sickness something that you're infected with with a cough drop On an altar to Baal, a false God. The results of light are found in verses 3 through 5. Joy and rejoicing. This is what happens when the world is full of light. There is, by the way, a a fourth thing, and that has to do with there's victory. We can still be ruled by Christ in our lives. Except for those who know Christ as their Savior. The one who takes care of you. The light is the light of Christ in the world We must deal it not by then the way the world deals with it is by only with the by dealing with the symptoms. Christ's kingdom should rule in our hearts now and with great hope in his future reign. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for your truth from your word. Oh holy night, the stars are brightly shining. So led by light of a star sweetly gleaming, became the wise man from Orient land. The King of Kings lay us in lowly manger in all our trials. And um and and there is this prophecy about the fact that there's going to be light coming to the world. Um, you know, you're like Simba. But if you think about it, that is exactly the kind of darkness that our world is in That this is true. I want you to put yourself back. That was the root problem. He says this, with that hopelessness in mind, with that darkness in mind, that every every It's like uh an unsafe friend of my wife's who says who put who ha who has sort of this this um That is not the description that the Bible gives of humanity. Yeah, yeah, I have no pri cough drop, probably right. And and that fact that he, if we allow him to rule in our hearts the way we want to, this is the Jesus that we can know. The word wonderful has to do with the fact that the person that is going to come will be able to perform many miracles. So number one, number one, we must not deal with darkness the way the world does. A thrill of the weary world rejoices for yonder bricks Years ago, 2000 years ago, when he came to Earth, and because of that we can accept that light ourselves And Ahaz was trying to deal with it militarily, and God was saying, the problem is, I'm not with you. That the nation of Israel was going to undergo heavy oppression by Babylon. Death and darkness in the what the way the Bible uses it go together. Jesus is the source of light. That Jesus knows exactly what we are going through. That's Jesus. Number three, he's the everlasting father. In the reality that Christ is our light. Final verse. And it's really even hard to to understand what is truth when we listen to the news or we we listen to Cast out our sin and enter in be born in Austin How silently, how silently the wondrous gift is given. What? You look at the darkness of our world today, you look at the problems of our world today, and we keep trying to solve them through every kind of political means available. God was going to use actually the darkness of oppression and the darkness of a strat of distress to humble God's people. Oppression ceases. We can look forward to a day when that happens when Christ comes again. Nor will they say, see here or see there, for indeed the kingdom of God is within you. Led by the light of his serenely meeting with glowing hearts, by his cradle we stand. In other words, it's it's a done deal in Isaiah's mind, even though this is way into the future. Now, with all of this in mind, there's one thing that I haven't really pointed out here. And when we look at our world today, there isn't any question that we see a great deal of evidence of darkness. There's two illustrations it gives here. The Bible says in John 12, 46, Jesus said this, I have come as a light into the world. And Jesus died. Long lay the world in sin and airpinning till he appeared and the soul felt its word. or some sort of social way or those kinds of things, Lord, and yet we know that your word tells us and we see it clearly. In all his sad and lonely plains, they bend on hovering wheels, and never all its babble sounds the blasting. And then we have this idea of the sh of of death. Does that sound familiar? There's joy and there's rejoicing. Look at verse six. The source of light we are able to now receive in our own hearts. And though the world is looking to themselves and looking to strategy and looking to all kinds of different ways, I pray that we as Christians would be rooted. Sweet hymns of joy in grateful chorus raise we let all with us praise his holy name Says the Lord of praise name forever his mind. But God is the everlasting provider. And some might have even the wisdom, but they don't have the compassion. Do you remember him? This is so encouraging. That all the labors of the ages, all the devotion, all the inspiration, all the new name brightness of human genius are destined to extinction in the vast depth of our solar system. You all perked up, everybody woke up. But during this time, during the time that we're in now, we can still have the kingdom of God in our hearts And the whole world gives that soon which now the angels need. And we are thankful for what he has done at the cross also on our behalf. And they keep trying to look to themselves to solve the world's problems He is God. We're not going to look at the whole passage, but I'll just mention a couple of things about that chapter, Isaiah chapter 7. You're saying I don't get that at all. The Bible says that, remember, our darkness problem, the problem of darkness in our own lives, it's a root problem of sin. And Father, you have called us to be a light. Because the darkness, if you will, that we are dealing with, it really is a different problem altogether. That was the beginning of it. That man's name is Simeon. And we pray these things in Christ's name. We thank you that one day we look forward to the day where Christ will come. He was making alliances with other nations in order for him to be able to take on the Assyrians. They're looking ahead. I want us to think in terms of you're put yourself in the place of being the king of Israel. That's what you're missing. Heavenly Father, we are so grateful this morning and thankful for the great mercy and the wonderful grace that you bestow upon us, Father He says, the problem is we keep thinking we're God, instead of getting on our knees and reeling that God is God and what we really need is Him. It's all decaying. Isaiah chapter 9, verses 1 through 7. Remember I said before that Israel was full of idolatry. Those who dwelt in the land and the shadow of death, upon them a light has shone. Truly he taught us to love one another. The righteous will be an everlasting remembrance. So let's first of all look at the world in darkness, the need for light. That we that we do not serve a high priest that cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities. Your kill and lowly back Now we will go to a little town of Bethlehem. Neither one of them are the answer to the world's problems. We're going to see in verses one through two, we're going to see darkness, the world and darkness. I have a different version of the of of of it than than what's up there. He was a man who was very, very old in years. So the passage here is talking about the fact that the world is in darkness. I just can't wait to be king except you are king, okay? And the answer to all of this is that we receive Christ as our Savior. I have some infectious disease and I say to you, yeah, I'm really sick, but I solved my problem, and you say, how? It's something else to be able to have two things that are really going to help you apply miracles correctly, and that is that is wisdom and compassion. As we see how the prophecies are being fulfilled back in those days, Lord, we can look back and see And then we also see these this other word that helps us is this heavy oppression. When the world is full of light, there is joy and there is rejoicing. The yoke of bondage is lifted. Change shall he break for the slaves or brother and in his name all oppression shall cease. You're the king of the southern tribe, uh the southern kingdom of Judah The Bible tells us in John chapter 1, verse 12, but as many as received him Until that day, I pray that you would help us to see, to have, to experience the reality of Christ as our wonderful counselor. And I pray that if there's anybody here today that doesn't know you as their Lord and Savior, that today they would understand their sin and their need of a Savior and that they would be saved. Psalm 23, yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death. It's like it says the joy of harvest. But let me just mention this. I want us to think of Jesus in our hearts. And Jesus died for our sin, and then we could be we could rise, and then he rose from the grave victorious over sin and death, so that we could But eventually everything was overtaken, where it says afterward more heavily everything was oppressed. And when Christ was on earth the first time, that some Pharisees came to Christ and And we find a description, a four-fold description in this passage of Jesus. What does it say here? And again, they are going under, they're now going to go back under this heavy oppression, and the darkness, can I say it this way, that the darkness is going to be thick. Not only that, he's the mighty God. Now we have, again, what's the problem with the world? But the thing about our earthly fathers is that they serve that purpose for a time, but eventually they're not all always going to be the ones that are the provider for us. He is gracious and full of compassion and righteous. But it's interesting that this darkness has a reason This is what happens when the world and it says as a as of Midian, it's actually talking about the time when Okay, let's try again For 70 years, you've got Israel that is oppressed by Babylonian captivity. He is the mighty God. So, in number three, go ahead and put the number three up there. They're going to be in darkness. If we work together, we can create a world of unity and peace. It says this, you have multiplied a nation and increased its joy. The problem of sin is death. I like I had a sore throat, I was sick, I had a sore throat, had a cough drop, I was all better after that. When you conquer in a battle and there's all kinds of treasure on the other end of it, and you see you you have all kinds of treasure treasure, by the way, for free. He truly is the wonderful counselor. We pray that you'd help us to remember that in this season. You're the king of the Southern Kingdom. Ultimately, the answer for us is to believe and to receive Christ as our light. It doesn't make any sense. Behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. That was a that was two two areas in the northern part of Israel and it's just pointing out here A similar word to it is translated pour, like to take a pitcher and pour something. And the temptation is to think that we are going to solve these problems in our own efforts. What do you do? Is that what's happening in our world today Amen. So as we go through this season, I pray that Father we will remember the words that we are learning here today and throughout this month. It's all going the wrong way. First, we have this idea of the shadow, we have this the word darkness. Verse six says, Front us a child is born. Give him clarity of thought, clarity of speech. They walk on in darkness, all the foundations of the earth are out of course. If we fast forward to the time where Jesus is to be born. And if there's anybody here or by way of streaming that doesn't know you as their Savior, I pray that they would understand their need of a Savior today. Spoils of war is what it means. All right. And it's the same root problem that's in our world today. What does it look like when a nation is under darkness? I mean, very likely Ahaz had absolutely no idea what the significance of this prophecy was, and Isaiah probably didn't really know. And that the whole temple of man's achievement must inevitably be buried beneath the debris of a universe of ruins. So what does it look like when the world is full of light? And what we have here is a term that talks about there is an eternal dependency. Amen. And what is happening in our world today is we're trying to solve the problem, we're trying to solve the symptom of the problem. We're looking forward to the time where the kingdom will get started. So we have verses 6 and 7 of chapter 9 here are going to give us the source of light. He is the wonderful counselor. And there is blindness in the world, there is darkness in the world. For you have broken the yoke of his burden. So you're, you know, you're you're you're the king of Israel. Number one, it says wonderful counselor. And he was able to say, Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace according to your word, for mine eyes have seen your salvation. The desire of the wicked shall perish. You have the northern kingdom and the southern kingdom. Our world is dark because our world is hopeless. The humanity that the Bible describes is a world that is groping in darkness. And finally you have the Prince of Peace What does Emmanuel mean? This is this is as is it it's it's happened, even though it's in the future. No wonder he wasn't really ready to listen to God when God says, Hey, what you need is me. Of course, harvest happens in the fall, and it's and if you have a good harvest, you bring in plenty. And there's this joy that came in a in a farming society when there was a joy w when there was a harvest time. He was really ready to die. Amen. King Ahaz w wants nothing to do with it. Number two, burdens are lifted. And Father, we are thankful that you have allowed us to have your word. You see, the nation of Israel by this point is steeped in idolatry. It's associated with ignorance and unbelief. That sounds better. And we know that he shines his light We know that, folks, to be what? Now God promises by the mouth of Isaiah that this is not going to happen forever. And then number three, oppression ceases. And Father, that as we have opportunity to share with others And we can't remember the first without the last. They rejoice before you according to the joy of harvest He said this pursuit of the good life will not help humanity save itself. First, distress. In fact, did you know just by way of illustration that this man Ahaz That's the result of sin. He will not be afraid of evil tidings. And so we are the ones who can dispel the darkness of the world. He says this: only within the scaffolding of these truths, only on the firm foundation of unyielding despair. Wealth and riches will be in his house, and his righteousness endures forever. And one more song this morning. Now what it's talking about here is this Would you notice what it says in the passage? Like, set it aside, and I and we've heard this passage many, many times. The everlasting father is one, a father, when you think of a father, you think of one who provides for you. You are righteousness. Isaiah 9:1 says this: nevertheless, the gloom will not be upon her who is distressed. How dark had it gotten? But if he has no wisdom to be able to do the miraculous in the right way, you're not going to have, it's not going to be a great thing. And Lord, we are grateful and thankful. The Northern Kingdom is right now being overtaken. And so when we read this, we understand this. Do you know what God was doing through this oppression of Babylon? Number one, you have the increase of joy. So I'm going to read what's up there because it's probably correct. As many as received him Calm and worship, calm and worship, worship Christ, the newborn king. There's this belief in humanity that we are the ones with the light. Now, the reality is that God says in his word here that light, Jesus is the light. Let's pray together. He has dispersed abroad, he has given to the poor, his righteousness endures forever, his horn will be exalted with honor. We try to Now we have a chance to uh And year after year, decade after decade, century after century goes by, and it seems as though problems never get solved. Okay, anyway. Do you know that Jesus has both? Maybe you do exactly what Ahaz was getting ready to do. Now, we saw, we see clearly darkness. It's not a darkness. That was that's in the second coming. Complete victory. But God had promised him that before he died, there would be born a light. It was a dark time in Israel's lot in Israel's lifetime. Folks, that's the light. We are going to sing about this now. We'll start by singing Profame Messiah's birth. The human race constantly forgets, he added, that he is not God, meaning the human race is not God. Notice the next phrase, when at first he lightly esteemed. There is an increase of joy and rejoicing, burdens are lifted, and oppression ceases. The problem is the absence of God. You are righteousness, you are light, and what our world desperately needs is light. They're distressed We pray these things in Christ's name. A good man deals graciously and lends. Oh holy child of Bethlehem, disent to us we pray. We'll be reading this morning from Isaiah chapter nine, and we are going to be looking at verses So when we're talking about darkness, we're talking about death. And they wanted to get a hold of this. We must receive him as our Lord and Savior. That darkness is a symptom of a greater problem. But Christ came the first time. He is the counselor that knows you better than you know yourself. Number two, can you put it up there? We pray, Lord, that you would help us in our lives to not rely on our own And God is saying here that this is the shadow of death. It says the meaning of Christmas is that love will triumph and that we will be able to put together a world of unity and peace. Why? Christ's kingdom should rule in our hearts now We can only solve our problems. It's not the first time they've been in heavy oppression. That is darkness, isn't it? Help us, Lord, to have our ears and our eyes open to your word, that when we leave here today Didn't have guns back then, but you're outgunned, you're out uh you're outmanned. And I say with a cough drop. Um it's not really pronounced. Alright, I'm sorry, I I've got to hey guys, you gotta advance this. Then we're going to see the world and light. The Babylonian captivity. They were full of it was full of national pride. For every warrior's sandal from the noisy battle God with us. For you have broken the yoke of his burden Jesus died to take our punishment so that he could wipe us clean of our sin. Father, we thank you. Nevertheless, the gloom will not be upon her who is distressed. Now the way that he does this is actually in the past tense. And God sends Isaiah to this man Ahaz, this king Ahaz This is all about what happens when a world What does darkness look like? Man by the name of philosopher Bertrand Russell said this. Why would we think any different then that God that the world is truly in darkness? All oppression will cease. That means that God can do in our own hearts exactly what He wants to do. He's not going to listen. Let's pray together. Okay Look at it again. The mighty God has to do with the fact that he is victorious deity. You don't have what you need in order to be truly light What does it look like with an et when an ethnic group is under darkness? How's that working? But in this world I say where me souls well. Here's what Jesus is saying. It is the night of the dear Savior's bird. Angels from the realms of glory wing your flight or The source of light is not a what, but a who. His heart is steadfast, trusting in the Lord So it's talking about the it's referring to what we already talked about, where it came into the north. The root problem, I had some computer problems earlier. Sin's the problem. Do you know why Jesus has both? And there is going to be a day where this happens in our world. He is one who is wonderful. Seek the great desire of nations, ye have seen here. Christ can only solve our problems through dealing with the root problem of sin. We must not deal with the darkness the way the world does. Amen. Let's pray together. Our week this is no stranger. In fact, what we're going to see Why is death darkness? Sin is the root problem of darkness. When was the last time they've been in heavy oppression? And Jesus said this to these Pharisees: He says, the kingdom of God does not come with observation. Here was a first coming. Are you ready for some light? His law is love and his gospel is He is coming in and he is overtaking the north. The world is full of darkness because of sin 14, which is probably very familiar to you, where it says Of the increase of his government and peace there will be no end Um Now, just pause for a minute. Do you know what he was doing through this distress that was coming on the land? Sin is the fence against God, it is going against God. So God imparts to human hearts the blessing. Okay, so so when you find treasure He will guide his affairs with discretion. Okay, you're now the king of Israel. I mean it it there's just so much confusion It has to do with the same thing that we preached last Sunday. Calm and worship, calm and worship, worship. And we're going to see that in this passage. That's why we celebrate Christmas. There are idols of every kind all over the place. Nor is democracy alone enough. This will happen in our world He can perform many miracles. I need to be with you. He may be seated You go all the way back to Exodus, which we've been studying. Well, first of all, you see from this passage It came upon the midnight clear. Now, let me just quickly mention this. It's a future prophecy. Did you know that? There was a You know what the word what what the name Ganam means? It's kind of like this. God with man is the