Please keep in prayer those who are traveling in various places this morning away from us. And take your Bibles if you would turn to Ruth chapter 4. A young man about the age of ten spent many, many hours on a particular project. He was building a boat. It was a little model boat and he had spent countless hours in every detail and making sure that it was constructed properly and then he put a beautiful paint job on the boat. uh polyurethane the boat and just really took great care in building this boat. He went out on the riverside and with a string attached to the boat, let the boat out to see if it would s it would float on the river. And much to his joy, he found that it did And he was sitting in the sunshine and enjoying the the boat, enjoying the creation that he had made, and um a strong current in the river Swept that boat away and it detached from its string and went down the river. The boy, the 10-year-old boy, ran after the boat, but The current was so fast he was not able to catch the boat and he ran and ran, but nightfall was coming and he was not able to catch up to the boat and the boat was lost. One the next day he was walking in town and he discovered, he was, of course, very discouraged and distraught over all the time that he had spent creating this boat and building it, and he had seen and he saw the boat, it was actually in the window of the store in that town. He immediately went in and saw the store manager and he asked them, he said to the manager, Sir, that is my boat. The manager said to him, young man, that boat was brought in by somebody else. You are going to have to pay for that boat if you want it. Young man went home, he gathered all of his money together, and he went over to the store manager and he bought that boat again that he had already Built for himself. He bought it from a store manager and he said these words. He said he he it he he sort of gently hugged the boat. And he said, now you're twice mine. First I made you, and now I bought you. That is not an illustration that I came up with myself. It's an illustration I've heard on many occasions, several occasions. How many of you have heard that illustration before? Okay, quite a few of you. It's an illustration that really pictures quite well the disp the definition of redemption. And Christ redeemed us. Christ is, according to Colossians and John chapter 1, he is our creator. Christ owns us by virtue of the fact that He built us, He created us. But Christ, isn't it true that Christ, because of our lostness, also bought us with his own life? He redeemed us. And as you study the Old Testament, what you will find is that there are various pictures throughout the Old Testament that talk about the redemption. That pictures the redemption that would occur when Christ comes. And this is This passage is one of the greatest passages that pictures the redemption of Christ. You'll notice in the text that this is exactly the point. If you'll look for, for example, at verse 4 of this chapter, we find really one of the best definitions, verses to define redemption, perhaps in the entire Old Testament. And I thought to advertise thee saying, Buy it, he says, Boaz says to the unnamed kinsman, Buy it before the inhabitants and before the elders of the people, if thou wilt redeem it. Redeem it. For if thou wilt not redeem it, then tell me that I may know, for there is none to redeem it besides thee, and I am after thee. And he said, I will redeem it. So redemption, according to this verse, as well as well as other passages in the Old Testament, redemption means to buy back. to purchase something, to buy it back so that it could be owned even though it was originally owned by the person purchasing it. And we have this story of Boaz purchasing the redemption for Naomi and Ruth. And it my prayer is that we will just Let's pray together. Father, we do come to you And I pray, Lord, that as we look at the life of Boaz, that we would indeed glory in our Redeemer. We must remember that we are born lost. We must remember that we are deserving of nothing. And we must remember the great un Explainable, indescribable, loving kindness that Christ had toward us, that He would give His own life to purchase our redemption. I pray as we see the Boaz purchasing the redemption for the sake of Ruth and Naomi that we would see the picture of Christ here And it would cause us and refresh our hearts to joy in the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. This is a passage with several moving parts, and it is actually fairly complex. In order for us to really grasp what's happening in this passage, we need to understand a few cultural value things here. Of course, you'll recall recall from previous passage, from previous weeks that Ruth in chapter 3 has made herself available not only as to be the wife of Boaz, should he accept, but also to be redeemed by Boaz, to for Boaz to be that kinsman redeemer. There was, though, someone else that was of closer kin to Naomi and to Ruth. And so Boaz, in doing the right thing and being true to his own character and true to what is right. Was going to deal with this situation and was going to speak on behalf of Naomi and Ruth to this man who is unnamed in the passage. And we'll look a little bit later about why he is unnamed. But a few things we need to understand about the way things were valued back then, particularly when it comes to land. Land back then was promised by God, if you recall, in the Abrahamic covenant of the nation of Israel. And as time would progress during the Palestinian covenant, there would be 12 different tribes, and 11 of those 12 tribes would possess land. Only the Levites would not possess land. Everybody else possessed land. It was promised, particularly promised, a particular amount of land. And as time progressed, what you also find is that various families would possess segments of those lands within these these eleven tribes. And within those families, then each individual within those families would possess land. Those families would be large families, so you would call them clans, essentially. And one of the clans that we are talking about here in this passage is the clan of Elimelech, and it is in the town of Bethlehem. There is some irony there, by the way, when it comes to them, the location that they are in, and we'll see this in this passage as well. We need to also understand that land could not be bought by another family permanently. In other words, you could not take one clan and uh a person from one clan and purchase the land permanently from another person's clan, it was always promised to that particular clan, and within that clan was passed down from one generation to another. So there was not purchasing of land. There was a the year of Jubilee actually that happened every 50 years. And during that time everything would reset back. to the particular families. And so there was debt and buying and selling of land for use purposes But it would always always revert back during the year of Jubilee back to these particular families. And we need to this is totally different than our the way things work in our society. So we need to understand uh this about about about the land uh in the Old Testament in order to understand this passage. Something else we need to understand just by way of value is that God understood the value of the people in the land, and you find in the Old Testament many, many references to the land. In fact, if you look at the book of Psalms even. David talks about, would you bless our land? God will talk about cursing the land because of sin. Or land is very, very prominent as a subject in the Old Testament. Of course, on a practical level, land was important as well. It was a farming agrarian society, and where you got your food was from the land that you had. If they in order to live and habitate and also eat. Food had or land had to be developed and food had to be uh had to be harvested from the land And overall general wealth was determined by the amount of land that you had and how well you were able to use that land for agrarian purposes. So the wealth that you had, the money that you had, was really tied to the amount of land that you have. Land was then extremely important. And we need to understand that in order to understand the context in which we see this passage. Boaz, when he comes to the gate of the city in verse 1, comes there because that is where major decisions are made. Rarely do they have written contracts at this point. Instead what they would do is they would gather people together of good reports. Sometimes it would be called elders And they would be gathered together to listen to various things and to make decisions, and that fact that there was witnesses there would clearly establish the decision that was made and it would be understood as essentially a contractual kind of agreement when there were enough witnesses present, and that was actually laid out in Old Testament law in Leviticus and Deuteronomy. Boaz intends for a contract, in a sense, or a covenant, if you will, to be created on some level in this situation. Either, as he has said in chapter three, either he wants this near kinsman to take his responsibility In redeeming the land of Naomi and Ruth, and also providing for Naomi and Ruth, or Boaz has already said to Ruth that he will guarantee that he will do it himself. And so what Boaz is doing is one way or the other, he is setting up a scenario with which a contract on the behalf of Naomi and Ruth would indeed be established. And so that is Boaz's intention, as we pick up in verse 1. Then went Boaz up to the gate and sat him down there And behold, the kinsman of whom Boaz spake came back came by, unto whom he said, Ho much such a one Turn aside, sit down here, and he turned aside and sat down here. Now the way that the King James translates host such a one is basically such and such a person. The the point in which now uh what what the narrator is doing here is he he is intentionally making sure that this name is is um is established as as there is no name. It is a nameless person. You will not find the name mentioned in this passage, but that is actually intentional. It's not by accident. It's not like as though Boaz didn't know the name of the person, certainly he did. And the narrator of the passage knew the person, because of course God knew the name of the person. But it was on purpose that this man goes nameless, and we'll understand in a little while why that is. We see here then it says also something to note, it says, and just then There is this concept here from this passage that actually what occurs is uh um Boaz has come to the gate. He is wanting to establish a covenant. He's wanting this is where decisions are made. It would be like our our equivalent of a courthouse. And It just, it's sort of the passage the way it reads, it just so happens that this near kinsman comes by the gate. But clearly you see implied is God's sovereignty in this actually. God's providence is at work here. We know this because in Genesis chapter 24 verse 15 we have the same kind of wording in that passage. And that is in the context of a man who is the servant of Abraham who is going to find a wife for Abraham. You remember that story? And as he goes to back to the land of Abra land where Abraham is from to find a wife uh for Abra um no, it's Isaac, I'm sorry, Isaac, uh to find a wife for Isaac He goes to the land and um and he prays to God, Lord, would you show me the person that is going to to be the wi a good wife for Isaac. And that phrase, and it happened, or so it happened, it it occurred. It's the same way it's used here. Clearly in the passage, then this is of God's plan for all of this to be carried out. Sort of see, we see the God's superintendence over all of this. It's for it to take place the way it does, which tells us something about God and actually our redemption as well. Certainly God's superintendence is involved in our redemption. Then we see in verse 2 it says, And he took ten men of the elders of the city and said, Sit, eat down here. And they sat uh I'm sorry, sit down here, not eat. I don't know what I eat from. We got some uh sit ye down here is what it says. And they sat down. And he said unto the kinsman, Naomi, that is come again out of the country of Moab uh selleth a parcel of land which was our brother Elimelex. So he sits down these he sits these people down. It is somewhat noteworthy that the men, the ten men that are sat down here, he doesn't tell them why he wants them to sit down. He just sort of says, sit down. And that indicates that Boaz has such a good reputation and is so trustworthy from his previous dealings that the men don't even question it. They say, okay, well Boaz wants us to sit down, we'll have a seat. And so they sit down to hear the matter that Boaz wants to present before him. And the thing and the thing that he presents before them, both these witnesses as well as this closer kinsman redeemer, or kins this closer kinsman. Has to do with the land particularly. And you see in verse 3, the land is mentioned, and it says in the passage that Naomi has sold the parcel of land. Now, we want to be clear here from various other passages in scripture that we see, Naomi can't sell the land permanently. What she has done is sold the use of the land. Now we don't know the past the Bible doesn't tell us when she sold this or how this sold. It's possible that Elimelech could have actually sold this land before he ever went back to uh went to Moab when there was famine in that land uh years prior, it's possible he actually sold the rights of use to the land at that time. Or perhaps when Naomi came back from Moab and came back into the area in order to be able to just live, perhaps she sold the land in order to have permanent dwelling place. uh somewhere and be able to s to to survive just by living on on maybe a part of that land for some some amount of time. We don't really know how the details of that. But the bottom line is that that the use of that land was no longer Naomi's. She could not she could not use that land anymore. It was it was purchased, if you will, or the use of it was purchased by someone else. Boaz brings this up because obviously he wants to, on behalf of Naomi and Ruth, he wants to make sure that they're provided for. Of course, they it would culturally they could not work the land themselves. There had to be a man to work that land. That's just the way the culture was. So it was not likely that that was a scenario that was going to happen, and yet they needed the land for provision to be made. And so Boaz in in in causing and in showing the real purpose of his meeting to be provision for Ruth and Naomi brings up the lamb first before he even says anything about Ruth. Being part of the deal, which we'll see here in a few moments. Now, a few things that we need to understand. I've already mentioned so far that land could not be permanently sold according to Leviticus 25, 23. Naomi apparently did sell the land according to Leviticus 25, 14. What we also need to be aware of is that the Leverett marriage that we have talked about before. would require the land to be bought from the one who is using it. And actually, if there is a leverate marriage happening that person who is using the land could be compelled to sell the land for the right time right price. In other words, if this kinsman or Boaz says it wants to mar is going to marry Ruth through a leverate marriage, they could go to that person and say, look, I am compelling you to sell this land for the right pr for a amicable price, for a right price. And you must do it, basically. They couldn't refuse, essentially. One thing to note also, though, is that the leveret marriage was not something that was required by law. Everything I could tell that that's the case. In other words, it was a voluntary thing. A brother-in-law, in other words, though he was had a moral obligation to provide for the family, did not necessarily have to marry the person. That wasn't absolutely required. But in this case, in order for Naomi and Ruth to be able to sustainably sub survive because the land had been sold There was there needed to be a leverate marriage in order for them that to take place, in order for the land to be able to be brought back All of that is also important. Now these are a lot of details, but it'll all you'll understand why this is all important in a few moments Then what we see happens here is that Boaz in verse 4 identifies particularly, he hones in on this near kinsman who is unnamed, and he says, look. You need this is what's going on, and if you are willing to buy this land, buy it. Or if you don't buy it, I'm available to buy it. He basically compels this man, and he says, for the sake of Ruth and Naomi, you need to buy this land. Now, let's just think for a minute here. Why do you suppose this nameless kinsman has not yet bought the land? Well, whose land would it be at some point in the future? It would automatically, at some point in the future, if, for instance, if Naomi passes away, it would automatically default to him And it would actually go to his descendants rather than Eliminate and Naomi's descendants. So it is very likely in the passage that that he is he's holding out. He's not wanting to take overt responsibility for Naomi and Ruth. He is hoping until Boaz brings it up, certainly he knows that there's land there that would be rightfully his. He's aware of this, that they're aware of these kind of things But he really is waiting, holding out, essentially, is what's happening here. Boaz is now working on behalf of Naomi and Ruth. He is their advocate, isn't he? And that's one of the things we need to understand about what Christ is for us. We find in 1 John 2 verse 1. These things write unto you that ye sin not, and if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. The Bible says that Christ ever lives To make intercession for us. He is our advocate. Why? Because he is our rightful redeemer. He bought those rights with his own life. is our advocate that sits on the right hand of the Father interceding on our behalf. Boaz in a helpless situation for Naomi and Ruth, which is the state we're in before we come to Christ. goes on behalf of Ruth and Naomi and one way or the other he is going to make sure that these ladies are provided for. And so he in this way he is defined, but he is not willing to cut any corners. He's not willing to say, you know what, I'm going to I'll just take care of you, I'll marry you, we'll we'll work all this out, and we'll forget that kinsman, he didn't fulfill his responsibility No, no. He goes through every necessary step to do what is absolutely right in a situation. He cuts no corners. He goes through the process exactly as he should. And he is defined by his righteousness and justice in this passage as he does this. That is also something the case with Christ, is it not? Christ is defined by his righteousness and his justice. Why did Christ go to the cross? Christ had the authority to redeem us before he ever went to the cross. He's God. But he could not satisfy his justice by simply authoritatively saying we are forgiven without a provision being made first. And so to satisfy both his loving kindness and mercy and his justice, Christ went to the cross for us. Christ is the righteous just redeemer and when he redeemed us he has all rights to us. Why? Because he went he fulfilled the law himself entirely There are all kinds of things we could go into about what Christ did. He lived a perfect life that we could not live. He established every need and right in order to be able to die for our sins and to redeem us, and we are rightfully his. He is defined as well by righteousness and justice. So we see here that this near kinsman is compelled to buy this land back. And he is also compelled now, as we see in the passage, to also acquire Ruth for his wife. You'll see this in verse 5. Then said Boaz, What day thou buyest the field of the land of Naomi, thou must buy it also of Ruth. And by the way, the way to to that's That's worded. He's actually the word buy there, the second buy is acquire. And it's it it it would be clearer if it said um that thou acquire Ruth. In other words, when you buy the land, you will also acquire Ruth. It's not buying it from Ruth. The land doesn't belong to Ruth. It belongs to Naomi is the point. But it the the acquire Ruth and the Ruth in the process the wife of the dead, to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance. So he says the purpose here is that that you that if you when you do it this way, you will then be able to continue the inheritance of a limelech And it could it could rightfully his legacy would continue essentially. By the way, I didn't mention this before, but that's another important value of this culture, and really many cultures. particularly ancient cultures. Legacies are very important. Now we in our s I it's somewhat the case in our Western culture as well. As Christians, we have another legacy completely. Like we're going to live forever with Christ. And so our legacy is at It's a little different for us. Yes, we want our children to be successful and we want to leave a legacy that way and but it's not like our only our only legacy. For somebody who's not thinking in terms of of of the kingdom, God's only and and particularly for somebody who doesn't know the Lord at all and has no eternal and has no eternal prospect, their only legacy on this side on earth is their kids. This is like how they continue, even though they're dead. It's extremely valuable and extremely important. uh to to these people and to really people around the world. And so so Boaz is compelling him and saying, look, if you do this, then this land and all that goes uh to a limelex family and and pat is passed down in in that way. Well, a couple of things we need to review here. One is that the lever marriage is not oblig uh obligatory, it is it is voluntary. So what Boaz is not doing here is he is not saying you must legally do this. He's saying if you buy the land and if you can't, then these two things go together. That's legal. But he's also essentially arguing on the point of morality. He's saying, unnamed kinsman, this is your moral obligation to do this. Now, really to understand the situation, we can actually refer to another passage of scripture that's going to help us really understand the the severity and the gravity of the situation and also identify really that this man is shirking his responsibility And that passage, which I actually, you don't necessarily have to turn to, but you might want to write down, is in Genesis 38. We're going to look there later on, but here I'll just refer to this. That is the story of of Judah and Tamar. And the passage actually refers to this later on. Now there's some really sensitive things in this story. I'll just tell you that. Parents, just be aware of that in in uh in chapter 38 of this pat of of of the Bible here. And you're going to have to explain some things depending on how you turn there, but just just be aware of that. And I'll be cautious here actually But but when it comes to the situation, there is this is absolutely necessary for us to understand it. What has happened is a man by the name of Ur who is Tamar's first husband dies. In fact, the God kills him. We don't the uh done did wickedness in the sight of the Lord. A man by the name of Onan, which was Ur's brother, was now compelled by Judah, who was the father, to marry Tamar. It would that was the leverett marriage, basically, and to do so and that his his lineage, Ur's lineage, would be able to continue. Long story short, Onan refuses in a very s he in a very bad way gross way. He refuses. And God is absolutely God is absolutely displeased with him for doing so. Verse 10 of that passage says, and the thing which he did displease the Lord, wherefore he slew him also. Now let's understand this. How badly did Onan not want to serve as this leverett uh uh uh husband? He did not want to do it He didn't want to do it because he knew that at least the first offspring of this marriage would not be for his lineage or his legacy. And so he absolutely did not want to do this. He was doing it all he he he was compelled by Judah and so that's how b how badly he didn't want to do it. It's hard for us to understand why exactly we would think I would think another reason why he wouldn't want to do it, because his other wife. That would be why I would think he wouldn't want to do it. I don't think that was the reason. The reason was is that he did not want to to continue the legacy of this man Ur. And he really didn't want to. And God was so displeased with him that he slew him over it. Do you see the two sides here? In other gods In other words, God greatly valued the leverate marriage as something that would be unselfish. And Onan did not want to do it. Now, here's the point. When we get to Ruth here, and this unnamed man does not want to do this, how do you suppose, it's not in a passage, but how do you suppose God is looking at this He is not looking on this favorably. And that's why you have this man in a narrative where names are really important for legacy is unnamed. Does that make sense? This man, in other words, is unnamed because there is this implied judgment on him, as one commentator said. Since he refused to restore the name of the dead to his inheritance, he himself has no name. Anonymity implies judgment. Now that sets us up for understanding Boaz in this situation. Let's contrast then this unnamed kinsman with Boaz. What's the difference, folks, between this unnamed kinsman and Boaz? How would we characterize this unnamed kinsman? The answer is that he was selfish. Very simply. He was consider he was only cuz concerned with his own legacy, with his own uh situation with his own survival, with his own prosperity, he was completely consumed with himself. The passage intends this to be something as a contrast to Boaz. Boaz on the other hand was exactly the opposite of that. Now let me explain it this way. We don't know whether or not Boaz was married or not already. The passage doesn't say because it really doesn't matter. What we do know is that, I mean, it's very possible he was, by the way. I mean he's older, it's very likely he was, but the passage doesn't say Boaz, the point here is this, Boaz was expressing this amazing loving kindness. Toward Naomi and Ruth, even though he actually had, did not have the moral obligation to fulfill that role. Does that make sense? He didn't have to do this. He wasn't the closest kinsman. He did it voluntarily. He did it willingly because the closest kidsmen actually refused to do it. And it's something else that we learn about Christ. Did Christ go to the cross under under duress or did Christ go to the cross willingly? He went willingly on our behalf. Christ didn't have to do it. He went to the cross of his own volition, the Bible says. And we see the same thing with Boaz. Boaz is not doing this at all because he has to. He's not required to by law, and there's a sense in which even morally he's not responsible to do this. This closer kinsman was. But Boaz has such loving kindness for Ruth and Naomi He's not looking at his own self-interest. Instead, he is so consumed with with providing for Ruth and Naomi. Why? Because no other way to look at it. He loves them He just loves them. You know that's what true biblical love is. True biblical love cares about the well-being of someone To the even to the harm of self or the sacrifice of self. That's true biblical love. The problem here with this new with this man we find here in the passage. is that this man did not want to contaminate his own inheritance according to verse 6. And so this man says, oh man, I've gotten out here So would you, okay, Boaz, fine, take it, please take, take this. I don't want to contaminate my own hair. I don't want to contaminate my own self-interest here. And Boaz then is able then to do this. He is able to go into essentially a contract to acquire both the land and to acquire Ruth. Isn't this so romantic? I mean this is just romance to to the T, isn't it? I just mentioned that. It's just this is just romance, okay, all over the place here. Verse 7. Not so much. Verse 7. Now this was the manner in former time in Israel concerning redeeming and concerning changing for to confirm all things. A man plucked off a shoe and gave it to his neighbor, and this was a testimony. Uh in Israel. So they the the the commentary basically on this verse this verse comments basically saying saying what's about to happen here is a binding contract. And so by the way I think that's a great idea I think that that a really biblical way to marry two people, in in addition to, you know, the the the state thing that you you sign and saying and the and the vows and all that So they should take each other's shoes and just give them to each other. I think that would be great. Maybe rings are a little more romantic. I don't know. Anyway. Um So we see in verse 8, therefore the kinsman said unto Boaz, Buy it for thee. So he drew off his shoe. That settled it. When you take the shoe off, man, it's done. It sounds funny to us, but that's really the case. Verse nine. And Boai said unto the elders and unto all the people, ye are witnesses this day that I have bought all that was Elimelech's, and all that was Chileon's and Malon's, of the hand of Naomi. Moreover, Ruth, the Moabitis, the wife of Malon, have I purchased to be my wife To raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance, that the name of the dead be not cut off from among his brethren, and from the gate of his peep place, ye are witnesses this day Now, what we find then in verses 7 through 10 is this man is on a mission. He will not stop till the mission is done. He is extremely focused. And we talked about this last week. We see it again here. This is a man whose mission is redemption. And he goes through every hurdle and and he and he jots every uh he he crosses every top Every T, he dots every I, he does everything he needs to to make sure this is all done right, and he is relentless in his pursuit of the redemption of Naomi And Ruth. And you know what? Aren't you glad that Christ is relentless in his pursuit of you and me? He is. He, if you know Christ as your Savior, he has chosen you before the foundation of the world, Ephesians 1. He, through his spirit and through the gospel and the word, draws you to himself. You have absolutely no way of coming to him. You don't care about him. You don't search after him. No man does. And what you find is when you do finally come to faith, you accept him as your personal Lord and Savior. And Christ continues to work as your advocate, and he will make sure that your redemption is secured. And when you stand before Christ one day, it won't be because of your behavior, it will be because of Christ's work for you in securing your redemption. Christ is relentless in his mission toward you. But let me say by way of application that you and I ought to be relentless in our mission toward Christ. It's our reasonable service. It's just reasonable. Romans chapter 12 tells us that. That we ought to present our bodies as a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God. Why? Because what did Christ do for us? He presented his body as a living sacrifice. When somebody presents their body as a living sacrifice for Christ, it's not like it's gro like they're just the greatest thing in the world. It's just reasonable. We ought to be relentless, relentless when it comes to our mission of redemption in Christ. We're his ambassadors. And we find in this passage a great example of Boaz. Christ is relentless in his securing of us and his redemption of us. And we ought to be relentless in that same mission toward others. And he obviously says here in verse 10, he gives it the purpose of everything. to perpetuate the name of the dead. He has finally now secured what this whole process has taken him to, and he has now secured both the land, which was insignificant to Boaz, I think. He's significant to everybody, but Boaz was not he wasn't really concerned about the land. He was concerned for providing for Naomi and Ruth for their lives, because he loved them. The land was just the means to do it His values were very different than this other man's values, weren't they? We see this great, really unimaginable, unexplainable love. That Boaz has for Naomi and Ruth, and he and he purchases the land and acquires Ru Ruth as his wife. I mean, by the way, Ruth's not even in the passage, and it's done. She ain't that involved. I mean basically he's his wife he goes home and he says, Okay, you're my wife now. That's basically what it's how how it works in this passage Now the people, I want you to notice then what happens here. The people in verses eleven and twelve. When they look and they see the big picture in an amazing way. It's incredible what they see here. We see this by their blessing of Boaz and Ruth and what is about to happen. In other words, they're not only saying, yes, we we're here, we're witnesses, we understand this is going to they look at all this and they go You are to be blessed for this. And we understand why. What Boaz did here is amazing. It's like unheard of. He doesn't have to do this, and yet he's doing it. He doesn't even have a moral obligation, and yet he's doing it. And the people are going, This is wonderful that you have done this. And we see three different blessings in this passage in verses 11 through 12. Verse 11 it says, and all the people that were in the gate and the elders said, We are witnesses, the Lord make the woman that has come into thine house like Rachel and Leah. Which too by the way, when I first read that I went, why? I'm not sure I really I mean Rachel and Leah, you know, read uh they weren't great ladies, at least from from um from some of the stories that are in the Old Testament there in the book of Genesis. But what were Rachel and Leah? They were fruitful. Okay. That's what it's talking about in the past. Particularly Leah. But Rachel and Leah, they were what were they? I mean they were the mount mothers of the twelve tribes of Israel. They produced the men that became the heads of these tribes that produced Israel. This is a great blessing. And they're basically identifying the fact that may Boaz and Ruth continue this kind of blessing in this passage. Now all the people that and the Lord make known unto them into thine house, like Rachel and Leah like Leah, which two did build the house of Israel. And do thou worthily in Ephrata, which is another name for it's an ancient name for Bethlehem, and be famous in Bethlehem. By the way, did that come to pass? Sure did. We go to the Gospels and we see Ruth's name mentioned there in connection with Bethlehem. That's number one, there was this fruitfulness that they are they are blessing. It it I can I say it this way, my my my and my impression of this Is that God is almost using these people in a prophetic sense? They are prophesying. They may not even be aware of everything they're saying, but they are saying a lot here. And there is this prophetic sense in where which this is all going to take place. They probably are not aware of how it's going to take place, but it's going to take place in an incredible way. God is blessing, going to bless Boaz and Ruth. He's going to bless this union significantly. He also says in the passage that they claim prosperity for them. That their name would be great, that they would have, it says famous there, or that they would have standing, good, solid standing in Bethlehem So there's prosperity that they put on. Would you be bl we're hoping that Boaz and Ruth are blessed because of what is happening here. And the number three, lineage. Now, this one is a little a little interesting. It says here in verse 12, and let thy house be like the house of Perez. whom Tamar bare unto Judah of the seed which the Lord had shall give thee of the young woman. Now, follow me here Who is the house of Perez? Perez was the main person that settled in Bethlehem originally. So who is Perez? Well, Perez is actually the product of Judah and Tamar back in Genesis 38. Now I'm going to be gentle in how I discreet in how I say this. But basically what happened was was that Judah, when Omar would not perform the lever in marriage Judah promised his his child son to Tamar, and he said, if you will stay unmarried and you will stay in my house, when my son gets old enough, the two of you will be married. This is more romance. Um you you'll you'll you'll be done. You'll be married. This man uh was um uh his name was Shela But something happened as time went on. Tamar waited and waited and waited and waited and waited. And you know what Judah did? He forgot about it. The man grew, Sheila grew, and Tamar is going, I'm here. Can you please do something? This is my imagination a little bit. And like just they nothing ever happens. Judah's forgetting completely about his promise to Tamar. Now Tamar does some very unsavory things, I'll just put it that way. And there is a product from that between Judah and Tamar. And that is the man Perez. Now there is a similarity here and also a contrast, isn't there? The similarity is that God, despite the sin involved in all this, Use it still in the line of Christ ultimately. Peraz is in the line of Christ, as is Boaz and as is Ruth. By the way, if you look at the line of Christ, you are not going to see perfection there. In fact, you're going to see all kinds of sin. You're going to find all kinds of problems. Christ, when he came to earth, was born of human being, a human being, and also God. Right? And a human being that was very flawed, and whose lineage was very flawed and very sinful. Isn't that amazing that the grace of God can overwhelm and overcome sinful acts to produce his will. But we have with that in mind, we ought never think to ourselves, well, that's an excuse for me to be able to live the way I want. Because what we have on the other side of this is a contrast, is it not? We have a contrast between Boaz and this man Judah. What a contrast Judah was negligent, he was forgetful, he was purposeless, he was sinful. Judah was a man whom God chose to use in spite of Judah. Right? It wasn't in Judah's compliance and obedience. It wasn't because of that. It was in spite of it. Boaz is a man who is exactly the opposite. Boaz is a man who is meticulous in his in doing right, who is careful, who is not sinful, who is diligent, who is Who is all the things that you would ever imagine a man of character to be? Totally the opposite of Tamar. Ruth goes to Boaz and says, Look, I'm available for the lever of marriage. And Boaz runs Maybe not physically runs, but he goes immediately to deal with the situation. The next day he's in the gate dealing with this We have an absolute contrast between Boaz and and Judah here. My question to you is, who do you want to be? Would to God that we would be people that would be used because of our obedience to Christ, not in spite of our obedience to Christ. And maybe you sit here and you say, you know, I don't know who I am. You know what? We're all a bit of a mix of both, aren't we? Sometimes we are unfaithful to Christ. Sometimes we are not the way we ought to be. But folks, here is what we ought to do We ought to look at this and say, you know, I am thankful. I can look back and I am thankful that God can even work and glorify Himself. Even despite my failures, he did it all the way out throughout the Old Testament in the Bible But on the other hand, looking forward, God, I don't want you to do that in my life anymore. I don't want to have them be used in spite of me. I want to be used consistent with my obedience. Looking ahead, you want to say, I want to be a Boaz. Maybe I've been a Judah in the past, but I want to be a Boaz in the future. So that our life can be consistent and God can use us to glorify Himself consistent with our obedience to Him. And when we when we put God first in our lives, in our this is what Boaz did. Boaz, there is all kinds of blessing here, isn't there? Why is there all this blessing pronounced on Boaz? By the way, how much blessing do you see pronounced on Judah? I mean there is some blessing actually in the Old Testament pronounced, but the kind of blessing, abundance of blessing pronounced in just a few short verses on Boaz, is incredible. Listen carefully, folks. This is so important. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and what? And all these things will be done unto you. Seek, do God's business, and let him do your business. It's a pretty good deal. And when we have that kind of focus, we will see God do things in our lives and bless us in ways that we cannot imagine And it may not be until the next life we realize all those blessings. It may not be until eternity that we realize all those blessings. And sometimes we will receive blessings in this life and realize it is because of our faithfulness. But folks, realize that when if we will be relentless in our pursuit of Christ and in pursuit of the furtherance of God's kingdom, that we will, God will bless us. That's what faith is. It is one who believes that God is a rewarder of them that diligently seek Him. And so there are some conclusions we need to come from away from this. Number one, we ought to glory in the character of our Redeemer. What great character. We see this in Boaz. We see this in Christ. We ought to glory in the amazing character. of our Redeemer. Number two, we should focus on the mission of our Redeemer. Christ's mission is not changed. He's relentless in completing it. We will be perfect in the day of Christ. Not until then. We should focus on the mission of our Redeemer. And number three, we should anticipate God's blessing when we live righteously for our Redeemer. We should live, we should anticipate God's blessing when we live righteously for our Redeemer. Let's pray together. Lord, we have seen much in this passage. And there is a lot here, a lot that has been covered. Lord, my our I would just ask you to help all of us to take this as as meat that we can chew on. That we would take this throughout the week and we would just maybe reread this passage and chew on the truths of the passage and develop them more and apply them to our lives. There's so much here May it cause us, dear Father, to just glory in our Redeemer. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.