Take your Bibles and turn to the book of John this morning, John chapter 19. John nineteen. I think it's safe to say that the first one is a very important thing. We all love stories. And different stories of different kinds. And you might like uh books or you might like um movies or television shows but we all like stories of one kind or another. What makes a good story Well, usually a good plot makes a good story, right? You have to have different plot turns and unexpected things that happen in a in a given plot. So a plot is a really good thing to have But you have you ever watched something or read something? And by the time it got to the climax of the plot, you didn't really understand um Like you really didn't care what was happening to the person. And if you if you experienced that, if you if you didn't care, it's probably because There wasn't good character development in the story. You ever watched the show or read um read something and you said that I I just don't even care what this happens to this character because there was a good character development Other times you can have sequel upon sequels and totally different plots for each sequel, and the only reason that it works is because you really want to know what's going to happen to that character Um I can think of some of the some some of the more recent kids movies, like um like that frozen or well frozen we'll talk about in a minute, but Monsters Incorporated, you remember that that's not that recent. Back wet ways. Um, but do you remember Monsters Incorporated? Do you remember the little girl Boo? Didn't you really want that kid to get back in her bed? I mean after all that you really like the whole time you're like you open that boo character gets back. They develop that character really well. You really your heart went out w went forward. Or think of think of Frozen, that El Elsa and Anna. You remember Anna, she's singing songs like Do You Wanna Build a Snowman and Time is Going On and She's Lonely and Elsa's Lonely. They really do a good job of developing the character so that when the plot takes place you really care but what happens to these people. Well, John really wants us in a much more important, significantly more significant way, John really wants us to understand the person. of Christ. He wants us to understand who Christ really is. And Matthew's account helps us to understand the rejection that Christ was subjected to by the Roman soldiers and by the Jewish people. Luke's focus is on the attitude of forgiveness that Christ had as he was subjected to those things. Along with the suffering, the physical suffering, and the spiritual separation of his father. And Matthew talks about the separation of his father. And as Christ said, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Which was mentioned in the book of Matthew. But John has John has a different approach. He's got a better approach. Not better, no, it's not better, I'm sorry, that's wrong. But he has a different approach, a more personal approach. Because John is actually an eyewitness Matthew was not an eyewitness. Luke was not an eyewitness. Mark was not an eyewitness. These other gospel writers, they accumulated their information from other sources. But John was the only disciple that was actually there. This is a very personal story. For John, he was very likely the most personal disciple. He was the closest very likely to Christ You think of the inner circle of the three, Peter, James, and John, and then John being the closest probably of the three John in his gospel and his epistle writes an entire epistle for us to understand how to have fellowship with God. And in John's Gospel, we find there to be very personal stories. And there are certain things in John uh particularly in this passage that help us to understand the personal aspects that he wanted us to grasp from this narrative. For example He he talks about the inscription controversy, the inscription of inscription of it saying Jesus the King of the Jews on that plaque that was over top of the cross The other gospel writers mention it, but he goes into more detail about this. The fulfillment of various Old Testament quotations The care for Jesus' mother. Jesus is up on that cross suffering and dying and he takes the time to care for his mother. The last cry on the cross, it is finished. There is a personal nature to what John wants to get across Also, in the book of John, we see that everything actually is leading up to this hour of Christ being on the cross. We find various pictures of Christ's death throughout the book of John. For example, we see the slaying of the lamb in John 1, verse 29. The destroying of the temple was actually a picture of Christ's body being destroyed in John 2 verse 19. The lifting up of a prophet, the lifting up of that serpent in the wilderness, John chapter 3, verse 14. The shepherd lying down to save the life of a sheep, laying down his life for the sheep, in chapter ten, verse eleven through eighteen. The planting of the seed in the ground in John chapter 12, verses 20 through 23. All of these are examples of John's depiction of everything in the Gospel of John is leading up to this exercise. Exaltation of the cross. Other writers see the humiliation of the cross, and certainly it was And John is going to show the humiliation of the cross as well. But John in the humiliation sees exaltation. And in fact, the greater the people try to humiliate Christ, the Roman Guard and the Jewish leaders try to humiliate Christ, the more John sees exaltation of Christ The climax of the story, if you will, the narrative of the book of John is this passage, the cross. And Jesus and and John wants us to see the personal nature Of what was happening with Jesus on the cross, because in the work of Christ, John says you also see the person of Christ. Let's go to the Lord's Lord and ask his blessing on our time together and then we'll get started on this. Father, I pray as we look at your word this morning, I pray that you would Help us to see the personal nature of Christ. Help us to see the personal relationship that you desire for us to have with you through Christ. Lord, we ask that you would help us to see the cross from John's perspective today. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. If you think of the John's gospel, you remember in John chapter 15 that he was that chapter talks about abiding in Christ. In John chapter 17, we have the Lord's high priestly prayer. And there is a great, very personal prayer to his father in that high priestly prayer, talking about the importance of the fellowship that he has with the Father and the fellowship that that we, if we know Christ is our Savior, has with us. And for example, in John chapter 17, verse 3, and this is life eternal that they might know thee. The only true God and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent. With that in mind, we pick up in John chapter 19, and we're going to see in verses 16 and 17. that Christ voluntarily went to the cross. Verse 16 says, then he delivered him to them to be crucified. Then they they took Jesus and led him away. And he bearing his cross went out of out to a place called the place of the skull, which is called in Hebrew Galgotha. Where they crucified him, and two others with him, one either side, and Jesus in the center. And uh and put it in on the cross. And the writing was Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. Then many of the Jews read this title For the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin. Therefore the chief priests and the Jews said to Pilate, Do not write the King of the Jews, but he said, I am the King of the Jews. Jesus answered, or Pilate answered, what I have written, I have written. We find here the humiliation of Christ, that he went and bore his cross. John John specifically identifies that. The reason he identifies that is in part to help us to understand some of the Old Testament precursors to the cross For example, in Genesis chapter 2, 22, verse 6, it says, Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac his son. And he took the fire in his hand and the knife and the two of them went together. Do you remember the story of Isaac going up to the place where he was going to be sacrificed? He took the wood and bore it himself. And if you remember from that passage, Isaac actually willingly was willing to be sacrificed because the father uh uh God wanted him to be There is a picture there of the cross in that passage, and we see the same thing with Jesus. Jesus willingly went to the cross. This was not something that he was compelled to do. It was not something that he was made to do. He willingly went there for you and for me. And we see the picture also of this skull of the of Golgotha. We have this scene. But we have the two the two uh the two criminals as we do in the other passages, but John does this writes this in a way where Jesus is Specifically says that you have these two criminals and Jesus is in the center. He's using this kind of language to depict John's view of the cross as being an exaltation. This is the beginning of his exaltation. It will continue through his resurrection and will culminate in his ascension until he is seated at the right hand of the Father on high. The beginning of that exaltation is here. But we find in this passage clearly that Christ, while he is being exalted, is doing it by means of humiliation. There is this, again, irony that we talked about a few weeks ago. This irony of the humiliation of Christ resulting in the exaltation of Christ. The more they try to humiliate him, the more he is exalted in the mind of John, and certainly in our mind as well. John wants us to understand that he came, Jesus came to seek and to save those who were lost. And there's this term in John called the hour. For example, in John 2, verse 4, Jesus said unto her, the woman that's his mother What am I to do with thee? Do you remember the story of Mary asking Jesus if he could intervene? And they were running out of wine and they asked if Jesus could intervene, and Jesus said, in the beginning, he Jesus said My hour has not yet come. That hour that he's talking about is actually his glorification. We see that in John chapter 12, verse 23, and Jesus answered them saying, The hour is come. But the Son of Man should be glorified. So when John uses this, the hour has come, he's talking about the glorification of Christ. In John chapter thirteen, verse one, it says, My hour is come. And in John chapter seventeen, verse one In Christ's high priestly prayer to his Father, it says, These words spake Jesus and lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour is come Glorify thy son, that thy son also may glorify thee. When John looks at the cross, John realizes that Jesus is going to receive great glory. Because of being on that cross. But he does it by way of humiliation They even took these garments and and and tore these garments apart. Or at least there were two garments. John explains it. We didn't see this before in the other passages, but John explains that there are actually two garments. One that was divided and one that was kept undivided because it had no scenes and it was bartered for or actually it was gambled for That was to demonstrate the the um the the robes that were put aside, and there are many commentators that actually suggest that this is a uh uh uh a depiction or a picture of a lady laying aside of of the glory of Christ. That may or may not be the case. It's sometimes a little bit hard to tell But certainly in Christ being stripped of all garments, probably all, entirely all garments And John wants us to understand that. We see in this passage something that is very important for us to understand. That in God's economy In this world, because of the fallenness of this world, one is glorified through humility. We find this really fleshed out well in a particular passage in the New Testament. I'd like us to take our Bibles and turn there. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Philippians chapter 2? Philippians chapter two for a few moments. And it's interesting that the Apostle Paul in this chapter begins by applying The humiliation of Christ to us, to believers, and saying you need to have the same kind of attitude that Christ had when he went to that cross. He says Verse 1, Philippians chapter 2, if there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship with the Spirit, if any bows and mercies, fulfill ye my joy that ye be like-minded. Having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind, let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind Let each esteem other better than themselves. Look not every man in his own things, but every man also in the things of others. Let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus. And notice the mind that Christ had. Who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God. That means thought it not a thing to be grasped. To be equal with God. It was something that was already true of Christ, the the second person of the Trinity. He is God. It was not something he needed to grasp. But made himself of no reputation. That the idea there, there's actually a word kenosis in the Greek, is the idea of emptying himself. He emptied himself when he came to earth. And he emptied himself even further when he went upon that cross. You'll see that the passage it says, and took upon him the form of a servant, it was made in the likeness of men, but being found in fashion as a man, that was humbling enough. He humbled himself and became obedient unto death. He humbled himself even further. Even the death of the cross, this humiliation of a Roman execution of the cross. As a result of this, Paul says this: wherefore God has highly exalted him And given him a name which is above every name. That the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow of things in heaven and things in earth and things on the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory With God the Father. Now let me make this application. How many of you, well, I won't ask a raise of your hand for this How many of you though might be going through a time of humbling in your life? I would imagine that there are people in this room That this is just a time of humility, a time of humbling. And if you're not going through a time of humbling in your life as a Christian now, it may very well be that you did in the past. Can you think back to a time where it was just a time of humbling in your life? And I will tell you this, if you've never experienced that as a Christian, just wait. You will. Because there is a sense in which God uses the events of humbling of the fallen world in our lives To do his work so that we can be more conformed to the image of Christ. There is this economy of God that is totally different from the world system. The world system says, well, you exalt yourself and you will be exalted. That is exactly the opposite of God's economy. That's why it says in James 4, verse 10, humble yourself in the sight of God, and he will lift you up. Just as he did Jesus Christ. First Corinthians chapter one, verse twenty-six says, For you see your calling, brethren But not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called. But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to put to shame the wise. And God has chosen the weak things of the world to put to shame the things which are mighty, and the base things of the world, and the things which are despised, God has chosen. And the things which are not, to bring to nothing the things that are. You see how different God's economy is to the economy of the world And you and I as Christians need to understand that God wants us to humble ourselves before the mighty hand of God. Do you ever find it hard to humble yourself? It's sort of interesting because it's when you really think logically, none of us have any reason to be uh have any kind of pride at all in our lives Any giftedness that we have doesn't come from ourselves at all. It comes from God. Any motivation, in fact, that we have, the Bible says it is God that worketh in you both to will and do for his good pleasure. It's totally illogical that we would have any kind of pride at all in our lives, and yet we do, don't we? We have this flesh in us that wants to glorify self That wants to think well of self. That wants to to lift up self And Jared, there are just times in our lives where God says, No, you're going to be humble. There's going to be a time of humiliation, a time of humbling in your life But just realize this, brothers and sisters in Christ, if you're going through a time like that, or if you went through a time like that, or if you will go through a time like that, which you will Just understand that God wants to make you through that more like Christ. He wants you to be more like Him. And there isn't any further humiliation that anybody has ever gone through than Christ Himself. Christ was humiliated on that cross unlike any ever before. And you and I will go through times in our lives where we are, where we where God works in our lives to humble us. Receive it with grace, and know that God's plan is that you may glorify Him greater through that humility. God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. We then see John as he as as he describes all of what is going on, of course we noted already that there's this inscription, that there's this controversy over it, and Pilate puts up there Jesus of Nazareth the King of the Jews and the Jewish leaders don't like this. They want Pilate to put he said he was the King of the Jews and Pilate refuses to do that because he really is actually trying to humiliate the Jewish leaders because the Jewish leaders were actually essentially the previous narrative blackmailing him to to put Jesus to death. All of this drama is behind the scenes as Christ goes up on this cross. In John's mind, even that plaque up on that cross isn't Exaltation of Christ as it declares what is truly the case, that He is the King of the Jews. But then we have a very personal turn here As we see the words of Christ, we pick up in verse twenty-five, it says Now therefore stood by the cross of Jesus his mother and his mother's sister Mary, the wife of Cleopas, and Mary Magdalene. And so there are four Mary's there actually. There are four women This is likely John describes all these w he mentions all these women in contrast to the four Roman soldiers uh e uh earlier And then Jesus says, when Jesus therefore saw his mother and the disciples, whom he loved, standing by, he said to his mother, Woman, behold your son. Now I want us to get to understand this. Jesus has been suffering for hours by this point. Jesus is very likely at this point, it's hard to tell from the narrative whether or not this is the case, but he may have been separated from his father at this point. Jesus was going through great suffering at this point. How do you go through suffering? I mean, just anticipate suffering in your life. How do you go through physical pain in your life? Well, I I think most of us probably just try to grin and bear it You just got to get through it. And and it helps if you can kind of go numb. And if you think of uh uh what do they do when you go to the dentist and there's going to be great pain, uh they give you Novocaine to numb everything so that you don't go through as much pain. And you can almost emotionally do that when you're going going through great suffering, you can kind of go numb so that you're not experiencing the drama of the emotion of all the pain. But Jesus didn't do that. Jesus is going through all of this suffering and and I mean on agony on this cross And in the midst of all this pain, he's not just going comatose on us, figuratively speaking. He's not just kind of numbing, numb to everything. He is so caring. And so aware that he actually makes arrangements for his mother on the cross. It's incredible. And customarily it would have been one of Jesus' half-brothers that are clearly mentioned in Scripture. I won't take the time to look at those, but in Matthew chapter 13, 55 through 58, you have a mention of various brother half-brothers of Christ, it would be customary for one of them to take responsibility for Mary, but Jesus was so close with his disciples And there was one particular disciple that he was very, very close with. And that was John. And so he says to John, Woman, behold thy son, son, behold thy mother. There is this transfer of responsibility. He's basically saying, Would you please take care of my mother? This gives us insight into the kind of relationship that Jesus had with his disciples. Yes, Jesus was Lord of the disciples. But Jesus was also friend of the disciples. That's why it says in John 15, 15, henceforth, I call you not servants, for the servant knoweth not what the Lord doeth, but I have called you friends. For all things that I have heard of my father, I have made known unto you. Did you get that? Jesus, the second person of the Trinity, the Lord of all creation, the creator of the ends of the earth. Is a friend to the disciples? And did you know that he is a friend to you and to me There is this personal relationship not only that Jesus had with his mother, this natural affection that Jesus had for his mother, but Jesus has this personal relationship With John. And there is this implication because in 1 John chapter 1, which we won't turn there, John says, I want everyone to have this, I want everyone to have a wee had, the disciples Fellowship with God is your relationship that you have a personal, close, intimate relationship with God. We see this personal nature. We see the hum the humanity demonstrated. Jesus demonstrates his humanity. Did you know that it is a natural thing to love your mother? To care for your mother and a mother for care for a child. Those are those are the Bible would describe those as natural affections. Even the unsaved care for their care for their own Unless they leave their natural affections, which is a possibility as well, according to 2 Timothy 3, verse 3, and Romans 1, verse 31. But obviously, in the image of God, which has been marred by the fall, there are a lot of things that Jesus couldn't retain, but that's one of them that he could. And he really had this affection, this natural affection for his mother, which really demonstrated that he was human. He was both completely God and completely man at the same time, which is Which is logically logically impla impossible, but we're not talking about logic here, are we? We're talking about divine Notice also this. We see actually we see his deity actually demonstrated here as well, his divine work demonstrated here. Here Jesus is performing the the climactic And redemptive work, this cosmic work for all of mankind in offering forgiveness for the sins of the world And yet he narrows in on one person, his mother. Isn't it amazing that God has that kind of relationship and kind of ability? The God is sovereign plan can can orchestrate the whole world and everything that's going on and And can carry out his redemptive plan and can carry out his recreative plan. He can carry out all of this. And yet he knows you intimately. He knows your every time you sit down, God knows it. Every time you stand up, he knows it. He knows your downsettings, your uprisings. He knows every thought that you have. He knows it intimately. He knows everything you're doing all of the time, everywhere And that gives great fear, but it also gives great comfort. Isn't it wonderful to know that the kind of God that you and I serve is the kind of God that is personal? and relational. He is your friend. And he you and I can't do that. You know, it is true that, you know, like we're really, really limited. You ever try to do Two things at one time. I can't even do one thing at one time sometimes. Doing two things at one time is very difficult You ever try you ever heard a a pastor uh I sometimes down south you'll see this sometimes or a pastor will be preaching from the pulpit and then he'll turn to one person and he'll start talking to him and then he'll come back come up and he'll talk to everybody at the same time and then he'll he'll talk to some hey what do you think about it hey Rick You ever seen that before? It's weird. Okay? And Reeks already feel uncomfortable uncomfortable. Okay. So sorry, I just it's my opinion. It's uh it's strange to me. Okay. But do you know what? God has this ability to be able to do all of this, the expansive cosmic plan and the personal relationship all at the same time. And Christ exp uh this describes and this is a picture of this on the cross. And then with all of that we we then see that Christ is very intentional up on that cross as well. He displays his intentionality. We pick up here in verse 28 through 30. It says, after this, Jesus, knowing that all things were now accomplished That scripture might be fulfilled, saith, I thirst. Now a vessel full of of sour wine was sitting there, and they filled a sponge with with uh sour wine, but it put it on hyssop. And put it uh on his mouth. So when Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished And bowed his head and gave up his spirit. First of all, we see one of the words of Christ here that I thirst, and we won't take a lot of time to go into that There is a lot of passages in the Old Testament, Psalm 22, Psalm 69, several times actually in the chapter in Psalm 6 in Psalm 69, mentions the thirsting of the Messiah. This is a clear, detailed fulfillment of prophecy here. And the whole point that Christ that the Bible describes this kind of detail and that Christ said these is to demonstrate that this this is an actual occurrence. This actually happened. And it was specifically prophesied in the Old Testament. It's one of the great one of the great faith um Faith boosters, if you will. One of the great things that increases your faith to be able to see all the Old Testament prophecies with the New Testament And this is one of those that are the case. And also, it shows that Jesus was completely self-aware on that cross. He was able to say in his own humanity, I'm thirsty. But we see this final statement where he says it is finished Now let's what is finished? What is he talking about? This is a plan, remember folks, that started from before the creation of the world Did you know that the plan of redemption was in the mind of God before the execution of creation? This carried out and continued through the Old Testament, into the New Testament, into Christ's life, into Christ's uh living in the perfect life, and now he dies on the cross. And he says, it's finished. The work of Christ is finished. This demonstrates that the culmination of this redemptive plan, that Christ has done what he came to do. This is a picture of the of the satisfaction of the demands of God. 1 John 2, verse 2 says this, and he is, and there's this word called propitiation. Don't be afraid of these kinds of words. We need to know what these words mean. And he is the propitiation for our sins. And not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. The word propitiation means to satisfy the just demands of God. That Jesus, or the Father, God, all Jesus and God, the Father, has just demands. He is just And Jesus Christ, when he lived a perfect life and died to pay the punishment for sin, brought took on the sin on himself and died in our place, He He is simply saying the work is done. The demands are satisfied. It is finished. And for that reason, we can have assurance of our salvation. Did you know that this actually has great personal application? Let me illustrate it this way. How does Christ saying it is finished matter to us personally? Many of you are out in the crowd are married. Let me ask you a question. Before you married your spouse, oh how many of you have been married for at least ten years? We'll start there. Okay. Because this won't apply that well if you've been married less than a five year. Okay. So married at least ten years. Before you married your spouse, if I were to ask you, do you know your fiance, what would you say? You would have said yes, right? Okay? Sure you would have. If I say now do you know your spouse, you would say yes But if I asked you, did you really know your spouse back then? How many of you would say, not really? And everybody's kind of chuckling because you know that's true The reason that you don't didn't know what you uh uh didn't know is because you didn't have enough time with that person. But it's more than that. Could you possibly What's special in a marriage that allows you to know the person intimately? And the answer to that is the security in the marriage. God intended marriage to be for life. He intended marriage to have a level of security that no matter what you say or what you do That that marriage stays intact. And because of that, it allows for intimacy. Now I'm not just talking about physical intimacy here, that's included, but spiritual and emotional intimacy. In other words, I don't have to worry, I can say, I can really be myself with my wife I can really d just just just let it all now I don't mean that in a I should be careful there. I don't mean that in a sinful way. I but I can be myself and not have to worry if she's going to continue be my friend because she's married to me, she is stuck. You know there is this isn't that true though? Isn't there a level of intimacy that you can have because of marriage? It's frankly folks, it's something that the world doesn't get. That's why you have people that just aren't getting married anymore. They don't understand that you'll never actually know the person until you're married. And then you might not want to know them, but it but you you will. And and and you work through everything. And you do you deal with things and you figure things out. And the established fact is you have this relationship with them. When Jesus said it's finished, it gives us the opportunity to have the kind of secure relationship with Him that also results in intimacy. But you can have a personal, intimate relationship with God. By the way, he already knows all anyway. On our end, it is already open, but we can be open with him. We can lay bare our thoughts and our feelings to him. Because there is this security of a relationship. Our relationship Is not dependent on. Our intimacy, our closeness is not dependent upon anything. We're dependent upon the finished work of Christ And so it allows us to be personally intimate with Christ. Let me Summarize everything this way. Number one, Christ was exalted through humility. So are we Christ was exalted through humility. The Bible says that if we will humble ourselves before the mighty hand, he will lift us up. You know, that's how people even come to Christ in the first place. Did you know that humility is the absolute most necessary quality To come to Christ. You can't come to Christ bringing anything of yourself. You must come to Christ completely empty of yourself Wanting Christ to do for you what you cannot do for yourself. That is the very definition of humility. Just as Christ emptied himself on that cross of all of his glory, not of his deity, but of his glory. You and I need to come to Christ empty. Frankly, whether you know Christ is your Lord and Savior or you don't, you need to come to Christ empty. Come to Christ as a beggar wanting to have bread. Come to Christ empty and allow Christ to do in your life what you cannot do for yourself. Number two. Christ displayed amazing affection in his darkest time of suffering. So should we, only by God's grace. Sometimes in our time of suffering, in our times of anguish and struggle and difficulty, we become very self-centered. God wants us to Take a different approach. He wants us during the darkest times of suffering to display the affection and to meet the needs of others. Number three, Christ's death satisfies the just demands of God We must learn to find our security in Christ alone, in the finished work of Christ. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for this picture. Of a crucified Christ. We thank you for how we see the personal nature of Christ as John gives an account, an eyewitness account of what occurred on that scene. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to have the mind of Christ That we would humble ourselves before you. That we would live in humility. And that you would do what you want to with us as a result. And Lord, we are grateful We express praise to you today for the finished work of Christ on the cross. It is finished. Lord, we confess before you that sometimes we we try to we we try to take do what you've already done We try to rely on our own strength, on our own abilities to do what you've already done for us. Lord, if there is anybody here today that doesn't know Christ that doesn't understand their sin and that Jesus died to pick the pay the punishment for their sin. Rose again victorious over sin and death. Lord, I pray that today would be a day where you would open the eyes spiritual eyes and help them to see. May we all glory in the cross today We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.