Thank you all. We're going to sing that as well after the message and we'll we'll learn that a little bit more together as well. Take your Bibles, if you would, and turn to John chapter fifteen this morning. John chapter fifteen. Junior Church, you're out of here. John chapter fifteen. I had a professor that at the end of a class lesson, he would go, hey, yeah, somebody needs some help of the punitive kind. Anyway. Um so I had a class member that uh For those of you if I I that was my child. If you visit anybody out there that's why I said that. I just thought it dawned on me, something going, Well that's really really weird to say to that was my youngest daughter who who um is we are ch training is a process, is it not? It takes time. I always tell I've people I occasionally people have said the um They observe how people uh raise their kids and and things like that. And I always tell people do not judge a parent on the kid's behavior. Judge a parent on well don't judge a parent, that'd be first, but but secondly, you know, if you're going to evaluate something, look at the how they respond to it. Like Don't don't just assume that they don't train their kids up because kids theologically are really bad and practically they're really bad So anyway. And you know what? All of us are what? We're really bad. So so anyway, I didn't have an uh introduction today, so I guess that's my introduction. So if you don't want to be really bad and you want to be really good, you gotta abide in Christ And what I really want to do today is just jump right into our message this morning because this is a message that really is a continuation of what has now going to become a series within the book of John, which is on the subject of abiding in Christ. And I want to make sure that we we're going to do something, we're going to, we're going to sort of look under every rock. We're going to make sure that no stern stone is unturned. We want to really just slow down here and Take these truths in and understand them and that we can really apply them to our lives. I am absolutely convinced, and I hope you will be at the end of the end of this message as well, that that abiding in Christ is the most, for the Christian, the most crucial truth for our lives to be able to live in pleasing to the Lord. I I I don't think there's any truth that's more crucial than this. Uh besides just understand trusting Christ and un having right understanding of truth. But besides that, I mean we this is just absolutely necessary. And so I want to jump right into this just by stating that this is incredibly important for us to grasp as Christians. We discussed last week that there are three essential foundational truths that we must apply to our lives before we even understand how to abide in Christ, before we begin abiding in Christ, these things have got to always be true in our lives. And if they're not true, we can't abide in Christ. Number one, 15 verse 1. We must understand that Christ is the source. or power as divine. We must realize that Christ is the source. We're not the source of the power. Christ is the source Number two, we must accept God's pruning in our lives to help us bear more fruit If you are rejecting God's pruning, if you are resisting it, if you are bucking up against it, very candidly, you are going to be missing out on this process of abiding in Christ. You've got to understand that the Father, all of us have to understand that the Father is that gardener who goes in and knows exactly where to prune, exactly where, at the right time, so that we can grow and that we can bear fruit. And then thirdly, as we looked at last week, we must embrace our identity in Christ. We must understand, as Christ told the disciples, ye are cleansed by the word. You're clean We're not clean by our own merit whatsoever, by our own doings, our own self-effort, we are clean by the merits of Christ alone. But we've got to understand that when Christ looks at us, he looks at us with the righteousness of Christ declared on us for those of us who know Christ as our Savior. We must, our identity must be in Christ. We cannot be looking to our identity to other things or be tempted in those areas to my identity is here or here, my self-worth is here. No, my self-worth, if you want to call it that, or our identity is in Christ alone. You are accepted in the beloved. You are chosen before the foundation of the world. You are Christ's. You're owned by him. You're bought by him. And you have to live like that. And so it's very important for just to understand that. We start questioning that we'll never be able to abide in Christ And that is not based upon, that's based upon the truth of the Word of God. It's not based upon how I feel. And that's important for us to understand. You might not, you know, are there days you don't feel safe? You know what? Whether or not you know Christ has nothing to do with your feelings. Whether or not you know Christ is based upon the truth of the Word of God and whether you place your faith in Him or not. Now the Spirit dwells witness with our Spirit that we are the sons of God. There is an assurance that comes. But even that is not really categorically emotion. It's something else that goes on in assurance that the Spirit, His Spirit dwells witness with our Spirit that we are the sons of God. And we do have that assurance of knowing that But I'll just tell you that that has got to be, and I'm just reiterating these because before you understand any more about how to abide in Christ, you've got to understand those truths. Now, with that in mind, then we're going to look at the text and see what God says about how to abide in Christ this morning. We didn't even discuss that last week. We went all the way around it and I was at one one of the home groups and it was quite obvious that we had not really discussed how and I wanted to just tell them all right there. Uh and I thought I'll wait, I'll hold off, although I did talk a lot there But anyway, I did uh I can't help. I I have the gift of Gab, I guess. Um let's pray together and then we'll get into this text. Father, we uh just come to you this morning and we pray, Lord, that you would help us. To really grasp what it means to abide in Christ. We understand the urgency as Christ was about to leave his disciples, why he wanted to get these truths across. And I pray, Lord, today would be a day where either we are reminded of some very important truths, or maybe we are we we understand them in a more developed way than we did before, or maybe it is just entirely new to us. But either way, I pray that you would help us in these areas. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. I'm going to have to distract this for just a second. There are two announcements I need to make. They're good announcements. We're thankful for them, but I and I just keep forgetting the announcements when I need to. One is uh Claudia is a now a candidate for membership, so we're thankful for that. And so we'll you grill her heart. You actually could grill her heart. You can do that really. She's really she knows scripture very well. So anyway. Uh I mean I'm embarrassing her. I'm sorry if I am. Anyway. But then another one, uh Lisa is going to be coming for baptism here soon. We're going through that process and we're just thankful for that. So we're thankful what the Lord's doing in our church and I needed to make those announcements. We need to uh there's actually a couple others I think that are probably going to be baptized as well. So I need to get and work and do the baptism class with them, and I am going to try to beat winter. uh on this as well because that's coming and it just would be easier to be baptized when it's not winter. Um but it it could we can't it'll All right. That was all for free. Let's go back to John chapter 15 and begin here in verse um chapter uh verse four of chapter fifteen. He says now, abide in me, and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit in the vine, fruit of itself, except it abide in me. And the vine, no more can ye accept ye abide in me. He begins before he even explains what abiding is, he explains the necessity of abiding He says in verse 5, I am the vine, ye are the branches, he that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit. For without me, ye can do nothing. Jesus explains here, and we've got to understand that in order to really abide in Christ We have to understand how much we need to. That apart from abiding in Christ, we will not be able to do anything of any spiritual or eternal value. It is absolutely important that we understand this. In other words, there is a fourth condition necessary in order to be abide in Christ. We've already looked at three that are in the passage. The fourth condition necessary to abide in Christ is is humility. God tells us in his word, you cannot do anything of any spiritual value unless you have humility. Essentially saying, I can't do it myself. I am not able to do what only Christ can do through me. And we are so we are so prone to do things ourselves, to try to put forth the effort to do what we're going to do in our own strength. our own way, and we're going to get it done. And we're wired that way. Our culture tells us to be that way. In our first century Western culture, it's really very, very Pro um um get it do it yourself. Pull yourself up by your own bootstraps, get it done, that kind of a cult, that kind of a thing. And Christ reminds the disciples in these three verses here, he says, you can do nothing apart from me. He wants them to get, wants to get that across to them. When Christ speaks of humility, of course he is the perfect example of humility And he was the is is the God of the universe and came and condescended to us and became a man. How do you know if you have the necessary humility To be able to abide in Christ so that God can do through you what you cannot do for yourself. And one of the best ways we can determine this is by a passage in Philippians chapter 2. He says in verse 1, I there, if therefore be therefore any consolation of Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit If any bows and mercies, fulfill ye my joy that ye be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind. And here is a real key. Let each esteem other better than themselves. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Now folks, the reality is that is the perfect example because what we find later is what the basis of all of how we are to be humble before the Lord is Christ's own example of humility where He Thought himself not to be equal I thought himself not Robert to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation and took upon the form of a servant and was made in the likeness of man. And it is by no mistake That in these last final words to his disciples, in chapter 13, we have, he starts the whole thing off by saying, you've got to serve one another. You and I cannot abide in Christ. We cannot apply the Word of God the way God wants us to unless we start off with a humility that says, I'm going to esteem others better than myself. I am going to live in a way that serves others. And the perfect example of that is Christ when he washed the disciples' feet. He did what no one else wanted to do for anyone else in that culture, and he did it. And frankly, when he went into the cross, it was the greatest example of servanthood. And this is absolutely important for us to understand as we endeavor to abide in Christ. 1 Corinthians 3 verse 5 says, not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think anything as of ourselves, but our sufficiency is of God. Our role is a role of dependency on Christ, not of independency in ourselves. Now, with that in mind, I want us then to look at verse 6, because what we have here then is a warning. He says, if a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch and is withered And men gather them and cast them into the fire, and they are burned. Now, there is a lot of debate as to what this particular verse is talking about. There are various views. One view, for example, is that what it's talking about here is that you can lose your salvation. That you are once joined to the vine, and that then you can be separated from the vine. And that means that there is a possibility that you could lose your redemption in Christ. Of course, that is an absolutely false possibility There is no possibility of that in Scripture because we find so with such clarity, for instance, in the book of John, chapter ten, my sheep Know my voice, they hear me, and they know my voice, and I give it to them eternal life, and no man shall ever perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my father's hand. My father which gave them me is greater than all. No man shall pluck them out of my father's hand. So it is obviously clear that Christ's intention was that his salvation that he gives to us is not conditioned upon our own effort before or after salvation. And so we cannot lose the salvation that God gives us. That can't be what it's talking about. Number two, there is this view that it's a works view. And it's not talking about a person, but it's talking about the work of a person becoming not valuable to the Lord. That is closer, but the problem with that is that it says here in the passage, if a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch. And so it's the person that's cast forth, and so that can't be all of what it's saying as well. There's another view here that is it's a possess, it's a professor-not possessor view. So someone who professes to know Christ but really doesn't possess eternal life, that's what it's talking about in the passage. And I would actually suggest to you that although that's a plausible idea, but it could be what it's saying There might be another alternative as well. So what is it saying in verse chat verse six where it says That if you don't, if a branch that does not abide in the vine, he is going to be cast forth and put thrown into the fire. What is it talking about here? And I want to begin by pointing this out. First of all, I think we need to understand the intention of this passage. We need to remember that. It is always going to be the controlling basis of why we interpret something, how we interpret it. It's what is the intention of the passage. And let me ask you this question. Is Christ's intention here to explain to unbelievers how to come to Christ? We know that's not the case because verse 3 just taught he just declared to them, you're clean. This is not really referring, it's not talking about that here. He is explaining to people that are already clean how to abide in Christ, how to remain in communion with Christ. That's the emphasis here in this passage. And we need to understand that his intention is not to really talk about whether or not somebody saved, or that the that's really not the point of the passage. That's helpful for us to understand. Lewis Ferry Schaefer said it this way. He said the passage merits consideration, and like many others, requires that attention to be given to its context. The real question is uh at issue concerning the passage is whether Christ, by his use of the figure of the vine and the branches and his call for uh for an abiding life is referring to Christian's union or the Christian's communion with himself. Unless this doctrinal distinction is apprehended, there can be no basis for right understanding of the text in question. And his point is simply is this is talking about the Christian's communion with Christ, not his union with Christ One of the things that we do sometimes in Scripture is when we look at a passage, we make immediate assumptions on something. It's very dangerous to do that. And one of the things we see here is this term fire. Now, what do sometimes people do when they see the term fire in Scripture? They immediately think of what? They think of hell. And let me just point out here that there's no reason for us to think of that immediately. Of course, I'm not suggesting that hell does not have fire. That's not what I'm saying. But every time you see the word fire does not mean you have to immediately think of hell. Though sometimes we tend to do that. We make assumptions about a passage, and I think we don't need to really make assumptions about this We should not also immediately assume that God is doing the one casting out here. Notice the passage. It just says he is cast out. Doesn't say God is doing it. Now maybe he is. But we don't see that in the passage explicitly that God is doing the casting out here. And that's important for us to not assume. Many problems in interpreting Scripture has to do with us as assuming things, and we don't want to make these kinds of assumptions So, what is he talking about here? What we need to do is really understand the illustrative nature of what he's talking about. Let me ask you a very simple question. Why would someone burn dead wood? Just practically. Okay, he might use it for heat. But if you have uh if you have a yard full of dead branches that have fallen off a tree I mean you just just you practically are do you usually gather them for heat? Now I might I have an indoor indoor fireplace, but most people don't. Why you why would you burn them? Now not in the state of Maryland you'll burn them here, but you know, if you're like out in the wilderness or something or I don't know in Pennsylvania, why would you burn them? To get rid of them, okay? Or more importantly, because those branches are what? They're not useful anymore. You follow that? If you think of the main central truth that he's trying to get across, it is one it is one of usefulness versus uselessness. That is the issue here. A branch severed from the vine becomes useless. Now does that bear true in the context? What has he just said? He's just said, without me you can do what? Nothing. Now he illustrates it. Any branch in me that's not in me? He's like uh a what? A branch that is severed from the vine and that is thrown into the fire and is burned. Now, would you also then take your Bibles and turn to Ezekiel chapter 15? And you'll see the same kind of thing illustrated here in this passage. Christ is speaking here, and he is actually talking here about the nation of Israel. And in this context, he is specifically talking about a grapevine. Now, I don't know a great deal about grapevines, but one thing that is not hard to understand is that a something coming off of a grapevine would have very little value Once it's disconnected from the vine. You think of a big oak tree and a branch that is disconnected from a big oak tree, may it have value. Sure, you can build things with branches from an oak tree. There are other uses, but if you think particularly of a grapevine and something coming off of that grapevine, is there any use of that? And that's what he's bringing up here in this passage. He's contrasting those two things. Ezekiel chapter 15, verse 1 says, Then the Then the word of the Lord came to me, saying, Son of man, how is the wood of the vine better than any other wood? The vine branch, which is among the trees of the forest, is wood taken from it to make any object? Or can men make a peg from it and hang any vessel on? Instead, it is thrown into the fire for fuel, and fire devour devours both ends of it, and the middle is burned. And is it useful for any work? What's the rhetorical answer? That's a rhetorical question. The answer is what? No, it's not. Indeed, when it was whole, no object could be made from it. How much less will it be useful for any any work Then the fire has has devoured it, and it is burned. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, like the wood of the vine among the trees of the forest, which have given to the fire uh for fuel So will I give up the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and I will set my face against them. They will go out from one fire, but another fire shall devour them. Then you shall know that I am the Lord, when I set my face against them. Thus I will make the land desolate, because they have perished in unfaithfulness, says the Lord God. He's speaking here, of course, of the nation of Israel. In this context, he is saying that he is the vine, and that the nation of Israel are the branches. And he is pointing out that if they are not inseparably linked to him They are useless, and they are going to receive that kind of treatment in if they continue to be disconnected from him, and that's what we exactly what we find. as the Babylonian captivity came in and and did that in the nation of Israel, and really the nation of Israel ever since has not been used by God in that way. Of course it will be. when Christ comes back comes and returns bodily. But for now it's been i he they've not been able to be used because they got disconnected from the vine. And Christ is here is making a connection here. He is saying this He is pointing this out that if you as a branch are not connected to me, then you are not useful for me. This would be absolutely in connection. With what he says in Matthew chapter 5, verse 13, talking about the fact that we are salt and light. And what does he say there? You are the salt of the earth, but if the salt loses its flavor, how shall it be seasoned? It is then good for nothing but to be thrown out and trampled underfoot of men. You see, Scripture tells us that there is a possibility for a Christian of uselessness. And that ought to be a warning for us. It ought to cause us to be concerned that if we don't abide in the vine, if we're not abiding in Christ, The problem is not that we will lose our salvation. The problem is that we will lose our ability to be used by God. And we all as Christians run that risk. risk in our lives if we are not abiding in Christ. There is a point at which in this illustration that it ought to cause us A sense of dependency about the importance of this matter of abiding in the vine. We've got to do this. Do you and I want to get to the end of our lives and realize we've been useless for the cause of Christ? Or do we want to get to the end of our lives and stand before the Lord and He says, Well done now, good and faithful servant? Whether or not that occurs has largely to do, if not entirely to do, with whether or not you're following this passage. That is how important this passage is. It's absolutely crucial that we understand what it means to abide in Christ. It's extremely important for us to get this. And s the another the other thing that sort of is in question here and and and and I want to make some suggestions about this, but I think there's some real merit here He says, if a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch. Now the question then becomes, who is doing the casting? I am not entirely sure that God is doing the cat casting in the passage. I think it quite possibly might be somebody else entirely. Would you take your Bibles and just go a few more verses later and would you look with me at verse 18? There is someone else that can assist in rendering us useless for the cause of Christ. Verse 18 says this. If the world hate you, ye know that it hated me before it hated you If ye were of the world, the world would love his own. But because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hated you. Remember the word that I have said unto you. The spirit, the servant is not greater than his Lord. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they have kept saying, they will keep yours also. Would you take your Bible just for a moment and look at chapter 17 of this passage? Just go maybe one or two pages over to verse 14. Christ here is speaking and interceding on the behalf of disciples everywhere, and he says this I have given them your word, verse 14 of chapter 17. I have given them your word, and the world has hated them because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. I do not pray that you should take them out of the world, but that you should keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world Sanctify them by your truth. Your word is truth. And you're going to keep that in your mind as well. Christ here on behalf of the disciples says, there is this Prayer on behalf of the disciples, really, of all people, of all disciples that come later, of this eminent reality of the world that is going to be against us. Now, when he's talking about the world here, he's not talking about every person. He's not talking about all of culture or all of society. He's talking about the world system that is that is controlled by Satan according to Ephesians chapter 2. I just want to make that clear. This folks, if this is true, there is a very important application for us. It puts us at this level. You are either going to be abiding in Christ, or there is a great possibility you'll be useful useless, and the world will chew you up, and the world will cause you to become useless. and not useful for the cause of the of Christ. And that is a real danger. And that is the thing that we've got to understand. This is absolutely crucial for us as Christians to get this. This can't be misunderstood. If this is misunderstood, we run a terrible risk. And I'm not trying to be a to- to infuse fear in you and I. That's not the point. It is to say that what we ought to have is this just settled dependency. I think that's the point of verses four through six. And I just would ask you this question. Do you have a sense, just an awareness? of your own dependency on Christ. You need him. Every day of your life you need him. Every moment of every day you need him. When you wake up in the morning you need him When you're working, you need him. When you're at night, you need him. You need him. You desperately need Christ in your life in order for you to be able to live out a life that's useful for God's service. That's the point. And you know, we are so we and you you know we're so we so easily and and let me just say this Before I go any further, that's where the battle ought to be. The battle ought to be is in constantly staying connected to Christ. constantly being connected to the vine. You know what we're battling to oftentimes? We're battling sin out here. Or we're battling the world. Or we're b we're battling all these things. You know what we need to be battling? Our own self being connected to Christ That's where we ought to keep the battle. You follow what I'm saying there? I'm not speaking in militant terms. I'm simply saying that the struggle for the Christian life ought to be, am I Am I in fellowship with Christ? Am I focused on Christ? Am I connected to Christ? Because if you are connected to Christ, all this other stuff will work itself out. The problem is that all this other stuff keeps us also from being connected to Christ, doesn't it? It hinders our fellowship to Christ. And so the point at which we must be very focused is Christ and whether we are connected to Christ. Now with that in mind, we need to ask this question, what does it mean to be connected or abiding in Christ? What does that mean? And what I'd like to do is I'd like to actually ask you to take your Bibles and turn over to a very helpful book in this, and that is 1 John. Would you take your Bibles and turn to 1 John? This, of course, is written by the same human author as John chapter 15 was. And I would just say that I think he is elaborating on this whole concept of abiding in Christ. as we look at 1 John. So it's going to really help us here to look at this. 1 John, and I want to pick up here in verses 3 and 4 where he says this. This is the prologue to the entire book. It tells us the purpose. Verse 3 says, That which we have seen and heard, declare we unto you, that ye also may have what? Have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the Father and with the Son, Jesus Christ. And these things write we unto you that your joy may be full. Now by the way, what does it say in John chapter 15? I think it's like verse 9. That when you abide in him, what's going to happen? Your joy will be full. Same result because it's really the same thing. Fellowship with God and abiding in Christ are really the same thing. So we see this concept of abiding. Would you look at verse 6 with me? If we say that we have fellowship with God and walk in darkness, We lie and do not the truth. So you see this word, this word abide fellowship here as well in the context, verse 6. Would you then look at chapter 2, verse 24 with me? Chapter 2, verse 24. And what we're going to see here is some very important descriptions of what it means to abide in Christ. Chapter two, verse um twenty four That therefore abide in you which ye have heard from the beginning. If that which ye have heard from the beginning shall begin remain in you, the word remain is the exact same word as abide. remain you, ye also shall continue in the Son and in the Father. So we see here that in verse, and then let's continue verse so that so that's clearly a connection to all of this. You see the word abide in there or remain. You see that you're continuing in Christ, and all of that is connected to chapter one, which says we're fellowshipping with God. What I'm trying to do here, folks, is to get a fuller view of what this abiding in Christ is. by looking at these passages. So let's continue. Verse 25. And this is the promise that we have promised us even eternal life. These things have written unto you concerning them that seduce you. But the anointing which ye have received of you abideth in you, and ye need not that any man teach you, but as the same anointing teacheth you of all things, and as what And his truth and is no lie, and even as it hath taught you, ye shall abide in him. Now There is a passage that we so we need to understand this. 1 John 2, verses 24 through 27, if we want to summarize it this way, abiding means that we are going to find stability in God's truth. Our stability is found in the truth of Scripture. When it talks about the anointing of the Spirit of God here, it is referencing the fact that when we see the truth, we know it. We notice the truth. We see it. It's applied correctly. We see the significance of the truth. Why the Spirit of God is working in us to see see it. So abiding mean we find our stability in God's truth, number one. Number two Abiding means having confidence in God's presence. Abiding means having confidence in God's presence. Verse 28. And now, little children, abide in him, that when he shall appear, we may have confidence and not be ashamed before him at his coming. If ye know that he is righteous, ye know that everyone that doeth righteousness is born of him. Now, let me just pause and tell you, say this. What is knowing the presence of God in our lives based on? Let me be very careful about this. Let me tell you what it's not based on. It's not based upon emotion. It's not based upon feeling. Knowing the presence of God in our lives is based upon what, folks? Truth. The Word of God says He's present with us. The Word of God says the Spirit of God indwells with us. You don't have to think about whether the presence of God is with you. He is with you because the Bible tells you He is with you. When we're abiding in Christ, there is this awareness of the presence of God. But the basis of that awareness is not on emotion, the basis of that awareness is the truth of God's word. That's absolutely necessary and important. In other words, folks, as we go through life, we ought to be keenly aware of the presence of God in our lives. But we need to understand that we're keenly aware of it based upon the truth that we know from the Word of God, not based upon how we feel. There are a lot of people that get caught up, they think they're following the they're they're in fellowship with the Spirit, they think they think that they are following after the Spirit. Based upon, and really it's just the basis of it is whether how they feel. It's an emotional thing. Folks, is emotion involved in abiding in Christ? The answer is yes, it is involved. But where is it involved? It's not involved in the basis, it's involved in the result The result of a body in Christ we're going to find is joy. When you know the presence of God, there is emotion involved. Because you're recognizing that, and there, and you'll see that in a few moments. But the basis of it is truth of the Word of God. God is with me because the truth of the Bible says it is, says He is. Number three, abiding means assurance of our position in Christ. And this is sort of interesting, isn't it? Because we found that abiding in Christ, in order to abide in Christ We need to understand we're cleansed by Christ. But also, as we're abiding in Christ, we have assurance of knowing that position in Christ. Notice what these are just some of those valued verses in all the Bible in 1 John 3, verse 1, where it says this. Behold what manner of love the Father hath bestowed on us. That we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not Behold, what manner, you know, when you know the truth of the word of God and you're abiding in Christ and you're continuing in Christ, you know your response to all that? Behold what manner the Father has, the love the Father has before toward us. There is this assurance of knowing that God loves me. There is this, this behold is this like, wow, this is incredible what happens when I really am abiding in Christ. I am just in awe of the love of God in my life assuring me of who I am in Christ. We find here in verse 2, beloved, now are we the sons of God. It doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when we we shall appear, When he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is, and every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself. even as he is pure. Result of abody in Christ is that you are constantly aware of the presence of God and you want to purify yourself. These are all talking about what it means to have fellowship and to abide in Christ and to walk with Christ This is absolutely essential in the Christian life, abiding relationship with Christ. Now, I would then like you to take your Bibles and turn to the book of Ephesians, if you would. We are doing a lot of turning and I don't intend to be academic, but this is such important truth that I just think it's helpful for us to turn to these various passages. and to see what Scripture says about all this concept. So far we have learned that abiding in Christ is the same thing as having fellowship with God. Right? They're really the same thing. And so now we're going to learn more about some connections that we find in Ephesians chapter 3. We're going to pick up here Ephesians chapter 3 and we're going to look at verse 19. Would you notice in Ephesians chapter 3 verse 19 it says this And to know the love of Christ which passeth knowledge. When you know that love, there is an experiential aspect to this fellowship, to this abiding Christ. It it it the result is that you know the love of Christ, which we're going to learn more about in Ephesians for John. It says, abide in my love there in the passage. But I want you to notice then what he says here that ye might be what Filled, that word there is going to be used again later, that ye might be filled with all of the what? Of the fullness of God. Now, would you then turn one chapter over to chapter 4, verse 13? Chapter 4, verse 13. Do you have a PowerPoint on this, Sam? I didn't I didn't make one. Okay. Chapter 4, verse 13 Till we all come in the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the what? The fullness of who? Alright, do you see the connection? It said in the last passage that we're filled with all the fullness of God. This passage says we're filled with all the fullness of what? Of who? of Christ, then you had the same filled word in Ephesians chapter 5, verse 18. Would you turn there? Just one more chapter over, Ephesians chapter 5, verse 18. And be not drunk with wine, or under the influence of wine, wherein is excess, but be under the influence of who? The Spirit of God. The same word they're filled is in those other two verses as well. Now, do you find do you see this? Now should that surprise us? Chapter 14, what did we learn? That we were all going to be, as Christians, we're all going to have what? The indwelling of the Spirit of God in our lives. That that is going to allow us to have this very individual, personal relationship with the Father that has only one mediator, that's Christ, and of course the Spirit of God as well, working together. You have all of that. The Spirit of God there in this passage is clear that all of this works together. So when we are filled with the fullness of God, or we are filled with Christ Or we are under the influence of the Spirit of God. They're really all talking about the same thing. Now, let me just show you something in this passage while we're here. We see three results of this verse. Number one result, and there are participles of result for you Greek people out there, we see one result is verse 19, speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Okay, singing and making melody heart of the Lord. We have this result. When you are under the influence of the Spirit of God, you are worshiping God. It is a result of being under the influence of the Spirit of God. Number one. Number two, you find another result here, verse 20, giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. You have the second result of being filled with the Spirit of God, it is being thankful. And number three, you have another result of being filled with the Holy Spirit of God here, and that is submitting yourselves one to another. That's the hardest of the three, by the way. Now, let me just point this out. These are not commands. They're results of the command to be filled with the Spirit. They're results. In other words, when you are filled with the Spirit, when you are genuinely filled with the Spirit, God says you're going to worship Him. Number two, you're going to be thankful. And number three, you're going to have a submissive spirit toward others. Later on, the next verse tells us that wives submit yourselves to your husbands for the fear of God, the Bible says. And it is by no accident, folks. That we need the Spirit of God and being under the influence of the Spirit of our God in our lives to have godly marriages and godly homes. Do you think it's an accident that before he goes on into an extended discussion on the institution of the family. Do you think it's by accident that he puts this passage here about the importance of being filled with the Spirit of God? Guess what? You can't do it if you're not filled with the Spirit of God. And that's why you have a 50% divorce rate in this nation. Because people are trying to do it without God. And you can't, because it's an institution ordained by God. So that is extremely important for us to understand. Now I want you to know something else about this passage. You notice it says to be filled with the Spirit. There it for you grammarians out there, to be filled with a spirit is that active or passive voice? It's passive voice, same thing in the Greek. It's a passive voice. Okay, how about, is it a command or a statement or a question? It's a command. The Greek is very clear, it's an interrogative. Okay? It's a imperative. Okay? It's very clear. So this is a command to be filled with the Holy Spirit. But in a passive voice sentence, who is the doer of the action? Who's the doer of the action in this verse? The Holy Spirit is the doer of the action, isn't he? He says Be filled with the Spirit. The Spirit of God is the doer of the action in a passive voice sentence. Now, would you so how are we supposed to fulfill this command? We're not the doer of the action. The Spirit of God is the doer of the action What are we supposed what's our role? We know the results. We know the command. What's our role? Would you take your Bibles and turn to Colossians chapter 3? Colossians chapter 3. And I want you to see this in this passage. Colossians chapter 3 And we're going to see another command here, but this command is active. Verse 16. Now I'll point as we're as you're turning there, Colossians chapter 3, verse 16, I'll point this out. That two-thirds of the content that are in Colossians are also in Ephesians. They are really sister books, if you will. And I want you to notice something as well as we look at this. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom Teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. Do you see a result there? Teaching and admonishing one another in Psalms and Hymns of Spiritual Psalms. That's a result of doing what? Letting the Word of Christ dwell in you richly. It is also a result, number two, we see the same result over here, verse 17, and what we do in word deed, do all in the name of the glory of God, do all in the name of the Lord, doing what? Giving thanks to God and the Father by Him. Second result. Have we seen these before? And then you finally have verse 18, Wise submit yourselves in Hotel. There's your third result. You have three same three results in this passage are the same three results in the other passage. What is it saying? What's the active command here for us as Christians if we're going to be filled with the Spirit? Let the what Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. Folks, it's all about this. It is about meditating on the Word of God, knowing the Word of God, thinking about the Word of God. Thinking like the Word of God. In fact, if you look at the Old Testament, the emphasis is not even on reading the Word of God. It's on meditating the Word of God and hiding it in your word, hiding it in your heart. That is our role in being under the influence of the Spirit of God. Now, with all of that in mind, would you turn now to John 15 again? And we're going to pick up here in verse 7, and what if we're going to see here is should be no surprise to us. He says verse 7, If ye abide in me, and my what? My words abide in you. Should that surprise us? Now folks, my point is simply this. What is our role in the abiding in abiding in Christ? What is our role in being under the influence of the Spirit of God? Our role is to get as much as this is in our Not just our minds. In fact, the Bible says in 1 13 that knowledge does what? Talking here about just academic knowledge, that's not letting the Word of Christ dwell in you richly, it's not. But what we are talking about is certainly knowing the truth of the Word of God. Meditating on it, letting it dwell in us richly. Christ says, let my words dwell in you. If you abide in my words, and parallel to that, if you abide in my in me, and my words abide in you Then you have this result that's going to come later. The second thing I want you to see about this is it it is a condition. He says if You abide in me. Would you notice that? If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, and I want you then finally to see the result of abiding in Christ in verse 8 here. Verse 7 and 8. My words abide in you, you will do what? Ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. Now what is he talking about there? He is saying that you can pray something and you can ask what you will and what will happen. It will happen. If you ask what you will, it will be done to you. Now, what is the condition? The condition is you have to be abiding in Christ. One passage we did not go to is in Colossians chapter 3. Verses 1 through 3 there, that gives us the perspective abiding in Christ. And it says in that passage that we are to look on things eternal rather than things on temporal, and it says then you'll be filled with Christ in that passage. The perspective of a believer that's filled with the Spirit of God, that is under the influence of the Word of God, that is abiding in Christ, the perspective is a kingdom perspective. And when that occurs and you pray, you're going to see God answer prayer because it is going to be for the furtherance of God's kingdom. Not my own selfish wants. And let me just tell you this. When you pray things and you pray them for the furtherance of God's kingdom and you're sensitive to the will of God and you're okay if it doesn't happen the way you think it ought to happen or for your own self-serving purposes when you are really abiding in Christ and you pray something and you see specific answers to prayer based upon what you are praying, can I just tell you just I'll just tell you the joy and the assurance and the blessing that comes from that Very arguably surpasses all of the blessing. How many of you are praying specifically and have seen specific answers to prayer based upon not just feelings but truth? And this is just absolute I I'll tell you, when you are abiding in Christ, when we're abiding in Christ this way, prayer is inseparably linked to this You can't pray according to God's will if you don't know God's will. You can't know God's will if you don't know the Word of God. If you're in the Word of God, you're going to be abiding in Christ If you're abiding in Christ, you're going to be able to know God's will. If you're abiding in know God's will, then you're going to be able to pray God's will. And if you pray God's will, you' And that really is, folks, how we are to abide in Christ. Now let me add one more thing to this, and I know this is a fire hose of information, which aren't you glad it's recorded? Alright. I want to add one thing to this. In Galatians chapter five, you don't take the time to turn there unless you want to. You can, but It's up to you. Galatians chapter five, verse sixteen through seventeen. It says that the Spirit beareth witness with our spirit. It says in that passage that um that the the flesh war the desires of the spirit wareth against the desires of the flesh in that passage. And that is a passage basically where it is another description of the filling of the Holy Spirit there. It says, walk in the Spirit, and you'll not fulfill the lust of the flesh. And what God is saying in that passage is that when we were are following after the things of the Spirit of God, the desires that we have that are based upon the truth of the Word of God will be spiritual, eternal kinds of desires in our lives. And that is why we will be able to pray and see God answer our prayers. And that is exact now, and I want to just begin, just end this way. Number one, do we humbly realize the absolute necessity of abiding in Christ? This is absolutely necessary. Do you know you can know this whole book? There are two sides to this. You can know the whole, you can know everything in this book and not abide in Christ, and it's useless. You say, did you hear you hear what I said? You're useless if you know this and don't abide in Christ. On the other hand, if you are abid if you are uh don't have an understanding of abiding in Christ correctly, you can think you're abiding in Christ and not really abiding in Christ. There are, there is, and, or if you're doing it on your own strength, or trying to live, there are so the bottom line is we need to humbly realize the absolute necessity of abiding in Christ. Number two, is the word of Christ dwelling in you richly? It's an absolute necessity In order for us to abide in Christ. And a simple question in all of us, we've got to constantly be reminded of this. It is not enough to hear a message on Sunday morning and Wednesday night and Sunday school. All those things are good, but folks, the word of Christ needs to dwell in us richly. And you know what will happen? We're gonna start singing songs in the middle of the day about the Lord. And we're gonna start worshiping Him in that way. We're gonna have a thankful heart before the Lord. We're gonna have a submissive spirit. in our hearts before the Lord and toward one another. That's going to be the heart of someone who is being who is truly abody in Christ. You want to know throughout the day whether or not you're abiding in Christ. Do you have those things? Are you submissive in your spirit one toward another? Are you thankful in your heart and grateful? And Are you worshiping God? If you aren't, the answer is not I'm going to worship more. Or are you going to be thankful more? No, the answer is, why am I not doing that? How do I need to then be directed to be to abide in Christ more? And it's so it's very essential. Number three, do we know the joy and the thrill of seeing the furtherance of God's kingdom through answer prayer? That is a necessary component of abiding in Christ as well. And I just encourage you to really think about these truths and to meditate on these truths. I gave you a lot of information today. And some messages are going to come out a little more informational. I'd encourage you to, I I'm I I don't say this in any way self-serving, but if you get the get the Just listen to this online. It will help you to go over these things. Get a grap a really important grasp of this concept of abiding in Christ. Make sure you get this right. Because if you do and you begin to live it out in your lives, then you know that there's going to be more fruit. There's going to be spiritual fruit, much fruit, and more fruit in your life. You're going to glorify God. We're going to do that in our lives as believers. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Father, we do come to you and we ask, Lord, that you would help us and um I pray for all of us that we would really firmly grasp these truths. They are absolutely essential. And we certainly confess before you our need to constantly abide in Christ. We want to see answer in prayer. We want to have that continual relationship with you, Lord, and we know we can't do it ourselves. We admit before you our own desire not to be relegated to a life of uselessness I pray, Lord, that you would help us to see the need in our lives to understand how to abide. And if and that we would begin to just constantly be aware of your presence because of the truth of your word, that we would know you, that we'd be filled with all with your love, that we would understand all of this. And that your word would really become part of us in our lives as we grow in Christ, that we would meditate on it, we pray all of these things. In Christ's name, Amen.