Let me ask you a question before. Have you ever in your life been blindsided? Maybe maybe in a vehicle you've been blindsided, but even more practically, have you ever had something come your way? that you say, uh boy, I was not expecting that. That came out of nowhere. I would s suspect that as soon as I am describing this po process uh or th this idea of a surprise that comes from nowhere, all of us can kind of come up with memories of thing things that have happened in our lives that we just did not expect to happen. They were for us not positive surprises, you know, like at Christmas time, but negative surprises. One of the things that can happen and that that that is a really good prevention for danger is to really be aware of the possibilities. that surrounds you in a given situation. Whether you're in combat and you need to be aware of your environment to know where the enemy is and or where he possibly could be. Or whether it's crossing a busy road or in a sports team as you are playing whatever game, whatever sport you're playing, being aware of your environment is extremely important. Have you ever been Um going along in your day and you're just kind of focused on something so much that you're you're not even really thinking about what you're doing and you do something that's just really, I don't know, run into a wall or something like that. um or or just been so preoccupied with something that you're not aware of your environment. Or have you ever seen somebody else that looks like they're just not they don't know anybody like they're just look they had this days to them that They don't I don't think they know what else is going on around them. Well, what Christ wants to do in this passage is he wants to make his disciples aware aware of the of what is going to happen when he leaves and particularly that he that they are going to receive opposition from the world Christ has just finished explaining that he intends uh for us to bear fruit By abiding in Christ. It says in verse 16, You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that ye should go and bear fruit, and that your fruit should remain. That whatsoever you ask the Father in my name, he may give you. See, Christ intends for us to bear fruit. And I just want to say, by way of commenting on that particular verse. As I look at chapter 13 and chapter 15 as well as looking at the what fruit is in the future in the New Testament, You know, it it I you can go too far in saying that fruit uh is only, you know, you think of fruit in just terms of people that come to Christ. That's all fruit really is. Talking about souls. And you could say that that really isn't the only thing in the New Testament that fruit is. But on the other hand, fruit does include souls. In fact, when you think about the fruit that Christ speaks of here, he really was in reference to the things that he that would happen after he left the disciples, and he said, These works are greater than mine. Well, what works could possibly be greater than his when he was on this earth? Well, the many souls that would be saved. And so it is in God's plan for his His children, his disciples, to abide in Christ, and from that to be contributing to the souls of people that they would come to Christ. And all of that is going to bring in opposition from the world. Christ intends that we should testify of him You'll see in John 15, verse 27, would you notice he says, And you, he's talking specifically to the disciples, and then really by application, us, and you will bear witness of me. The reason that this passage has come about and that Christ is describing for the disciples the fact that they need to be aware of the hatred from the world is that he wants them to be careful that they do not stumble. If you'll notice in 16 verse 1 it says this These things have I spoken unto you that ye should not be offended, or ye should not stumble. Christ is looking at the fact that the disciples will be without him, and he does not want them to be caught off guard by the world. Because he knows that there is a potential that the world can trip them up. In fact, if you look at Israel's history, there were many times that Israel was influenced by the world. In wanting a king, if you recall when right before they inaugurated Saul as king, the nation of Israel looked around at the other nations and said, We want to be like them. We want we want a king. Or when idolatry came into the nation of Israel after the uh when particularly it it became very, very uh prolific after the two um kingdoms divided. And idolatry was rampant among the nation of Israel. Or uh other p times where where alliances formed and marriages were even formed across nations and uh infiltration from nations from uh and influence of the world uh when when it came to the nation of Israel and and different alliances that it came about. The truth is the the goal of God for the nation of Israel was to be a light to the world, to influence the world. It was always God's intention to to be to bring the world back to himself. And his intention was for the nation of Israel to be a light to the world, to a light to the nations. so that they could influence the nations for the purposes of God's kingdom. But the nation of Israel was really never very successful at that, were they? And now Christ Christ has a different plan in mind. He is not going to going to in this time period, he is not going to primarily work for the nation of Israel. He is going to primarily work through his church. Through his disciples, through people that choose to follow him and are regenerated by the Spirit of God It is a different way of working. It's going to be working not from the outside in, but from the inside out. But Christ wants to make the disciples aware that the world is still there and it is still a threat. And it is still a possibility, in fact, a probability that Christians, followers of Christ, can be tripped up, can stumble because of the world. And so we find in this passage a warning to believers. And the main the main desire for Christ is that this passage would prevent them from being tripped up by the world. How? Through awareness. You know, you and I, very candidly, if we're not careful, can can really not even think about the fact that there is a world system out there. That desires to influence us. Its intention is to thwart the cause of Christ. Its purposes are to trip us up. And if we're not careful, we can live our lives, every day of our lives, not realizing that there that we have an enemy The Bible says we, and the reason that we have such a tendency not to be aware of this is because we cannot see it. We cannot see Satan. We cannot see the world system. We cannot see those things that are most likely to trip us up. We can't see them. And that's why Paul said in Ephesians chapter 6, we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against against principalities and the rulers of the darkness of this present world. against spiritual wickedness in high places. God wants to tell us and to remind us throughout his word in the New Testament that we have to be vigilant It says, be vigilant, be sober, be vigilant for your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, seeketh whom he may devour. There is an enemy that would desire for you and I to stumble And we need to be aware of this. Christ, in his urgency toward the disciples, desires for them to abide in Christ. But there is an enemy that would want nothing more than to keep that from happening. And he defines this enemy particularly as the world. We're going to look into what the world is and how it opposes us. And first let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his blessing in our time. Father, we come to you and we pray that this message would cause us to have a heightened awareness. of the enemy. We have in our fle in ourselves residing a flesh. A sin nature that responds to the world system. And we have Satan in the world who is influencing the world system. To go against your kingdom and the purposes of your kingdom. And we are aware today that the world and this that Satan and the world and our own flesh would like nothing more. than to render us useless for the cause of Christ. Father, I pray, Lord, that today as we look at your word, we would have a heightened awareness And that would prevent us from being tripped up by the adversary. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We pick up here in John chapter 15 and verse 18 where it says this. If the world hate you, ye know that it hated me before it hated you. If ye were of the world, the world would love his own. But because you are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you Remember the word that I ha said unto you. The servant is not greater than his Lord. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they have kept my sayings, they will also keep yours also. But all things uh will they do unto you for my name's sake, because they know not him that sent me. In order to understand this passage, I think we need to begin by understanding the nature of this term world as it is used in this context. There are some places in the New Testament where the world, the word world is used to determine to talk about the earth. Just really talking about the whole earth as a whole Other times the the emphasis of the word world has to do with people of the world, for instance in John 3. 16 where it says, God so loved the world. But in John 15 and 16, he's going to use, and in chapter 17, actually, he's going to use the term world in a different way. The world in this context has to do with the world system. It has to do with a with a course of the world, an evil that is in the world that would desire To to thwart the kingdom of God. And this has always been the case ever since the fall. And it and Christ is reminding the disciples that just because he has come And just because he will die, and just because he will rise from the grave and they will have the Holy Spirit living inside of them, the world is still a serious threat. To really understand the nature of the world, I think one of the best passages we could go to is Ephesians chapter 2. So if you take your Bibles and turn there with me, Ephesians chapter 2. We find in this passage that the Apostle Paul gives some detail as to the nature of the world. And we begin in verse 2 when he says this, in which you once walked according to the course of this world. according to the prince of the power of the air, the Spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience. Among whom also we all once conducted ourselves in the lusts of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath, just as the others. This world system, according to this passage, has a particular purpose. It has an evil intention. It is a course of nature, if you will. It is like a stream, it is like a fast-flowing current in a river where we must be very careful that we do not fall prey to that current. Did a little research this past week on the nature of salmon, the fish salmon. How many of you all like salmon? It's one of my favorite fish. I really like salmon. My wife learned to make it for me when I was dating her Um and um and for my birthday she made it and uh she didn't like it so I had both. I was alright with that. I had I had hers and mine. I was okay with that. Well salmon are very interesting. uh creatures and they are born usually there's exceptions but they're most species are born in rivers and they go out to the ocean and they come back to to spawn of course in usually in the same exact place. That's not just folklore. They put tracking units on these salmon and they go back to the same place. And on their way back to, and usually they die right after they spawn. And on their way back up the river, there is a constant current that they have to fight to get to the place where they're going to to be able to spawn. I don't know about you, but occasionally I like to go fishing and I have some waiters that apparently sprung a leak. I realize that when I bat I gotta get those fixed before next Sunday. But um uh uh they s last time I baptized uh you uh Caitlin and Praise they they they sprung a leak but I I would use those um those waders. And sometimes in the Potapsco River, the Potomac River, and uh that the current would be very fast. And you had to you have to really concentrate that you don't fall over And when it comes to the course of this world system, I want us to think of it this way. What do we need to do in order to be influenced and tripped up by the world? Absolutely nothing. That's a reality. If we are not aware that there is a course of the world, if we are not aware of the world system that would desire to trip us up, if we are not constantly vigilant The reality is as Christians we will falter by doing nothing at all. Just as though you are in a river and you chose not to fight against it, and you chose not to be aware of it, and in very very soon if you did not you were not to concentrate, it would take out the the the the the your your footing and you would be swept out. That is the nature of the course of this world. And you and I have to be very, very vigilant and very careful that we are not caught up in that course. The problem is, is it gets a little dicey because I'd like to then ask this question Where do you find this current? Where is the underlying current of the world? Where does it happen? And the answer is that it happens in our culture. Now let me ask you this question, and let me define culture for you. The way we're thinking of it, we're talking about the thinking of a particular group of people, or our our global co I mean uh really our culture is becoming more global by the day. But when you think of going into another culture like going into Hong Kong which I did recently or going going down, you know, to West Virginia. Either one were. You have different cultures. That's a joke. You can laugh. It's okay. And and uh or or Alabama or you know some of these other places or you know this is Maryland has its own culture, right? So when you go into these different places, there is a different way of, there is a various ways of thinking in the culture. Is culture inherently bad? The answer to that is no. The culture is not inherently bad. But can the culture, or does the culture, have bad elements within it? And we would have to say it certainly does. You see, there are some people that when they think of worldliness, they just think of the culture as a whole. They just sort of say all of culture is bad and we can't be involved in any of it and so we're going to isolate ourselves from the culture. And that folks is an a misunderstanding of this concept of the world system to isolate ourselves from the culture In fact, Christ is going to say in the next chapter that we are in the world, not of the world. So isolation from the culture is not the answer. But when we're thinking about the influence of the world within the culture, there are three things that we've got to factor in. Number one The culture is essentially created by God because people are created by God. Creation is made by God, number one. Number two, man is made in the image of God. So man hat, and that hasn't changed. Man is made. God has created all all man, uh God has created all things. And man is made in the image of God. In other words, folks, culture has value because God created it and because man is made in the image of God, which makes up culture. So to look at culture and to say that all things are bad is to deny that God was made, that man was made in God's image. To look at it in an individual, even, and to say, well, that individual is all bad, is to deny the truth that man is made in God's image. However, there is a third element that we have to be aware of, and that all of us bear the effects of the fall. You see, we are living in a fallen culture. We're living in a fallen world. We are living as fallen individuals. And so that is the reason why the world has the ability to be able within the culture to influence us. Now, all of that is very important for us to understand because what we really need, folks, is wisdom and discernment, isn't it? We desperately need the discernment to be able to identify influences within the culture that would trip us up. That would cause us to stumble. Not all culture is bad, but there are things within the culture that are influenced by the world system that would cause us to stumble. And we've got to be aware that those things are in the culture. Now, we don't have the time to go to understand all of what is talking about here, but but understanding the opposition to the kingdom of God is going to help us to understand those things that are in the culture that we need to be aware of. And so we then turn to this concept of hatred that we found in the find in this text as well. Verse 18 says, if the world hate you ye know that it first hated me. And it talks about in this passage that the reason that the world hates followers of Christ is because we are not of the world. If we were of the world, the world would accept us. But because we are not of the world and we are in opposition to the world The world rejects us, and it the Bible uses the term here, hates us. So what does it mean here when it says that the world system hates us? Well, first of all, we need to understand this basic term can simply mean in opposition to. For example, in Romans chapter 9, verse 13, it tells us that God loved Jacob but hated Esau. It wasn't saying there that God had some sort of animosity in the sense of sin toward toward uh Esau. But God was in opposition to Esau, just as he is in opposition to all those who are born of this world, because all are born fallen. So we need to understand that this hate term hatred means opposition. The next thing we need to understand is what this hatred looks like, and we have a perfect example in the Old Testament of this It's found in the book of Genesis. So I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to Genesis chapter 4 for a few moments, and we're going to look at a prototype. of the world in this passage. And while you are turning there, I'd like you to identify, I'd like to prove to you that this was intended to be a prototype. What you have in Genesis chapter 4 is the story of Cain and Abel. And I'd like to argue today that Cain is really a prototype of the world. I didn't just make that up. It comes from 1 John 3. And while you're turning to Genesis, I want to read for you 1 John 3, which says this. For this is the message that ye heard from the beginning, that we should love one another, not as Cain, who was of the wicked one, and slew his brother, and wherefore slew he him Because his own works were evil, and his brothers righteous. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you. In that passage in John in 1 John, the same human author as this passage in John chapter 15, we have him citing Cain as an example of the world. And the hatred that Cain had toward Abel is the same kind of hatred that the world has toward those who are desiring to live after righteousness. And what we find in this passage in Genesis chapter 4 is an example of this. And of course, you know the story of Cain and Abel, how Cain and Abel were both came to give sacrifices unto the Lord. But Abel's sacrifice was given in faith, according to Romans chapter 11. And Cain's sacrifice was not given in faith. And we find in this passage in Genesis chapter 4 that God now then we find the response of Cain to the rejection of his offering in verse 5. Verse 5 says, But he did not respect Cain and his offering. And Cain was very angry, and his countenance fell. If you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin lies at the door, and its desire is for you, but you shall rule over it. Now Cain talked with Abel his brother, and it came to pass when they were in the field that Cain rose up against Abel his brother and killed him. What we have here in this passage is Cain with all of the jealousy and the animosity and the bitterness and the problems that come from jealousy, really. Happened when he saw that the that his works, that Abel's works were accepted by God, but Cain's works were not And this is the same kind of spirit and the same kind of attitude that we can expect from the world system when we are living righteously. Now I feel like I need to say, I need to include this disclaimer. What we are not talking about here is that somebody rejects us because of our cranky disposition. or our just annoying personality. What we are not talking about here is our own belligerence, or our own pride, or our own self uh self-defense when it comes to our giving of the gospel or our telling others about Christ. Sometimes folks The manner in which we do it is unloving and it is even hateful, it is prideful, and no wonder we get rejection from the world then. And that is not what we're talking about here. I remember I'll never I use this illustration to because I think it illustrates the point well. I remember going to college and I've used this illustration before but it's been a while. Going to college and going uh going downtown uh to to downtown Pensacola. And uh and going and witnessing the people on the street. And occasionally I would find some I would walk by s some other student of the school that was overly zealous about talking to a particular person, one particular person or two particular people, and he would be s and you would find him standing up and the other people sitting down and he is just wailing on them. I mean just preaching at them and almost, I mean telling them with great great vigor, I'm using that's the nicest term I can think of, uh uh that they are going to hell. And I have often thought to myself, I don't think that's what God intends for us, the manner in which God intends for us to share the gospel with people. But folks, the reality is you can you can express your love for someone. You can live righteously before them. And in many cases, you are going to find that the world is going to reject you for doing so. There is a jealousy and an animosity There is a hatred, there is an opposition that comes from the world that we have to learn to expect from the world. And what we find in this passage is that Christ wants us to be keenly aware of this. And what Christ does then in this passage is he makes them aware. Now let me ask you this question. He wants to make sure that they're aware that they could be tripped up by the world. That when they live their lifestyle for God, And when they follow after Christ, that it is going to inevitably bring opposition to them. Why do you suppose that Christ would want them to know this? What would be important about that? The answer to that is simply this. You and I are people that live by cause and effect. In other words, if we have a certain kind of behavior, we are going to, if that behavior brings harm to us, we're going to do what? We're going to change our behavior. It just makes sense. If what we're doing brings harm, we're going to do something else. And what Christ is essentially saying is: don't change. Now what he's not saying is don't adjust your communication, don't adjust with the culture at all. He's not saying those kinds of things. We find obviously Christ said or Paul said, I'll be all things all people. You're not saying you don't adjust to the culture at all. But when it comes to living for Christ, there are certain moral things that should never change for the Christian, no matter what the culture is doing. There are certain things that we just have to hold tight, and our lifestyle is not going to change based upon what world we live in. And what we have to be vigilant about is that there are some times where where we are going to live a certain way and it's actually going to be gonna gonna be to our detriment. And what J Christ is warning to this them about is he's simply saying, Don't change I can think of illustrations of this. The person that does not receive the promotion at work because he won't lie. Or one who is ostracized by his co-workers because he simply won't be involved in the tit-for-ta gossip that comes with sometimes working in the workplace. Those are just two of many illustrations that I could think of and that you can think of when it comes to why even in our society we might find ourselves in a place where we are we are are it's going to be to our detriment that we are living for Christ. But folks, there is the day coming more than likely in our country. Where we are going to see more persecution. And I'm not trying to be a prophet here. I'd like to think I'm wrong, but I don't think I am. And I don't think it's by any accident that we are seeing on the headlines all the things that are happening, folks. Our country is going the wrong direction. And it is not, it is it it we need to be ready. We need to be prepared for the day where we will go uh undergo persecution for our faith. It is very likely going to happen in your lifetime and in mine. But you know what? It is not God's intention in writing this passage that we should be afraid of this. God doesn't want us to be afraid of it. Do you know that if you look at the history of civilization and you look at the history of the church, the church thrives in times of persecution? The church moved forward in times of persecution. It was purified in times of persecution. And what you and I need to understand is that we ought not look at our future with Grim dismay. We ought to look with our future with hope that when when persecution comes, you and I are going to be able to thrive because that's what happens when persecution comes to the church. We see it time and time again. And we ought not to be afraid of this, but I tell you what we ought to be is ready. We ought to be aware, and we ought to be aware even now that that day is coming and very frankly in some cases it already is here. And every day of our lives, we ought to be aware that we need to be abiding in Christ and not be swept up by the evil current of the world system. He says in verse 20 that they persecuted Christ, and that we should expect persecution as well. In verses 20 through 25, then we find really the reason that they rejected Christ. But before we get there, I want you to see verse 21. It says this, but all these things will they do unto you for my name's sake, because they know not that they know not him that sent me. They need we need to understand that what they do, they will do bec they will do thinking that they are doing it for right. It's you see, when we think about the world, it's not as though the world knows they're doing wrong and is choosing to do it anyway. They think that they are doing right. Let me give you a uh and and actually they're doing wrong. A perfect example of this, when I read this verse, a perfect example that came to my mind was the Apostle Paul, before he was Paul. When Saul went and he persecuted the Christians, what did we find? Was he what what did he think he was doing wrong or right? He thought he was doing right. He thought what he was doing was pleasing God. He thought that he was doing the right thing. And you will find this today. Those who were our those in our culture who are wanting to promote evil in the world, they think they're doing right. They don't think they're doing anything wrong. In fact, they think we're the ones who are wrong. And sometimes they have very strong arguments for why they're doing what they're doing. And we need to be aware of this. In verse 22 through 24, we find then Christ gets into the details of the opposition being part of God's plan. Verse 22 says this If I had not come and spoken unto them, they had not had sin. But now they had no cloak for their sin. And that hate um he that hateth me hateth my father also. If I had not done among them the works which none other man did, they had not had sin. But now they have both seen and hated both me and my father. But this cometh to pass that the world might be fulfilled, that is written in their law. They hated me without a cause. For when the com um verse we end the verse verse twenty-five there. Here's what he's saying. Christ, when he came to the earth, he came and he spoke truth. But not only did Christ speak truth, he did that which was truthful. His words and his actions lined up together for an absolutely irrefutable witness to the world. That he is who he said he was, and yet they chose to reject him. Christ not only with his words, but also off uh also with his lifestyle. tried to understand and bear witness of the Father, and they chose to reject both Christ and the Father. This is exposure to the world. I'm exposure to the word and to his deeds. Now we need to understand this. In our culture, and as we rub shoulders with people, there are two things that people are going to reject about us. There are two things that the world is going to reject. That is our words, and that is our deeds. Both our words of truth and our deeds that are consistent with our words, the world will choose, the world system particularly will choose to reject. Why is this? Well, we're reminded in John chapter 3, verse 19, and this is the condemnation that light has come into the world, and men love darkness rather than light. Why? Because their deeds were evil. For everyone practicing evil hates light, and does not come to the light, lest his deeds shall be exposed But he who does the truth shall come to the light, that his deeds may be clearly seen, that they have been done in God. Now let me ask you this question. Why do you suppose Cain became so had so much hatred for Abel? Do you remember what the passage says? Cain saw that the works of Abel were accepted, and it caused him to reject Abel and ultimately to reject God. And that's exactly what happens with the world. You see, when we live a righteous lifestyle before the world, they have there are two options for them. One option is to see the difference in our lives and to be drawn to us that is only that only occurs by the work of the Spirit of God, which we will get to. The other option is that they are repelled by us because our lifestyle sh demonstrates a difference between their lifestyle and it causes them to reject us. And have animosity toward us and jealousy toward us. That's what the Bible is essentially saying here. But what God wants us to see is that this is all in God's plan. This is all in fact a fulfillment of prophecy. In Psalm 3519 It says, let them not rejoice over me who are wrongfully my enemies, nor let them wink with the I who hate me without a cause. We find also in Psalm 69, 4, those who hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of my head. They are roughly, they are mighty, who would destroy me, being my enemy wrongfully, though I have stolen nothing, I still must restore. What we find in this passage is simply that there is a prophecy in Psalms that is fulfilled by this. In other words, folks, it is all entirely in God's plan for the world to reject Christians in mind in this plan. In fact, we find in other passages that God actually uses the world to purify followers of Christ. Now, this so far is a bit of a depressing message, isn't it? This is not something that we want to hear about all the time. We don't want to hear about the evil in the world. And we want don't want to hear about the the fact we don't want to come to church every week and hear about the fact that we might stumble as a result of the influence of the world This is something that can cause us to be sort of taken back. That's why Christ tells us this next. He says in verse 26. But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of Truth, which proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me. And ye also shall bear witness, because ye have been with me from the beginning. Jesus then says that there is a comforter that is coming. And he will indwell and what we talked about before in the past as comforter is sometimes translated as helper. It's sometimes translated as uh advocate. There is one who is God in the person of the Holy Spirit who is within us And not only is he within us, but he is in the world. There is, if you will, another power who is greater than the evil that is in the world. And that power is convicting the world of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment, according to what we find in chapter 16 of this passage. And that ought to give us great hope. Without the Spirit of God, folks, without the Spirit of God working in the lives of people, you would never have any embracing of the gospel in this world. You would have rejection only. That's the reality. Every time they see your word of truth, Every time they see your lifestyle, they would hate you as a result of it. But aren't you glad and aren't aren't we all just thankful that there is another power in the world that is the power of the Spirit of God? So that Paul says Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. And although we should be aware of the fact that there is a world out there that can trip us up There is a spirit with inside of us and a spirit that is convicting the world and influencing the world that we can great make great strides for Christ and for his kingdom because of the Spirit of God in this in this passage. See, this is so important to balance. There are some people in our some Christians that have such a a um a negative view toward toward the future of this world, uh toward the future of of what we do here That they become sort of, oh, the world's so bad and we just gotta hunker down and hold on till the end. And there's no chance that the world's ever gonna accept our truth, and there's no chance that That you know the wor i it's just it's just things are just so bad and and and sort of this defeatist attitude when it comes to the world that we live in. And those people are neglecting the reality that the Spirit of God is in the world. They're not balancing their view of the world with the influence of the Spirit of God in the world. And if you and I are going to have and this happens so often in like everything, we we get our mind locked in to a particular truth. But we don't we don't see the whole council of God on it. We don't see the other perspective on it. And that's why it's so important for uh for us to remember in all of this That the Spirit of God is in you, and the Spirit of God is in the world, and He is your advocate, He is your helper, He is your counselor, He is your comforter, and He's in the world, and He will help us to be able to bear fruit. What's our responsibility? Abide in Christ. And the question then boils down to: are we number one aware of the stumbling that can happen? But number two, are we aware of the Spirit of God that lives within us? He then says in 16 1, These things have I spoken unto you, that ye should not be offended or stumble. They that put you out of the synagogues, yea, the time cometh that whosoever killeth you will think that he doeth God's service And these things will they do unto you, because they have not known the Father nor me. Now let me ask you this question. When it says that he doesn't want the disciples to stumble, what do you suppose it's talking about? Have you ever thought about that? It says that he is concerned that there is a possibility or a probability that the people will stumble because of the hatred of the world. And we don't have the time to go through all of this, but let me just say number one that what he can't be talking about is that they're going to lose their salvation. The Bible is very clear in many places that that once you are a follower of Christ, you can't lose that. But there is something else in mind here. Of course, it is talking about causing to sin. Matthew chapter 5 and Matthew chapter 18 identify that. But what we I'm just going to tell you, but but what we really it really boil down to is stumbling is not a matter of losing one's salvation. But stumbling is a matter of losing one's usefulness for the cause of Christ. That's why the Apostle Paul said in 1 Corinthians chapter 9. Do you not know that those who run the race all run? But one receives the prize. Run in such a way that you may obtain And everyone who competes for the prize is temperate in all things. Now they do obtain a perishable crown, but we an imperishable crown Therefore, I run thus, not with uncertainty, thus I fight, not as one who beats the air, but I discipline my body. And bring it in a subjection, lest by when I have preached to others, I myself shall become disqualified. The danger for the Christian is not that he's going to lose his standing with God. The danger for the Christian is that he's going to lose his usefulness for God. And that is a possibility. That's why it says in Matthew chapter 5: if salt has lost its savor, what good is it except to be laid down and trodden underfoot of men? What we find in these in this is that there is a prospect of a Christian who is not following after the things of Christ and who is distracted and who is tripped up by the world, there is a possibility that we are rendered useless for the cause of Christ. Or that our use our usefulness is diminished because we are stumbling. Of course, it is God's plan in Hebrews chapter 12 that whom the Lord loves, he chastens, he brings us back to himself, so that we can once again be useful for his kingdom. But we must understand that there is a possibility for us. And so I would just simply warn all of us that what we've got to do is understand that possibility At the end of the day, how do we present prevent from uselessness? How do we prevent ourselves from stumbling in this way? The end of the day, we have to, number one, we've got to abide in Christ. That's why Christ says those who don't abide in him, the branch that is not connected to the vine, is going to be thrown away and burned up. In other words, a branch that's not connected to the vine has no usefulness. We, number one, have got to obey abide, we've got to abide in Christ. And number two, we've got to be aware of the world's evil, the world's system that would influence us wrongly. And I want to close simply by pointing out three things. Number one We must be aware that the world will try to trip us up if we are not vigilant. I cannot emphasize this enough. The urgency in this passage is clear. We must live every day realizing that it is the world's system and Satan's goal for us to be rendered useless for the cause of Christ. Number two, we must be aware that the world's rejection of us is in part God's plan to remind us of our need for Him. Does this not, when you reflect upon the world and you reflect upon the influence of the world, does this not draw you to coming, to being on your knees and depending upon God? It ought to drive us to a greater dependency on Christ. That is one of the values of, and this is sort of how God in his plan uses the world. To cause us to be mindful of our need for Christ every day. And number three, we must be aware that God's plan is to work in the heart of man. Through the Spirit of God from the inside out. Are you not thankful for that? The Spirit of God is at work today And he might not work in ways that we want him to work. We may be concerned about saving our country, but Christ is more concerned about saving a soul. And we need to understand that it is God's desire for us to live our lives doing the servant, the work of the kingdom of God in our lives. Which is to bring others to a place where they are citizens of God's kingdom as well. But we don't do it alone. It is the Spirit of God who works through us. to bear fruit for the cause of Christ. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we thank you just for the time that we have to look at your word here and to remind ourselves And for you really to remind us that we need to be aware that there is an enemy that would cause us to render us useless for the cause of Christ. I pray, Lord, that you would teach us to be discerning about this world, to know those elements in the culture that would cause us to stumble. And to have the discernment of knowing those things that would be enjoyable in the culture and right and redeemable. I pray, Lord, that there we would be on high awareness. But I also pray, Lord, that we would have confidence, not in ourselves, not in our country, not in this world, but our confidence would be in Christ. And the fact that he has sent us the Spirit of God to work within us, to work through us. and to convict the world so that we can live for the furtherance of the gospel. And it is not our own strength that will produce fruit It is the strength of the Spirit of God working through us as we abide in Christ. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us to constantly be mindful and focused upon Christ and how we can remain in him and be dependent upon him so that we can bear much fruit for his purposes And fulfill the furtherance of God's kingdom, your kingdom in the world. And Lord, as we go in now into a time of Of remembering the sacrifice that Christ made on the cross for us, we would affirm and admit before you the depart from the sacrifice And the substitutionary atonement of the work of Christ on the cross, we would be all men most miserable. We would be without hope in the world. We're so thankful for the love of Christ that redeemed us from this world, that chose us to be your people. That allows us to have all of the privileges of being adult children. And Lord, I pray that we would with gratefulness And with a worshipful spirit, just um worship you in our Lord's Supper today. And to really again appreciate the suffering that Christ went through and the substitutionary work on the cross, where his record was given to us, his record of righteousness. as our sin was placed upon him. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.