Records I preached this through this passage uh in October of last year, about nine months ago, nine or ten months ago. And in fact, we actually took an entire month to look at this concept of abiding in Christ simply because it is of utmost importance. For the Christian. And today what we want to do is we're going to look at it again as a reminder. But as we do this I want us to do some self-reflecting. Maybe a little differently than we did before. Nine months ago we looked at this and there was There was a sense in which some of these concepts many of you knew of these concepts, but they were r developed um fairly thoroughly over the four weeks to we look at these things. But I think it's such an important concept that I'm sort of I'm returning to this because we have Such good forgetters. And we get on with life and we get on with the busyness and the difficulties and the distractions and the all those things in life And we forget, and we get sidetracked in this fellowship, this connectedness that Christ desires to have with his children. In fact, this is in the middle of a text that is called the Upper Room Discourse, as you recall. And also, in fact, this was spoken to Christ by his dis from Christ to his disciples. Because these were vital things that they needed to know before Christ went to the cross. If you think of the illustration that Christ mentions here of him being the true vine and the the disciples and all of us who know Christ being the branches. If you think just generally, what is his point? His point is simply this. You must, you must abide in me You must stay connected to Christ. You have, it's as though Christ is saying, you've got one objective in life. You've got one goal. You've got one thing to focus on. The father is the husband, and he's the planter. Christ is the vine. I'm the one that produces the fruit. You've got one goal. Stay connected to me. And if you don't, you're going to be in trouble. That's my paraphrase of that passage. You're going to be in big trouble because you're going to be useless. And in fact, you're going to be torn up and chewed up and spit out by the world. All of that is in this passage, essentially. So it is absolutely and vitally important that we maintain not only our mental understanding, but our practice of the concepts in this chapter. Now, to sort of illustrate how we're going to approach this, I'd like to refer you back to a time-tested tradition over many years during Christmas time of putting up Christmas lights. How many of y'all just enjoy putting up Christmas lights on your trees? I'm glad there's a few weird ones in the room. Sorry. Sorry for the I don't enjoy that. How many of you remember the the old days when they're not really this way anymore, I don't think, but but the old days when um when if you had one bulb that was not seated correctly, the whole thing wouldn't work. You all remember those days? Okay. Uh that it was it's already frustrating enough to put up with Christmas lights. Back then, man, I mean one thing went wrong and y you know, you put the whole thing up and something like maybe the day later the the the uh the whole thing will go out and you're looking at every little ball but is it seated right and is it st I mean you know the truth is there why? Because there's gotta be a a a flow of electricity that runs through that and there's basically only one circuit and if it's broken at any point It doesn't work. Well, this connectedness that we need to have and that Christ wants us to have, this connectedness Sometimes there are it gets short circuited by certain things. I have actually seven short circuits in this passage. Shorted circuits. in this message today. I don't know that we'll get through all of them. We might this might be a two-part message, but but I I really think that it's absolutely necessary to say, okay If I'm not consistently abiding in Christ, how how where am I getting short-circuited? Well, we're gonna need the Lord's help with this, aren't we? Let's go to Him in prayer. Father, as we look at your word this morning and we see a very familiar passage, one that we have studied with some thoroughness. But as all of your word is, it's much easier to understand than it is to apply. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to to do some reflecting today and that this would just be helpful in in identifying shortage circuits that are keeping us from really being connected to you as you would desire. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, the passage is in a con in the context of Christ talking to his disciples. He mentions in the passage in the previous chapter of the work of Knowing the Father and being in Christ, and uh John 14, 20 it actually says, and that day you will know that I am in the Father and you in me and I in you So he now gives this illustration of what it means to be in Christ and for Christ to be in us and for Christ to be in the Father. How That's really hard to uh understand. So he gives us this picture of a branch connected to a tree, Christ being that vine or that tree, and we're the branches. And this is a very helpful illustration for us to understand how this is all supposed to work. We begin in verse 1 and we see verses 1 through 3. We're going to see the different roles that are involved in this process. of abiding in Christ, verse 1 says this, I am the true vine. Christ identifies himself this way. Now, in the Old Testament, we won't take the time to look at this, but in the Old Testament, the vine was actually mentioned as the nation of Israel in Psalm 80. Christ is now saying, I am the true vine. You need to look to me, the nation of Israel, with its ceremonial sacrificial system and The center of the presence of God being in the middle of the 12 tribes of Israel and all that took place there. It was the vine. That was the center of everything. But now Christ says, I'm the center of everything. I am the vine. There is a sense in which he is, for now anyway, replacing Israel, particularly when it comes to spiritual vitality. How do we maintain spiritual vitality? How are the disciples going to do this? Well, it's not going to be by looking at the nation of Israel anymore. It's got going to be by being connected to Christ. He then says this, he says, and by the way, we need to remember this, this is important, Christ being the vine, he is the fruit producer. He's the one that produces the fruit. We don't produce the fruit, folks. Christ produces the fruit through us as the branches. We then see in verse In the same verse here that Christ that says the father is the husbandman or the gardener. Now when we think of a gardener, we may think of sort of a maintenance gardener who who uh maintains the garden and certainly the father has a role that way, but there the husbandman or the gardener in this passage is much more than that. It is the one who owns the garden, who plans it all out, who makes sure that everything is being properly done in order that the most amount, the best fruit and most amount of fruit possible comes from that. vine and those branches in that garden. The father is the gardener. Now why is this important to know? We must understand that the Father's role is to be an overseer. And in fact, we see in verse 2 that the overall goal of all of it is to bear fruit. Every branch in me that Beareth not fruit, he taketh away. This is the Father. Every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. So the Father's goal in our lives is to set forth a plan for us that we would be able to produce or to to bear the most fruit possible. And that brings us to the first possible shortage circuit in our lives, where we try to be the gardener. The Father has a plan. The Father has he knows exactly how You can bear the most fruit possible. But do you know that you and I, we get in the way because we try to plan things out ourselves? We want our own way. We want to do things our own way. We think we have the plan. We forget that Proverbs says that a man's heart divises his own way, but the Lord directs his steps. And we get in trouble when we plan out our lives and we say we've got this plan and we forget that we can't do that. Now there's nothing wrong with setting goals. There's nothing wrong with establishing objectives. But folks, hold them loosely Because the Father is the one that has the plan. And he has to be the one to adjust us and direct us and to know how to prune us and know what to do. And when we start taking over the plan and we start taking control and saying, oh, I I want my plan to come into play. And my plan has to be what it's supposed to be. And when we get frustrated because my plan's not going the way that I want it to go. And it's not working out the way I expect. You know, we get real frustrated when things aren't the way we expect them to be, right? And it's somehow like we've forgotten that it's actually the Father that is the planner. He's in control. He's the one that knows what's going to happen. By the way, there's great comfort in that. Aren't you thankful that there's a heavenly father that knows you better than you know yourself, knows exactly what he has planned for you, and knows exactly how to get you there? And we as Christians need to be very careful that we don't try to control where God wants to be and the Father needs to be in control. We do not want to thwart his plan or get or fret or fear or be bothered when things don't go the way we think they ought to go. Because we must understand and accept that God is in control. Let me illustrate it this way. When I was first going to college, I had a very good idea that the Lord wanted me to go into the ministry. Well when I hit my second year, everybody told me horror stories about Greek class. I mean, everybody, you know, my first year they said, ah, freshman year's a breeze. But man, when you get into Greek, you know, I talk to upperclassmen that are pastoral ministries majors, and they'd say, man, you get into Greek, that's going to be your we- that's the weed out class for for pastors. And you know, there's a sense in which I started getting a little fearful about this. And um I'm but I remember thinking to myself, wait, wait a minute. What am I afraid of? If God wants me to pastor, and I need to be best, and the best way to be equipped is to know Greek, Well then God's going to equip me to do what I need to do if he wants me to be a pastor. And if he doesn't want me to be a pastor, that's okay. He'll do what he needs to do in my life to Put me where he wants me to go. You know, when you think that way, it's like the fear leaves you. You don't need to be afraid anymore because you're trying to follow God's plan, not your own. Now it's nothing wrong with having a goal But if God redirects you, don't say to yourself, well, I'm a failure at my own goal. Say, no, no. God didn't have that goal for me. Because the reality is, God has equipped you to do exactly what He wants you to do. Here's what He hasn't equipped you to do: what you want to do. Does that make sense? I mean, he hasn't equipped you to do everything you want to do necessarily, but he has equipped you to do exactly what he wants you to do. And so when we leave the plan to him, And when we decide that we're going to follow one step at a time, we set goals, fine, but if God doesn't, if God directs us another way, that's okay. When we have that kind of malleability in our lives, if you will. If we begin to when we have that kind of flexibility. then we are going to be able to continue to stay connected to him. And we find then in this passage as well that how the Father works is that he knows exactly where to prune us. Did you notice that in verse 2? He wants to prune us. It says, that every branch in me that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. I did a little research on olive trees and when they're best. I was studying this uh yesterday actually and thinking through this a little bit. I thought, you know, I wonder where when olive trees are supposed to be pruned. So I looked at a secular website, had nothing in mind, you know, there's no connection here as far as what they thought. And um to see when they're pruning. You know when you know when you prune an olive tree? right before it produces fruit. And they said in this secular website that the reason that you prune is you needed if you prune correctly It was like I'm reading the Bible here, which is I wasn't. But if you prune correctly, you'll produce more fruit than you would otherwise. More olives. And they said the reason that you prune that you have to know exactly how to prune the fruit correctly so that all of the branches get enough of enough sunlight to be able to to flower and to produce the kind of fruit that you're supposed to produce. Folks, that's exactly what God does in our lives. He prunes us. That brings me to shorted circuit number two. And you know what this one is, I think, already. We, in some way or another, we resist God's pruning. We don't like the idea of God's pruning in our lives, and we resist it You know, Peter said it this way: don't think it strange when fiery trials come upon you to try you. Don't think that to be strange. The Bible says in Hebrew, and here's how he does it sometimes, he does it certainly through our circumstances. We will go through trials and difficulties, we'll go under the pressure cooker. We'll go under those kinds of things. And what we tend to do, and we'll lose our connectivity to Christ if we do this, what we tend to do is we sort of step back and say, why am I going through this? Instead of realizing, you know, maybe God is doing this in my life to prune me so that I can go from producing fruit to producing more fruit. Hebrews 12 says it this way, no chastening of the present time seems to be joyous, but grievous. Nevertheless Afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. The second short circuit in our life, shorted circuit in our lives that can occur that keeps us from abiding in the vine is that we resist God's pruning. Now, I don't think when we get pruned by God, we have to say yippee joy, like we have to suddenly be happy, like like joyful, like bubbly about it or something. That would be weird. But folks on the other hand, for we need to sit back sometimes and we need to look at our trials and we need to look what we're going through And we need to set, we need to observe what we're going through and we need to say, you know what, maybe what God is doing is pruning me so I can bring forth more fruit. And if we resist that pruning and we we sort of kick back and kick against that pruning, we can become disconnected from the vine altogether. Sometimes we become almost angry at God. We would never we sometimes we wouldn't say it, but we begin to despair in our circumstances that We have to be very careful about this. Folks, we cannot abide in the vine if we are resisting God's pruning. We've got to go through it. Every branch does. You say, boy, that is depressing. Folks, the key then is to realize that on the other side of that, you're going to produce more fruit. Don't you want to produce more fruit for God? The answer to being able to do that is to willingly undergo God's pruning in your life. So that you can indeed produce more fruit. A. W. Tozer said it this way: it is doubtful whether God can use a man greatly until he has first hurt him deeply. And we don't like that. But the truth of the matter is, that is the case in our lives as Christians. The Christian life will necessarily include pruning. And we ought not resist God's pruning in our lives, knowing that there is a result, a fruit that occurs from the pruning. It says here then in verse 3, Ye are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. We move then from the role of Christ being the vine and the role of the husbandman to the role then of Of what Christ has done to us positionally. He says in this passage, you are clean. Now, if you recall way back from John chapter 3, you'll recall then that it says that we need to be born both of water and of the word. And we Back then did an extended discussion on this in Ezekiel 36. We see that the word has a ref You put all this together, and the water in that passage has a is a reference to the word. That is, the word is a cleansing agent. And in Ezekiel 36, verses 35 through 27, you have the concept of the Spirit of God using the Word of God to establish and to do things with the Word of God, particularly this cleansing work. Now when we think of the work of the Holy Spirit, often we think in terms of a a day-by-day ongoing thing that the The Spirit of God does in our lives or and can do in our lives, the filling of the Spirit of God, and certainly is a very important thing for us to understand. But that's not what he's talking about in verse three. He's actually referencing The initial cleansing work of the Spirit of God in the believer's life, where He places us in the body of Christ, the baptism of the Spirit, and He indwells us. The sealing of the Spirit. There are certain things that the Spirit of God does when we come to Christ that establishes who we are in Christ, our position in Christ. It is not something that's dependent upon us at all. It's not something that we can do anything about Essentially, once we have truly come to Christ, we are established. We are a son of the King. We are children of God. We are joint heirs with Christ. There are certain things that are established, and we are cleansed by the Word of God. By no merit of our own, and there is nothing we can do to reverse that that position. It does bring me, though, to short circuit number three. We stop identifying with our position in Christ. Let me explain how this works. This is something that is very seems to be very prevalent in our culture, We become we are somewhat enamored with discovering ourselves. You notice that? Think of different Disney lyrics. Actually be watch out for Disney lyrics. But um you know a lot of times they talk about be true to yourself and be into yourself and be have you know make sure you're a lot of things about yourself basically in those Disney lyrics. So it's Be careful. Some of them are good actually. Some of them are not. But you ever see on Facebook they they something flashed up that says, find out whether you're this or this. How many of you are inclined to go and well I want to know what I want to know what I am? I mean I've done it before. Like, hmm, I wonder what I am. Find out if you're a lion or a bear. I mean there are all kinds of things on but some of them are I go well I I've done about two or three of them and now I just think that's just dumb. Usually. Sorry, I'm if you did them if you do them, I'm not saying you're dumb. I'm just saying that some of them are really dumb. Anyway, but there is this human propensity to really like know who you are. And it seems to be in our culture to really do that. I think of terms like people say, I'm I'm a foodie. My wife said that today. She said the other day, she said, We're foodies. I said, what? What is that? We were at a restaurant and we were being picky about what we were eating and she said we're foodies, that's why. I'm like, we're what is that? I know I like food. Don't you know, you can just look at me and tell that. I mean wha I guess wanna die, I seriously do. Anyway. Um the false fall's coming, right? You know, we gotta have our fun the summer. Anyway, that's totally besides the point. But but you have this, or I'm an athlete, or I'm a computer geek, or I'm this or that. W you know, I mean some of the or we identify by our job position. I am this. We begin to find our value in those kinds of things. Well, my value is in this job or this position, or this title, or that kind of thing. Can I tell you that some of that, by the way, if you come with me and say I'm a I'm an athlete or something or I I'm into sports. Don't I'm not gonna say, oh boy, you're you find your position in Christ. I'm I'm not gonna do that. Okay. But we do need to be careful. Who you are in Christ is what really matters. And the glorious thing about that is that doesn't change. Other things can change. You lose your job and you might not be able to find value. Should we despair if we lose our job? Our position? Some people do. They find all of their value in their position and they don't know how to operate anymore. They can't see their value because they've lost their position at their job. They go into depression and despair. Folks, that should not be the case for a Christian. Our position is that we are in Christ. We have been cleansed by him. Sometimes it occurs because we are not really allowing, we're not really realizing the forgiveness that God has given us in sin in our lives. The Bible tells us if we agree with God about our sin, then He's forsaken, then, and we've forsaken our sin, we've confessed it, then He He it's work He'll cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And frankly, he already has because of our position in Christ. And there is a connectedness that needs to occur in fellowship that we were restored to that. But sometimes it's all as though we think God can't forgive that sin. Well, who do you think you are that God can't forgive your sin? Is Christ's work on the cross not good enough? We really need to think through this. Sometimes what we do in short circuiting this particular problem, sometimes what we do Is we allow our actions to define us, our opinions, or our behavior to define us. Well, I do this because this is who I am No, no. You don't do that because of who you are. We get it backwards. I am in Christ, therefore I serve him. I don't serve him so that I can be in Christ. I remember um when I was um I was in Pennsylvania, uh we did a yard sale. And uh at this yard sale um I I borrowed one of those canopy things. Now I have my own. But I borrowed one at the time And I broke it. And so I went immediately to the sports place uh that is bought from. I I I knew where the the friend of mine bought it from and I bought him another one. I just I didn't even add it, I just went and bought it. And he said, Oh man, I could have fixed that. That would have been okay. And I said, No no no, this is just who I am. I actually took all of the proceeds from the from the uh yard sale to go buy that canopy. It took it took all of it. So I was like, you know, net gain of zero. And he was kind of upset and I said, no, this this is just who I am. You know, actually that was a bad way to put it. Not who I am. We don't do in order to be. We are in Christ, and therefore we do. And we have to be very careful that we understand the distinction. There's a fine line, but we need to understand the distinction between those things. Because here's what happens when you can't do the way you think you ought to do, if your position is based upon what you do, you suddenly will despair because you're not who you think you are. Does that you follow that? And you become people have identity crises be crises crises because they think they're something and then they do certain things and then actually they find out they're not who they thought they were. Well what a bunch of drama You are who you are not because of what you've done, not because of what you will do. You are who you are because of Christ. And aren't you glad about that? That will never change. And it's all because of the blood of Jesus Christ. And our relationship with Christ, our fellowship with Christ is not built upon our actions, our behavior. It's built upon Christ. Now here's the thing. Here's what's amazing about this. If we get this right, then our actions will be what they're supposed to be. And they will be consistently right. And we will live for God correctly. And we will do what we're supposed to do and serve Him faithfully. So it's not as though we won't do that. We will do that. In fact, that's evidence of the fact that we are connected to Christ. But we've got to make sure that it's all based upon an established position. that's based upon who Christ is. Folks, it's exactly why the old that why why you couldn't follow the law in the Old Testament, why they were not able to do it. Because their the it was the the role was reversed. They were who they were based upon their behavior. It doesn't work. We're too weak And so we have to understand that. We've got to be settled in our foundation foundationally about who we are in Christ. We will never consistently be able to abide in Christ. until we are settled in who we are in Christ. And so we have to remember this. Then we find here That's the roles and all that. And there are actually there are three short circuits that we came into, but now we are moving now to understanding the very nature of a body in Christ. And I want to remind us About a few things in this passage here. We pick up here in verses 3 through 5. We've already read verse 3. Now you're clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. He says, Abide in me and I in you. As a branch cannot bear fruit of itself except it abide in the vine, no more can ye accept ye abide in me I am the vine, ye are the branches. He that abideth in me and I in him, the bring the same bringeth forth much fruit, for without me ye can do nothing. And what I want to do is just review What this whole concept of abiding in Christ really is. We find two books of the Bible in the New Testament to be helpful for us. The first is Ephesians and the other is 1 John. 1 John is written by the same human author as the Gospel of John, and really in a lot of ways 1 John is a further description of many of the truths in the Upper Rome discourse in John chapters 13 through 16, 17 as well, in there. That's a further explanation of those things we find in 1 John. And in the book of Ephesians, we find the Apostle Paul's treatment of of this whole concept that's in a different way. In Ephesians 4. 13, it actually says, till we all come into the unity of faith, under the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, under the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. This is equated in Ephesians 3. 19 to knowing God in a deeper way and to be known by God. In Ephesians 5. 18, we have the very familiar verse of being filled with the Spirit. All of these are really talking about the same thing, abiding in Christ, being filled with the Spirit. the Spirit, knowing God, being known by God, they are really all talking about that same the same concept and described in different ways for us to understand, have a fuller understanding of what these things are. In we also under need to understand that there's a kind of a abiding perspective that Neat we must have, we find that in Colossians chapter 3. It says, if ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above where Christ is on the right hand of God. Set your affections on things above, not on the things of the earth, for ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. The abiding relationship we found fleshed out in 1 John, and we find the concept of fellowship in 1 John. I've been teaching the teens for the last few weeks in Sunday school. And we talked last week about the concept of fellowship. Teams, what is fellowship? Can you all remember what fellowship is? I didn't know you were going to ask me. What is it? Just one word. What is it, guys? Good. It's sharing. Fellowship is sharing. What we have with Christ is a sharing relationship. We share with him. He shares with us. He shares his strength. He sh Christ the amount of what Christ shares with us is immeasurable. What we share with him can probably be put on one hand. Worship and there's certain things that we share with him. Adoration and pleasure and Right behavior, those kinds of things. But there is this ongoing sharing work that we we have in our fellowship with him. And then finally, abiding in Christ has to do with a stability in life Stability, first of all, in God's truth. And we find that in 1 John 2, verses 24 through 27. But also a stability and a confidence in God's presence. 1 John 2, verse 28 says, And now, little children, abide in him that when he shall appear we may have confidence and be ashamed and not be ashamed before him at his coming. Why? Because he's been with us the whole time. That is, when we are really abiding in Christ, there is a constant awareness of the presence of Christ in our lives. Can I ask you a question, Christian? As you live out your life, are you constantly aware of the presence of God? Is there an awareness of his presence, of his working, of his communication with you through the word? And then finally, finding stability in the position that we have in Christ in 1 John 3, 1 through 3. But there is this other concept that we find in verses 4 and 5 that sort of jumps out of at us and is summarized in the final ver in the final phrase of chapter of verse 5. For without me ye can do what? Ye can do nothing. Without Christ, there is no fruit. Without Christ, there is no work that you and I can do that is of any eternal significance at all. That's why what is absolutely necessary for us to be able to abide in Christ is to have an attitude and a conscious dependency on Christ. Are you consciously and consistently dependent on Christ? That really brings us to shorted circuit number four, which is self-reliance. We, our culture does everything it can to get us to think that the answer to life is self-reliance. I just need to rely on myself. I can't trust anybody else. I'm just going to do it myself. And sometimes experience has showed us that. Experience has said that told us that, you know, I don't you know I might not be all that reliable, but I know others really aren't reliable. I'm more reliable than they are, so I might as well just do it myself. In other words, out of the options available, I'm the most reliable out of the options available Folks, self-reliance will keep us from abiding in Christ. We cannot be self-reliant. We have to be reliant on Christ to do what we can't do for ourselves. That is, there's this conscience, conscious awareness of the need for Christ to realize that my life is going to end up useless and worthless if it isn't for Christ. And that every day of my life is going to be a day that I need to look to Christ for strength. And to bask in his love, and to be aware of his presence, and to fellowship with him, and to do what he has asked me to do for his pleasure. To follow after him closely. And when I do this, fruit will come. Results will occur. And my life will be useful for him, but only because of him, and never because of my own self-reliance. Christian, you we have to fight this. We have to constantly be aware that if I do things in my own strength, Because of my own intestinal fortitude alone, that I am doing them with self-reliance. Now, this is not to say that we just don't have any kind of effort in our lives. That we're not diligent and we don't work hard and we don't do it's not it's not what it's saying at all. But what it is telling us is that if we are not, as we are doing these things, connected to Christ and in fellowship with Christ. they are not going to produce the eternal fruit that we otherwise could have. There are a couple of ways that this the I want to really get this point across because it's an important one. There are a couple of ways that this occurs. Sometimes we follow the commands of Christ, but we fail to love Christ. You ever think of it that way? We have our sort of list of things that we ought to do. And if we just follow that list of things we ought to do, then we know we're good. You know what? That sounds pretty simple, but it's it's really wrong. You cannot think in terms of a list of things to do. And to think, well, if I just do that list and I don't do these things, I do do these things, then I'm good. And I know I'm good if I do these things and don't do this. Folks, that is not a loving relationship. What God wants from us is a loving relationship. It's an ongoing day by day knowing Hims so we know what He wants for us. When you really know someone, you don't need to have them write a list for you. Some of us men need to learn this. I actually really like it when my wife writes lists for me. But really, if I want to know her, I I have learned some things. I know what kind of flower she's like likes. It took me 15 years, but or almost But I know what kind of flower she likes now. I don't have she didn't have to write it down for me anymore. You're like you're really lame. It took you that long. It's true. The point I'm simply saying is that when you really know someone, it's this ongoing relationship. You know what they need. You're sensitive to that to what they're Pleasure is, you're sensitive to those kinds of things. It's an ongoing relationship versus I'm going to do this, this, this, this, and I'll be fine. If you're following a list, it's like you're following, you're working for an employer. It's probably a a good way to illustrate it. Instead of having a relationship like you're supposed to have in marriage or a close friend where you're wanting to please them and wanting to help them and wanting to love them. You're following an employer. Do you see God as your employer? Where are you going to follow a list of things? If we do, it will lead us to self-reliance. And by the way, we're not all that good at that. Right? And so we'll actually end up feeling defeated most of the time. But if we don't feel defeated, we'll end up like a Pharisee. Right? The Pharisee is really the perfect, the prime example of someone who did all the right things. But Christ said, you are a whited sepulchre with dead men's bones in you. Christ was hardest on the Pharisees out of any other group of people. because there was a sense of self-reliance and self-pride that he could not work with. It wasn't possible. So we need to think about those things and we need to ask ourselves, is there a sense of self-reliance that is keeping us From really following after Christ. Now my time is up. And I want to just mention a couple of these things. We're going to review the final ones next Sunday. All four of these are areas that if you look at these areas and you really think about them from time to time these have probably over the last nine months been shorted you've had them as shorted as circuits in your life. I have. There have been times where where at least some of these, maybe not all of them, but at least some of them I have had to say, whoa, whoa, I am I am short circuiting. It's not on there. I don't have a conclusion today. So don't you're you're good And I just encourage you this way. I think the helpfulness of doing it this way is that if we can have these in our minds, if we could identify and we can know, okay, uh, that's a short circuit. I'm getting into an area that I might l lose my connectivity to Christ if I keep thinking that way or I can't keep doing that. I think it will help us to be better equipped to abide in Christ. And I would just encourage you with these four areas to just take some time. In fact, what I would like you to do, I'd like us all to do this. I'd like us to just just, if you just bow your, bow our heads and just in the quietness of our own hearts before the Lord. Close our eyes and just in silence before the Lord, go ahead and ask ourselves as we think through these. Ask ourselves, okay, where where am I where have I gone wrong? What is my tendencies? Where do I need to get a thinking adjustment? And just in your own time here, just pray before the Lord, in your own heart before the Lord. Lord, Lord, I have been self-reliant. Or Lord, I have not relied on my position in Christ. Or maybe your struggle has been resisting God's pruning. Whatever your struggle is, or maybe you've been trying to control your life instead of letting God have control of your life and you're trying to plan things out and you're getting frustrated I want you just to take a few minutes in the quietness of your own heart before the Lord to just Ask the Lord for help with these things. And then we'll pray together in just a few moments. Father, you have clearly written in your word in this passage Truths that have such an urgency to them. It is clear we must be abiding in Christ. If we don't, we will not bear the fruit that you want us to bear. We will be not as not useful to you. We will be a life not really worth live Lord, it is clear here. So I pray, Lord, that you would just help us to have a sensitivity toward you and to your word, your word this morning. That would cause us to really desire to be to be restored to a place of abiding in Christ once again I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.