Chapter fifteen this morning. We are even though nine months ago we went at a fairly thorough treatment of of John 15 as we went through the Gospel of John. I am in between expository series right now and just really felt compelled to return to this extremely important subject of abiding in Christ And uh I am looking forward to the next series. We're going to be going we're going to uh be starting a series in the book of Galatians after I get back from vacation. You're going to you have the privilege of uh hearing Missionary next week, one of our missionaries that we support, Vitel E. Keller and his family will be with you next week, and then Pastor Micah Colbert will be with you the following week and we'll be preaching. Um and so court I guess August is the month of vacations, uh the s sort of last chance basically before the school. school starts and um so we're look forward looking forward to being away. I I always have mixed feelings about it. I do miss you all when I'm when I'm gone, particularly on Sundays. But um not enough to not go away. So John John fifteen is where we're where we're at. Um And I I also just want to mention as as I've been re-studying John 15, I I hope that you will see this chapter. As one of the most prominent chapters in the entire Bible that Christians have got to grasp And if you are going through your life as a Christian and you are spiritually feeling stale or you're struggling with um some some barrier in the Christian life or something in your life that you just don't feel is quite right in your growth as a believer or your fellowship with the Lord I would just strongly suggest that the maybe the first place you go to is John 15. He really lays out how we're supposed to stay connected with Christ, which is everything for the Christian. If we're not what's clear in this passage is if we're not connected to Christ, if we're not abiding in Christ, then then we are not going to bear fruit. And um we saw some of that last week and we're I we're taking a different approach this time around. to looking at the subject. We're taking a if you can kind of imagine it this way. I'm I'm doing this in this it's not a a directly expository message last Sunday and this Sunday, as much as it is Thinking in terms of what I'm calling shorted circuits, our goal is to stay connected to the to Christ. But there are things that tend to get in the way. There are things in our lives that that tend to short circuit our relationship with the Lord, our fellowship with Him. And it's almost as though you're in my office, all of you, that would be interesting. But um And I'm trying to think in terms of how I can help you if you came to me and you said, Okay, look, I want to abide in Christ, but I feel like there's something that's not uh something that's not I'm not able to do it the way I want to. Um what things I would be going through with you. These are the things. And uh I I hope in this way it would help us to see sort of a different angle uh on things and how we can um how we can uh apply this passage in a way that is meaningful and helpful because it is just that important. And we looked last week at four out of the seven shortage circuits One is that we sometimes try to be the gardener. And it says clearly in the passage that Christ, that the Father is the gardener. He is the one that has the plan. He is the one that will best know how to do certain things to produce fruit. So sometimes we're trying to make the plan and we need to submit to God's will about his plan for our lives. Number two, that sometimes we resist God's pruning. He is trying to do something in our lives to prune us back so that we will produce more fruit and we're resisting it. We're not seeing our circumstances as trials with which God chooses to make us to bring us to a growth in him and endurance and fellowship and those kinds of things. Instead we are we are resisting pruning. We looked last week as well at as we stopped identifying with our position in Christ. Instead we are finding our value, our identity, and other things Whether it's our own actions or behavior, whether it's the opinions of others, or whether it's just um our position in our job or whatever it is, we're finding our value instead of finding it in in who we are in Christ We're finding it in other things. And we also looked last week at relying on ourselves, self-reliance instead of Christ. And so, with this in mind, we're going to pick up here in verse six of this passage. And I I want to jump right into this. Usually I have a little bit more of an illustration or introduction of some kind, but I want to jump right into this because Verse 6 is going to really describe for us why it's so important. for us to abide in Christ. And I'm going to give you the answer before we get into the passage, before we end the verse, why it's so important. Of course, we looked at this last week a little bit, the fact that we can't bear fruit if we don't abide in Christ. But I want to say it in another way. Do you know it is absolutely important that we stay connected to Christ because otherwise we will get torn up by the world Your kids need to learn to abide in Christ or they're going to get torn up by the world. Your teenagers need to. And we all need to. We must learn to abide in Christ. And we're going to see this how this works out in this passage. Actually, in verses 6 through 7, we have a very We have a very debatable passage. There's many views to this passage, to this these two verses. We'll look at them. Let's pray first, ask his blessing on our time, and then we'll look at these. Father, as we look at sort of a unique message. and listen to a message that helps us, hopefully helps us really apply this path these these truths. I pray that it would be helpful. And that we would really think through in our own lives if there have been shorted circuits in our lives that have been keeping us from being connected to Christ. Help us identify what those are. And um we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. And I I also want to say um as I was praying, I thought of this, I really encourage if you were not here last Sunday I I just guess I would encourage you to listen to that message because it will it it it hopefully will help you. You see the areas that we looked at last Sunday and they're so vitally important That my my hope and prayer is that this will help you be able to have a model in your mind of what to go by in your growth and in your relationship with the Lord. So we're going to pick up here in John 15, verse 6. It says, If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch and is withered. And men gather them and cast them into the fire, and they are burned. If you abide in me and my words abide in you, you will ask what you will, and it will be done unto you. Now, verse 6 is perhaps one of the most controversial verses in this entire passage of Scripture. It says that if a man doesn't abide in Christ, Then he is cast forth as a branch and is withered, number one, and then man gather them and cast them into the fire, and they are burned. There are many people that believe that what this is talking about here, there are about three major views, one of which is the idea is that this is teaching a loss of salvation, that once somebody comes to Christ. that there is a possibility that they could if they don't abide in Christ and stay connected to him, that they could lose their their standing with Christ, they could lose their salvation. Of course we know from very clear passages of Scripture that this could not be the case. Just a few chapters earlier in John chapter 10, verse 35, it says that my sheep hear my voice. Christ says this, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand, my father, which is greater than me, is uh uh is greater than all, neither shall any man pluck them out of my father's hand. So we have there clearly eternal security that's taught. We have other places like Hebrews 35 that says, I'll never leave you, nor forsake you. Folks Our salvation is not conditioned upon our efforts whatsoever, either prior to our conversion or after our conversion And so that cannot possibly be what it's talking about. Secondly, there is this idea of a professor but not possessor view in this verse. That what this is really referring to is somebody who never actually was a branch in the first place, that never was connected in the first place, those are going to suffer the consequences uh that's found in verse six. And that's a possibility. It's certainly more doctrinally accurate, but I'm actually going to suggest that there is another view that I would encourage as well. One other possibility is this view called the works view, where it's actually not talking about the person being burned, but the works being the burned, that the works are actually worthless. And so that's what it's talking about when it talks about someone who is cast forth as a branch. But this is this is a bit problematic because it actually says he is cast forth as a branch. It doesn't say anything about his fruits. or efforts or works being cast forth as a branch. Now what I what I want to do is really I want to identify another view here that I think I think is far more plausible when we consider the context of the passage. Remember, as we said last week, that the primary thing that Jesus is trying to get across here is that it is absolutely vital that we abide in Christ. He says it as a command here. He tells us if we don't, what will happen? It is clear that he wants his disciples to realize just how important it is that they stay connected to Christ. And that is the main thrust of the passage. And I would suggest to you that verse 6 is a is consistent with that main thrust. Lewis Berry Schaefer, many years ago, said it this way He said the passage merits consideration like many others requires attention given to the context. The real question is at issue concerning the passages, whether Christ, by his use of the figure of the vine and the branches, and his call for an abiding life, is referring to Christian union or Christian communion with himself. Unless this doctrinal distinction is apprehended, there can be no basis for right understanding of the text in question. In other words, his point is: this is not talking about salvation or union with Christ. It is talking about communion with Christ. It is talking about fellowship. And certainly what 1 John talks about would line up with that approach. Now, with that in mind, what we need to also do is look at this verse and realize that we often make real mistakes when we study God's Word to assume certain things. When we see certain words, we make assumptions about those words. And when we see fire, we often make an assumption about it. What do we often assume? It must be talking about hell. But I would like you to notice that there's actually nowhere in verse 6 that talk says hell. It just says fire. And I'd also like you to notice that there's really nowhere else in the passage that talks about hell. So do we have to say that the fire here is actually talking about hell? Especially considering that this is a passage that is dealing with An illustration, like a vine and branches and fruit. These are all illustrations Is it possible that there's something else that Christ has in mind here when he says that men who are not abiding in the in the vine are going to be cast forth as a branch and first withered and then burned? It implies in the passage that these people have been at some time connected to the vine, otherwise they would not be able, there would not be a withering that takes place. So, what is it talking about here in the passage? I think what helps us is actually to consider an Old Testament text in Ezekiel chapter 15. And in Ezekiel chapter 15, it actually talks about wood and being wood being used for for fuel, and in fact it's making reference to the nation of Israel. It says in first two, Son of Man, how will how is wood of the vine better than wood than any other wood. The vine branch which is among the trees of the forest, is wood taken from it to to make any object, or can man make a peg from it to hang any vessel Instead, it is thrown into the fire for fuel. The fire devours both ends of it, and in the middle it is burned. Is it useful for any work? So what is the point that he is making there? He is saying that Israel, in that passage, is like a piece of wood that is not that is not able to be used to be crafted into something that is useful. The only use for it is is to be burned. The point of that passage is is in Ezekiel in Ezekiel is a reference to usefulness. The nation of Israel, he is saying, was not useful for Christ because in the context in Ezekiel of their idolatry. Is it possible then that Christ is using the same illustration here? To identify the reality that if somebody does not abide in the vine, he is also like that branch who is withered and will be burned. In other words, he is not useful for God. This would be consistent with the rest of this context, where it says, if you don't abide in me, you will not bear fruit, and if you do abide in me, you will bear fruit. He is now saying, if you don't, you are not useful for my purposes. You're not useful to God in this way. Then there comes a question: well, who are these men that burn this, that burn these branches when they are not connected to the vine? Should we assume that these men are God? And previous interpretations and other views, the assumption is that these that that God is actually sending someone to eternal punishment where they ought to be Because either they lost their salvation, which isn't biblical, or because they never actually gained the salvation in the first place. But should we should we see this verse men or this this this reference to men as to God? I would say no, we should not This is an illustration of what men do to branches that have no other usefulness except because they have withered, except to be burned. But I'd like to actually suggest to you that who the men might be. The men in the passage, according to the context, if we look at the the next possibility in the passage We would find in verses 18 through 20 who the men might be. Look at verses 18 through 20 if you would of chapter 15. It says, if the world hate you, ye know that it hated me before it hated you. If you're of the world, the world would love his own But because you're not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore for the world hateth you. In John seventeen Christ actually prays. This is just two chapters later. Christ is going to pray, Father, would you take them, uh, would you protect them from the world? I would that you would not take them out of the world But that you would teach them from the world. He was praying for protection from the world. Is it possible that that's that what this is actually saying here in this verse Is that our usefulness will be, we won't be useful, we will be useless to God, and actually what will happen is the world will influence us to the point of uselessness. Now, would that not be true with reality? Now, it may not be what it's talking about. It may just be an illustration, and that's all it is. But folks, just practically, even by application, I just want us to think about this. Is it not true that there is a world system that is influenced by Satan? Is it not true, according to Ephesians chapter 2, that Satan is the prince of power of the air Is it not true that there is a direct, overt, purposeful influence of opposing the cause of God in the world today? It is not as though we can say that we are born into a world that is somehow morally neutral. This is absolutely not the case. We are born into a world that is morally corrupt. We are born into a world that is going against God. And what God is saying in this text. either by interpretation or by application, is that if you do not abide in the vine, if you do not abide in Christ, you will be useless for God. You will not be able to be used the way that God wants you to to bear fruit, number one. And number two, you are going to be very easily influenced by the world. And are we not living in a generation where Christians are not able, don't do not seem to be able to abide in the vine the way that God wants them to, and Christians are falling away from From serving him with faithfulness and with usefulness. His point here in verse 6, I would suggest to you, is pointing out that you and I have got to abide in Christ. Why? Because otherwise the world, can I put it this way, is going to chew us up and spit us out if we don't We will never have a loss of eternal s of eternal security if we truly are saved. But our usefulness will be extremely diminished to the point that we will be useless And this is verified by the fact that Matthew chapter 5 says that if a salt, if salt has lost its savor, it is therefore good for nothing. But to be put on the road and to be trodden underfoot of men. There is the possibility for a Christian to become no longer useful for God's service. Because he is not salt that is used, that is useful. It's lost its savor. We must be abiding in Christ. And so that's why we have returned to this such an important subject. And we pick up now in verse 7 to look at how we are to maintain this abiding relationship that we talked about last week. We are connected to Him. Our role is not to produce the fruit. Our role is to bear the fruit as we are focused on Christ and connected to Him. So the question now becomes: how do we stay connected to Him? Outside of the attitude that we must have, that we are completely dependent upon Christ, how can we stay connected to Christ? And in verse 7 it says, If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. When Christ was here on this earth, it says verse 8, here and is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit, so shall ye be my disciples. We find in this word, in this very important verse in verse 7, two concepts. One concept has to do With the abiding the word of God abiding in us. And the other has to do with asking God and praying to Him. These two things are inseparably linked. You cannot pray according to the will of God if the word of God is not abiding in you. When Christ was on this earth, he said many words. The disciples were able to sit at Jesus' feet and just listen to him teach many, many hours. Can you imagine what it would have been like to just sit at Christ's feet and to listen to him preach to the masses of and the multitudes of people that flocked to hear him? Or to be taken up on the Mount of Olives just alone with a few disciples, and to be one of those disciples that would listen at the feet of Jesus and hear his words. Well, although they were not going to be able to be present with him, Christ was saying, I am going to leave my words with you And Christ's words and the word of God are the absolute key with which we are going to be able to continue to abide in Christ. God tells us in his word over and over in the Old Testament, his emphasis in his word is meditating on the word of God. Rarely do you see in Psalms David saying that we need to read the Word of God or that he is delighting in reading the Word of God. But over and over and over and over again in the book of Psalms, David talks about the joy of meditating on the Word of God. And that really brings us to shorted circuit number five. We fail to meditate on the Word of God. Colossians chapter 3, verse 16 says, Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom Teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. God desires that the the Word of Christ not just have a that it it dwells in us richly that we delve into the deep and rich truths of the Word of God And those are harvested not just by a cursory reading of the Word of God, by meditating on the Word of God. But you know, in our culture, I just want to say that we I I fear we are losing the ability to meditate We are losing the ability to be able just to think over and over and over about the rich truths of the Word of God. It is though it is as though memorizing the word of God is the thing of the past. Why would we need to memorize the word of God? We've got our phones. If we need a verse, we just pull out our phones. and type in the what we need and we can see it right there. Why do we need to memorize it? It's just it's in our phones like everything else in the world. It's all in our phones But there are rich truths that we need to feed on that can't that the only way we're going to feed on them is if we are meditating on the word of God. It's absolutely important. And we are living in such a day where we don't want to take the mental work To do the hard study, or to meditate and to think long and hard about what God is actually saying. We're not willing to lay on our beds as David did and think about who God is and his great attributes. and what he is saying about us and what he is saying about himself and what he is saying he has done for us. We are not, we're not, it's almost as though we're not able to do that anymore. Now I am, of course, exaggerating a little. We are able to do it. But we're living in a culture that does not like to do it When we stand in line at a grocery store, instead of taking time to think about something that's edifying and useful, we pull out our phones and we check things. And I'm guilty of it too. I'm not at all saying I'm not. But we really need to consider this. I am convinced that the reason that we want 25-minute sermonettes in our culture, and we want things to be simple and palatable Is because we're not willing to do the mental work to really think about what God is actually saying in His Word. We want it all spoon-fed in bite-sized Twitter statements as though we need them all in what is it, 49 characters is the is the max for Twitter? That we all need. And folks, the truth of the matter is God's word is not written in pithy sayings. They're not written in short anecdotal phrases. The Word of God has context. It has rich, deep truths, and it's going to take diligence and work For us to study it and to listen to the preaching of it. And to it's going to take work for us to do that. So there is a sense in which abiding in Christ, though it is not done by our own efforts. Though we do not abide in Christ in the sense that we are going to muster up and do it ourselves, the work is not so much in trying to do what only Christ can do, but the work is in studying the Word of God and meditating on it so that the Word of Christ is dwelling in us Richardly. It's abiding in our hearts. It's in our thinking. It's on our lives. We just think about it all the time. And then when we we live and speak and do and behave It it just naturally is what how we do things because we are thinking about them and meditating on them. We often will short circuit our relationship with Christ and our fellowship with Him and our abiding in Him if we're failing to meditate on the Word of God. In the very same verse, then we have that if we are meditating on the Word of God, if it is abiding in us, then it says here, you will ask what you will, and it shall be done unto you. Now, this is not at all saying that whatever we ask, no matter what we ask, if we just want it to happen, it will happen. It's saying that when the Word of Christ dwells in us richly When it is abiding in us, then the response to that is that we will pray. We'll pray to the Lord and we'll ask him for things according to his will because we'll have the mind of Christ because We're thinking about the things of Christ. We can really measure this in ourselves, and that actually brings us to the next point, which is Next sort of self uh uh short circuited point, which is prayerlessness. Why are we not abiding in Christ? Well, we're not praying. These two things do it really go together, but I'll put it this way. And you've probably heard this before, but I think we've got to be reminded of this. When you come up on a difficulty or a problem in your life, I I'm just curious, I just I'm really curious. How many of you would say that there is and I certainly would not ask you what it is But how many of you would say that there is some problem in your life right now that you would probably classify as a an impossible or extremely difficult problem? Would you raise your hand I'll put my hand up with yours. Okay, there's quite a few of it. I'm just curious about that. Now what is no I'm not going to ask that at all. What is our first reaction when we come up on a difficult problem? It really isn't usually to pray. Usually it's we've got to figure it out. Or we've got to take action. We've got to do something. It is not our first response to say, Lord, what do we do here? Lord, I need wisdom. Lord, would you resolve this? Now, of those problems, those of you who raise your hand, of those difficult or impossible problems, let me ask you this question, how many of them have to do with the will of someone else? Okay, mothers are suddenly saying, you know what, I've got I now I have impossible problems. I didn't know you were talking about that. Suddenly min mi people in ministry are going, hmm, oh yeah, okay, now I'm seeing what you're saying here. How many of you would say, I you know what, I've got an impossible problem and somewhere in my life it has to do with the will, not my will Maybe it is your will, actually, that might be the problem. Or the will of somebody else. Now, here's the question for you. Can you do you have any power whatsoever or ability to change somebody else's will? Can I just encourage you to just say, absolutely not? If you think that you have the ability to change the will of another human, then you are probably delusional. You can change the actions of a somebody that is under you. I mean you can change you have ways of manipulating action, but you can't change the the will of someone. The only one that can do that is God, I would just suggest to you. That's why it says in Philippians chapter 1, it is God who worketh in you both to will and to do for his good pleasure. So, folks, why is it that we run to our own devices to do things that only God can do? Why do we not first turn to God and say, God, I am powerless? to do what only you can do. Would you work in the will of this person or this situation? Would you make would you adjust my will to yours? That's really where we ought to start, right? Would I see see see here's the thing. This passage is teaching that when when God's word abides in us, then we are going to have the mind of God and we're going to want what he wants. But then the next problem is others have to want what he wants in order for things to work out right. Well, how does that happen? The only way is by prayer. And I was thinking about this last night. I last night I took a couple hours to go out fishing with my dad. I've never done that on a Saturday night. I'm usually so busy doing getting ready ready for Sunday morning, but I actually realized that if I I can fish and meditate at the same time. So I really should do a lot more fishing, Elizabeth. Where's my wife? Anyway, I don't care. Um and so um anyway, so I was out fishing. I was thinking about this a little bit. I was just sort of thinking, I said, why do we not so immediately resort to prayer? Like why why do we wait? It's it's like the last thing we think of. Oh, I did this, that, that, and that I called this person. Okay, now I'll pray. Why do we do that? And I sort of started thinking, okay, all right, Laura, why do we do that? Why is it that we do that? It was really good I was meditating because I was not catching anything, so this was really good. So I was meditating about about this, just thinking about this a little bit. And you know the only answer I came up with? Because we are just so, it's just pride. There is no other way to look at it. It's just pride. We are so, we are, we are born proud. We're born thinking that we can handle it ourselves and that all we need to do is just do a little more or do something. And if we do that, it's just pride. It's all it is. Because if we were dependent upon God and not dependent upon ourselves, then the first thing we would do is not try to do something, we would pray. So let me ask you this question. By that litmus test, are you abiding in Christ or not? If we would ask every day of ourselves Whether we are abiding in Christ by whether or not our first response is to pray or not, then maybe we would then begin to ask ourselves the question or begin to see that we're not abiding in Christ as we ought. And all of us need growth in this area. We need to check ourselves on this There are so many things, you know, when when when the disciples were trying to cast out the demon, remember, uh, out of this one person, or demons, I think there was more than one They couldn't do it. And Christ came over and did it. And he said, the disciples said, why couldn't we do it? What did he say? This only comes out by prayer and fasting. There are certain things in life that the only answer at this time is to pray. So we need to get on our knees and pray. And we need to do it faithfully. And the Bible says we need to do it continually and repeatedly. Bring our petitions before the Lord. So, shorted circuit number number six, we ought not think That we're abody in Christ if we are not praying to Christ. Then we have this great truth in verse 9. It tells us that the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Now stop for a moment. Did you get that? Now this is not the first time I've preached this from the pulpit, hopefully, and it certainly will not be the last, but let us remind ourselves how much Christ loves us. As much as the Father loves Christ, so Christ loves us. To that extent, it's incredible. So he says this, continue ye in my love. In other words, if we're going to abide in Christ, We must continue in Christ's love. Now, let's remind ourselves what love is. Because love is not what the world says love is, is it? Love is something very, very different than what the world says love is. So what is love? Love, number one, is giving For example, in John 3. 16, God so loved the world that He what? He gave. In Romans chapter 5, 12 it says, Wherefore as by one man sinnered the world death by sin, and so death passed upon all men for all have sinned. And then it says later on in the passage, it says, oh actually in verse eight, God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, what did he do? Christ died for us. The greatest act of love was when Christ gave of himself. That's what love is. Love is giving of himself. Ephesians 5 21 25. Husbands, love your wives even as Christ loved the church and what? And gave himself for it. How do we love? We give of ourselves sacrificially for the benefit of somebody else. But I want to add this number three. We need love is component number three. Love is a desire for the best of someone. Would you take your Bibles and just turn for a moment to Ephesians chapter 3? Ephesians chapter 3, and we're going to pick up here in verse 17. I want you to see what how the love of God is described in this passage. I want to make a connection that we often don't make in this passage when we think of some rather familiar verses. Ephesians chapter 3, verse 17. That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith. That sounds familiar, doesn't it? It's abiding in Christ, it's exactly what that is there. That ye being rooted and grounded in love may be able to comprehend with all the saints Rooted and grounded in love may be able to comprehend with all the saints what it's the breadth and length and depth and height and to know the love of Christ, which what? Which passes knowledge. It's like God wants us to know it, but we can't ever get it. How in the world we can't fathom the love of Christ. has for us, it's too big and too broad and too extensive. We'll never be able to fathom the great love that Christ has for us, this side of heaven, because the f it's the same ex it's the same extent that the Father loves the Son. This love is incredible that God has for us. But I want you to know this the next uh and to know the love of Christ with path of knowledge that you might be filled with all the fullness of God. When will you be filled with all the fullness of God? When you are filled with His love and you know His love, but then notice the very next verse. Verse 20. Now unto him, and we separate this from the previous verse a lot of times. Now unto him that is able to do what? Exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think according to the power that worketh in us. Now, folks, why? Why does Christ do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think? Let's not divorce these two verses. Why does he do it? Because he what? He loves us. So love love is his love is so extensive, it's so great, that he wants to do far beyond whatever we think even possible. He wants his very best for us. No good thing will he withhold to them that walk uprightly. God, because of his love for us, wants the very best for us. Do you believe that? Then why do we ever sin? Why are we disobedient? I want to make a connection here, folks. Would you just notice what the verse says again, verse 10, if ye keep my commandments Ye shall abide in my love, even as I have kept my father's commandments, and abide in his love. Do you know what Christ is saying here? He is saying that there is an inseparable link between loving Christ and having Christ's love in us and following the commandments of Christ. You can't divorce the two. That really brings us then to our seventh shorted circuit, denying God's love leading to disobedience. Now, you may have never made that connection before, or maybe you have. That every time we disobey God, it is because we are not really believing that God loves us. Let me give you an example. Suppose there is something that you decide to do that you know is not right. It's not according to what God wants you to do. For you to do that, you are basically saying, I am not going to follow God's plan, I'm going to follow my own plan. Now, if God knows all, and God really does want His very best for you, which is the best you can have, why would you ever deviate from that plan? Let's put it in practical terms. We all as fathers and mothers want the very best for our kids. We love them. We want that we want but not as much as God loves us, but we we do love them and we want the best for them. And we there are certain things that we tell them, look, you need to do this, and you know you've got, you can't even explain why necessarily because they're not going to grasp it. They just need to obey you, knowing that you real they real you really love them and you want what's best for them. And when they go a different way than you're telling them to go, they are basically saying that They either know better and primarily they don't are not really believing, they're not really accepting that you love them more or as much as or more than they love themselves. Now, I want us to get this. This is so important. So let's practically think this through. What are the possibilities? Let's take a very overt possibility. So let's say That God, that we actually decide God doesn't love us. This is not a likely scenario for a Christian. But we actually verbally, you know what? I have just concluded that God doesn't love me. What is that going to mean for you? It means you're not going to follow him and you're not going to and you're going to do whatever you want to do because you love yourself more than God loves you because you have said God love God doesn't love you. In other words, what it's going to lead you to is what we would call licentiousness. Where you have a license to do whatever you want because obviously God doesn't love you. And you want what's best for you, and you can only determine what's best for you because that you're the only one that wants what's best for you, and you're going to go your own way. I mean that's one possibility, right? The other possibility is if you decide that God's love is not important, but God is still there, and God is still And and you know you can't go that direction toward licentiousness because God will punish you if you don't. You sort of look at life and go, I've got to follow by God's rules, not because he loves me, but because I know I'm gonna get burned if I don't. Is that possible to live that way? And you know what that's called? That is the root of legalism. And that's really at the root of what legalism is. I'm not w I'm not obeying God because I know He loves me and I love Him. I'm obeying God because I don't want to get burnt if I don't. I've got to follow a list of rules. I've got to follow things the way he says to. Not because of love, but because of of legalism. Now, how is that going to go? Are you going to really be able to follow the commandments of God and all the things that God wants you to do just by mustering up enough strength to do them? The answer is no. Do you see why knowing the love of God and believing the love of God with all of your heart and having the love dwell in you richly is inseparably linked? To living an obedient life. Because the only way, look, you got a whole Old Testament that demonstrates what it looks like to try to follow the law. Without loving God. Now the truth of the matter is, God said in Deuteronomy that you ought to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, and strength. And love your neighbor as yourself. That was that was really an old commandment. And it wasn't as though the Old Testament believers weren't supposed to f love God. They were supposed to love God. But it wasn't it's not until the New Testament that we have this vivid illustration of the love of God in the cross that constantly reminds us of just how much God really loves us. Christ came and separated himself from his father for us. Christ came and died for us. Christ came and sacrificed for us. Christ did that for us. And we uh we can always look to the cross to know the love of Christ for us. Folks, maybe you have said sort of passively in your own heart, you know, I I just don't, I really don't know that God loves me. I'm looking at my past And looking at the things I've gone through, I'm looking at the struggles that I've been through. And maybe you have not said in very you know, blatant terms, God doesn't love me, but but but it's as though you're not really living that way. You're not really believing it And there, you've got to come to grips with that. That will be a shortage circuit for you until you are able to freely and openly and transparently know the love of God in your heart. and believe it and live it, there will be two possibilities for us. It will either be licentiousness or it will be legalism The only way that we could keep from going down one of those two paths is that we are living and continuing and remaining and abiding in the love of Christ. Now, with all of this in mind, we then are reminded in 2 Corinthians 5, verse 14: for the love of Christ constrains us. Because we thus judge that if one died for all, then all were dead. The love of Christ is to be our motivator. Christian, can I just ask you this simple question Are you living and continuing and remaining in the love of Christ, knowing not only he knows what's best for you, he wants what's best for you, and he knows how to get you there. And with all of this in mind, I'd like us to remind us of just three simple questions to help us bring all of this together. Number one, are you actively, purposefully, regularly meditating on God's Word? This is a valid question for us. Are we actively and purposefully and regularly meditating on the Word of God? We cannot hope to abide in Christ the way that God wants us to without that. Number two, is prayer our first response or our last resort? See, that'll tell you whether or not you're body in Christ. Is prayer Your first response or or our last resort? And number three, do you doubt God's love for you? I mean really there probably needs to be a soul-searching reality. You know, you don't want to you you know maybe cognitively that God loves you, but Do you not feel as though God loves it? Is there something that's not quite right there? Do you doubt God's love for you These are questions that I just encourage you to ask yourself because these are going to be short-circuited things. Short-circuits. To shorted circuits to abiding in Christ. Now we have, and thankfully we have the opportunity as a symbol before us of the death of Christ that great work of God when he came down to earth in the person of Jesus Christ to become and live a perfect life. And to die to pay the punishment for our sins. And God said, left us, Christ left us with an ordinance and said, you need to remember this. And so in just a few moments we will uh sing together our communion song and then we will partake of the Lord's Supper together. So what I want to do now though is then is just ask us to spend just a few moments. in silence before the Lord, just to prepare your hearts. And it and it might be part of the preparation is just to say, you know, Lord, I thank you for your love for me. Thank you for showing that in the cross. Just to just take a few moments of silence before the Lord and prepare your hearts, and then we will be able to come together and sing together of the great um uh of the great fellowship we have in the gospel, and then we'll be able to partake one with Another one.