We wouldn't turn to John chapter fifteen again this morning. John chapter fifteen I intended last Sunday uh to cover these verses and uh worked so quickly through the last four in uh uh sixteen one through four that um I rarely do this but um I I guess I r uh occasionally I do do it. Um I I realized I needed to cover them more thoroughly. Uh brother here actually pointed that out to me early enough in the week that I I could set the trajectory of the message. And um I really realized that that was true, that I was not thorough enough when it came to the the final four verses of this passage Which is the first four verses of John sixteen. And um time is always my enemy. Um but um There's always next Sunday if it needs to be, right? So so we'll uh I w I'm looking forward to to to seeing what the Lord has for us today. I do want to mention here before we get into the message that I am want to express is uh uh Kim mentioned in his prayer, but I do want to express my own gratefulness for those of you who are veterans who have uh fought and uh to keep keep our country safe. Would you do me a favor? I don't I think it's appropriate to do this. Would you just stand if you are a veteran or if you are an active duty military today, would you just stand for a moment? Just stand, stay standing. All right. Thank you all very much. You may be seated. Thank you for your service to our our country. I think that that is appropriate to do that. And um you uh we we'd we would not be free if it weren't for your sacrifices and uh of course we think we'd really celebrate this on Memorial Day as well, but the people that actually gave all their their lives completely we We um the they gave the ultimate sacrifice as well. And so I have great admiration for you as veterans and um and thank you for your service. We are going to be looking again today at the concept of the world system. And there was a professor in a Christian college that posed two questions that Thought he thought that it would be interesting if they were asked. He never actually asked the second one, but he just posed the questions. The first question is, what percentage of people within your Bible-believing circle do you consider to be worldly? And the second question is, do you consider yourself to be worldly? He said that he never had the boldness to ask both questions as a poll in any circles, but he said he expected that if he would, there would be a far greater percentage to the first question than there would be to the second. In other words, we are much quicker to identify worldliness in others than we are to identify worldliness in ourselves. And I would suggest to you that that perhaps is the main problem. That we are so quick to look around us and to see how that person or that behavior is worldly. And the reality is what we need to do is to choose To look at ourselves first, I would dare say that if there is worldliness that creeps into the church Or if there is wilderness that creeps into our families, it is often because we are too busy looking at everyone else. And we have this human tendency to do that in this area. This is verified by a statistic of this nature in 2011. A survey of 848 U. S. drivers found that 64% of respondents rated themselves as excellent or very good drivers. While placing less than 30% of others, even their close friends, in the same category. Or this a more serious statistic. Sociologist Seneca Elliot, in an in-depth study of over 65 parents, found a very strong pattern of parents thinking that their teenagers are much less sexually active than other teens. We do have this tendency in this particular area to look at everyone else and to loathe the worldliness of everyone else without doing due diligence to look at ourselves. And I think one of the reasons as well Is that we have misdefined this concept of worldliness. We think of it in terms of a set of behaviors, a list of things that you do or don't do. And yet the Bible does not see the worldliness that it's as depicted in Scripture as those things. In fact, as you look at the descriptions of worldliness throughout the Old and New Testaments, You find that there is differences within various cultures and within various times And so I'd encourage you as we look at this concept of worldliness to really almost look at it with a first-time mentality, as though you did you don't really know what this means except for perhaps as establishing a foundation of yet of last week. We noted last week that sometimes when the New Testament uses the word world, it is using it as just the people of the world, like John 3. 16. But other times it uses the word or earth, like as in the physical earth. But other times it uses the word world as speaking of the world system. That current, if you will, of like in a river that runs through the world, that has its own mind and its own will. And in fact, it is that system that is in hostility toward God. It hated Christ when he was on this earth Because it did not know God, the Father, and did not recognize Christ for who he was. And that we should expect, as children and followers of Christ, that it will it will be in hostility toward us as well. And those are and the and the value of this passage is that it really establishes in very um primary foundational way that the definition of what the world is It is that system that is in hostility toward God and the things of God and frankly the people of God. The problem, of course, is that the world can heavily influence the church, the people of God, individuals, Christian families. And what we want to look at today, particularly, is that great danger. The fact that the world has this possibility of causing God's people to be tripped up. And to be ineffective for the purposes of God's kingdom. Before we do that, let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and ask your blessing as we look at this absolutely vital subject. We understand from John chapter 15 and its context. That the greatest threat to our abiding in Christ is influence from the world. And we admit before you that the church in its history has not always done a good job of defining the world system of understanding its underlying influence. We are so quick to summarize and to um And to identify specific behaviors and feel as though we are fine if we do not if we're not adjusting those behaviors. And yet, from your word, we are going to see an entirely different kind of concern from Christ. And I pray that you would help us to see this. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, with the understanding of the hostility of the world toward Christians, as perfectly illustrated by Cain against Abel. We then find here in this text, beginning in verse 26, The role of the Holy Spirit. It says here, verse 26, that when the comforter, or you could say the advocate or the helper, is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father. Even the spirit of faith, which proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me, and ye also shall bear witness, because ye have been with me from the beginning He speaks here of the Holy Spirit who is in the world and testifies of Christ. There are some commentators that would suggest that what he's talking about here Is that it will testify against the world, that the truth of the Spirit of God as it manifests truth to the world will actually testify against the world. Others suggest that no, what it's talking about is it influences the world for the cause of Christ. And I would suggest that it the answer is both. That the spirit's role is to identify truth. And truth as it hits the world may have two effects. One effect is that it actually testifies against them and they uh rebel against it And others, by the providence of God, would adjust to the truth as the Spirit convicts. So that they are ready to receive Christ. And we're going to look more at the work of the Spirit of God in coming weeks as we look at John chapter 16. But he mentions it here because he wants to contrast it with the influence that we find in the world. The Apostle Paul in 1 Corinthians 2, verse 12, identifies in more specific terms the world's influence by identifying it as a spirit. It says in verse 12 that we have not received the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might know the things that have been freely given to us of God. And so this sets up a contrast, that there is the Holy Spirit that influences the world through conviction of sin and of righteousness and of judgment that we'll find later on. In just a few verses from now in John 16. And the Spirit's work internally in the life of the believer. But there is another spirit, the spirit of the world, with its own mind and its own attitude. and its own power and its own influence that is in contrast to the Spirit of God that also exerts its own influence. And with this in mind, then it becomes very important for us to understand the difference. And we know That intrinsically the difference between the spirit of the world and the spirit of Christ is truth versus error. But how is that identified particularly? And we find the answer to that found in 1 John 2. It says, For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh. And the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world If we want to identify the world, we need to understand it in terms of this word desire or lust. You see, the reality is the world system has its ability to be able to bypass intellect. It can bypass even emotions And it can make connections within the heart of the flesh. In other words, how does the on a very basic level, how does the world influence the believer? It makes connections with desires that are within the heart. Where is the danger in the influence of the world on believers? Sometimes it is not so easily intellectually identifiable. Sometimes it is a matter of questioning my own desires. of testing them. And that's why it says in 1 John and a chapter later, test the spirits. to see whether they are of God and whether they commend themselves toward the truth of Christ or not And we're going to see later on how that all works together. We need to ask ourselves the question: vigilantly, are the desires that I have in the pursuits that I am going for? Are these desires connections that have been made from the world system? Or are these desires connections that has been made from the Spirit of God's influence in my life and the truth of the Word of God and the creation as it is created by God as it is intended for us to enjoy. and for us to glorify him. Jesus' primary concern is found then in chapter 16, verse 1. He says, These things have I spoken unto you that ye should not be offended, or ye should not stumble What is Christ's concern here? His concern is that the world has the ability to make the believer stumble. It is a great concern, and it is repeated many times in the New Testament. It is on a very basic level the possibility of the influence of the world that would keep us from being able to abide in Christ. There is this these poles that are introduced in this passage. Between the world and Christ. And if we are influenced by the world, we are going to not be able to abide in Christ because the world is in hostility to Christ. And so it is Jesus' desire for us to be able to be alerted to the enemy's influence in our lives. It is important for us to understand that if on a in a physical battle, if you're going to go into battle, you need to know the tactics of the enemy. You've got to understand his mindset, how he might defeat you. And so we find many passages in the New Testament that deal with how Satan works as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. I think it's helpful for us to understand at a very basic level what it means to stumble. We see this word in the King James, it's term termed offended. Other times the word is used as stumble Other times it is the idea of straying away, but at its very core, the word means to cause to sin. For example, in Matthew chapter 5, verse 29, it says, if your right eye offend you or causes you to sin, pluck it out. and cast it from you, for it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than the whole body to be car cast into hell. And we see the same thing about the hand and the foot later on in Matthew eighteen. So at its very core, this concept of offense or causing to sin is what stumbling means. It means essentially to cause to sin. Matthew 13 uses it this way. If you recall the parable of the seed in the sower, the seed being the word of God. It says in that passage that tribulations come to sea that is being implanted into shallow soil. And when that happens, it doesn't take root And verse 21 it says that for during uh that when tribulation or per persecution arises because of the word And by it it is offended. In other words, when root when the word does not take deep roots into the soil of our hearts, it can be plucked out, and we are offended, or we are caused to stumble. It means also has the idea of being deceived. In Matthew 24, verses 9 through 11, we see it that way. It says, verse 10, that there will be false prophets in the tribulation period. And many will be offended. Many will betray one another and hate one another. Then many false prophets will rise up and deceive many. So, when it's talking about this concept of being offended or causing to stumble, it means that we are deceived into falling into sin. And that is the world's ability to influence the believer. Ultimately, what is he talking about here when it comes to someone stumbling to a point uh of of um of real of real concern. All of us, there's a sense in which all of us stumble every day But there is that possibility of stumbling to a point that is really a dangerous place to be. Paul speaks of this in the book of 1 Corinthians And he says that he buffets his body and brings it into subjection, lest by any means, having preached to others, he himself would be disqualified. And we see that in, if you recall from several weeks back, as a possibility in John chapter 15. If you'll remember, it says that there is a possibility that the branch can be as it's severed from the vine thrown away and burned. And the point there is not that we can lose our salvation. The point there is that we can lose our usefulness. Because just as a branch that is severed from the vine is really not good for anything. So we have the possibility as Christians of becoming useless for the cause of Christ, disqualified, unable to be used for the furtherance of his kingdom unleashed until he brings us back to him. Of course, we find that he is faithful to do that in Hebrews chapter 12 through his chastening. Whom the Lord loves, he chastens and brings back to himself. Jesus' desire, though, is for us not to stumble. All of us can look back in our lives as Christians and find times where we succumbed to stumbling, where we allowed connections to be made in the heart from the world. And where we fell. And the Bible tells us in um in uh Psalm thirty seven And the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down, for the Lord upholdeth him in his hands. If you are here today and you know that stumbling, well you're in good company because we all know that. But the reality is God wants us to be restored to Himself. He wants to use us again for His purposes. It is, though, God's intention for us to be very, very aware of this possibility in our lives as Christians. We need to know this. And there is a perfect illustration of this that we find in the Old Testament that I want us to look at for a few moments. If you would take your Bibles and turn there, turn to Numbers chapter 22 for just a few moments with me. Numbers 22. This is a story of Balaam. And we know that this is a perfect in in uh illustration. When I say perfect, by the way, I don't I'm not even I'm not even being overly um I'm not using hyperbole there. When you hear me say perfect illustration, it means that I didn't come up with it, that God came up with it. Otherwise I might say really good illustration. That might be something I come up with. But if it's perfect, it's not me And so we find this in Revelation chapter 2 that the church that was there that was speaking to uh that they spoke to was was succumbing to the doctrine of Balaam, and we'll look look at that in a few moments. Balaam is mentioned here in chapter 22 as a prophet of God, whom Balak of Moab desires to procure as one whom he wants to curse the nation of Israel. Bael uh the nation of Israel has been on has been uh making uh conquests and um and defeating enemies. And this man Balak of Moab realizes that uh he's next And he does not want to be defeated. So Balak has this idea He says, if we can hire the prophet of God to curse the nation of Israel, then perhaps we would then be able to defeat them, or at least keep from being defeated. This, of course, is how the world views uh religion, views God as sort of a good luck charm, like you can just sort of have a Bible sitting on your dashboard and maybe you won't get in a car accident. Um that's the kind of thing that the world thinks when it comes to or if I when I'm really in a crisis I'll go to church one Sunday. And then things will get better for me. And then they wonder why things don't get better for them. Well, they're not understanding at all what God intends for them to understand about Himself. Well Balak does this and however, and Balaam, though, desires to help him. We through see that throughout chapters twenty-two through twenty-five. twenty four. Balam Balaam wants to help him because there is money involved in this. There is remuner your y remuneration, probably substantial remuneration. involved in Balaam's working for Balach to curse the nation of Israel. And so he desires this this fee, if you will, this diviner's fee that they come to him with, the messengers from Balach come to him with. But he realized that he realizes that he's a prophet of God. He realizes that he really can't speak against the nation of Israel unless God allows him to. He realizes that he has to stay within certain Clear stated boundaries, even though his desire in his heart is to do something different. Now that is a very important thing for us to understand. We pick up here in Numbers 22 verses verse. Well, look at verse 9. Actually, well look at verse twelve. Look at verse twelve. Numbers twenty two verse twelve. He says And God said unto Balaam, Thou shalt not go with them. Thou shalt not curse the people, for they are blessed. And so God tells them very specifically, you cannot curse the nation of Israel. Notice then the response in verse 18. And Balaam answered, these are the messengers from Balak. Balaf answered and said unto the servants of Balak, if Balach would give me his house, full of silver and gold, I cannot go beyond the word of the Lord my God, to do less or more. Now therefore I pray you tarry ye also here this this night that I may know what the Lord will say unto me more. And God came unto Balaam at night, and said unto him If the men came come to call thee, rise up and go with them, but yet the word which I shall say unto thee, thou shalt uh that thou uh that shalt thou do. So Balaam makes a deal. He says, I will come, but whatever I say, I can't say what God doesn't want me to say. So I'll come and I will I will do this on your behalf, but whatever comes out comes out essentially. And I can't really be in control of what comes out. Balaam is trying to tow the line here. He's trying to to continue to to make to have a friendship with them And yet to stay within the boundaries of what God says. The problem, folks, is Balaam's desire is wrong. That becomes quite obvious because what we find in ver in chapters 22 through 24 is that Balaam makes these pronouncements on the nation of Israel. And in each case, what comes out is blessing, as God said. And Balak in each case Is quite disturbed over this. This is not what I hired you for, he essentially says. And yet Balaam said, I told you I can't say anything beyond what God says I can say. We find that he does this several times, and just for sake of time, this is a very interesting passage. This whole passage is a very interesting passage. I encourage you to look at it in more detail. But what I want you to do is I want you to pick up in chapter 25, if you would. Would you go over to chapter 25 And we see something that happens to the nation of Israel. Balaam was not able to pronounce a curse on the nation of Israel. But something happened to the nation of Israel in verse 1 of 25. And Israel abode in Shidam, and the people began to do what? To commit whoredom with the daughters of Moab. And they called the people unto the sacrifices of their gods. And the people did eat and bow down their gods. And Israel joined himself unto Baal Peor, and the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel. Well, how in the world could this have happened to the nation of Israel? All that was pronounced on the nation of Israel was blessing. Balaam was powerless to be able to pronounce anything of any kind of curse because Israel had God's favor. Well, we find the answer to that in 3116. Would you turn there with me? A few chapters over we find something that is quite Interesting and yet obviously disturbing. How did the nation of Israel come into this come into this idolatry and adultery and all of that? Verse 16. Behold, these cause the children of Israel through the counsel of Balaam to commit trespass against the Lord. in the matter of Peor, and there was a plague among the congregation of the Lord. Do you know why this happened Balaam, we don't see explicit statement, but from this verse it basically tells us, it fills in the blanks for us. Balaam said, Look, I can't curse Israel, but you want to you want to defeat Israel? Just infiltrate them. cause them to if you can't beat them, join them. And join them by introducing um Sinful desires, worldliness, if you will, idolatry. Introduce this to the nation of Israel, and you will be able to defeat them because then God is against them. Why did Balaam do this? Balaam do did this why? Because he had his own heart of worldliness in his soul And that began to cause him to say wrong things and to do wrong things. And that caused the whole nation of Israel to come under a plague and God's judgment. Why? Because worldliness was able to creep into this nation. Now, would you then take your Bibles and turn to Revelation? And you're going to see this all spelled out for us in Revelation chapter 2, picking up here in verse 14. Christ says this about a church, but I have a few things against you. Because, verse 14, I have a few things against you. Because you have there those who hold to the doctrine of Balaam, who taught Balach to be a what? A stumbling block before the children of Israel to eat things sacrificed to idols and to commit sexual immorality Thus you also have those who hold the doctrine of the Nicolaitans, which thing I hate, repent, or else I will come to you quickly. and will fight against them with the sword of my mouth. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says says to the churches. To him who overcomes, I will give some of the hidden manna. Now, folks, what we find in this passage is that there is a real danger for every Christian That a desire from the spirit of the world can make connection with the desire of the flesh and our own hearts. And it can bypass things, our own mind. And those desires are where the real battle lies. You can be really good at not um Not chewing and not going with what is the phrase, don't drink and don't chew and don't go with them that do. You could be really good at all that. But still have a desire that is influenced from the world that is that is cultivated in your heart. And you can be influenced by the world that way. Now, here is why the world is so subtle in its movements. Jesus says this in verse 2 of Matthew chapter I'm sorry, of John chapter 16. Would you turn back there and I want you to see this? This is so absolutely necessary for us to understand if we are going to be really aware and vigilant against the world's influence in our lives. John sixteen verse two They shall put you out of the synagogues. Yea, the time cometh that whatsoever killeth you Will think that he doeth God's service. First of all, he says that the danger is that if you will stay true to the righteousness of God and the word of God, that there will be a time where they will put you out of the synagogues. Now, you might not think that it's such a big deal to be put out of the synagogues. After all, it ends up being that the church sort of eventually in the book of Acts abandons the synagogues completely over time. and meats in houses and catacombs. But the point that he is making here is that there was a punishment for being kicked out of the synagogue that we find several places in scripture, but five times as Paul was kicked out of the synagogue according to 2 Corinthians 11, 24. He was also whipped. He was given lashes. It was a a protocol that once that a heretic, as they called them, would be would be beaten and lashed as he was sent out of the synagogue. In other words, what we're talking here is about persecution. And the reality is that when the world system takes hold over a culture, in its in and it it comes to a certain point, that it will then be begin to persecute believers. And very candidly, that day is coming, I think, if I that's my opinion. My opinion is that day is coming even in our country. Now, I want you to see this, that this is why the world is so subtle and so deceptive. Do you notice what it says in verse 2? He says this. You will uh The time cometh that whatsoever killeth you will think that he does God's service Of course, we know we can think immediately to the Apostle Paul, who before his conversion persecuted and put to death and stoned Christians. He was Was holding the coats of those who stoned Stephen, the first martyr. Paul thought that he was doing the work of God. He thought that he was doing the right thing. His motives were pure. The problem was he didn't know God, as we're going to find in this passage. Now, therein lies the subtlety of the world. Folks, listen carefully. This is important. There are some times that the world has really good motives for what it does. It seems as though it's pure and benevolent and kind even. You think of some of the some of the pursuits that you find in our culture today. Protections against victims. Um cancer research. I'm not saying by the way those are wrong. I'm just saying that You can see sometimes you talk to somebody who is influenced by the world and their motive seems right. It seems sincere. It seems really good. It seems as though they really believe they are doing right. That's why many Christians and immature believers come into a crossroads when they are rubbed shoulders with the world, because it really seems like these people are good-hearted people. Have you ever talked to somebody who is of the who is obviously influenced by the world, obviously does not know God, but they seem to be so good-hearted. And folks, that is the subtlety subtlety of the world system. It seems good even when it's not And that's what Satan is. The Bible says that Satan appears as an angel of light. That's why it's so Important for us to be extremely vigilant and careful. Second Timothy 3, verse 1 says it this way. But know this that in the last days perilous times will come. By the way, we're in the last days. It started when Christ ascended and will not end until the coming of Christ. The last days of perilous times will come, for men will be lovers of themselves, lovers of money, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, unloving, unforgiving. Slanders, without self-control, brutal, despisers of good, traitors, headstrong, haughty, lovers of pleasures rather than lovers of God, having the form of godliness. But denying its power. He says, and turn such people away This is something that we do need to be very sober about. We've got to understand that this is a real possibility. It's a possibility, and by the way, this is not relegated to only young people. Certainly teenagers, you need to be careful. But the reality is, folks, all of us in one way or another Can be influenced by the world system in very deceptive ways. And we all have got to be extremely careful. But I will just use this illustration because I think it makes the point. Sometimes young people uh are influenced by the world system because and not all the time by the way I want to be very clear about that and I'm not thinking of any individual or judging anybody when I'm saying this. I just read this and seen this to be true and I think that it is. Sometimes the what happens in in a in a family in a young and a teen and teenagers is that they see duplicity in the home. They see wrong motives displayed in the home. And then they are influenced by the world and its right and pure motives. And that's what causes them to go the wrong way. That's why it's very, very important for us as heads of households and of as as mothers and to have a purity of our own hearts and lives when it comes toward the things of God, that there is no duplicity in our lives. So that when when when young people see in our families, when my kids see my life, they don't see a duplicity between home and church, for example. They don't see mixed motives, that they see a purity of motive. But the reality is this, folks, the other side of that coin is we all struggle with motive, don't we? All of us are struggle and none of us have perfect motive. In fact, this is the case. Do you know that the world could seem to have an even purer and less duplicitive duplicitous motive from Christians for this fact? Christians are battling. The world does not battle the way Christians battle. Satan has the world exactly where he wants it. A world he is fine if the world, if someone in the world who's influenced by the world, will just follow the good-hearted pursuits that they want to follow. And is not influenced by righteousness and does not pursue righteousness, then there is going to be very little struggle. There are unbelievers in the world that have understood by experience how to keep themselves out of trouble. They seem to live clean enough lives to be able to avoid the consequences of sin. And they seem to be uh benevolent and charitable in their hearts, and it causes them to be able to say to the unto the believer who is struggling and battling because Satan is against him Look at your duplicity. Now the reality is, folks, the only way that we are ever going to influence somebody like that. is that we don't have duplicity. And the only way we're not going to be we're going to be able to keep from having duplicity is abiding in Christ. Because abiding in Christ is depending upon him. You and I know as Christians that there is no way in our flesh dwells no good thing. And every one of us understands the struggle and motive and pursuit of God that we face, and we all ought to very clearly know our own inability to follow after the things of God. from a pure heart. The only way we're going to be able to do that is if we are completely relying on Christ in that way. This is absolutely necessary for us to understand. The Bible then, Christ then tells us the real issue when it comes to the influence of the world in verse 4. Actually, verse 3. And these things will they do unto you. Why? Because they have not known the Father. Nor me. See the real issue is they don't know God. They can have charitable hearts. They can have great personalities. They can be kind and loving But if someone does not truly know God, then he is under the influence of the world. And you and I have got to understand that the issue is a knowledge of God. In fact, that helps us to identify the world. 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verse 21 says this. For since the wisdom of God, the world through wisdom did not know God. It pleased God through the foolishness of preaching to save those who believe. That's why, by the way, folks, the preaching of the Word of God is so absolutely necessary in the life of the believer because it is that thing that externally speaks to you that helps you to identify the world in our own hearts The Bible tells us that in Ephesians chapter 4, it describes the world as spiritually blind. Verse 4 says, in whom the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not Lest the light of the glorious gospel who is im in the image of God shall shine unto them. That's Second Corinthians four, by the way, not Ephesians. Ephesians 4 then says this. This I say, therefore, and testify in the Lord, that ye henceforth walk not as Gentiles walk in the vanity of their mind. Having their understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart. Who being past feeling have given themselves over unto lasciviousness to work all uncleanness with greediness. But ye have not so learned Christ. If so be that ye heard him, have heard him, and have been taught by him, as the truth is in Jesus, that ye put off concerning the former conversation. The old man, which is corrupt according to the deceitful lusts or desires, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind. How do we detect worldliness? It boils down to this. Worldliness is anything that detracts Distracts, distorts, or opposes the knowledge of God. Worldliness is anything that detracts, distracts Distorts or opposes the knowledge of God. Now let me be clear. Anything could do that, could it? Couldn't it? And some of you are saying, well, pfft I better just stay in my in a convent somewhere and not go out because anything could do that. That's the point. That's the point. Not anything has to, but nearly any created thing can. Anything that is under the fall of man. Anything that is that is part of the corruption of the fall could be used to detract, distract, distort, or oppose the knowledge of God. That's why it says in 2 Corinthians 10, verse 3 and 3 through 5, for though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh, that is, physical things. For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty in God to the pulling down of strongholds Casting down arguments, and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God Bringing every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ. God desires for us to enjoy what He has created. He wants us to be glorified in what he has created. No, no, he wants us to glorify him. I'm sorry. He wants us to glorify him in what he's created. It is not as though we look at creation and we say, well, I've got to stay away from everything. We need to be able to have the discernment to look at creation and to say, okay, that in creation is good. But there, in that part of creation, there is a distortion from the fall, and I need to be careful. And we need to have the discernment to know the difference. Folks, the only way that you're going to know the difference is to know God. The more you know God, the more you know his character. The more you know who he is, the more you'll be able to identify the things that are in the world that could influence your desires and cause you to stumble. You cannot look at the world and be afraid of the world and just constantly be worried about the world. You've got to know God. And the more you know God, the more you'll be able to to observe the world and be aware of the influence of of of the world in our own hearts And I would end with this. Very important to summarize all this. A lot has been said. Here's how I would summarize it. Number one. We must detect when influential connections are made between my heart I put it in the first person because I think all of us need to have that in mind. I must detect when influential connections are made between my heart and the world through desires. I must detect when influential connections are made between my heart and the world through desires. Number two, I must understand the world's pursuits can seem pure and motive It can seem pure emotive. That is why they are so deceitful. And number three I must take every thought into captivity that exalts itself against the knowledge of God. I've got to be in pursuit of God. I've got to be in pursuit of knowing God. I've got to be abiding in Christ. And as I do, I need to be aware. That the world could influence me in some particular area in my own heart, and a desire could get in there. That's why we need to take every thought into captivity. And by the way, this is just personal application. Taking every thought into captivity does not mean shoving every thought aside. If desires truly can, and I think they I believe they can, if desires truly can bypass thoughts Then it is very important for us not to dismiss a thought, but to take that thought into captivity. And to realize that that thought is against the knowledge of God. It is only then that we will be able to identify our own desires. That are being influenced by the world and can cause us to get back on track to being abiding in Christ and knowing Him. Let's pray. Father, we do come to you And we are grateful that your word tells us greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. It is not your desire for us to fear the world, but we need to be aware of it It's not your desire for us to isolate ourselves from the world. But we need to be sensitive to the desires of our hearts that could be influenced by the world. All of us in this room that know you as our Savior should be able to this should resonate with us Times where we have been deceived in our own desires. And Father, we confess before you our own weakness Our own need of you, our own inability to be able to glorify you and to bear much fruit Apart from abiding in Christ. I pray, Lord, that you would work these things in our minds and our hearts I pray that you would keep us pure in our hearts before you I pray that we would increase in our knowledge of you, not our just our intellectual knowledge, but that we would know you. And the more we know you, the more we will be able, the quicker we'll be able to identify desires that are not of you. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.