It's going to be an amazing thing in heaven, isn't it? When we're all going to be worshiping in one accord with one mind and one thinking and focusing on Christ and worshiping together. And our corporate worship on this earth is a very small, significantly diminished example of what it will be like in heaven And I'm really thankful for the privilege that we have to worship together. And in fact, as we look today at John 4, that really is the subject of of this message and of what Christ is going to be explaining to the Samaritan woman as we continue this narrative. It's going to be on the subject of worship. In fact, if you'll look there, you'll see in Scripture what it says. If you'll pick up here in chapter 4, verse 20. It says this, for our fathers worshiped in this mountain. And ye say that in Jerusalem is the place where ye ought to worship. And then you see later on in the passage in verse 22, you see the word worship there twice. You see it again in verse 23. And so there's no question that the content of this passage is occupied with this. entire with this whole concept of worship. How what kind of worship is really acceptable to God? What kind of worship is the con But you also have this entire, this whole issue is wrapped up around this this encounter that the Samaritan woman has with Christ and this discussion that they're having where Christ offers the Samaritan woman living water for a thirsty soul. And so sometimes when we think of Talking to somebody about Christ, we wouldn't link this concept of worship with talking to somebody about Christ. And yet Christ does that. And we're going to hopefully learn why he does that. But I want to begin just by pointing something out about our own personal lives as well as our churches when it comes to this to worship. A. W. Tozer wrote this several years ago, many years ago now, actually, but uh it is no less true today than it was back then. He says this. The shallowness of our inner experience, the hallowness of our worship. And the servile imitation of the world which marks our promotional methods all testify that we in this day know God only imperfectly, and the peace of God scarcely at all And what he was saying there is that you can measure the quality of your worship by the amount of peace that you have in your heart. And although worship does promote more desire for God, so that we are satisfied by Him. But at the same time want more of him. That's what worship does. At the same time, we know that we have this peace. Peace that passes all understanding. This inner desire that we have in our hearts is filled by Christ. Tozer would go on to say this. He says, to have found God and still to pursue him is the soul's paradox of love. Scorned indeed by the too easily satisfied religionist, but justified in happy experience by the children of the burning heart. And what Tozer was saying there is simply this, that we in our lives can become cold. And stale to the things of God. But if we are worshiping God and loving God in the way that He wants us to, We find God, and yet we are also pursuing Him at the same time. It's an incredible concept, and it is one that we mentioned last week, but one that will continue today. It's interesting that this concept of worship that the Samaritan woman is going to learn about, she had doesn't even know Christ yet. She has not come to a saving knowledge of Christ, and yet Christ is going to talk about the importance of worship. And we can learn a lot, even as Christians, from this Samaritan woman. Often the same responses and conditions of the unsaved toward the Lord can teach us something about our own hearts before the Lord even after we're saved. For example. Among those that are an organized religion, that sort of find their basis of their walk with the of their access to God as a particular religion. Among those, you sort of have this overall problem with nearly every religion that has to do with depending on religious practices. Not in a heart relationship, but in practices. And you can think of organized religion of different kinds, and I don't necessarily want to mention them here, although I might end up doing that, but I'm not I'm not trying to pick on any one religion, but just about any any religion that's the case, where we do this this way and we do that that way. And they that denomination does that and that religion does that. But folks, don't even people that know the Lord, aren't we all, aren't we guilty of that also? Are we not guilty? of lacking the fervency of our own hearts in worship before the Lord. Are we not guilty of having a stale, cool, cold worship sometimes, and are we not guilty of then instead depending on particular practice? Well I go to church three times A week. I give of my offering. I do these various things. Are we not guilty of that? For those of us who know the Lord is our Savior. The same problem in a different context, in really kind of a different way, is the same problem. This dependency on practice rather than a person. And that's just one example. And so when we when we see somebody coming to Christ in the gospels, when we see the condition of somebody and the responses of somebody, and how Christ handles somebody. We can learn two things. One, we can learn on how learn about how we ought to respond and help help other people come to Him. But we can also learn something about ourselves and learn how it is that we draw close to Him again, because our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked. We are so inclined toward toward not having the fervency and the heart and the spirit behind the worship that God wants us to have, whether we're talking about corporately or we're talking about personally. And so we have a lot to learn from as we look into this into this passage. And we really need the Lord's help, don't we? We need the Lord's help with this. So let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his blood. His blessing our time. Father, as we come to you and we look at this passage and we break it open, I pray that you'd help us to do it carefully. Help us to do it attentively. Help us to focus on each negative truth as it comes to us, and may we see the significance of what we're learning. And in a sense, we're tasked with a dual responsibility here. We need to see how to worship you and be reminded of true biblical worship today. We need to see worship that is acceptable to you through your Son Jesus Christ, but we also need to see specific practical lessons about how we can reach out to others, how we can in a in an in an honor a way that would please you interact with others and bring others to Christ. So we pray That as we go down this road, that we would be able to do both, and that you would work in our minds and our hearts to accomplish both goals. And we pray these things in Christ's name. We know that really only you can do this for any sustainable eternal value. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We pick up here, and we're going to pick up here in verse 15. And if you'll recall from the passage, Christ has been talking to This woman of Samaria. And they have gone through this discussion. Christ asks the woman, Give me a drink. The woman says, Why are you a man who is a Jew asking me for a drink, he replies by saying, I have spiritual essentially in a in a nutshell, I have spiritual water that you need and that I have that will make you spiritual so that you will never thirst again. And we pick up with that in mind in verse 15, where the Samaritan woman responds this way. She says, the woman says, verse 15, the woman says Sir, give me this water that I thirst not, neither come hither to draw. Now at this point, what the Samaritan woman realizes is that she has a particular kind of need. But the need that she has, though at this point it's good as far as it goes, it's good she understands she's got a need. Before she didn't even realize she had a need Now, Jesus has at least brought her to a place where she realizes she is needy and there is something that he can fill in that need. But the need that she is is that she has is a natural that she realizes she has is a natural need. She's not yet realized that she what she has is a spiritual need. She has a natural need rather than a spiritual need. And I want to just on the heels of this pick up on the reality of that in the life of people in general. People are far more quick to see their natural need than they would to see their spiritual need. And circumstances in life, circumstances that they that they find themselves in might draw them to a place where they realize their natural need and they still are not able to have the perception yet to go deeper to see that they have an actual spiritual need. This is a significant problem among people. And if you recall from Christ's interaction with Nicodemus, you have the same problem there, don't you? Nicodemus comes. He wants to know how to have physical entrance into the kingdom. Christ says to her to him that you've got to be born by water and of the Spirit and emphasizes the work of the Holy Spirit. And he does not get it. He says, How can I be born in my w my mother's womb again? How can this happen? He's still thinking physically. If you can't get those, how can you ever understand spiritual, heavenly things? When it comes to this Samaritan woman, you have the same problem, but in this case Because of her humility, she is going to be able to eventually see her spiritual need. But first she sees her circumstantial need, her natural need. There is a danger, a potential danger. With us as Christians as we as we work with other people, we reach out to unsaved people, that there are that we meet felt natural needs to the exclusion of meeting spiritual needs. And so we're always meeting a natural need, but we never actually go deep enough to meet or to help them see that they have a spiritual need. But on the other hand, what you see here is that Christ does, He does engage her on this area of physical need and natural need. Before he helps her to see her spiritual need. And with that in mind, I really want to give you just four guidelines, if you would, on helping people with their natural needs. If you put that up there yet, dealing with unbelievers' natural needs. Number one, we must understand that God uses humbling circumstances to draw people to himself. So it isn't as though we just immediately assume when someone has a natural need that, well, they're really not interested in spiritual things. Sometimes God uses natural physical things To draw him draw people to himself. Number two, it is not wrong to meet to address natural needs of people as long as we keep in mind that they have greater spiritual need. In other words, sometimes God might lead us to meet the natural It's not wrong to do that. But we always ought to be cognizant. We almost always ought to be aware that there is a deeper spiritual need in the life of really anyone. Saved or unsaved. This applies to saved or unsafe. But really, for an unsaved person particularly, we need to have that in mind. We do need to understand, number three, that there is a danger for people to be confused about what Christ is actually offering. He does not offer to rescue us from our circumstances. I found this a lot when I was working at the Baltimore Rescue Mission as a as an intern chaplain there when I was in between, I think, my sophomore and junior years. Well maybe it was my junior and senior year, I don't remember. But anyway, so I would work down there and I realized that sometimes when when people came forward in an invitation Some of what they were looking for was that they were hoping that God would remove them from their particular difficult circumstances. And there was a caution in my mind when it came to that. It wasn't as though we didn't meet needs. And they fed people. think they should. We ought to have compassion toward people. But there was a caution in the minds of of of uh people working there, particularly in my mind about that possibility that somebody would actually pray a prayer or make a decision based upon the hope that they would be able to be removed. And here's why how I often handled this. I would say to them, Do you realize that Jesus himself, at least times, were was homeless? I don't know if you realize that. Have you ever thought about that before? The Bible says the foxes have holes and the birds have nests, but the Son of Man hath nowhere to lay his head. That even Christ at times had no home. And so I would sort of say that to them, I'd say, look, I just want you to understand that Christ doesn't really promise anyone a home. A home in heaven, perhaps, but not a home on earth. And so let's just make sure And so we have to go through some things to sort of help make help help them understand what God is really offering. Because He is offering something different than what some people want Him to offer. And very frankly, there are a lot of false teaching out there. The prosperity gospel is rampant on television. I would estimate that two two-thirds to three-fourths of the preaching on television finds its root in prosperity gospel which says that if you'll just have enough faith God will get you out of your circumstances and put you into better ones. And if you don't have enough faith, or if you're not in good circumstances, that's the problem. It is a very dangerous false gospel. And we do need to be aware of not only the fact that people could be inclined that way, but also that they've heard on television some of these kinds of things We need to be aware of that. Fourthly, we must prayerfully and wisely move people from seeing their natural needs to seeing their spiritual needs. That ought to be the goal. that we prayerfully move people from seeing their natural need to seeing their spiritual need. And the question then immediately comes becomes how do you do that? How do you move somebody from seeing their natural circumstantial need to their spiritual need? And we're going to follow Christ's example. He's going to give it to us. What we're going to read next is exactly how to do it. Christ tells us how to do it, or gives us the perfect example on how to do this. Here's what he says, picking up in verse 16. Jesus saith unto her, Go call thy husband, and come hither. Verse 17: The woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said unto her, Thou hast well said, I have no husband, for thou hast had five husbands. And he whom thou now hast is not thy husband. And that sayest thou truly. So he begins this way. And I want you to notice a couple of things on how Christ deals with this. How does Christ bring someone from spiritual need? I'm sorry, from physical, knowing natural need to spiritual need. Do you notice, I want you to notice, first of all, that Christ is extremely gentle. Christ is not a bull in a China shop. He does not come right out and say, well, you know what? Your real problem is not physical, it's spiritual, you know, get with the program. That isn't what he does. He does not rebuke her for acknowledging her physical need or her natural need. He doesn't do that. What Christ wants to do is to get her to realize her own need, and in order for that to happen, he's going to have to help her admit her own need. Which, folks, we know to be sin. The root problem in our spiritual need. Why do we have the spiritual need that we have? It is because of sin. There is no way to get around this. If you if you wonder about whether or not you have access to God, whether you have a relationship with God, the reality is the problem, the separation that you have between you and God is because of your sin. The spiritual need that you have is because of your sin. And the only way to get somebody to realize that they go from natural s need uh they have a natural need and for them to move to realize their own spiritual need is to address this issue of sin. However, we've got to be careful with it. I have known people that have just been a bull and a china shop when it comes to this kind of thing In fact, I remember when I was in college, I would go on a particular uh ministry, it was uh an open-air ministry basically down down in um downtown Pensacola, Seville Square area down in Pensacola, and I would uh just walk around and we would just witness the people. And there were a lot of people that would just hang out down there basically, so it was a a reasonably good place. peop place to do this. And I was always very careful engaging people and things. I have to be honest with you, I came from a good background and I learned that from um from other people That I that had trained had taught me in my own local church, and so I was aware of the importance of that. But I'll tell you, there are times where I would walk past a particular student that would be talking to another to a somebody on the street and he would be yelling at him. And I will tell you, it was embarrassing. I thought to myself, you are doing more harm than you are good for the cause of Christ And he thought that he's just preaching the word, brother, and what he was doing was just ticking people off. Or he was hurting people, or he just just causing people to recoil. I was recoiling and I wasn't being talked to. In certain cases. And if you tried to talk to some of these people and say, you know, you might want to try a gentler approach, they would become indignant at you. And they would say, well let they need to hear the truth, brother. And I would say, you know, there's a way to tell the truth and there's a way not to, and you're not doing it right. I um I really struggled with that. In fact, I struggled so much I I didn't I I for a while I kept going and thought, well, there was always a battle between I didn't really want to be associated with certain people that would go on that and there were other people other times I thought, well we need to have some sort of good witness out there. It was a bit of a struggle for me. But let me just say that's not the way to witness the people Christ here is as gentle as he can be, but he is also firm. He is gentle, but firm. He does not compromise. He doesn't say, well, you're alright. Well, you know, everybody, you know, you've had a hard life, you understand. He doesn't he doesn't make excuses for her sin. He doesn't compromise the truth. He is both gentle and firm. And he has told his disciples in Matthew chapter 10, he says, be wise as serpents. and harmless as doves. And what we find in this passage is that's exactly what he's doing. He is being wise as a serpent. and he is being though harmless as a dove. It wasn't as though the Samaritan woman was was going to was going to recoil at his irritating personality. If the Samaritan woman was going to reject the truth, it was going to be on the basis of the fact that she was unwilling to admit her sin. So he asks this question and he says, Would you go get your husband? Now, there's no question that Christ had divine understanding on this. We would not know the background of somebody. without knowing the background of somebody. Christ knew the background. But folks, I think there is even an application in that. I would suggest to you that the application is sometimes you need to know and learn the background of someone before you go into a like a bull in a china china shop I think sometimes folks, I think we need to have a relationship with people that we know where they're coming from. Circumstances are. We have listened to them before we have tried to speak truth to them. We are wise with this. And so I would just encourage us this way. And I and I want to mention this as an illustration. I don't I don't like il illustrations oftentimes where I'm I'm the one doing the right thing. I I think I can you can kinda go the wrong 'cause a lot of times I do the wrong thing, so I just want to make that clear. So, you know, it's probably fifty-fifty with me or something, I don't know. But I do d I did do the right thing here and I just want to use this illustration in this way. But it was Only God's grace that He gave me the wisdom to do so. And I've used this illustration before. Some of you may have heard it before. But there was a time, uh I remember, I recall, and there have been many times where people have asked me for money money and and food and other things and I've been able to help them in a in a I believe to be a wise way. I don't know I do I look like I'm wealthy or something something people come to me I really it is it's very common. Uh I walk around and I mean I'll be at a gas station pumping gas when people come up to me and um I think I think it may be I have all these theories on this but I think it may be Maybe because I'm just a big guy, so they think I won't be intimidated by them, which is true, I'm not intimidated by them. So anyway, I don't know. I'm not sure why. But anyway, so I'm they're always coming to me. So so in this particular case Somebody came to me and he said, I I need food and I actually I I was with my wife and I think I was with my oldest daughter who was a baby. And so I was not really inclined to help him at the point at that point. And I said, Look, I'm sorry I can't help you but I really thought that it would wasn't the food wasn't an issue. And that in that respect I may have handled handled that particular thing wrong. But he then replied, he said, no, I I really, sir, I am really hungry Could you go in the store and buy me some f I just need some food? And at that point I said, Yes, I will definitely do that. And I sent I sent my wife and our daughter back in the car and I said, Look, lock your doors and And I went in and I and I got some food. And um and I sat down with him while he ate it. And my I have a very patient wife. I mean I you know, sh I she is. The ministry wife is like the most patient she's very patient anyway, so I mean 'cause I sat there with with this guy for an hour while she waited in the car with a door locked and uh just listened to him. I listened to his experiences, I listened to what he had gone through and and uh how he had gotten into the problems that he was in and the circumstances in he was introduced to drugs. Uh he was he was in it from a decent home home and uh middle class family. He was introduced to dru drugs as a teenager and it really just went downhill from there and and um and he's he explained all this to me and and I didn't I didn't give him the gospel at that point. I just listened. And he stopped while he was eating his orange juice and all the healthy stuff. I gave him healthy stuff and unhealthy stuff and he went for the healthy stuff first I knew he was really hungry. And um and so I I listened to him and I um and he s at the end he just stopped And he looked down and then he looked back up at me and he said, I just want to thank you for listening to me. He said, He said, I have I have gone since I got into this mess, no one has listened to me. Not one person has listened to me. He said, I've tried to explain what I'm dealing with, but no one has just listened. It really taught me something there. And I would just encourage you that sometimes we need to listen before we start spouting off what we know because Because we can learn the better avenue with which to be able to communicate the gospel. And of course I did communicate the gospel to him. And um then I got him in in contact or uh uh helped him to get in contact with the Baltimore Rescue Mission and so that's how we how how I handled that to to get further help. My point is simply this folks, that that we need to be careful how we handle things. We need to be gentle and firm as Christ was. And what Christ finds out is he exposes her sin. And that is necessary in order for someone to have this kind of need. And what he exposes is the fact that she is living with Uh she's living with someone who's not her husband. He says, You you're you're correct. He didn't say, No, you're not telling me the whole truth. If I know the whole truth, you're not telling me the whole truth. He said, no, you are you you say it well, you say it right, you are you have no husband, but the w the people that you were living with Uh but but the and the you had five husbands, the person you're living with now is not your husband's husband. And what it demonstrated was that that sh She then was exposed. She was exposed to her sin. It was open. It was out there. And that is necessary. Someone cannot come to Christ and veil their sin. They cannot come to Christ and think that they're okay. They cannot have a relationship with Christ and and think that that you know I and I frankly I'll just tell you I have heard gospel quote unquote gospel messages That don't that Mary mention very little about sin, and that is a problem. You cannot pray to accept Christ as your Savior without knowing you have a problem of sin. And so we I do need by God's wisdom and God's grace to be able to to navigate this so that we are they can come to a realization of their own sin. And we can ask what what he does here is he starts off with a question. And that would be a wise way for us to start off, wouldn't it, oftentimes. Oftentimes the way we ought to start off was, hey, can you tell uh uh something uh So hey, can you can you explain to me maybe why you've done what your life has been like? Maybe start off that general. There is something else that I should mention here as well. You know, we're culturally, we're in a real problem in a particular area. This is sort of a side note, but one I think it is worth mentioning. It has become now culturally almost entirely acceptable to live with someone before you're married. married. I don't know where we got this idea, I'll just tell you. But this is not and there are some people that say, well, you know, if you're it you know, if you consummate things even though you don't have an actual official letter or something, then you're kind of married anyway, so it's really okay. Did you notice that Christ made a distinction between people that were married and people that lived together. He said the the man you're living with now is not your husband. And so I just want to say I'm not going to camp on this very long, that you are not married unless you're married. Okay? Alright? If you're living with someone and you're not married, Then you're not married. And so understanding this, we find a clear distinction that Christ makes here, which helps us understand that there is a distinction that God wants us to make. Now, Christ uh the woman now is evasive, but I tend to think that she He's not invasive in a bad way. Let's look at the passage and see how the woman responds. Verse 19: the woman saith unto him, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet. And by the word perceived doesn't mean that you have great this great perception. The word perceived just means I've noticed. Well, he just told her about her whole life. And so he he goes, Oh, you must be a prophet. And it directs her then into a conversation about worship. Is that good or bad? I think it's good. I think it's exactly what God intended. Is she evasive about her own sin? Maybe or maybe not. But this caused her then to move one step closer to de to understanding that this is spiritual. There is a spiritual thing I need to deal with. There is a she moves from give me water so I don't have to go this well over and over again to okay. Now I think we're talking here about spiritual things And she asks a question that she is concerned about in spiritual things. And there is a particular barrier for this woman when it comes to spiritual things. She is confused about something. And I just want to ask, at the very opposite of this, as we go into this next section, let me ask you a question. Do you suppose that people have barriers in their lives that are keeping them from understanding the gospel? And the answer is absolutely. There are lots of barriers. And so when we think about this we need to understand Understand that there are barriers and that before Christ gets down to the nitty-gritty that the essence of worship, he is going to allow her to expose the barrier and then he's going to deal with the barrier And that is necessary in our in our evangelism, isn't it? There are people that believe that all we are I was in fact I was talking to somebody not to not too long ago that said, you know, you know, I don't I you're you know, you're Baptists and there's Catholics and there's uh there's there's Lutherans and there's Buddhists and there's I mean put them all put us all in the same group And I had to reduce, I had to take the barrier out. I said, let me just tell you, I'm not Baptist in that way. I just flat out, oh you're not? I said, I'm Baptist in a different way, but not in that way. I said, my being a pastor of a Baptist church or a member of a Baptist church has nothing to do at all with my relationship with God. She was Shocked. I said it has I could go to a different church with a different name. It would not matter at all. That has nothing to do with my relationship with God whatsoever. I had to reduce the barrier. I had to take the barrier out of the scenario. And you sometimes a discussion has to re it requires that. And so you find here this barrier. Well, what was the barrier in this in this woman's case? She says this. Our fathers, now let me pause there. She's talking about the Samaritans, her Samaritan lineage, and the people that what she would have considered to be patriarchs in in the Samaritan Samaritan uh nationality. We talked about this a little bit last time, but basically you have a mixed breed of people with the Samaritans. The the Romans are maybe Greeks actually mixed mixed the them with with other people. They intermarried basically and so you had sort of this mixed uh mixed breed of people which the Jewish people completely rejected And so with that in mind, she says, our fathers worshiped in this mountain And ye say that in Jerusalem, ye being Jewish people, say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. Now, here's what what was going on They believe, the Samaritan people believed that the place to worship, well, first of all, let's let me explain where they all agreed on. They all agreed that that the place of worship was important. And it does say in Deuteronomy 12, 5, but under the place which the Lord your God shall choose out of all the tribes, To put his name there, even under the habitation shall ye seek, and thither thou shalt come. And so the Jewish people, as well as the Samaritans, both said that the place in which we worship is important. In fact, I would suggest to you it became preeminent, which was actually, I think, a problem, and we'll talk about that a little bit a little bit later. But basically they believe that there is a particular place of worship. The Samaritans believe that it was going, it was it was on in um Mount Gerizim and Sheah, Mount Gerizim. And the Jewish people, of course, believed that it was in Jerusalem, which was kind of on a mount as well. So they have this debate, do you worship is the right place of worship in Jerusalem or the right place of worship on Mount Gerizim near Shechem? In fact, the Samaritans would later build a temple, or prior to this point, built a temple that would then be torn down by somebody. They built a temple in this location because they were convinced that this was the location. Why were they convinced of that? It was because of this. In Genesis chapter 12, the first altar that Abraham built was on that location. We find that in Genesis 12, 6-7. And so they go back to Genesis 12, 6 through 7. They say, okay, that was the original location with which the altar was placed. That's where I need to be. But the nation of Israel said no, it was ju it was the Jerusalem was the place. And they found that in 2 Samuel chapter 7, which actually just by maybe not by coincidence, you been l learning about the Sunday school, the adult Sunday school class. Jerusalem was then very clearly established during the Davidic Covenant as the place of worship, with the temple being being uh at that point um promised by God or covenant by God. with by God uh to to David. Well what was the difference? The difference was that the Samaritan people did not believe in anything but the first five books of the Old Testament. They didn't believe that the remaining uh books of the Old Testament were actually divine So they only followed the first five books of the Old Testament. In other words, their problem essentially was they had a different Bible or an complete Bible. And that is a significant problem, right? There is no question that that is a serious problem. And so this woman who had no formal training at all probably may not have even understood what I just told you She may not have understood all of that. Uh she's really confused about where in the world God is really supposed to be worshipped. This is very much a barrier in her mind. Now, let me ask you a question. Would you say, which would you say is the correct answer? If you have a multiple choice question and it's either the Samaritan way or the Jewish way, which way is the correct way? No question the Jewish way, right? I mean it includes the whole Bible, the whole Old Testament up to that point. Obviously, if he were to directly answer the question, as she laid it out. He would have said, well, the Jews are right. But is that what he does? He is eventually going to say the Jews are right. He's going to say that. But before he says that, he breaks the barrier down. Would you notice what he does here? Look at what he does Verse 21. Jesus saith unto her, Woman, believe me, the hour cometh when ye shall neither in this mountain nor yet in Jerusalem worship the Father. What does he say there? He says, the hour comes, but by the way, it's already here that the place you worship is not important. It essentially is not important. That there's something far more important. Now, let me just make another application here, and we we need this application. What the woman and the Jewish people and the Samaritans and they all had in common was they placed priorities in the wrong place. They placed priorities on religious form and practice and place. That was the problem. That was one of the problems. There's another problem here that Christ is going to identify. They said it's Jerusalem, we're in the right place. They said it's Mount Gerizim. And they made that the primary consideration for how you come to God, what place you worship. And there were other things, of course, ceremonial things and external, all these kinds of rituals and practices and diets and days. And you've got to do all this right. They were depending upon all these things in order for them to have a proper relationship with God. And that's exactly the problem in our culture, isn't it? The problem with religiosity is they're placing their thing their faith on forms and practices And if you do this this way, then you'll be accepted. And if you don't do this this way, you won't be accepted. That be that becomes the problem. But let me just say to you that you and I have the same problem sometimes in our churches as well. In Christian assemblies as well. Where we get preoccupied with forms and practices and names and places, it is a significant danger. It's something we always ought to be aware of. Does it matter that much what the name is on our sign? Does it matter that much what what whether we use pews or chairs as as we have here? Does it matter whether we stand up at the beginning or sit down at the beginning as we learn today? We sat down for a minute. Does that does that does that stuff matter? We we need to make sure we're putting the right proper perspective on what God says is important. Now, is the preaching of the word important? Yes, because God specifically says you've got to do that to worship. But there are many things, folks, that are adjustable and should not be considered to be highly important. They ought not make up the identity of an association or a church or denomination. They ought not be a significant issue. Because why? Because Christ is going to say it later on. Because God is what? He spirit. And those who worship him do so in spirit and in truth. And we gotta be careful. We gotta be careful that we play Place the right priority in the right thing, that our priorities are God's priorities, that Christ's that our priorities are Christ's priorities. And Christ's primary primary emphasis is on the heart, internal matters, and the spirit, rather than physical, natural, and practices and those kinds of things. You can't argue that. There's no question about that. And yet we so easily depend upon what we are used to or what we're doing, and we lose, folks, folks, we lose the heart. We lose the fervency If we are not utterly careful about this. And so Christ actually says also in this passage, he identifies He identifies the other problem. Verse 22. He says: the real problem is that ye worship, ye know not what. He says, you don't know who you worship. You don't know who you worship. In other words, there are some people that worship in order to know. And there are others that worship because they know. You follow that? Some people worship in order to know God. There are others that worship because they know God. Which one is correct? There's no question that the second one is correct. Folks, we worship God in response to who He is. If you don't know God, you can't worship God. And bringing that problem up, by the way, would not be a bad thing. What if we when we were talking to people about religion, talking to people about the Lord, and bringing people to the Lord, we said, hey, you know the distinctive difference between my faith and and and organized religion is that organized religion usually you're worshiping to know God and we worship because we know God. Wouldn't that be an interesting thing to say to some somebody that somebody goes, wow. I hadn't thought of that. I told somebody this one time. They knew I was a a a pastor. And I said, you know, I am not religious. They looked at me like I had three heads. How is it that you're a pastor and not religious? And I said, by the way you're saying, look, by the way you're thinking of religion, I'm not religious. Okay, you can think of it a different way, maybe I am, but the way you're thinking of it, I'm not. And I had to break the barriers down in order to be able to for them to be able to begin to understand. Folks, what we need to remember is this. When it comes to our worship, forms are not important. And we can, by our example, I just want to put it this way, we can by our example Show that that what we do is no different than what somebody else does. In other words, folks, if somebody comes into our assembly That doesn't know the Lord, would they notice a difference? Or would they say, well, they sit down and stand up and they sing and they they have a homily? Or a press message or whatever. They have all those kinds of things. They have all the same things as I'm used to, and so it must be about the same. What what would they see a difference? Folks, what we they need to see is a difference in fervor. They need to see a difference in our in our in our approach. Why we're doing what we're doing needs to be tangible, at least at least least to some degree different. Because if they could see that our worship is authentic, our worship is transparent, our worship is the way God wants it to be If they could see a difference, then they know it's not mere form and religiosity, which they're full of. People are full of that Tozer said this: we Christians are in real danger of losing God amid the wonders of his word. We have almost forgotten that God is a person and as such can be cultivated as any person can. It is inerrant in personality to be able to know other personalities. And so we've got to remember that God is a person. He is personal bowl. He has emotions and a will and a mind. He is not this objective impersonal force. He is something more than that, and he ought to be worshipped that way. It's very important that we understand this. So Christ deals with this issue of forms. That's the first thing he does. He sort of breaks down the barrier. And when he does so, he says this. What we need, he says, woman, verse 21, believe me, thou art, the hour cometh when ye shall neither in this w mountain, nor yet in Jerusalem, worship the Father. Ye worship, ye know not. What we know, uh we know that what we worship for salvation is of the Jews. So he says here, folks, what he says is that salvation is of the Jews In other words, he says that it is God's plan that he would bring people a rescuing from their sin through the nation of Israel. In other words, after he's broken this barrier down, he does not compromise the truth, and he establishes something that might not be real comfortable for her to hear. He doesn't compromise the truth. He establishes the foundation. And because they had recognized the entire Old Testament, because God had chosen to work for the nation of Israel, he does establish that as truth. But this then brings up an interesting and important point. He then is going to move into the essence of worship. He says this. But the hour is coming, and now is, when the true worshipers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth. For the Father seeketh to worship him God is spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. And what causes what we've got to then realize is we need to understand what true worship really is. is. What is true worship? Have you asked that question yet? We've been talking about worship the whole time. What is true worship? And what I want you to do is take your Bibles and turn to the beginning of the book of Matthew. I want you to see here for just a few moments what true worship is. The very first time that this word worship is used in the entire New Testament is in Matthew chapter two, verse two. Matthew two two And he says this. Where saying, Where is he that born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star. In the east, and has come to what? Okay, so who is this talking about? It's talking about the Magi, okay? Well then look at chapter 2, verse 3. Verse 11, I'm sorry. And when they were come into this house, this is going to give us a real good indication on what worship is about. When they were coming to his house, they saw the young child with Mary, his mother, and what, folks, what did they do? They fell down. They were encounter they had encountered God incarnate. They had realized what they had encountered, they had come to it, and they fell down. Don't lose the significance of that. That. They fell down and worshipped him, and when they opened their treasures, they presented unto him gifts. They gave to him. Now we know folks that worship is a response here then. It is a response to who God is. When you encounter and you know God and you knew you see who he is. He is, and you see who Christ is, the response here is that he they fell down. But that's not the only time. Matthew chapter 4, verse 9. It's an interesting point here where Christ is encountering the Satan. And Satan is tempting Christ and he's tempting him to worship him. How does Satan know if Christ worships him? He says, verse 9, if thou wilt fall down. It seems, folks, we've got a pattern here. And the most compelling pattern perhaps is in Revelation chapter 4. I'll read it for you. It says this, and the four and twenty elders fell down, fall down before him. That sat on the throne and worship him that liveth forever and ever, and cast down cast their crowns before the throne, saying Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou hast created all things for thy pleasure. They are and were created. Now, folks, let me just ask you a question. What does it mean when all these people are falling down? The word worship means to, it sometimes means to prostrate oneself. It means to bow the knee. And I would just ask you a question, is that how you and I come to God in worship? Just think about it. You wake up in the morning and you slept in fifteen minutes too long because you hit the snooze button three times too long, and you get up and you know you need your coffee, so you make sure you have your coffee. You know you need to eat something so you eat n eat something, you know you gotta get to work. And and so you know, you may might want to just have a little bit of devotional time, so you find a daily bread and you read through the day daily bread and at least you got that done and and then you move on your way. Folks, is that personal worship? Is it? Is that the example that we see in the New Testament of the kind of worship that we see? Do we see that? Sunday morning, you've had a late night Saturday night because that's what you do on Saturday night. Everybody has late night on Saturday night. So you have a late night on Saturday night, you come in on Sunday morning. and you're rushing around trying to get ready to go and you can't find the right clothes and then somebody breaks the iron and you have the uh a problem with the with the with the stove because it doesn't work and you're trying to make breakfast for everyone and you have your and you you you just decide I mean and and it's just so visibly frustrating and everybody then you try to throw people in the car and and and get here and and uh and you get here and then you just you you just coming into your and you into the into the sanctuary, you know, man, I'm finally I just got here. Is that worship? You know what the Puritans did? This is just really practical. You know what the Puritans did did? You say Puritans? Really? We're going to talk about the Puritans? Yes! You know what the Puritans did? They prepared the night before. They got their meal ready the night before. They laid out their clothes the night before. They had no sort forms of entertainment so their minds could be prepared the night before. They chose the night before to worship Now, I folks, I am not saying that you're wrong if you don't do that. Because then I would be worshiping a form, wouldn't I? And admittedly, there have been times where I have not chosen to do it that way. But but but we do need to ask ourselves the question, are we coming let me put it this way, are we coming to God in open, humble submission before God? Because that's what it is. Means to fall down. I'm coming to God in this open, humble submission to Him, where I am laid open. My neediness is laid open. I understand how needy I am in life. I understand how much I need him, how I am destitute without him. I am thirsty. My soul is thirsty and I need him And I come, and when I sing of the rich truths of the gospel, I can't help but see that that meets my need and I respond. in worship. Or I wake up on Monday morning and I prepare the night before. And I've gotten everything laid out so that I don't have problems and I set three alarm clocks and I have the alarm clock far enough away from me that I can't hit the snooze button and when I get up in the morning I have enough time that I can come down in quiet reflection before before the Lord and I have my coffee set already so it's done and ready for me. Or in my case I get it started and I I I and and I don't always get ready under telling you that you could do that. So that you're sitting down and you are quiet before God. And you are realizing your own spiritual need before him. I'm just, folks, I'm really asking us, do we have that kind of worship? Because here's what God Christ says. He says this: God is spirit. And they that worship him must worship him how? In spirit and in truth. truth. And here's what this means. The Jewish people had the truth. Christ did not deny that the Jewish people had the truth. They had the full revelation of God up to that point. They were following it, at least some of them, as much as they possibly could. In fact, to the letter, in fact, they were adding to it. It wasn't as though they didn't know who the true God was, but they had the truth, but what didn't they have? They didn't have the Spirit And he says to this Samaritan woman, you've got to have both. In fact, the way that this is structured, I'll just tell you grammatically. It's structured with one preposition, with two objects, and you basically it's it's together. You can't separate these two. You can't separate spru spirit from truth. You get spirit without truth, you don't have worship. You get truth without spirit, you don't have worship. And there are some denominations, and there are some churches, there are some assemblies that are really weak on truth. But folks, there are some assemblies that are really weak on spirit. And what we're talking here, folks, is the Holy Spirit. Because he has just said water for a thirst water, living water, which is a reference to the Spirit. Christ is saying that you need the Spirit of God. Well, let me ask you a question. How do you get the Spirit of God in your life? Have you asked it? When's the last time you asked, how can have I have the Spirit of God in my life? I know I am I'm indwelt by Him. That's Bible truth. If I know Him as my Savior But how can I know he's working? You know what God, what the Spirit of God needs in order for you and I to be used by Him, for Him to be working? You know what He needs He needs for us to be laid open. He needs for us to be humble. He needs for us to admit our sin. He needs for us to just acknowledge how needy we really are when we get to that point where no holes barred, everything's on the line, it's Christ. Then we're ready then to really worship and to really see the Spirit of God in God come in and we're ready to see the character of God and the gospel and the work of God do what otherwise it had not do. Sometimes we've got to get to the bottom of ourselves before we see Him And God will bring us into circumstances where that's the case. And that is how we have, we know that we are worshiping that way in spirit and in truth. And let me just say this. Do you not suppose that if we're worshiping that way, people will see a difference in our lives? The person was saying that guy is different. Worship going on there. God desires for us to worship in spirit and in truth. I want to close with this thought from A. W. Tozer. May this be the cry of our hearts. He says this, O God, I have tasted thy goodness, and it has both satisfied me and made me thirsty for more. I am painfully conscious of my need for further grace. I am ashamed by my lack of desire. O God, the triune God, I want to want thee. I long to be filled with longing. I thirst to be made more thirsty still. Show me thy glory, I pray thee. That so I may know thee indeed. And maybe you're here today, and you have never experience this kind of relationship with God on any level. You're used to forms, you're used to religion. You're used to religious talk. You're used to even the Bible. But you've never experienced God in this way. It may be that you don't know the Lord. And I'm here to tell you that you need him through Christ alone. And that Christ offers to whomever will accept him by faith, living water. He offers to them eternal life to anyone who will accept the death of Christ as the payment for your sin. If you're here today and you don't know him, would you come and talk with me? I'd love to take a Bible and talk and and and show you from the Bible how you can know for sure that that you have a relationship with God, that you can have this personal, you realize how personal we've been in it today. You can have this personal relationship with God. Not just this form, not just these functions, not this relationship. But a very personal relationship with God that only comes through Christ alone. I would invite you to do so. And please come and talk to me or someone else you're comfortable with. We'll be glad to help you with this. Don't nobody, God says, I'm not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. His desire is for you to know him through Christ alone. Let's pray together. Our Father, we do come to you and We admit before you that our heart grows cold, and we don't have the kind of worship. We are so easily drawn away from the kind of worship that pleases you. And Lord, we admit we often do not handle those who know you or those who don't know you Know you with wisdom. Lord, we need you. We need your wisdom. We need your spirit We need your help. We need you just to be thirsty. We admit before you that we grow cold. go grow distracted, we grow preoccupied. Lord, would you would you work in our souls that we we would be truly drawn to you in every I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.