And uh we are going to um do the second part of this very short epistle. Um today we've had a week in between, but hopefully we can get our bearings enough to understand where we're at. I'm on, so I should am I on? Can you all hear me? I've been having a few technical problems today. Okay, now I'm I can hear myself. Philemon and there's only one chapter, so we're going to be looking at verses 8 through 25 this morning. And it's so small I'm okay, there we go. I had the opportunity this week uh to go with my family this past week to the Museum of the Bible. And it was a great experience. I highly recommend it. Uh we went on a tour of the Museum of the Bible, which sort of did a s sort of a survey tour of the different aspects of it and In the process of that, we went to the impact room, which is one on one of the one of the floors. It's one of the major areas of the Museum of the Bible to show the impact on our world and on the United States that the Bible has made And uh one of the stories that we heard while we were up there had to do with a uh a prison that was Maximum Security Prison down in Louisiana. It was the it was Louisiana State Penitentiary at Angola, Louisiana. And it is the largest max maximum security prison in the United States. And it had a a reputation. Years ago it had a reputation of being a very violent. In fact Um in fact it is considered in the nineteen seventies it was considered the bloodiest prison in America because there was so much violence. Uh there was a lot of hopelessness of of course with this prison because you had um you had these inmates, most of which would never see, they would they would be in prison for the rest of their their lives. Ninety percent of the prisoners that were there uh remained there for the rest of their lives, never were able to to to be freed. And so you had a huge amount of violence and all kinds of things going on. Well, uh in in the uh a man by the name of Burl Kane, he was a warden there, he was a Christian, and he asked um he asked New Orleans Baptist Theological Seminary to begin a Bible college within that prison. It was of course a very large maximum secur security prison. It was not it would it had grounds and it was had acreage and everything else and he asked them to start this Bible college. And in fact they went ahead and made it an accredited institution and uh it li exists this day. And after spending a great deal of time there, the gospel of course was preached at this Bible college, and many people came to Christ. And as a result of that, you had you had a uh to give you a ratio here, you've got in nineteen ninety you had one thousand three hundred and seventy uh three hundred and eighty seven prisoner assaults. But in 2012, uh you had only 366 for the whole year. That is a 380% improvement. Why? Well frankly, it's because of the gospel. It was the work of the gospel. And so actually this is going on in six different prisons now across the United States where they're they're having Bible curriculum that are being taught and the gospel is being preached. What actually began to happen in Louisiana State Penitentiary is chur of course they they needed to go to church so they started planting churches within this prison and uh and they some people were called to the ministry and they're preaching to people within this prison and more people are coming to Christ in this prison. Incredible What happened as a result of all this. And that is one of many, many examples of the impact of the gospel in the lives of people. And when you look at history, when you look over the last 2,000 years, you see many, many, many examples of what the gospel does as it impacts people's lives. It's one of the great testimonies to the truth of the gospel that it has such an effect on people's lives. And what we have in Philemon is a man, his name is Onesimus, who has been greatly impacted by the gospel. And there are really two themes as you go through this. It's really hard to separate them. At first I thought that the primary theme as I studied this out was about appealing wisely. Paul makes this wise appeal to Philemon on behalf of Onesimus. And I thought really that's the that's the main theme. But as I looked closer and as I looked at it in more detail, you see the work of the gospel in the life of Onesimus in such a way that this is something that is very prominent. And by the way, I'll just say this. When it comes to studying the Word of God, we ought to always look at the contribution that the Word of God is making to the gospel. So a book like Philemon, which is an which is an epistle written from one friend to another, talking about a particular man, uh Onesimus and uh and all of that You m it may not be real apparent at first the contribution that is making to the gospel, and yet it is making one. And we're going to see that in this passage as we go through it. We're going to see, continue to see Paul making a very wise appeal to Philemon on behalf of Onassimus. And we're also going to see Onesimus being the change of the that the gospel makes in this man's life. Of course, as you know from two weeks ago, Onesimus was a slave of Philemon. They were in the church of Colossae. And Onesimus chooses to to leave. He escapes. from Philemon's care, and he ends up in Rome, where the Apostle Paul is in is under prison guard. And the Apostle Paul is able to lead Onesimus to Christ. And in fact, what we find from the text is that Paul and Onesimus strike up not only a spiritual discipleship relationship. But also Onesimus becomes great friends with Paul, and they are close to each other and they care for each other. The Apostle Paul finds Onesimus to be very useful and very valuable. It's interesting, it's a bit of a play on words. Onesimus actually means useful. And he's going to say in the text that Enesimus is useful. But anyway, so that is the the the background of this passage. And as we go through this What we're going to see then is an example as Paul exhorts Philemon of how we as believers should receive a a gospel convert. How should we relate to someone who has been converted by the gospel? How should we receive be receiv receive someone? And really in a sense it's not like a command there's not commands in here. It's really just what is normal and natural and appropriate, what is fitting, the passage says. What's appropriate when someone comes to Christ, when they pass from death to life, when they are converted by the gospel? And the Bible does speak of what the gospel does in conversion. That is, when someone comes to Christ, when someone places their trust in Jesus Christ to pay the punishment for their sin. When that happens, the Bible says that they are converted. They pass from death, spiritual death, to life. They ha go from From having their sin um on them to having their sin on Christ, they go from having having being uh lost in their sins to being alive in Christ. They are converted And we see this. And no doubt, by God's providence, he chooses to use this man Onesimus as a prime example of what the gospel does, because Onesimus is a man very likely is e he is a criminal. So not only I mean definitely he was a criminal because he j he escapes from from viol from Violeman's uh uh household. And so that alone made him a criminal. Very likely, we don't know this for sure, but very likely as he escaped He was uh he took money he stole money in order to be able to make his journey from Colossae to Rome. It was a long journey. And we don't know that for sure, but very likely that happened And there's evidence in the text that that happened as well. All of this demonstrates that there is a man who was a sin sinner on his way to hell. under the the reproach of sin and the gospel transforms him through the through the work of Paul and his life. And that is the background with which we then come to the text and we're able we're going to be able to see exactly how we should, what is an appropriate way to receive a brother, a new convert, a new brother in Christ. And also we're going to see as we go through this some some wise, a wise way of appealing to Christians as well. Let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his help with all of this. Father, as we look at your word this morning, I pray that it would help, that you would help us and guide us. In understanding your word in a way that we can really see how we also, as Christians, should naturally receive someone who knows Christ as their Savior into our household. into our fellowship. And also I pray, Lord, that as we look at this passage, that we would we would glean from it some example, an example of Paul, on how to go make a godly appeal, how to make an appropriate appeal based on the gospel to another brother in Christ when there is a conflict or when there is some kind of problem going on. Lord, may you teach us through the your word this morning, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we pick up first and we see in verses eight through nine that that the first thing that we need to do is we need to receive love receive lovingly rather than grudgingly. Look at what it says in verse 8. It says, Therefore, though I might be very bold in Christ to command you what is fitting, yet for love's sake I rather appeal to you. Being much uh being such a one as Paul, the aged, and now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ. The Apostle Paul writes to Philemon and he says, I am not going to, I'm not going to speak to you as an apostle and command you what to do. He's he says it's it's within my my ability to do that. It's really within my my Jurisdiction to do that. I could do that. I could just simply say it is impossible. I'm going to tell you this is how you need to treat anesimus Well the Apostle Paul very wisely doesn't do that. What he does instead is he's going to appeal to them, to appeal to Philemon on the basis of fellowship and love and relationship. Particularly, he wants Philemon to respond to Onesimus out of love. And we see that clearly in the passage. It's interesting that the Apostle Paul in verse 9 says, being such a one as Paul the aged, and now also a prisoner of Christ, he notes two things. Paul says, number one, I'm old. And he says, number two, I'm at prison. Now, it's understandable. He's actually going to mention five times in this text that he's in prison. Which is really going to highlight the fact that he's sou suffering on behalf of the gospel, on the on on because of the gospel. And that the least that really Philemon can do is is sacrifice uh his rights uh to uh with with regard to uh Onesimus, he can sacrifice those uh for the sake of the gospel as well. That's really the point that Paul is making by mentioning the fact that he's a prisoner. But he says Paul the Aged, um, it's interesting, uh it's uh it's hard to tell tell why he mentions this. It's it could be sort of comical. He could be sort of He's saying, you know, back when I was young, I would have just told you this is what you need to do and you and this is what you're gonna do. But now I'm older and I'm just gonna appeal to you as a friend. Um I like I'm too old to fight, so here's just what I here's here's just what I want to say. Um could be saying that uh or or whatever, but he he mentions that this passage I think what's clear is he's going to he's going to appeal to Philemon based upon the fact that he has a close relationship with them, and we've already seen that before two Sundays ago. Now, one thing that I want us to just note here in this passage is that the Apostle Paul could have could have appealed to Philemon based upon, for example, Roman law. Um he could have tried to make some case for on being uh for treating onesimus in a different way based upon Roman law, but he doesn't do that. He could also do it based upon Jewish law. In Deuteronomy 23, verse 15, it says, You shall not give back to his master the slave who has escaped from his master. He may dwell with you in your midst, in the place which he chooses within one of your gates, where it seems best to him, you shall not oppress him. So Paul could potentially have made an argument that because Onesimus had escaped and he's now under Paul's care that based upon Old Testament law that now he did not have to send them back and he could have just kept Onesimus for himself. But Paul doesn't do that as well either. He doesn't he doesn't uh uh try to appeal to him based upon law. What he does is he appeals to him based upon uh love. He says, I want, I want, notice it again what it says. He says, yet for love's sake I rather appeal to you And notice then what he says in verse 14. This is a further explanation of how he's going to appeal. He says in verse 14, but without your consent, I wanted to do nothing. that your good deed might not be by compulsion, as it were, but voluntary. And in fact, verses 8 and 9, verse 14 make up a unit of a section of thought here. He starts with this and he ends with this idea that he wants Philemon to operate from a from the basis of love. not to operate from the basis of law and obligation. And we have, there's a lot of application here for us. Folks, isn't it true that sometimes we think in terms of what we must do, what we should do, and what we are permitted to do rather than what would be the loving thing to do? I've had there are often times where somebody will come to me and this is fine and say, Well this is do I can can I do this? Should I do I have permission to do this? From the Bible And there's nothing wrong with that. There are certain things that are clearly permitted and clearly not permitted. But folks, there What we really, as we operate in life, we should be operating at from a point of loving God and loving others And choosing what we do based upon loving God and loving others, not what we must do out of obligation. But out of love. And then the question, by way of application for us as well, is how do we appeal to other believers? When you see, or when I see, a brother or sister in Christ that seems to be going a direction That is not helpful. Or needs to we need to help them in some way to shed light on something that they didn't otherwise they wouldn't otherwise be aware of. How do we approach that And from this text, we have an example of the Apostle Paul that what we should find a way to approach this from the point of not you should or you shouldn't, but hey, I you you should want to. Do we think of it that way? Not I should or I shouldn't, but I what should I want to do because I love someone So oftentimes we don't appeal based on that. We ought to ask ourselves if we don't want to do what we ought to do, we need to ask ourselves why. And the answer always is this, by the way. If I don't want to do what I ought to do, it's because I'm not loving correctly. I'm not loving God, and I'm not not loving others. So if I don't want to do what I ought to do toward my wife, Then I'm not loving God and I'm not loving her the way I should. If I don't want to do what I ought to do toward my children, That I'm not loving God and I'm not loving others the way I ought to. So then how do you deal with that? And the answer is this: you've got to know God's love for you. Scripture says we love him, why? Because he first loved us. And really the root of why we sometimes do not we don't love right, it's because we don't realize the love that God has for us. When we know the love of God, when we understand it, when we believe that He loves us with an everlasting love that we can't be separated from, when we understand And know the love of God, then out of response for the love of God, we we love Him and we love others, and we do what we do out of gratefulness for what God has done for us in loving us. And when we appeal to others, we ought to be saying, Hey, this is I want you, would you would you do this because you want to? You know, we talk even to our kids, would you do this because you want to? And why don't you want to? And understanding understanding why we don't want to do what we don't want to do It's not a matter of what we ought to do as much as primarily what we want to do. And those two things could match. There are two scriptural examples of this. He actually tells pastors to think this way. Peter does in 1 Peter 5 2 it says, Shepherd the flock of God which is among you, serving as overseers, not by compulsion, but willingly. Not for dishonest gain, but eagerly. He says, not because you've got to. Don't shepherd the flock because you have to. Shepherd because you want to, because you're willing to, because you love them, because you love God. And then he says in 1 Corinthians 9, verse 7, it says, So let each one give as he purposes in his heart, not grudgingly or of necessity, for God loves a cheerful giver. And God is able to make all grace abound toward you that that uh t toward you, that you always having all sufficiency in all things, may have an abundance for every good work. He says Don't give grudgingly because God loves a cheerful giver. Give because you want to When we give, that's how we ought to give. We ought to give cheerfully because we love the Lord and we want to give toward his work. So Paul appeals to Philemon on this basis, and he's going to continue to do this. Everything he's going to say is going to is going to try to draw out love from Philemon toward Onesimus as Onesimus comes to Philemon and delivers this letter with instructions on how to treat Onesimus. Now we pick up then, secondly, we pick up in verses 10 through 14, and we we need to recognize the change resulting from usefulness. Why is it that we can receive a brother or sister in Christ, a new convert, so readily? Well, it's because there's been a change in their lives. Notice what it says in verses ten through fourteen. It says, I appeal to you for my son Anastumus, whom I have begotten while I'm in my chains. who once was unprofitable to you, but now is profitable to you and to me. I am sending him back You therefore receive him that uh that this is my own my own heart, whom I wish to keep with me, that on your behalf the m He might minister to me in my chains for the gospel. But without your consent, I wanted to do nothing. that your good deed might not be by compulsion, as it were, but voluntary. Well, he begins, he points out that that Onesimus was begotten of Paul Paul will use this kind of language in other places in Scripture where he says that uh he's that others are sons in the faith or children For example, in Galatians 4 verse 19, it says, My little children, for whom I labor in birth again until Christ is formed in you. And I would like to be present with you now and to change my tone, for I have doubts about you. Galatians 4. 19. He he He gave he he would uh speak in terms of giving birth in the sense of these are children of God ultimately, but he led them to Christ. And so Paul says he's led Onesimus to Christ He has been converted by the gospel. And then he says, as a result of that, because there has been a change in his life, Onesimus goes from being useless to being useful. Verse 11. Who once was unprofitable to you, but now is profitable to you and to me. He says, apparently, we don't know exactly all the details of this, but apparently before Onesimus came to Christ, before he escaped from Philemon. He was not a very useful servant apparently. Uh he prob I mean that makes sense when you think about it. He obviously escaped. More than likely before he escaped he was um disillusioned. He was sort of like if you think of a a disillusioned employee who's just punching a uh you know just punching a time clock and really doing bare minimum of what he has to do in order to keep his job. This is anesthes, and he's really he's really not very useful to Philemon as he is. He's just doing the bare minimum. But as time goes on, but as time goes on, Onesimus, if you can kind of imagine, he finally just doesn't want to be there, doesn't want to serve Philemon, doesn't want to do what he's doing, and finally Philemon escapes. So I'm sorry, Onesimus escapes. And so Philemon, Philemon realizes that this man has not been useful. Now I want to remind us of this fact. That as Onesimus came back, Philemon had the had the legal right to put Onesimus to death. He could have done that. That's Roman law. And if not that, he could have branded Onesimus as a runaway slave so that everybody would know that he was he he had escaped and he was a criminal. But Paul is appealing to Onesimus to treat, or appealing to Philemon rather, to treat Onesimus correctly. to treat him in the right way. And he does says this, actually he says that that Onesimus is now useful. He's been useful to me. And he says, he'll be useful to you as well, but now is profitable to you and to me. Now I want to note this at this point. It's really hard from the text to tell whether or not the Apostle Paul is implying that Philemon should free Onesimus. Some parts of the passage seem to indicate that that's what he's asking, he's he's implying. Other parts he's not. He's certainly not saying overtly that that Onesimus should do this. And of course, we know from Colossians, when we went through that passage, when it comes to slavery, the Apostle Paul doesn't try to abolish slavery. Now slavery, by the way, was different in this uh in this context than it was in the United States. In the United States, slavery was was largely based upon racial racial differences And that was not the case in in um in the first century, was not based upon racial differences, but it was certainly not biblical, not right. One man did own another man essentially But over 50%, as you'll recall, 50% of the people back in that time were slaves. The Apostle Paul did not try to create some sort of political rebellion to free all the slaves. He knew that what was more important is that people come to Christ through the work of the gospel. But in this letter we don't really know what the Apostle Paul is implying as far as that's concerned, but here's what we do know. He wants by Leman to receive him as a brother in Christ. And he says, he is now profitable for you. And he says in verse 12, I'm sending him back. You therefore receive him. And he points this out. He says, look, take it on my word. He's Uh he's he's part of my own heart. I love Onesimus, he's basically saying. He is he is like a son to me. And I'm choosing to send him back anyway. He said, I wish verse 13 that I could keep him. On behalf of uh but he says, but I'm not going to do that. He says that on your behalf he might minister to me. It was an option, he says, but I don't want to do anything without your consent. And by the way, this is interesting how the Apostle Paul handles this. The Apostle Paul sends Onesimus with a letter to Philemon. Like he's there. He doesn't do this. He doesn't send Tychicus or another messenger to Philemon. And Onesha stays back. And the Apostle Paul then says, hey, could I keep him? That's not what Paul does. Paul sends him. Paul assumes that uh why? Because he Philemon does he doesn't want Philemon to do this out of obligation. If if Paul Onesimus would have stayed and Paul would have just sent word to Philemon. Then what would have been the c what would what would have happened? Well Philemon would have went, Oh, he's there and I feel pretty obligated. I mean Paul led me to the Lord and I own him my life, so I guess I don't have a choice here. I might as well just do it. But it would have been out of obligation The Apostle Paul doesn't do that. Apostle Paul sends Onesimus. Onesimus is there, and then Philemon then can make right decisions with regard to what to do. And it's interesting that Paul never says exactly what to do. He just says you need to receive him as someone who is profitable, someone whom I greatly love, and someone who is genuinely a true follower of Christ. Now then we find this and we need to note as an example here that when we see someone come to Christ We should, and we do, as Christians, identify God's hand readily. Really, anybody that comes to Christ, God is working in their life to bring them to a place that they understand their sin. They understand that Jesus died to pay the punishment for their sin, and they received him them as their Savior. And God does all kinds of things in their lives to bring them to that point as He did Onassimus And Paul reminds Philemon to see now the bigger picture. He says to Philemon, you've got to see the bigger picture here of what God is doing. Notice what it says in verse 15. For perhaps he departed for a while for this purpose, that you might receive him forever. He says Perhaps. Now, it's interesting that Paul says perhaps. Paul does not presume that he knows exactly how God works. And it's important for us as well to not be presumptuous as to how God works. However, he does say, perhaps, in the sense of it's a good possibility. That that God has allowed all of what to happen for Onesimus to escape, for Onesimus to run into Paul in Rome. For Paul to be able to give the gospel to Onesimus, for Onesimus to be saved, why? To work things out in a way that would be, it says, that you might receive him forever. He points out this out. He said that one of the reasons why Paul uh why God may have allowed this to happen is that ultimately you would be able you would be able to receive Onesimus in a way that that that you couldn't before, and actually he would be profitable. forever. Now the word forever then would indicate that he's not talking about the fact that he'd be profitable as a slave, but that he would be profitable useful as a what? Well, as a fellow brother in Christ, as a as a fellow worker in Christ, as a partaker of God's work. Then in verse 16 it says, No longer as a slave, but more than a slave, a beloved brother, especially to me, but how much more to you, both in the flesh? and to the Lord. Now before we get to verse ver we we get to the this verse, I just want to mention this when it comes to understanding God's hand. So important that we do this. As God works in our lives, we've got to constantly be able to identify God's hand in a situation. I think of Joseph, what a prime example of this. Joseph was a slave, wasn't he? How was he a slave? Well, his own brothers sold him into slavery. This is Old Testament Joseph Genesis, Genesis Joseph. Um sold him into slavery. And and yet what happened as a result of that Well, God used it in his life for good. So that by the time his brothers realized how wrong they were, and obviously now God had made Joseph second only to Pharaoh and all of Egypt and made his brothers subservient even to Joseph and all of what took place in Genesis chapter 50. There was great remorse and sadness on the part of the brothers. But this is what Joseph says. Joseph says Do not be afraid, for am I in the place of God. For as for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good. In order to bring it about as it is this day, to save many people alive. Now therefore, do not be afraid. I will provide for you and for your little ones. And he conformed them and spoke to them, comforted them and spoke spoke kindly to them. And that is how we ought to look at the work of God with the gospel in the life of a person. We've got to understand that God changes a life, and we need to respond by receiving them readily, because God is doing a work in their life And we need to constantly watch for this and notice this and realize this as we see God's working through the gospel And as we see all this, we see a changed life, we see God working sovereignly, then we come to verse 16, and we need to receive them as a brother in Christ. And Paul tells Philema to do that. And notice this is going to supersede other relationships. It's going to supersede the relationship of the fact that he is a slave. He wants them to not notice what it says. It says No longer as a slave, but more than a slave, a brother in Christ, especially to me, but how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord? When he says both in the flesh, And in the Lord. When he says that, he's actually referring to the fact that that Onasphet is c is coming to Philemon Onesimus is going to be part of the Church of Colossae and he will be visible to him. He will be around. It's not saying uh necessarily there's other options of what it could mean by in the flesh. Some suggest that actually Onesimus And I don't think it's really even talking here about profitable profitability as a slave. I think what it's saying is saying here is that, hey, he's profitable to me as a brother in Christ, Paul says He'll be even more profitable, you as a brother in Christ, as he's going to be with you in the same church in Colossae. And then in verse 17 it says this If then you count me as a partner, receive him as you would me. So we need to encourage a welcoming attitude in others as well. So he says, receive him. Verse 18, but if he was wrong, if he has wronged you or owes anything, put that on my account. I, Paul, am writing with my own hand. I will pay, not to mention to you that you owe me even your own self-decides So he says, you need to receive him. You need to receive Onesimus. Well, what is he talking about there when he says you need to receive Onesimus? Well, we we've already seen that. You need to welcome him. And he goes so far as to say you need to welcome him just as you welcome me. That kind of welcome And then he says this, he says, Philemon, if if if Odesmus owes you anything But a s the assumption is that Onesimus probably owes him something. He probably stole from him in order to be able to escape and to travel. He says, then I will repay it. I will take care of it. And Paul takes he uh he probably was using an an emanuensis, he was using a writer to to write for him as he dictated. At this point, he takes the He takes the pen and he writes his own signature. This is like a promissory note. I'm going to give this to you. You're going, I will take care of this. So if you have any if there's any outstanding debts, anything that he owes you, then realize that that he owes it. Realize that I'll take care of this. Well then what happens here He says this, but he points this out, but realize that I led you to Christ, open Ephesus. Realize there's a sense in which you owe me your life. Now, there's two possibilities as to what he means by this. Actually there might be more than two, but there's two prominent ones. One is that he's saying, hey, I will repay the debt, but I shouldn't have to. The more I read that, I don't think that's what Paul's saying here. It's possible that's what he's saying, but I think more what he's saying actually is you should allow me to pay the debt. Because you understand the fact that you who were once dead is now alive. I think that's what he's saying here It wouldn't be dogmatic on him, but I think that's what he's saying. You understand what it means to have a debt paid. You had a huge debt paid, and now I am offering to pay the debt Now what do you suppose happened when Philemon saw this? And do you think Philemon held held Paul up and said, okay, Paul, you've got to pay the debt? I I we don't know what happened, but it's very unlikely But what Paul Paul's point is is that I'm going to I'm going to vouch for him. And there's a sense in which when we lead somebody to Christ or when we are when we are receiving somebody that knows the Lord, we are when we're discipling somebody We should vouch for them. We should remind others that they need to receive them in the same way they would receive someone else. And it's unfortunate, but sometimes we show partiality to other brothers and sisters in Christ when we shouldn't. They're brothers and sisters in Christ, and we ought to receive them the same way. And so we and so we see that. And then I want you to notice this in the passage. It then says finally He says verse 19, I Paul am writing with with my own hand. I will repay not to mention to you that I that I owe me Yes, brother, let me have joy from you in the Lord. Receive my Refresh my heart in the Lord, having confidence in your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even more than I say. But meanwhile also preparing a guest room for me, for I trust that through your prayers I shall be granted to you. The Paphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, greets you, as do Mark, Aristarchus, Demos, Luke. My fellow laborers, the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you, be with your spirit. Finally, he says, we are, as Christians, refreshed by the warm reception of a new convert. Paul is refreshed by this. And when we see someone come to Christ, or when we see someone baptized, for example, pro professing Christ as Savior. This for a true believer refreshes us. Someone has we are receiving them into the household of faith. There is something very refreshing about that. And Paul says it that way, that he says, please Please do this. Let this be a benefit to me. Paul loves Onesimus so much that he says, if you'll receive them right, it will actually benefit me as well. So let's let's wrap all of this up. And these are the things that we can glean here from this. Number one As gospel followers, we must live primarily by love rather than by law or obligation. As gospel followers, we must live primarily by love rather than by law or obligation. Number two Our appeal to other believers should be based on fellowship and love rather than law and obligation. So when we appeal to others, other brothers and sisters in Christ, When we need to help them and disciple them and work with them. We ought to do our best to try to appeal to other brothers and sisters in Christ on the basis of fellowship and love rather than law and obligation. Number three. We must learn to recognize God's hand in bringing people to help to himself and changing their lives for his usefulness. Now, I need to back up to number two and mention one thing about number two. There is a place biblically for warning of brothers, sisters in Christ. We find Paul doing that. For instance, when he talks to the first of to the Church of Colossae, he he does this. He warns them. There's a place where for that. There's a place to exhort strongly. There's a place where even command is necessary. In an authority kind of kind of a situation. So it's not as though those things aren't necessary sometimes, but our first our first our primary and first attempts and appealing to our brothers and sisters in Christ should be based upon love and fellowship. And then finally, number three, we must learn to recognize God's hand in bringing people to himself and changing their lives for his usefulness. And then finally, number four, we must warmly welcome new believers and encourage others to do the same. As we look through the book of Philemon and we see what Paul is telling Philemon to do. May we have the same kind of approach when when it comes to other brothers and sisters in Christ, new and young believers and those who are coming to Christ, may we receive them in the same way. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you for your goodness in our lives. We thank you for your word. We thank you for the truth of the gospel, and we thank you for how it changes people's lives and hearts. We thank you for this book of Philemon that teaches us how to receive New believers in Christ. And Father, I would pray that we would see more people come to Christ here at Bethel Baptist. That we would be conduits of the gospel to people, and that we would warmly and readily and in a welcoming manner receive people for the sake of the gospel. I pray, Lord, that we just want to see the gospel work in people's lives. And we pray that we would. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.