There's a green light. I can go now. Thank you, Pat. We're going to be in Joshua chapter 23. And uh 24, our lesson actually, uh, the text that we're going to be finishing up with is in Joshua chapter 24. But I just wanted to Take a look back and see what's going on during the time of Joshua and uh give you a little background of where this is going. But in uh chapter twenty-three, before we get to twenty-four, Joshua calls all the leaders together, and uh he's gonna give them a message, and it tells us in chapter twenty-three, I'm not gonna read the whole chapter, but we are gonna be looking at some things in here. But in verse one it says that Joshua waxed old and stricken in age, and Joshua called for all of Israel and their elders, and for the heads and the judges and their officers, and said unto them I am old and stricken in age, and you have seen all that the Lord your God hath done unto all these nations because of you. For the Lord your God is he that hath fought for you This is real encouraging. What we're going to learn tonight, I'm hoping, is how faithful God is. to us. And it it kind of gave me a little bit of an eye-opener 'cause of how Joshua brings this all about. He's reminding the children of Israel, as you know They are now in the land in this chapter. They are already in the land and they're at rest right now. They're not fighting their enemies and all, although there are some uh tribes that have not been run out yet and uh Joshua makes the statement that God will remove them and uh give them uh their land. And uh so they're in the promised land now, and Joshua is stricken and old, uh, and I can relate to that a little bit I'm getting there. But uh one of the things I like about this, Joshua is such a great leader and a great example for men uh in this day and not only men but women too because of his love for God but he's uh uh I've been in in Joshua several times uh studying uh had and uh learns a lot of uh leadership things about being a man, uh a godly man. And even though Joshua made a couple of mistakes, most of the time Time he was very faithful to God. And uh so that's an encouragement to uh us, and it's also going to be an encouragement to Israel, because here's their leader. uh who is coming to them now at old age and they're all in their lands. He didn't want them to get too comfortable in there, as we sometimes do when things are going well and we're now at peace, we get kinda comfortable And we don't want to, you know, stir up the pot and have to go out and maybe tell somebody about Christ or go visit somebody in the hospital or do something like that because we're nice and comfy now in home and uh everything is well And God has blessed us. And it's true that God has blessed us. But one of the things you find out about here, uh, he calls all the leaders together because he's getting ready to pass on and go home with his fathers. With the Lord. But he instructs them in this chapter. And not only does he instruct them, but he also warns them. And I think that is a great thing for you and I. It's good to have instruction. And not only to have that instruction but have warning. And I think we get that most of the time when we're here because when you hear a message uh uh from God's word, normally it's gonna tell you what to do and what not to do and how to do and how not to do. And uh basically that comes out in a lot of our uh messages and that's a good thing because it's a warning to us. Okay, it's good to do this, but just remember if you start going this way, it's not good So that's kind of what is going on here. And one of the things that uh I was uh looking in uh Matthew Henry, one of my commentaries that I liked. And uh but he says in there that we must never think our work for God is done until life is done. Here's Joshua. He's on his deathbed. Think about Moses. As soon as Moses was done serving, he went right home to the Lord. And so our we this thing of retirement is a big thing for us, and it's a real big thing for me, because I'm looking forward to it. But uh it's close too, closer than yours. Maybe. But just because I'm stopping my work and not having to get up at four thirty in the morning and Doesn't mean that I stop doing. Uh I'm I'm looking forward to retiring so I don't have that pressure of getting up at 4 15 anymore morning when I don't always want to when it's fifteen degrees outside. And so um even though That is an issue for me right now because the older I get, the worse it gets. But um I don't want to stop working. Uh thought maybe I get a part-time job somewhere because I can work all the way up to I'm seventy and uh not be penalized. And uh so that is my plan. But I've been talking with uh Pastor Jim and one of the other things that I would love to do would be a able to get a little more involved here at church and be able to go with him when he goes to the you know um John Hopkins or other things and And uh just uh um maybe even travel uh to a country somewhere far off and be able to minister there But you know, whatever God wills, God wills. But we're reminded here that our work is not done until our life is done. So here Joshua, being the great leader that he is, comes to the people and he tells them and starts reminding them of all that God had done. Now remember They were on the other side of the Jordan, and there was all these nations in there, and most of them were larger than Israel. But anyway, God was with Israel. It takes them in and they conquer the land because God is faithful to his promise. He promised Israel that they would have this promised land. And he has promised you and I what What did God promise you and I? Come on now. I'm looking forward to it. I hope you are. eternal life. He promised us eternal life with him in heaven. Our work is not done here until he calls us home. And it's a wonderful thing because in heaven, the biggest thing about heaven that is wonderful is first of all you're with God face to face and the second thing is you don't struggle with sin no more there. And you don't even think about sin there. And to me that is a great joy because I struggle with it every day and uh making choices and that's another thing that's going to be happening in this chapter, choices that we make. But anyway He uh warns the people here. He says that um God the people that are still in the land, he'll he'll expel them for 'em. And he's telling them about you have possessed their land As the Lord God hath promised unto you in verse 5. And verse 6 he says, Be ye therefore very courageous. to keep and to do all that is written in the book of the law of Moses, that ye turn not from the right nor to the left hand that you come not among these nations these that remain among you, neither make mention of their gods, nor cause to swear by them, neither serve them, or bow down to them yourselves, but cleave. Cleave unto the Lord your God, as ye have done thus unto this day. For the Lord hath driven out from before you great nations. And strong. But as for you, no man would be able to stand before you. And he says that one man shall chase a thousand, and uh for the Lord your God fighteth for you, as he has promised I love that the fact that God is faithful to his promise. And even when Israel fell and made mistakes, God still was with them. If they repented He went right back with them and he encouraged them and he fought for them. He does the same thing for you and I today. We are saved solely by his grace. We are not saved by our good works. Now, don't get me wrong here, good works are good, but they come because of salvation. They don't gain us salvation So, as we look at this here, he says, Take good heed therefore unto yourselves that ye love the Lord your God. That's a warning to you and I. You know in the Old Testament where it says that God will bless those who bless Israel and curse those who curse Israel. Curse Israel. Why do you think America was such a great nation? Why do you think it was? We always were on the side. We always blessed Israel. We always had their back. We always stuck with them. And the main reason was is because our forefathers had that Christian were Christian. Not all of 'em, but majority of 'em. And even coming up through history in this country, we were a pretty strong Christian nation. And God has blessed us beyond anything. We were probably one of the most powerful, one of the most richest nations in the world. And as long as we stayed close to Israel and backed them and were their friend, God's gonna bless us. But now we see things changing. And not only are we not as with the current uh leadership as close to Israel, we also see our nation turning away from God and we're going into things who would have ever thought that today we would have gay marriage in a country and it's acceptable And uh so there's a lot of things. Uh the abortion rate, it it just um it amazes me how many children are aborted again year. And uh so in all of this, uh I don't know how I got down there, but we are to cling to God. We are to cling to God. And uh One of the things here that we found, it says Joshua reminded the people there. about their being courageous and being in God's word and not turning from it. Kind of reminds us of Joshua chapter 1 when God was speaking to Joshua, told him the same thing. Don't turn away from God's word. Don't go to the right or left, but read it and meditate upon it. And most of us in here most likely have a time that we And if we don't, we should, because that's the only way we're going to grow spiritually. It's the only way we're going to know what God wants us to do It's the only way to do what's right because in his eyes, because he is God, He's the Creator, He has the right to tell us what to do, He has the right to uh to guide our lives. And one of the other things that I loved about what Jim said on uh Sunday about how um God chose you and I who were saved To be a gift to his son, who in turn is a gift to us. It amazes me beyond I never thought about that before. I never thought of it that way. But uh we know that we are chosen by God We are not chosen on our own. And uh because no one comes to Jesus unless God sends him, and no one comes to God unless he comes through Jesus Christ. So it works both ways. But the the amazing thing is that um Jesus would uh take our sin and our punishment and our place. And put his righteousness upon us. And so positionally that makes us clean before God. So he also tells them to cleave to the Lord, uh to the g to their God after they love him. And to love the Lord your God uh reminds me of in Deuteronomy six where it says to love the Lord with all of your heart and with all of your soul and with all your strength. And that is still true today for you and I. And it was true for them. And the reason that Joshua is doing all this with these people is because he's getting ready to leave. They're not going to have a leader. So the leaders that he calls together are the ones that are going to have to keep this going and keep their nation strong in the Lord. But he also says to cling to uh cleave to God And uh I love that uh passage. And um here it says that um uh let me ask you a question about this. Why do you think that this is so important? To love the Lord your God with all of your heart, with all of your soul and with all your strength. Why do you think that that is so important? Yes. Thank you. If we're truly doing that, then everything else will fall into plate. I like that. That was kind of where I was thinking about. If you love the Lord, and you love him with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength You're not going to be going after someone else. You're not going to be going after the other nations. You're not going to be after everything else Because you love the Lord. When you have a child or you have a husband or a wife and you love them, you love them deeply, you're not gonna be going everywhere else. And uh Uh I think that uh the example here that he talks about cleaving to God and loving him with all your heart. Uh if you love uh Christ with all your heart, with all your soul and strength, then you will cling to him. And uh so it he talks about here too, about uh doing everything that is written in the Word of God. The important part about this, let me ask you a question. Has God been faithful? To his word. You think God has been faithful to his word? I believe everybody in here would agree. God is faithful to his word. And so if God is faithful to his word, ought we not be? Faithful and true to Him. Because His word is what guides us and leads us. So Hebrews 10, 23 puts it this way. Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, up one day, down the next, over here, doing that, doing this, without wavering. For he God who promised is faithful. I love that. God is faithful. He's faithful to his word and he is faithful to you and I. So the reason this is important Joshua brings it out here. He says, uh Joshua states that the fatal consequences of going back, if you look at uh verse twelve, I believe it is. Yeah, verse twelve he says Else if ye do in any wise go back, go back and cleave to the remnant of these nations. In other words, if they go backwards and go back to those nations and start following their ways and all this and that, that there's going to be a consequence. And it says here that no for certainty in verse thirteen that the Lord your God will no more drive out any of these nations from before you, but they shall be snares and traps and scouges in your side and thorns in your eyes, until ye perish from off this good land which the Lord your God hath given you. I think that's some pretty strong reason why we don't want to be going back. And if you remember in Hebrews 10, 38, it says, God says this, but if anyone draws back My soul has no pleasure in him. And I think it uh would be a wise thing for us to remember what happened to Israel. Now this nation, this generation was faithful to God all the way down to the end until all the older ones died off and everything. But you get over and judges and it's a whole new generation and ever off the gamut. But anyway, so in Hebrews 22, 1022, I want to read that um to you real quick. Um to me it's a great uh verse for us. Hebrews chapter ten, verse twenty-two and twenty-three And it says, Let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience. And let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised. how we should do that. But I think the the main thing about this verse is is that God is faithful. And uh so I was encouraged about that in my studying that we should be trusting God's faithful To us and His love and His power. And we should be pleading His promises. What promises have God made to us? What are some promises that God has made to you and I as a Christian? Tony? He'll never leave us or forsake us. Beautiful. That's a promise. God will never leave us nor forsake us. He will always be there for us. Anything else that you can remember Never change. Awesome. Yes. Yep. These are some great promises, and we should be taking heed to these promises and holding on to him. It keeps us from fading away or or going the other direction. I think about pleading uh his promises and cleaving to his word. And uh it reminds me of David in Psalm twenty Where he says, Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. To me that is a great verse. That whole Psalm twenty-three is just Awesome to me. Before we run out of time, I want to move into Joshua 24. Here you saw in Joshua 23, he's reminded him of God's faithfulness and all that God has done. And so after reminding them he warns them not to go off and uh but to cleave to Christ And live with him and believe in him and trust in his word and keep loving him as they had been doing under Joshua's leadership. And he warns them not to go back. to these nations. And he also warned them to throw away their old uh gods and all that they brought out of Egypt. And um In 24, it says here that he calls all the tribes and the elders and leaders to Shechem. And uh when he gets there, he's calling them all together. This is right before his death. And he says, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel. And uh so now he's going to share with them what God said. And uh what he did in chapter 24 up to verse 13 and 14, he gave a whole history at the beginning when God called Abraham And he comes all the way down and shares everything that God has done. So he's reminding them again the great things that God has done for them as a people. And as he reminds them of that, then they come to verse 13. And he says that, and he's just repeating what God says, and I have given you a land for which you did not labor I gave you cities which you did not build, and you dwell in them, of the vineyards and the olive yards, which ye planted not. Do you eat? And then he goes and says this, now therefore, therefore, because of all that that I just told you about, he says Fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and in truth, and put away the gods of your fathers that served on the other side of the flood in Egypt, and serve ye the Lord. I like that I like the fact that he says to serve them with sincerity and truth. I was riding into work the other day after Jim's message and uh it just struck me that I'm talking to Almighty God while I'm driving down the road I'm talking to God. And I'm thinking to myself, you know, a lot of times when I'm talking to God, I'm paying attention partly to driving, and it just caught my attention and And I and it made me get more personal with God and I was asking more for his mercy because I know that I haven't concentrated on God as I And uh so it's amazing here uh that my sincerity of loving Jesus. How sincere And the other thing is um the Bible says in uh John he says do love the Lord um your God with all your heart and then he talks about Jesus says that he wants those worshipers who worship him in spirit and in truth. And so when we come in here to worship on Sunday mornings or Wednesday evenings or whenever we do, And I like what Jim did on Sunday morning when he stopped the music. I've never seen that before in my life and I thought this is good And uh but yeah, it's true. We come in from hard work and all that and sometimes we just want to relax. And uh I've had songs that I don't know and I have a hard time singing along with it, but I like to read the words to see what it's saying. Sometimes I I can't even carry a teen in the bucket that I try. But it it um it caught my eye that that uh Pastor Jim did that And it got my attention. You know, I don't want to just sing because I know the song. I'm singing to God Almighty, the creator and sustainer of all life. And so to me that's a great encouragement. But we find here in verse thirteen that he uh tells them to fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and truth. And then he comes down to verse fifteen. And he says, if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom you will serve. What do you think he means? What do you think he means there if you if you if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord? Will we ever think of that that way? Do you think maybe it's maybe it's not what you want to do or maybe it's wrong or maybe I don't know. I I couldn't figure that out there, but I'm thinking about it. And he really puts it to them in plain English. Oh if it seems evil to you. If you really don't want to take the time to worship God, if you don't really want to take the time to love Him, you have to make that choice. And he's saying there to them, right after he tells them to be sincere and in truth and all that, he says, But it seems not right to you. You need to choose this day whom you will serve And a lot of times we're involved in so much in our lives. And I think about here, whether the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the flood. And there's a lot of stuff that bides our time, bides for our time. And I think at Christmas time is a big time that that happens. I don't know about you, but our house is chaos a lot of times. We got all the kids and grandkids and I mean we're having a blast. But do we lose the focus of what it is that we're celebrating? Sometimes I believe we do. And we have to make the choice daily. It's not just one time that he's telling him here. But you and I have to make this choice day in and day out. When I go to work, I gotta make the choice. I'm not gonna uh try to live my life focused upon the Lord and do what's right? Or am I going to be going off in my flesh and trying to do it my own way and the hard as I can do it and argue with who I want to argue with and and uh so on and so forth. But here they had to choose and I like how uh Joshua lays it out. Very plain, very black and white. Choose this day whom you will serve. And then he comes to the end of that passage and he says, But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. What a great example of a leader in a home or a leader of a nation. But as for me and my house. We will serve the Lord. I think He is such a great example and encouragement to these people. Because as you see in the next verse, They all say, yes, God forbid that we should forsake the Lord to serve other gods. For the Lord our God, He it is that brought us up. And he they're starting to repeat everything that Joshua just said So this is pretty neat. But then it comes to the point where they're going to have to choose. And is from what we read and study and understand, this generation during Joshua's time did stay true to God. All the way up until the old uh older folks died and that generation passed away. But something happened between the old generation and the new generation Why do you think the new generation went so far the other way and did everything that God was were they not teaching their children? Were they not teaching or grandchildren? What would cause that nation to in one generation? Just think about our nation. Think about our country. Where we're at today. All the people that are leading today were children of ours and our grandparents. How did it get to where we are? We've gotten so far away from God. And uh so I liked uh the fact that Joshua's praying about our children. It's critical for us to keep our children in prayer. And to teach them about Jesus. And we can have fun with our children, and Christmas time in particular it's a busy time. But it always should be reminded and clear, clearly put to them. what it is we're celebrating. It's not about Santa Claus, not about this, not about all the present. Very nice to get, but that's not what it's about. And uh we normally read uh Luke chapter two. Uh in our family at Christmas time and share the uh coming of Christ. And uh this is the first year since it wasn't at our house. We didn't do that And it bothered me because I know my grandkids know about the Lord. Uh they're not all saved 'cause some of 'em are too young to know yet. But they're being raised by parents who want to teach them them. But it's the important thing here to recognize that here's a nation that had a generation that obeyed God and did what God called them to do because of the great leadership that they had. That Joshua was that leadership. How about you and I? Are we the leadership today for our nation? We may not be in government. We may not be able to do this, but I think that it's critical for us to stand uh true to the Word of God. And I believe most of us in here uh do that already. And uh but it's so easy to slide back and turn back and get caught up in things around us, as was dangerous for Israel because they had all the a couple other nations still in there and they were worshiping other gods, they were doing things and the women looked nice to the young ones and he didn't want them intermarrying, didn't want them talking about their gods or nothing. And uh somewhere down the line it must have happened because in Judges chapter two they went away from the Lord. And God uh sent him out of the country just like he said he would. Um so if it seems wrong to you choose this day whom you will serve. So when I think about that passage, it is essential here, as as we understand this, one of a couple things that I got from a commentary, it said it is essential that the service of God's people be Performed with a willing mind. We should have a willing mind. We should purpose in our heart to do what God has called us to do. No matter what we're going through, no matter where we're going, what we're doing. We should always purpose in our heart uh and be a willing mind to serve God wherever we are, whatever we're doing. And it's also said in there, for love is the only genuine principle from which acceptable service of God can spring. And that reminds me back to Deuteronomy 6 where God said to love the Lord your God. So God seeks those who will worship Him in spirit and in truth. So Joshua makes the statement, But as for me and my house we will serve the Lord. The Israelites agree with Joshua, being influenced by the example of a man who had a great, was such a great blessing and testimony to his people. And I think that's the same way in our families. We can be that great leader in our household. We can be that great leader in our church. We can be that great leader even in our own neighborhoods. We have most of my neighbors they talk religion and all but most of them don't go to church And they like to hear God's word, but they don't practice it. And some don't want to hear. I think about this neighborhood here. W I remember uh last year I think it w one of the years we went out. Some people just shut the door. We come out or singing Christmas carols and wanna talk. Sure. Oh, they just shut the door. They didn't want to talk to us And uh that happens all the time. And I it happens in my work. Most of the people I work around are not believers. And uh so the great example is for us is to be that testimony. example. And I think that it's our love for God that's gonna make that service acceptable to God, how much we love Him. And so the service of God being made their deliberate choice, Joshua binds them to it by Solomon Covenant. So he makes them say in here that therefore we also will serve the Lord our God. And he says, You are witnesses again So since they made this statement, now he's telling them, Okay, we got this big rock over here, and I'll put this big rock up under this tree. That rock has heard what you said. So from now on, the blood is on your head. You've made a choice, so when the time comes that you stand before God You they got witnesses. There's nothing you can do. And uh so I think um like I say we find out this generation did stay faithful to God But uh as Joshua was leaving and he was getting ready to pass away and die and go to his father's, uh he wanted to make sure that these people knew what God had done and to remind them to stay faithful. And not only that, but if they make the choice, remember that you've got witnesses. And we've made that choice in our lives, and we are witnesses. A lot of time we're witnesses to one another, we're witnesses to people that we tell that we've done this. So, as we would make such a claim, as we do, all the time, we should not take lightly the consequences if we deny God. in our faithfulness. So they were to be true to God, and the same goes for you and I. And we may trust that God is faithful to his word, and we can place that fear in our hearts that we shall not depart from him. I know that anytime that I'm going down the wrong road, there is such conviction in my heart. I have no peace, no joy, and everything just gets haphazard. I know that I gotta stop and come back and pray to God and ask him to help me and get me back on the track. God alone can give grace, yet he also chooses to bless our endeavors to engage How about you? Do you agree with Joshua? As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Can you look back and see God's goodness in your life? I think Think of uh of uh Jacob and uh Rachel there with the little new little newborn. That's God's blessing on your life. And there's lots of things we can think of. And his faithfulness in his word uh to me is just amazing how faithful he is. So where do I start if I feel I have not been faithful. I'm going to finish in James chapter 4, and I'm going to read a few uh verses there, and then we will close. But if you feel that maybe you have been not as faithful as you ought, what do you do? And here we find in James 4, which I thought was a good uh passage. It says in 4 chapters 7 through 10, listen closely if you feel that you maybe have been slipping. Submit yourselves, therefore, to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye say. And purify your hearts, ye double-minded. Be afflicted and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning, and your joy to heaviness. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord and listen to this He shall lift you up. God will bring you back up to where you need to be. But we have to be humble before him and uh admit our weaknesses and our mistakes. And if we submit to God and resist the devil and draw nigh to God, he will draw nigh to us. I like what Tony said earlier, that uh God will never leave us nor forsake us. We walk So I hope it's an encouragement to you all. And when I think about making that choice, it's a choice we gotta make every day when we get up out of the Amen. Whether we're going to serve the Lord. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you so much for your goodness to us, Lord. We thank you for the grace and the mercy. We thank you that you would consider us, Lord. And reach down and send your only begotten Son to die on a cross for our sins. He took the penalty, he paid the price. And Father, our faith and our trust is in him. So we're grateful and thankful. I thank you so much for everyone here tonight. I thank you for the praises that were brought forth, the requests that were brought forth forth Lord and just the uh sharing testimonies of how amazing you are. And Father, we thank you so much that you are patient, that you are merciful And you are full of grace and full of love. Thank you for each one here tonight, and I ask your protection around us as we leave and go away. Father, may you remind us throughout the rest of this week until Sunday. Of your word. Remind us, Lord, that we have to make that choice every day. Help us to be faithful, for we know you are faithful. Help us to love you with all of our hearts, all of our soul And all of our strength. Thank you, Lord, for your goodness to us. Thank you for your word. And I pray, Lord, that uh as we go our way, that you'll be with us and keep watch over us in Jesus' name. Jesus' name, Amen. Thank you all.