Uh we had contemplated if we would have to to cancel services due to the weather and uh the situation on the highways and keeping being responsible and wise and keeping folks safe. Um but we're thankful that the way it's turned out that it's fine for us to be together tonight, to look into your word, to pray together, to bring to you the things that we cannot fix, the things we cannot figure out. um the the situations and circumstances of our life that weigh us down. And we can take those burdens and those cares to you and learn to leave them at your feet. But as we spend a few moments looking into your word, we pray that you would help us to tune our minds, to bring our attention perhaps to something something that we haven't thought of for a while, or perhaps that is very relevant to where we are at in our current situations. But as your Holy Spirit takes your word and applies it to our lives. We want to allow it to bring forth fruit. And that the seed would take hold and that we would be changed because of interacting with you and your word. So we bring this to you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, so tonight we are looking at attitude is everything. This uh the slides had been created in a four by three ratio, and then I realized it needed to be sixteen by nine. So hopefully everything is readable after change things. If it's not, please don't be too too badly aggravated. But years and years ago I came across a website. You know those um they were really popular, I don't know, 10 years ago or so, 15 years ago. They were they were the motivational posters that um that they would have in organizations. You know, you you could go to you know get your your car worked on, you might see one in their office waiting area. At the bank that I worked at, they had several in the conference rooms of these motivational things, you know, about excellence and and And um proactive and they say you know some sort of saying about it. And of course my sense of humor I appreciate things that that twist uh what is it supposed to be. So then I found this this website called despair. com that had demotivators and it was greatly delightful to me. And because of course attitude is everything. So you probably can't read that, so I'll read it to you, but you can tell it's a ship that has sunk. It's called mistakes. It could be that the purpose of your life is only to serve as a warning to others Like the sandbar. This is in essence my sense of humor, just just so you know. Uh self-esteem It takes genuine talent to see greatness in yourself despite your absence of genuine talent. If you notice the little uh the shadow is a is a queen while we are looking at a mere pawn. Uh the next one is tradition. This is the running of the bulls, Spain. Okay? Just because you've always done it that way doesn't mean it's not incredibly stupid. I've I've always looked at that and wondered at it, why, why would you do this? That's not even You you're all going to go home and Google these things. It's hilarious. But anyway, uh achievement. Okay, you can do anything you set your mind to when you have a vision. determination and an endless supply of expendable labor. And all the managers are like, Ha, that's funny. Um of course it's com all these are completely politically incorrect, but it does bring a bit of a smile to your face. Why? Because this It's a dry humor, but it's sort of the opposite of of uh having a good attitude. You know, attitude is everything. We say that in sports as though it's a good thing. Attitude is everything, you know, in sports. So so go have a good attitude and and accomplish a lot, even when your team gets killed. you know, zero to whatever, every game of the season. Attitude is everything, right? So that's a positive thing. But then uh parenting, attitude is not a good thing, right? They said, don't give me that attitude. Okay, typically. Um So when we say when we're talking about attitude being everything, uh it is important because it it It changes our perspective on our circumstances, the attitude that we have toward it. And we're going to look at that a little bit tonight. Specifically the the contrast between a complaining attitude and a thankful attitude. That when we're looking at life in a complaining way, uh things don't tend to go so well uh as opposed to taking God's advice through all the pages of Scripture. from Proverbs to the New Testament and the Epistles of a thankful and a grateful heart. So I want to spend the first half or ish uh looking at a complaining attitude because who wants to be a downer the entire time But then look at what it means to then have a thankful attitude. So just to summarize, we'll do this and then we're going to take a look at numbers 11. That complaining is an attitude choice that, if left unchecked, will wither my capacity to experience joy and genuine thankfulness. Complaining is an attitude choice. So I want to bring a little bit of definition to this, but let's first read Numbers chapter 11. Now you may remember uh throughout the wanderings in the wilderness, the children of Israel had this cycle of uh they come up against a problem, murmur, murmur, murmur, they complain. They whine about things. They try to take action in some fashion. Moses intercedes on their behalf before God. God answers their problem. supplies their needs, then they're happy with that, and they're okay for a little while. And uh You don't typically see in Exodus a whole or or in that whole period a lot of faith responses before they get back to complaining again. It's almost like they just go into a uh uh a holding pattern just straight across. It's not up and down, it's just they're just sort of coasting. And then they get back to another circumstance that they can't handle, that they don't like, that they wish was different, and they start complaining and murmur, murmur, murmur, murmur again. And it's an attitude choice that Israel continues to make. It says in verse 1 of Numbers 11, now when the people complained, it displeased the Lord. For the Lord heard it and his anger was aroused. So the fire of the Lord burned among them and consumed some of the outskirts of the camp. Now, again, this is another one of those circumstances where they come up against a problem. begin to complain against God and against Moses. God hears it, it is displeasing to him, and he judges it. And that's what we're going to look at here. Let's let's first though define oops, I'm going to back up here because I don't have a slide on this. But defining complaining, if you look at your notes there, complaining is an expression is expressing dissatisfaction with a circumstance that is not wrong and about which I'm doing nothing to correct Because I stumbled through that, let me say it again. Complaining is an ex is expressing dissatisfaction with a circumstance that is not wrong and about which I'm doing nothing to correct. So when we express resentment over our circumstances that are beyond our control, something that comes up in my life, the tire goes out on the car. Um of course now I'm fresh out of of great examples, but no doubt your lives, even this past week, have several of those kinds of setbacks for which you might have found yourself complaining. Something that you really wish hadn't happened. Okay, it's not necessarily that you did anything wrong, it's just something in a fallen world happened. And about which we are doing nothing. Then we are complaining. We'll touch more on this in a minute. But those who choose complaining as a lifestyle will spend their lifetime in the wilderness. And we see this with Israel, and I think you're familiar enough with uh uh their wanderings in the wilderness and even in the last two years there was considerable Sunday school time in the adult uh Sunday schools given to what happened in Exodus. uh and in numbers here, where um it it becomes a lifestyle, a way of reacting to every circumstance that comes their way that is less than optimal. It's not quite what we wanted. And they begin looking, uh remember they they look back at Egypt and say, well, life was so much better when we were slaves. Like, wait, did you just listen to yours that we were slaves and and then we occasionally they would give us watermelon and and and the the melons and they did the leeks. I mean I don't know why we're why we're envying leeks. But hey, they were uh that they remembered all these things that they had back then and and how wonderful it was. Even though they were in slavery and God delivered them from that and he's taking them to something much greater, they have forgotten all of those circumstances and only remember Little portions forgetting the suffering they were in. And so in their current circumstances it's becoming a lifestyle for them. And what ends up happening is that because of this constant choice of not believing God, they end up living the rest of their lives in the wilderness, and their children are the ones who would get to go into the promised land. And they get to live in the wilderness. So if complaining changes nothing, we have to ask ourselves, why do we do it? Well, because it satisfies our sinful natures. It makes us feel better to complain because I I'm powerless in my situation, so I'm going to complain because at least that's something I can do. It's just it's like our default setting. It's hard to resist it because it kind of works. Makes me feel better for a while. Um for a while. But there are there are four different points about attitudes that I think we need to point out here. And about a complaining attitude. That a complaining attitude is a choice. This is letter B, point one. Attitudes are a choice. It's been said that your your attitude problem is in the mirror. And we look at at verse 1 of Numbers 11 and we see, why did Israel become like that? This attitude of complaining? Were they forced to do this? Well, no. Uh was it a learned behavior? Possibly. But more likely they just this is a choice. They chose to respond this way. When we watch um movies or or we we read in history about the people that we look up to, can you think of somebody that that's uh a hero in history for you or if you if you hate history, then I suppose perhaps you don't have one. But uh you think about people who overcame their circumstances. We don't typically laud, honor, and idolize the complainers of history. It's those who rose above their circumstances, right? They took a choice in their circumstance. So you have the same person who gave up They're in the same circumstance. One person gave up and the other person did not. What was the difference? Part of it is a choice, and we'll talk about what that choice is: choice of faith and of thankfulness But when you vote for a with a poor attitude, you choose in the wilderness, just like Israel did. And isn't it isn't it kind of ironic that the people declare from the rooftops their independence? and their power to choose. But when it comes to attitude, suddenly they're impotent. You know? Um well I'm I'm you probably have coworkers this way or kids at school or whatever it'd be. But no, I I'm responding this way because somebody else, or because something else. It's like, no, you're responding this way because you're choosing to respond this way. Um And it that's just kind of funny because then on the other hand they'll say uh I can make my own choices. I have rights, I have this, I have that. And then when it comes to issues of attitude, it's like oh I'm a victim of my circumstances Okay, we have to be careful about the mentality that we have about our circumstances. It's a choice. And the rub that is, if if if I don't choose my attitudes, I'm saying that I'm not responsible. Attitudes are also a pattern of thinking. A pattern of thinking is the way that you think about things, the way that you approach life. Okay, so I have this illustration of a child dropping a ball, and again you can't read it, so I'll read it to you. A two-year-old throws a ball and he catches it. In the middle of playtime, he's he's throwing this ball up, catching it. In the middle of playtime, he drops the ball. And everybody in the room or everybody in the backyard stops to see how is little Johnny two year old going to respond to dropping his ball. Will he be upset about the fact that he dropped the ball? Will he get angry because he liked it a lot better in his hands than it was on the ground? Like this is no longer fun. So we hold our breath and see what attitude little Johnny's going to choose. He could choose to say, that dumb ball. Who made this cheap, lousy, dime store ball anyway? It's so slippery. Stupid ball kicks it. I've seen adults do this, by the way. He could choose to say, Where are my parents? I can't believe they're not here when I dropped this ball. What kind of parents are they? If they really loved me, they would be here to help me pick up this ball. Somebody else is not doing their job, and I've got a problem. And I can't this is this is horrible Okay? He's choosing to shift responsibility to somebody else. He could say, I'm such a loser I always drop balls. I've played with other kids. They don't drop balls all the time. I'm the only one who drops balls. What's wrong with me? I'm such a loser. Okay. Now this is you're like, wow okay, that's really theatrical jazz. But honestly, we want to be thinking about this. Or he could choose to say, my fault. I mean every two year old talks like this, right? I drop the ball. People drop balls all the time. This is perspective. I'm going to have a positive attitude. I'm gonna pick it up and I'm gonna go on. Maybe I can grow through this somehow and stop dropping balls as often as I do now. Now, again, most two-year-olds are not that introspective, and if your two-year-old is introspective, please bring them in for counseling. But um If we read those same exact slides, but this time think about how we respond to God when we make mistakes. When you make a mistake, when you fail, when you otherwise exercise your finite humanity. Okay? What is the tendency perhaps of your part? Do you choose to say dumb ball, dumb circumstance, dumb computer? Who made this cheap, lousy dime store Where's Pat? I was gonna pick on Apple or something for him. You know, this ball is so slippery. Okay. Blame the object, blame the circumstance. You could blame other people. Where are my parents? I can't believe they're not here when I drop this ball. If they really loved me, then they would be here to help me pick this thing up. Is that your tendency? Like, somebody else should be here, somebody who loves me should be here to help me handle my problem. Or how about just getting down on yourself, beating yourself up? Calling yourself a loser. Blowing your failures out of proportion. Because somehow that makes it more of an excuse. You know, if if now it's like Well, this is just horrible and my life is over and I might as well throw throw the b you know throw the towel in. I in this case the kid threw the ball. But anyway, throw the throw the towel and give up There's no point. My track record is track record is failure. I'm the only one who does this kind of thing. What's wrong with me? Is that the tendency of your heart? Complaining in your circumstance by blaming yourself. Or is it more of an understanding perspective as to who God is and who you are and and that God is perfect and he knows you're not? that God has everything under control and he is not surprised by anything, he does not learn anything, but we have room to grow. And what does it say throughout the pages of Scriptures, but that he is patient, that he is long suffering. I mean the things that sometimes it takes us decades to realize about the the the the weaknesses of our own hearts. It takes us years to figure this stuff out. It was just a couple of years ago that I realized something about myself and my own tendency that I thought, goodness, I was I was like 33 years old at the time and thinking, why am I 33 and just figuring this out? Like don't most 17-year-olds have this figured out by this point? But God is patient with us as we grow. Now there are mistakes that we make, that we bring suffering upon ourselves. That is definitely true. There are situations and circumstances that God brings us along into, like Israel going and traveling through the desert. You could expect that they're going to have some some difficulties finding water. I mean that's where God's leading them to a desert There is going to be lack of food, lack of water. And if you know that's where God is leading you, then know that God is going to provide for you. Okay? But they chose to stay there by their attitude. And an attitude is a pattern of thinking, it is a choice. And these little speeches might sound familiar to what we say and think within ourselves as we speak you know, talk to ourselves about our uh circumstances opposed to speaking truth and God's word to ourselves to help our perspective. But patterns of these are patterns of thinking that are formed over a long period of time. That's I think one of the blanks I left for you. Again they didn't arrive at numbers eleven one like a light switch. Well they became complainers long before that. And a wrong attitude is hard to change because it becomes a habit. It's a harmful way of thinking about life. It's a harmful way of thinking about circumstances. It becomes so deeply ingrained in us that we hardly notice them. It's like it's automatic. And also, just the last the last thing, this is a a bit of hope, and that attitudes are changeable And living as God intended is really not that far off. When Israel was wandering around for forty years, the children of Israel, they really weren't that far from the promised land. But by their choices and lack of faith in God, they chose to live in the desert. And that was the outcome for them. And so a generation of Israel died within miles of the promised land. They chose not to live there. And when we ad when we admit that we have a choice to make in our circumstances of how I'm going to respond to this A choice is actually now available. If I say I don't have a choice, I'm a victim of my circumstances, that kind of thing, I don't have any choice in the circumstances. But when I look at it God's way from His perspective, and my circumstances sometimes are brought on by me, sometimes they're brought on by others, but how I respond to that is important to God. Um because it's revealing what's in my heart. And before you admit that you have a choice, you're basically pigeonholed. Let's see. So we we've looked then at defining what complaining is. We've talked about um di uh looking a little bit at how it works. Here we go. Proceed, please. There we go. And now we're going to look at the fruit of complaining, the root of sin. So this is a root and fruit issue. Sin is at the root of all kinds of issues that we have. The fruit that we see hanging on the tree is complaining. The complaining is a sin that affects everyone. Not just me. Sure, it hurts me. Having that bad attitude is is not helpful for me and my soul. But what it's also doing is questioning God's sovereignty And it affects others towards having sour attitudes. This this thinking-thinking way of looking at life and interacting with it affects other people. But the worst part about it is is that when I don't like my circumstances and I choose to complain about it. I choose to sit there and do nothing and I don't like it and that's that's it. I am by that attitude questioning God's sovereignty. That He has allowed things to come into my life. So if we look back at point A1 there. The complaining is an e is expressing dissatisfaction. Things that are not wrong. Um If the thing is something, you know, the the whatever it is you're railing against is something that is wrong and you express dissatisfaction, that's not complaining. Okay, there are recent legislations that have been passed that are morally bankrupt. And saying so is not complaining. Because it is is a moral issue. If something is abs is actually very wrong. This is moral versus preferential Okay? Um b cheating at work. That is a moral issue. Okay, so so so to sit there and you know um and do nothing is kinda going along with it. But if you know that there is stuff like that going on at work Saying something about it is not being a complainer. It's resolving a moral issue. Legitimate grievances can be expressed politely and without drama. But when it's a preferential issue I really don't like the fact that it's sixty-seven degrees in here. It needs to be seventy-two. And I'm going to be unhappy and everybody all around me is going to know I'm unhappy because between every song in the Sunday morning service I'm going to Huff and puff and blow, and I'm going to whisper to my neighbor about how cold it is. And you know, that's that's a complaining. I'm I'm choosing something silly. But um That's a complaining at a preference that I am now making a big issue. Okay? Not a moral thing. Um Another part of that definition, things that I'm doing nothing to correct. I'm choosing to whine, doing nothing about the situation. And it comes from the way that we think. Number two here, the Christians find that peace and joy of the Christian life elude them. E-L-U-D-E. I just realized that not too many people use the word elude Evade might work too, if you want to spell that instead. Because they are living in a complaining wilderness that they don't even see. Have you seen this in your own life? Certainly it's easier to see in other people's lives. of those who are missing out on the joy of the Christian life, and they don't even seem to realize it. You know, it's as if Israel were live you know living in the wilderness and they don't even realize what they're missing. And the thing is that God heard it, and it displeased him. Says so in verse 1. You can see it, the pattern of this in those other verses. I'll leave those to you to look up. But they complained about their adversity, their misfortune. They complained as though their situation was unique. And our troubles are unique to us, but if we also compare scripture with scripture, we understand that our issues are common to man. We can't take this attitude about our circumstances that nobody knows the trouble I've seen. Nobody knows my sorrow. And be all evil about it. Because while our circumstances are unique to us, and and then this isn't a lesson on on suffering, but God does custom it brings our circumstances and our our trials along customized for us. But at the same time, what I am going through, I am not the only human being who has ever gone through X, Y, or Z. And there's the same thing with temptations that are common to man. God has a purpose for our trouble, and so we shouldn't insult his purposes by complaining. That your adversity is precisely what God intends to bring you closer to Him, to draw your heart closer to His. And why would we wish that away when we look at the perspective of our circumstances, even when we really don't like them, even when it's really hard, even when it's unfair, truly unfair To realize that God is doing something more. God is always working, and He intends to bring my heart closer to His in my circumstances. Why would I wish that away? And again, suffering physically, emotionally, whatever it would be, is never fun. Um and thinking about even, you know, visiting uh people in the hospital. Um It's it's it's difficult to see people who are suffering, people who are going through difficulties like that, but God is doing wonderful things. And again, we've we've Um talked about Miss Mary many times and just seeing how she responds so graciously and so full of faith in her circumstances. And she hasn't been out to church, I think. Since soon after we moved down here, almost a year ago. She might have been out here once once or twice, I think. And um And yet the way she's responding in faith to her Lord, regardless of her circumstances. But the measure of blessing far outweighs the trouble. So where do we focus? We focus on. uh our savior, not on our circumstances. And then we see here that God judged how they responded. The fire of the Lord, his wrath, his judgment came down on them because of their complaining attitude, their lack of faith, over and over and over again, but even in this circumstance that they have chosen this. God judges the complaining attitude today just as surely as Israel in the wilderness. So they were literally in the wilderness, but I I do believe that we dry out our souls. when we continue to complain about the things that we cannot change. Uh the things that God has sovereignly brought into our path. Um and when we sit down and give up, throw in the towel and complain about it, we are drying out the world around us and instead of responding in faith. And and honestly that's I believe that that would be part of God's judgment for choosing not to respond to him in faith. So okay, well So in the short term complaining separates us from God. In the long term it becomes a lifestyle. And we live in a desert land that when we stop and actually think about it, we do end up feeling dry and empty and unfruitful. And the question to ask is, has your life become dry and dead and cheerless? Is it possibly because of a complaining attitude that it's become a habit of your life? But we want to re to look at at Again, attitude is everything. But replacing a complaining attitude with a thankful attitude. There are so many passages, especially in the New Testament, that talk about uh responding to different kinds of circumstances with thankfulness. Or that when you you respond to God this certain way that it results in thankfulness. or that everything you do in these ways, let it all be flavored by thankfulness. And it's an extensive study if you were to do that on your own, but we'll just go through a little definition here. But thankfulness is the attitude that perfectly displaces my sinful tendency to complain and thereby release joy and blessing into my life. When I choose thankfulness, it does tend to root out that complaining attitude, because they really can't exist in the same Spot. It's kind of like a child jumping into a bathtub full of water. The water comes out of the bathtub onto the floor because the child and the water cannot reside in the tub at the same time. Um even if you only put like an inch, somehow all of that water ends up out of the top anyway. Um it's uh sorry, I use illustrations from my circumstances of having small children, but You just learn by putting towels outside the tub. Then you don't have the mop, see? There's silver lining on the cloud. Um, you're welcome. No, we got we got we got the kids with the swiffers. They're they're the ones running around the house with the swiffers. Anyway. Wow, what were we talking about? Oh yes, thankfulness. Oh boy. If you um if you have um your bible on you, I want to turn over to Luke 17. And you can follow along while I read. Now it happened as he, as Jesus went to Jerusalem, and he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee, then he, as he entered a certain village, there met him ten men who were lepers, who stood afar off. Thankfully. And they lifted up their voices and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. So when he saw them, he said to them, Go show yourselves to the priests. That was it. And so it was, as they went, they were cleansed. And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, returned, and with a loud voice glorified God, and fell down on his face at his feet. Giving him Jesus thanks. And he was a Samaritan. So Jesus answered and said, Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine? Where or were they not any were there not any found who returned to give glory to God except this foreigner? And he said to him, Arise, go your way, your face has made you well. So we see thankfulness illustrated here. The teachers are asking God for healing. They're asking Jesus to s to to rescue them from their circumstance. A very Very not pleasant circumstance at all. And all the lepers, if you notice in verse 14, all of them cry out, Jesus Master, have mercy on us. All of them in verse 14 obey. He said, go show yourselves to the priest. And so it was that as they went. It's not like some of them went, and some are like, that's silly. Why would I go to the priest? Although that was written into the Levitical Code. They're like, okay, he seems to indicate that we're healed, so let's go. And so they all obey. They go to start uh heading into uh the town to show themselves to the priest. And as they went, they were cleansed. They were noticing, well, I don't have these spots anymore. I've got the feeling back in my feet and in my hands. Nine out of the ten continue on, but one Samaritan turns around to express gratitude. Now, noticing the race of the geographic, demographic area from which this fellow comes from is significant That nobody else no nobody has an excuse to be ungrateful. It's not like he had an excuse, well I'm a Samaritan, I've I've been the the the the butt of all kinds of Jewish jokes for for years and years and years. And and so whatever I'm owed this. No, it's the Samaritan of of anybody who turned around and thanked Jesus. Sadly, only a small fraction of people thank God for his grace. And instead, they question his presence when things go wrong. Where was God when this happened? Ten received healing, and ten of them chose attitudes, one chose thankfulness. Jesus notices those who are ungrateful, right? He brings it up. He says, where what wait, it's kind of I I I wonder about Jesus' sense of humor. When I was a kid I didn't see it all the time in but as as I've gotten older I I see in the pages of scripture just some of those You can almost wonder, was he smirking a little bit when he asked this? It's like, what happened to the other nine? Were there not ten who were who were healed? And the Samaritan could have had many excuses for not expressing his thanks. But if he can overcome all of those circumstances, and as you can recall to mind any of the other teachings that you have received about the Samaritans and uh all the ways that they were excluded and mistreated and what have you from Jewish culture because they were half breeds in essence If he can overcome all of that and express sincere gratitude, how can then the others walk away? Who should have understood more deeply what was going on? And the Samaritan was made well. And in fact more deeply well than the other nine, because what does Jesus say to him? Arise, go your ways away, your face has made you well. And so the essence of thankfulness is this: it's faith. The faith itself grows in the soil of thankfulness. If you um recall from Romans chapter 1, verses 18 to 21, let me read it real quick and you can listen real quick. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. who suppress the truth in unrighteousness. Because what may be known of God is manifest for them, for God has shown it to them. For since the creation of the world his invisible attributes are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, the creation, even his power and Godhead so that they are without excuse Because although they knew God, they did not glorify him as God, nor were thankful, but became futile in their thoughts, and their foolish hearts were darkened, and it goes on from there. saying how they end up taking creation and making it into idols and and so rather than being thankful for the creation even to a God uh that perhaps they did not know his name So rather than responding in thankfulness, it was with greed, it was with foolishness and uh and replacing the one true God with something of their own creation. But faith grows in the soil of thankfulness. When we recognize God as a gracious provider, then we comprehend our need for Him. and are uh and we're more able to to express gratitude to him. Thoughts like Romans chapter one, that God created the universe, that that humans are innately are aware of God's existence. It's just a matter of those who suppress it and those who accept it. That apart from God our awareness of God will always be suppressed. And thanklessness, thanklessness, yes, is a root of man's rejection of God. We see that in verse 21. And so thankfulness is more than saying just the right words. We teach that to our kids, right? Uh when we're talking about forgiveness, when we're talking about thankfulness. We when they're really little, we try to get them to do just just do it. Say thank you. And um like our little Hannah, you know, it's like a di-de. kind of thing. And we tried the the sign language for thank you, which is more like smacking herself in the chin at this point. Say thank you. Whack that had to hurt. Um but we teach them thank you, say thank you, say thank you so that it becomes a habit, hoping that as they grow and mature, they realize the heart behind it that yes I I really should be thankful when someone else is doing something gracious or kind for me. What do I say to them all the time? What do you say when someone does something kind for you or to you? I don't even know what I say. It just comes out so automatically. Um When when they you know they they take the donut from the relative and donut, I did I brought it up. I can't I can't get through a single lesson or anything without bringing up donuts. But they take something, you know, a treat or whatever and and head into another room and you stop them and say, What do you say when someone does something nice for you? They turn around, thank you. Okay. But thankfulness is more than just saying the right words uh of just, you know, press the thank you button and then I can move on. It needs to be coming from the heart. God is not moved by obligatory expressions of gratitude. Studies have shown, and you know this from your work experiences, that if employees don't feel genuine gratitude from the management, then bonuses are pretty much useless. I mean yeah it's nice to get the money, but if they don't feel if they feel it's like it's an obligatory thing, it's not really a heartfelt thank you. They're just like, okay, this is what we do. Every year we get Christmas balls. bonuses or end of year bonuses or whatever you want to call them. Um because you know management if management there's uh mm Is it okay to say if you're being jerks? Is it okay to say that? Okay, if you're being a jerk to your employees, then giving them a bonus isn't going to help things. They know it's just obligatory. So pardon me. If we're cynical about the routine expressions of gratitude in the workplace, how must God feel when we arrive to worship together and say thanks? And don't really give it a a deeper thought. I got ahead of myself a little bit. The next point here is that gratitude is showing that a kindness received is valued. Gratitude is showing that a kindness received is valued. So how did you enter church today? Or how do you enter church on Sundays? How much of your thinking was self-motivated? You know, am I going to be encouraged tonight? Hopefully. Uh a little bit. Um you know, am I gonna like Pastor Jim's message or not? Uh will I be bored? Well I hope so and so isn't singing. Um you know what is how much of this is self-focused as your thought as you come walking into this place? How is it that we receive so much from God, but we somehow still want more? It's like Christmas kids and Christmas presents. You know, they get done opening their presents, or as the kids get older, the presents become more expensive, so they get fewer. Okay, so when that transition starts to happen and they're like, is this all? Like that was it? What do you mean it w that wasn't it? You just got a PlayStation was it four or five out right now? I don't know. Or Xbox 3560 or whatever it is. Um I don't know what the latest versions are I 'Cause I know I can't afford them. So anyway, no. Um so why? Pay attention. It's kinda like shop anyway. Um I don't I don't look at sports cars because what's the point? Um But anyway, it's like children who get to the it you know to that to that point and they're thinking, but this was it? It's like you just you just got gifts and so choosing thankfulness in those situations. Um when we're at church, when we're coming here, that we're not just offering to God token thankfulness, that we're not just singing through songs of thankfulness and of gratitude and not really and of praise and not really applying our minds to it. There are days when when our hearts are troubled, when we're distracted, and all of those kind of situations, but it's also learning that in light of those I need to worship my God and to do it actively, not just warming a seat for a few hours and then leaving. But thankfulness emphasizes the blessings of life and places negative circumstances in perspective. One of my favorite passages in Scripture is the end of 2 Corinthians chapter 4. And and well actually pretty much the whole chapter is talking about perspective and having a healthy perspective on your circumstances that while on the outside I feel like I'm dying, yet on the inside I am being renewed day by day. But thankfulness emphasizes the blessings of life. It points out these things. It's more than just this Pollyanna-ish playing the glad game. Do you remember that older movie Pollyanna and is there's a lot of irritating points about that movie, but um in this she's playing the glad game and it's just kind of trite. We're like, oh just play the god you know the glad game to See silver linings in everything. And it's deeper than that when it comes to our relationship with God. That as we emphasize the blessings of life um through our thankfulness, our negative circumstances become more understandable. The the the per s our perspective on it changes. So that uh it is not we are seeing the bigness of our God in my circumstance, and I'm not seeing just my circumstance. Um I don't know if that made sense. It did in my head until I started saying it. But often we minimize the blessings And we magnify the negative circumstances. And it's not helpful to us because then we end up heading out into the wilderness and complaining. But um developing thankfulness. There are levels of thankfulness. I don't know if you're taking notes or if you want to jot these down, but I call it like The beginning is the beginning of thankfulness is is kind of like diaper level. Thankfulness, where it's it's the words. Hebrews 13, 15. And then a step up from that. Um you know what I printed it out so we could read it to you. Therefore by him, this is Hebrews 13, 15, therefore by him let us continually offer the sacrifice of praise to God. That is the fruit of our lips. giving thanks to his name. Now it's not that it's not doesn't have value, but that's where we start. I am going to be saying thankful. I'm going to start by saying it. I'm going to say it out loud. Um because often we just start changing what you you believe and what you're thinking on and eventually the feelings catch up. Sometimes it takes a while, unfortunately. But that's like diaper level thankfulness. And then we get to big kid thankfulness in 1 Thessalonians 5. 18, where it says, And everything gives thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. Where I'm seeing my circumstances as part of God's will for me. And this is not an idea like you get from Um I I have heard it from um sources like Islam, where this is just God's will. And it's like a resignation of helplessness in my circumstance because some greater being has chosen this for me and I am just it's nothing I can do. Um and then they proceed to do nothing about the circumstance. Um because God has willed it. Like, no, no. It's I can be thankful in my circumstance, realizing that God has led me to this for His glory, for my good, that there is a purpose to this. regardless of what my feelings say, and I'm going to trust him in faith regardless. And I'm going to be thankful that he has a purpose for my life and he is not arbitrary Um and then it gets sort of like grown up thankfulness. Ephesians five, verses eighteen, and then verse twenty. Where it says in verse 18, don't be drunk with wine, which is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit. And then in verse 20, giving thanks always for all things. to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. When I get to a point in my life where I have learned, and I'm not there yet myself, of giving thanks to God from the get-go for all things in all circumstances. And responding to him initially, at the beginning, from the get-go, in faith There are different circumstances for each of us that we we one can handle well and another can't. And it's different for you than it is for me. There are certain circumstances that immediately it's easy for me to respond to God in faith. Now those don't tend to happen a lot to me, those particular sets of circumstances. But then there are other ones that God has customized and he knows that I need to grow in this area and so he allows my circumstances to always somehow in some way touch on this nerve. Because why? Because Jeff is learning to trust God and to be thankful in the circumstances that um used to cause great anxiety or uh discontent or complaining or what have you. I can be transparent, I suppose. One of it one of the one of the main areas is is sickness with children. And thinking, oh great, now it's gonna go travel around the house and everybody's gonna get it and this and I used to get pretty stressed out about it And in the last couple of years, I would turn to Tracy and say, like, did you notice I didn't get upset about this time. You know. Um b why? Because God is patiently working on me and being thankful even when there is sickness. I will not I was I will anyway, even when there's sickness of all kinds and in succession. Um but that God is working on us, okay? And and even if you start off with just Saying the words, thank you God for my circumstance. Even though in my heart of hearts I really don't know if I'm thankful, I'm going to say I'm thankful to you. And then getting to a point of realizing that God has brought this into my life, and I'm going to be thankful because He has he's doing something, he's headed somewhere. And then getting to the point where from the get-go, I am thankful to him in all ways and in all things And you can see that when when you see those those markers of maturing in your Christian life, it's encouraging. Or, better yet, you see that occurring in someone else's life and you say as much. I can see God working in your life. I can see what you used to be like and where you are now, and God is doing wonderful things in your life, which by the way requires that we interact with one another and know each other. But thankfulness is a decision. It's a decision that's based in reality Again, not that Pollyanna kind of idea. It's based in reality, what is really going on. And what what might God really be doing And thankfulness is a life-changing decision. If you you can write this down, Psalm 107, unless it's on there for you. I think it's on there for you. That thankfulness is a life-changing decision. that that throughout that psalm it gets to the point of saying, oh, that men would praise the Lord for his wonderful works to the children of men. There's something really powerful here. That that oh, that sort of like that emphasizing groan. Oh that men would learn to praise the Lord. Because it makes all the difference in life. The thankfulness changes your perspective, your atmosphere. It changes people's perception of you. It changes uh sometimes they can completely change outcomes altogether. And so to be to to be asking yourself tonight, um W where do I see where is God showing me where I have had a complaining attitude about my circumstances? Um And where might I need to s to to change that around, to actively choose to be thankful to him, to be grateful uh even for the circumstances that were none of my doing that were brought upon me. And then asking the question, am I aware enough to choose that thankfulness over complaining moment by moment? Because again Sometimes we're not so aware, and it takes us a good long time before we realize that we have wandered well into the wilderness of of complaining. And we find ourselves there and wonder how in the world we got there. Was that a hand? A question? Yeah. Uh the I'll just review real quick. It was Hebrews 13, 15, the first one. 1 Thessalonians 5. 18. And then the last one was Ephesians 5, 18, and 20. And then I'd mentioned, I think it's written there for you again, Psalm 107, which is a little bit longer passage, but it's broken down into sections. And then each section is is challenged with that we would praise him. The one section that's coming to my mind right now is the one that deals with um the men are in the boat. They're caught up in the storm. When they cry out for help and God hears them and answers. Oh that men would praise him for his goodness. you know, grandfather and and others who were in wartime. I said, God if you get us out of this and they make some promise. Okay. Although with my grandfather he he was stuck under a table being shelled in a house or whatever and the only thing he could think of was ice cream. A double nut fledge Sunday. But uh that was my grandfather. But anyway, some of you may have known him in years past. But anyway, attitude is is important. And God is very greatly concerned with what our attitude is and our circumstances. It is a choice. We are not victims. We are not choiceless. We're not pigeonholes. that he has every intention to strengthen his children and glorify himself in our situation. So hopefully some of this has been of help or challenge to you. Is that a hand, Tim? Yes. Go ahead. I'm a slow rider. If you could go through and maybe say what each blank was supposed to be, I would We'll pray and then we'll do that. Oh yeah. Okay. Um let's see. We're about seven or eight minutes after. Do the teens go downstairs? Okay. Okay. So I'll let teens exit and then adults will we'll stay up here and pray together.