And then and more recent generations are more after fame or fifteen minutes of YouTube fame and money. It's it's when I yield to this and it is becoming the uh theme of my thinking. Okay, they're looking at their sun god Ra and they're looking at Jehovah or uh and and they're thinking, Okay, after these plagues And then they go through this long list. That's a lot of bird. They seek the experience again and again and again. It took some time to get there. Does that make Yeah. So you go to IKEA and you buy bookshelves, you get 'em home, and you're like, oh, we need the extensions on top. Two weeks ago, this is going to be a bit of a continuation, uh, at least in theme, uh from what we had uh covered two weeks ago when we were talking about how well the the phrase that we're familiar with is that attitude is everything. Say people are admitting how many of them are going to take this envelope full of cash, this was their paycheck, and they're going down on Friday night to Atlantic City. That junk at the bottom. When you not having a thankful eye, when you're complaining, it leads your soul out into the desert. Look at verse 9 and 10, but those who desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare and into many foolish and harmful lusts, which drown men. I kinda tried I tried to cover for him, but I didn't do a very good job and I said it's the simple things in life that bring us joy. Just like like God wired us to not be content with enough of Him. our attitude towards him, towards our circumstances, towards each other, are greatly important. Does anyone here? Whereas previous generations were I w I want a good solid job and to have a family and to settle down and to have these like something substantive that was actually achievable. You spent your entire weekend and you just like you made five bucks. It's wanting power with no reason for it. Uh y having money to pay the bills is great. And on and on and on. But when the dew fell on the camp in the night, the manna fell with it. It was an Egyptian, you know, one of the one spouse was Egyptian, one was Israelite, and they left with Moses. Okay, unequal yoking. They didn't have the food to eat, but it's the act of complaining about it became the yielding. And you know, your friends get the campsite next door and and and it's like y you tell your kids be quiet because other people are sleeping, right? Um and each of us in our circumstances, that imperfection shows itself in different ways in our circumstances. we we moved down here, but I'll share it again. They came to loathe it. Or whatever it is, or you know, you make a choice without even consulting God, and now you regret it. And so these migrating birds land about a day's journey away. And so I'm going to do it again, I'm going to try it again, I'm going to try it again. We be you know use ingenuity, we use the minds that God has given us, the the bodies for work and things like that. in on Pinterest. They're like, how are we supposed to cho Okay, next year they're like a limit of eight things that you're interested in. And I'll spare singing it to you. Take our focus off of God. a lot of that and that quite the soul talks about the involvement of life. You think you'll be satisfied but you won't. that God has always desired that we're not content, like there's never enough because we're yearning and desiring for Him. healthy. Like all that other stuff, you're not gonna decide on that. It isn't, but it is greatly influential in our walk through life and our walk with God of this book. of these uh tidbits of humor. Priorities. But the world may be different because I did something so bafflingly crazy that my ruins will become a tourist attraction. in my life. That God has given me, and we were going to look at this in just a minute. The admiration of others in order to feel secure. is yielding to the thing that God hates. And so the children of Israel also wept again and said, Who will give us meat to eat? Okay, the idea of something coming to my like, oh I wish I had or I I wish things were different, that's not that's not covetousness. Because these are the people who do not necessarily have um a dedication to the God that they are following, uh the God of Moses. The the idea here, the mixed multitude, this rabble here is the idea of either an interface, this is the people who who Some folk look into their lives. since we we already had a discussion about that. the supermarket and bought steaks and cucumbers and leeks and onions. Because they're standing in their tents and they are wailing about it. This is definitely an attitude issue and God takes issue with it. God hasn't provided it. Even if you don't have it available. Yeah, in many ways. But the root of covetousness is a rejection of God's sufficiency. Until it comes out of your nostrils and becomes loathsome to you. But they wanted the lemon juice that was in the refrigerator. the lemon juice and hung on to it, throwing fits and everything, because they didn't want to let go of this lemon juice. This was not at all what I was expecting. When we read in Psalm 106 about this account, they got what they wanted, but it led them into the wilderness. That this is what I'm going to get and no one can stop me and you get it. The lazy people gather ten homers. Amnon felt the desert minutes after he raped his half-sister. So it's this middle way of living. Doesn't mean there's just sit back and laissez faire whatever comes to me comes to me and this is what God wills. To be content with it. We we bring lots of trouble on ourselves when we are content with our godliness and we desire more. And you might be washing the forks that you plan to use at dinner in fifteen minutes and then it's just going to get dirty again and sit there until the next dinner. And having food and clothing, with these we shall be content. And it's just it it's never enough. It's kind of like seawater. the the conveyor belt at Target and like the little light thing. I used to wonder as a child what in the world we would do in heaven for eternity. in you, that you have given me everything I need for my present happiness and that's okay. uh having a thankful attitude and and not the opposite of that which quiz complaining In my conscience, I want to make sure that I don't plagiarize anything, but I I don't remember exactly how much of this lesson is based off of several years ago and condensed that to what we're looking at tonight and what we looked at two weeks ago. At least in the way that it was left. Hopefully you grabbed a set on your way in. It's a lot of pen it would be a lot of if it was purely pencils. And again, since then you can probably estimate that the number has somewhat grown with a slight hiccup of the recession back in O eight. you know, what you think of of the bank. But this idea of covetously, you see that day after day after day after day after day, and the affluence day after day after day, and people have more money than they have wisdom what to do with it, and it's easy to take on this mindset. But the people went about and gathered it, and ground it in millstones, and beat it into mortars, and cooked it in pans, and made cakes of it, and its taste was like the taste of a pastry prepared with oil. But it's yielding to it in a desire that is allowed out of control. Is looking at what God has provided for them, manna every day, the water that God provides for them to take with them as they travel. We consider their situation, they think of a God who has been providing for them day after day after day faithfully. the action of the complaining and wishing they had it. And look at what happened in Egypt and now you're going to complain against him. As an adult, you do the adult version of the child's temper tantrum. And sometimes we do that in prayer. We could go into that, but we'll we'll gloss over it for now. by the way, for you have wept in the hearing of the Lord, saying, Who will give us meat to eat? The ones who are complaining, God is pointing it out. This kind of thing was a choice that they were making and this empties the soul of the fullness that God has for you. We can have lots and lots of stuff, all the things that we could desire, and still feel dry and empty. or miss the kids growing up because of pursuing success, whatever that may mean. So once they began to eat without thankfulness, God had had enough at that point. Is that enough? Yeah, we've got time for this. It says, remove falsehood and lies from me. You know, the food that is allotted for me. is great gain, for we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain that we can carry nothing out. Venture a another stab and anybody wanna go to the other side and be anyway. to me. That godliness plus contentment, you can hardly read that, is great gain. The key to a happy life isn't really harmony at home. gain. Look to eternity. Uh there was one one year that we unwisely did not give our children a limit. I was impressed by their thoroughness, but that was about as far as it went. They don't really own much of anything else. Like, oh, I just saw those pictures. What do they drown them in? Paul's writing here, he says, and to many foolish and harmful lusts. as opposed to self-indulgence. And and not to w to wail in our tent doors against God and against what He has provided for us, saying That he is not enough. But when it comes to our circumstances and the things that you have provided for us graciously, that we would be content with what you have given to us. and that we would be learning those lessons through life to get to the point that we could say, in whatever circumstance, in whatever state that I am, I have learned to be content. my sense of humor and I just enjoy it so much. And tape and I mean it's um what's that and time? It's perfectly good to want what, you know, X, Y, or Z. But some things need to wait. Who were among them, Israel, as they were traveling through the Arabian Peninsula, they yielded to intense craving. And the anger of the Lord was greatly aroused. Close it. Or I've this you look in the mirror and you say this ugly body of mine. When you go shopping and then it's not as good as Yeah, buyer's remorse. And it says in Psalm 106, he gave them up, he gave them the request, but sent leanness into their soul. Okay? into a liability for us, into our downfall, and certainly empty dryness in our souls. Or appropriate for me. Okay? They're geared that way to help us or the desires that demand more than we really probably should have I can't think of the term. a steak and it's good for a while. We should end there so we can go to prayer time. on the internet. contagious that it's easy to to pick up on and not even realize it. And while I was in the branches, it was really easy to get discontent. Because I'm constantly every day handing out thousands upon thousands of dollars and to people who are just and they're telling us, and this is Jersey, okay, so Covetous I'm sorry. Their God looks a whole lot better than this God, so I'm with them. When we dwell in a desire, yielding is only a matter of time. And verse 17, I will make the spirit that is on you and put the same spirit on them. After two weeks, it was a Saturday morning. Neutral. With God, we can thrive on very little. But a consequence we can see here, a consequence of covetousness is that it destroys our our ability to um to discern sufficiency. So as the antithesis of covetousness, we think of that as generosity. Or lest I, on the other hand, be poor, so poor that I steal, and then transgress against God that way, and profane the name of my God. And we look at 1 Timothy 6, verses 6 through 10. whatever it would be. is is uh not to be something that that we ever to be s satisfied in. I want to know him more closely, more intimately. one uh acceptable. And money and stuff isn't bad, but it is like seawater, and that the more you drink, the thirstier you get It's the chief reason that man is not able to earn our salvation. Many harmful and hurtful. You cling tenaciously to the right way of thinking. And if you're content, the simple stuff does kind of make you happy. And so many facets to him and colors, or even things that we just can't even think of because we can't perceive them with our five senses. will continue and continue and continue. But also that it would focus our minds on the needs around us, both in Jesus' name. as a springboard. And by the mid-90s it had grown to 63%. And they come back uh you know next week and sort of tongue in cheek we ask them how it went. Okay, there is no room as a child of God for a personal agenda in all of my life. the day they they look into the fridge the day before payday. And we may look at some of the things that that that we it's it's good to be ambitious, it's good to work hard, but again, if this if it's born out of a covetous heart You're finally getting the thing that your heart has desired. only to end up having it be sand that slips through. And enough is not enough. lasting joy, and lead us out of that dry wilder wilderness that covetous leads us into. Given to on the spot thinking. That we must never be content with our character development, only with what we have. Godliness and the desire for more, those things are supposed to go together. What is that fundamental? We build ourselves up for salvation and say, look what I have achieved. Sorry, I didn't advance here. And so we we look at contentment and how it builds up our capacity to enjoy the ordinary pleasures of life that God has given me enough for my present happiness. What is next? Constantly popping out idols. But there is always more to know about him or deeper things about him to to understand him and and who he is and what he's like and how he thinks and just how wonderful he is. That there are aspects of God that we are for all eternity going to be learning the depths of, plumbing the depths of who God is, and that For the fact that you have given us your word, that when we pay attention to it, when we ingest it, we see the truth that is there, the things you are teaching us. Attitude is everything. Ceiling on the job in America is in excess of $450 billion annually. So we're going to look at numbers 11, and it's a Shakespearean tragedy presented in three acts. So sensing a desire within yourself and yielding to it are two different things. Consolidate how things the the the account here. That I want all the things. So think of those who crave attention. of basically telling God, you are not enough for me. Realizing that God has given me everything I need for my present happiness. But together we are told in 1 Timothy that these things equal great gain. President. That having stuff is not what it's about. I forgot to click a little bit here, so we'll advance through the PowerPoint. By the way, contentment is a choice. Pressing for more. I have enough. Um especially in America, where enough is not enough. You know, buying something, eating something, desiring just about anything becomes more desirable than it really is. Well what part of the American dream do do you covet? How do you think God would have you to grow in sacrificial generosity this year? So without further ado, I want to head right into this. But this this idea of not having enough. Yeah, I haven't said it. I'm moving on. Like wanting the perfect spouse or the impressive career, God and the house down by the Chesapeake Bay. And that we sometimes are feel so entitled to what we have, might it be that God turns those very things into our defeat Contentment is realizing that God has given me everything I need for my present happiness. It is when we demand more than we need that we're forfeiting contentment and our hearts become a wilderness. desire stuff more than our God, to desire relationships more than our relationship with God So it brings a snare. While thousands have figured the lesson out, it's kind of much too late and they end up snared. As you're making your plans, I have enough. Um I found this a a helpful study. Like he wants us to. And it wasn't until I was an adult that it occurred to me that God is so big and God is so wonderful and he's so enormous and deep Never be content with our character development, with our walk with you, that uh we would taste and see that you are good, that we would be satisfied with with you and want to return for more. Just a little push there. I am not where God wants me to be. But I should also note, by the way, that the Bible never condemns inter-ethnic marriages. So I was just thinking they really don't care my process. What's that? Like trying to guzzle lemon juice straight from the bottle. Those things that you think that are going to satisfy. Okay, okay. And yes, the world is marred by original sin. And you shall eat, and you shall eat not one day, nor two days, nor five days, not even ten days, nor twenty, but for a whole month God will sometimes give us what is probably bad for us to teach us a good lesson. So I shook it up, popped off the top, and said, here you go. And so we see in Act three the consequences of covetousness in in Numbers eleven. He didn't have to bring this their way. I will not be happy. Find yourself getting bogged down by stuff, wanting stuff, the um seven-year-old's approach to Christmas But it's those spontaneous things of letting our desires take us in a moment, or the ones that overarch our lives and take control of our focus. Or when we get what we want. It's a book written by James McDonald called Lord Change My Attitude. That a consequence of covetousness is that it destroys the capacity to discern sufficiency. Markedly lacking with thankfulness for this. It's there's more more than just having the the the perfect so so you're you the the laundry might uh you might always be like three loads behind on the laundry. Animated movie approach to life where if you desire it, follow your heart. Even when there is joy and laughter, there is sorrow right along with it because the laughter doesn't last. Um so again the the way I started last time and the way I definitely want to to look at it again just because Sort of a twist on that conventional knowledge. But wanting the right things, but insisting I must have it now. God has given me everything I need for my present happiness. Or for the last five weeks or whatever it would be. No, they're gonna try it again. Sorry. I think it's important that we see those two things going together. I'm certainly not paying for 31 flavors in a huge bowl. They've pierced themselves through with many sorrows. Um the the danger of too many bowls of ice cream, I'm sorry. Never ran to the fridge because it got what his heart desired, what he was convinced was Ooh, I just gave away the gender. Anyway, what his heart really, really desired and found out once he got it, this was not so hot. Define contentment in your own terms first. Hundreds of years from now, it will not matter what my bank account was, what sort of house I lived in, or the kind of car I drove But really that that the things that we have, the simple things, bring us contentment in God. And we'll look at it. And so we get to Act Two. So beware of begging God for non-essentials. Even if you were to to uh make jerky out of it or or if you were to to to s salt it and dry it, like how much do you really need? But how about godliness with poverty? My worth is not in what I own. Building an empire like Nebuchadnezzar did and declaring his own greatness. The percent of Americans who admit wanting to earn a lot of money, because in the nineteen seventy four range it was like thirty-eight percent who their priority was to get a lot of money A bushel? A complaining attitude. Anyway, so again, so tonight we're looking at replacing a covetous attitude with a content attitude. But that's a lot of money that's lost. Wink wink, nudge, nudge. But now our whole being is dried up. I think we mentioned this in the last Sunday school class last semester. Do they put godliness in there, first part of the environment? But I'm gonna move on, we're not gonna park on that. But with God, you can survive on very little. You look at 2 Samuel, write down this reference. Being satisfied with what God takes away from you. It might be different now than it was years ago. We look at verse six of 1 Timothy 6. You know, not until not until payday the next day, when you can actually go and buy the potato chips and other things that you are craving. Um they have a lot. Destruction and perdition. Stewardship, thank you. Satisfaction with God's sufficient provision. Because we can't carry we entered the world with nothing. The more you drink, the thirstier you get. So you're dwelling on a desire, but then you're saying, I have to have this, even though God hasn't provided it. Because the next step is just availability and then you do it. Um So look at verse six. I'm going to begin reading in verse 16. Whatever idol my heart is is uh gripping onto at this moment Oh yes, absolutely. I I'm sorry. God's words ice cream. Contentment is satisfaction with God's sufficient provision. Sometimes I try to be con concise for the purpose of space. Um maybe if we pursue you know godliness and add in poverty, that these things go well together. As you're surfing the web is what I was thinking. Okay, contentment being satisfied with what God has given you. We read in verse 7 of 1 Timothy 6, for we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain that we can carry nothing out. I'm just using that example. So this week begin putting into practice the choice of taking pleasure in God and in who he is and what he has provided. And we're going to return there again tonight to to Springboard again in this in the again two weeks ago we were looking at um Um and and so here here are a few. And so as we muddle through learning contentment, we can take encouragement that Paul was there as well. Um those who are content, let enough be enough. about contentment, but I'm gonna move on. I thought this was going to be good for me. Yeah, in the back. So priorities. They're gonna do it again. Lest I be so fool and deny you God and say, Who is the Lord? The fish that we ate, the cucumbers, the melons, and they go through this long list. One of our children, as like an 18, 20 month-old, something like that, became convinced I've got to have more. And the more that we know of him, the more that we will be satisfied in him, but the more we're gonna want to know him. One of one of my favorite passages in Proverbs is is Proverbs 30, 8 and 9. I will not rest. Yeah, yeah. So thinking back to those more simplistic days, where in our minds we are we are humming the tune, This world is not my home, I'm just passing through. And then to settle it, you choose your lifestyle and learn from the examples of others. There are many important things that we need to pray about tonight. These are the kinds of things that I would have loved to put in the conference rooms uh at the bank, but it wouldn't have gone over well for me had I switched those out. He has given us enough. Those who gathered the least gather about sixty bushels. It is never enough. They have the lights that go on top too, so I'm gonna go back to Ikea and I'm gonna get the lights. Not that it's if you're again we talked about this in the in the uh in that class that we did on um Distinction. So just go through a quick definition. Wanting the right things but in the wrong amount. And then you realize I have just been complaining to God about him not meeting my expectations for the last five minutes. But because they did this as though it were a rite, they they go and they gather and they stuff themselves, and it is without thankfulness God had had enough. Right? And even once you once you smash that idol, it's gonna pop out another one. But I wanted to look at just a few more demotivators, uh like we had looked at last time. We're going to be looking again at Numbers chapter 11, and then eventually we're going to get over to 1 Timothy chapter 6. So to ask yourself, am I reaping the consequences of covetousness in my relationship with God? You go in, you cash and check. It's never enough when you crave attention. Just agree with me before I even say what it is. Uh it's wanting control without limits. And by the way, Moses also was displeased. Learn by example to those who have been snared by this. And then you can the cat is satisfied with the first mouse. I don't have so much I don't need God. What is necessary to ask ourselves this question as we live life, what is really necessary for me, for life? Our hearts are how does how do Mr John John Calvin put it, our hearts are idle factories. And then well we we need to go back and and eat more for sustaining. Or you you I don't know, it's just like it doesn't seem to make sense to me. Uh it's kind of like um you think of those who are particularly well off, the Bill Gates, the Steve Jobs. Nim big ticket people. And so instead of having complaining attitude, I have a thankful attitude. Wanting to have a torrent of cash. Is it ever enough to just to have a little bit of attention? Do we go to the top of the hour or ten till, Pastor? They're willing to travel all the way, you know, a day away and gather up the the meat of these birds. When there was a a time in your life when enough was not enough. This is the root of the issue. Uh so I don't know, uh at at least I know at least one person went home the next day and was looking up these Looking sharp is easy when you haven't done any work. Godliness and and and family harmony is is not great gain. Or we you know the old saying the grass is greener on the other side? Not to say that oh never know enough about God or never gonna have this relationship with God, but just the desire when it's focused on God It's kind of the wrong reason to want that. I got so many I got so many subscribers off of this video, and a little bell or whatever that is. Sometimes we choose how we're going to think about things and let the feelings catch up sometime. Uh it talks about at Proverbs thirty and also Proverbs twenty-seven. For pencils lost on the job and pens that have gone home with employees, that would be but you know beyond supplies, it's time is probably included in that wasting of time. God has given me enough and realizing that. They didn't they didn't have the that food to the wherewithal to get them. Act one is yielding to the thing that God hates. He didn't have to give it to them. A feeling of happiness that you have what you need. Right? But without Him, all the stuff we own will still leave us dry and deeply disappointed. And if you're not paying attention, if you're not living circumspectly, if you're not looking around, uh it can get out of hand and make us For the love of money is the root of all kinds of evil, for which some have strayed from the faith and their greediness, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. So we seek it. But the folk here they yielded to intense cravings. For those who eat their sorrows away, are the pounds worth it? It's the savior. Sorry the font's a little small on that uh slide there We'll get into that in just a minute. If you are in Numbers chapter 11, I'm going to start reading in verse 4. And Moses could hear them. Um that we must never be content with our character development. Um I'm gonna keep moving. Because eternity, as I could tell as a kid, is a really, really long time. The number of millionaires in 1970 was about 120,000. But contentment and the realization of having enough, those are to go together. But keep adding on and keep doing things and If you're going to park on this, look look what they're doing in verse 4 and 5. You know, this thought of I have to be successful. I was once teasing my brother at a at a store about the he was playing with the The desire for just about anything can get blown out of proportion. Yeah. Like stop and think this through. That probably would have been a good song to sing before we got into the study tonight. Um and then this last one is adventure. So the Lord said to Moses, Gather to me seventy men, and God is going to give him leadership to work with. And for about two weeks solid, every time that fridge door opened, from wherever in the house, that child would make a beeline right for the fridge, grabs Papa had had enough. That if you you know, in a monastic way, you know, the noble poor, the quest for simplicity, minimalism, is that the the thing that's in So contentment is choosing to be satisfied in what I do have and not expending my best energies. God's Word and His Holy Spirit are able to enlighten us when we are on a dark and desert-like path. 2 Samuel 13, Amnon and Tamar. It doesn't matter. Yeah. Are there any thoughts, questions before we close it off and let the teens go downstairs? Covetousness is it can be wanting the wrong things You go and you open it up and there's stuff in there. You want the lemon juice, give it a taste. Do I covet? And Israel got a whole lot worse than a tummy ache from eating this quail. Okay? Why? You arrive there and then there's something else. But covetousness is sneaky and we are in denial about it. Give me neither poverty nor riches. It's foolishness. So Moses heard the people weeping throughout their families, and everyone in the door of their tent. It's important to notice, okay? Yeah, I think also yielding yielding happens when you believe a lie that you need something that can And again, they're weeping at the door, that's in verse 10. But they wanted God and something else. I pursued this. And it's subtle, it's suave, it's deceitful, and it ends in less than a pretty picture. On stewardship, you plan for things, you budget for things, that's that's wise, that's good, you've got the money there, great, you've planned for it, that's fine. Yeah, it's you know, we're we are made to eat food. I was listening who was it was I talking to you, Pastor Jim? Like I started off there and then went over into into uh lending. But covetousness blocks the flow of God's fullness in my life. Because you have despised the Lord who is among you, and have wept before him, saying, Why did we ever come up out of Egypt? Now godliness with contentment is great gain. I can only wonder another 20-some years advanced from there, it has grown even more. God's word I chose ice cream for a reason. Right. All we have is this manna to eat. You know, you lay at home and cry about your discontent. Verse 18, consecrate yourselves for tomorrow. God is not enough for me, is what we're saying. I have enough. Or you sit in your cube and say this awful job. There are three facets of contentment. Because lest any man should boast. We're talking about millennials and the things that they're, you know, are what are they really wanting? And that's basically they're just looking at who's on the winning side and they went along with it. For those who crave sexual experience, is porn ever enough? Contentment is resting in what one already has and seeking nothing more. I will not be satiated until I have It's a settled sense of adequacy. It might be better in the future, might be worse in the future, but whatever situation, as Paul says, that I find myself, I have learned. And then the last one, those who are content, they learn by example. This one is about survival. Does anybody have a favorite definition that you have heard once upon a time or one that you could make up on the spot? It will always be our savior. And to keep that perspective, those who are content keep eternity's values in view. It's just not a great idea. And many who have strayed from the faith in their greediness and have pierced themselves through with many sorrows They will be able to bear the burden of the people with you. This is like I was just down at a college. And that's exactly what happened to Israel And there is nothing at all except this manna before our eyes. Because you have despised the Lord who is among you and have wept before him saying, Why did we even come up out of Egypt? I don't have so little that I'm tempted to do wrong to have more. Uh I probably don't need to explain that to you, but that was my logic. They they give they want to know the Bible, they don't care about how you type things onto it. Okay, so you can't read this one, so I'll read it to you. But they gather quail for 36 hours. Anything else? But it's so encouraging that Paul says, I have learned in whatever state I am therewith to be content. Seek contentment as a lifestyle, as a choice, and say it to yourself as you're shopping. But I will close quickly in prayer. Help us, Father, to get to that point. And I had done sort of an extensive study It's getting wanting things in the wrong amount. We remember the fish which we ate freely in Egypt, and the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlic And and to keep in mind for ourselves Not by works of our righteousness. And they are stuck on it. That in time you may hate what you had to have at one point in your life. That God will never take away his best from me. It is imperfect. It wasn't what he wanted. To be cautious in the back of your mind, am I not choking on the meat actually here, which is precisely what happens to Israel I love that phrase. And the cashier was looking at him kinda funny, like, what are you doing? Tonight, again, we're going to be looking at replacing a covetous attitude with a content one. What kind of Maryland boy am I? He was going to allow it just to to be at the point where they have so much of it that they're like, I am never going to look at a bird ever again. If covetousness is I do not have enough, generosity is I got so much, you can have some. Or do they mean with prosperity? It didn't have to be this way. It's the essence of the lottery. Covetousness becomes sin when we yield. You know, that the raise or or the investments are doing hot or all those you know, doing great, all those kinds of things. And that's where God is that this is enough. We're going to leave the world with nothing. As you surf the web and looking at those perfect Pinterest pictures. It's the wrong time. It's also those who in the culture of the day Okay, this is not a small little camp like when we go camping and That buyer's remorse idea. What are you going to do with sixty bushels of bird? Uh other other marketing strategies, have it your way. I have enough. So I wanted to make sure that that was properly footnoted before we got into the Bible study tonight. The Bible condemns inter-face marriages. Samson felt the desert when he was chained to a Philistine temple. Act two is the unwanted gift from God. I was I was like a laser beam on it. And are we willing to spend decades of our lives chasing after these things? That that I want to be more like him Israel would loathe what they had wanted. When I desire more of God, and I'm fine with my stuff. That's what scripture tells us. That okay, so they go and they gather quail. Godliness and family harmony is great game. I think I think I think I just called them a simple thing. They probably include that. For it was well with us in Egypt. And I said, Okay, alright, you want the lemon juice? Like, oh I have to eliminate words so that the two two lines become one, and sometimes you lose meaning when you're too concise. Covetousness is yielding to the thing that God hates. They look into their marriages, they look into their situation, they look into their relationship with their kids, they look into their relationship with their boss, kind of like Do you ever find yourself letting God know that he doesn't meet your expectations? And that's what we were talking about two weeks ago. And we say, what is the difference between lazy and contentment? And when I am covetousness, when I'm covetous, I'm looking at what other people have, I don't have, I want, or whatever it would be. He gave them the meat and said, Fine, it's going to come out your nostrils. Tentil? I want more of God, I want to be more like Him. And while you're there you see 30 other things, you're like, oh well, I'm not gonna get the 30 other things because I'm practicing self-control, so I'll just get these other five things. Those who have a a settled desire born of reason for wealth, yeah, they're digging a pit and they catch themselves in it. And learning by example, those who are content, they see the senselessness of it. And we can look, we looked at Numbers 11 Covetousness is also wanting the right things, but for the wrong reasons. Um was that a hand? And then he falls into his own pit. So I worked in banking. It's wanting the right things at the wrong time And um the reality of it is a proverbs talks about how it's never going to be They wanted the benefits of following Jehovah and all the good stuff. Like, no, child, this is not good for you. Well no. We didn't say anything that particular year. Or worse, they now have nothing to eat but ramen for the next until the next paycheck Okay, so we have Act 1. Yes. But again, God has given to us Now I have to have that truck. You have on your notes, I think, this statement that covetousness blocks the flow of God's fullness. This is some s I don't know how you can tell that. They're like, well, I made out five dollars more than what I spent, so it was a win. And this is what premarital counseling is about. All we got except this manna. I think I've shared this before. The child never asked for the lemon juice again. He hated her as much as he had loved her in the beginning. Well not all of our desires are innocent. And and you have to keep uh the in God's word so we can identify them early. It's good to keep your friends close, but your enemies closer, especially to your friends. Keep living life like there's no tomorrow, and you'll be right sooner than you think. Wanting the wrong things is like selfish wealth. And inflating that desire also ignores the danger of it. Nearby. Enter in case after case of the rich and famous. Okay. Again because attitude is everything and and I I love the attitude of Uh there were notes that were out here. Right. Is God more than enough for me? So we want to turn over to 1 Timothy chapter 6. That is probably about my favorite definition of contentment. Um you know, so so the the home life might not be perfect or what you're idealistically set up is what's going to make Living for my desires over a lifetime brings far more than just damage to me, it brings devastation. Father, thank you for who you are. Um We can see that again they are they are dwelling on the fact that what they do not have because it's not like they went out and Okay. Godliness and ministry success is not great gain. And it's this it's with God. It's like meh you close the fridge and walk out because nothing looked good. But they keep returning to it again and again and again. But this is again the desire of the heart. There are things that we are to be content with and things we are not to be content with. So choosing contentment that we would seek it. Amen. When you covet something long enough, you make it more attractive than it really is. You're in the spotlight for 15 minutes of YouTube fame. I'm going to look quickly at a definition of contentment. We thank you again for who you are and what you have done, what you will do. Feed me with the food that is allotted for me A feeling of happiness that you have what you need. Only with what we have. Um sorry, focus on the family. Many wealthy people aren't content with their stuff, their collections, their hobbies. Four pencils there and only one is sharp. Brought me back to the college days thinking about it. If only I didn't have, if only I had. You may not have to bear it yourself alone. Um but they looked to eternity. Not all of our desires that we have are innocent. Yeah. God's word and his Holy Spirit. They wanted something and they parked on it. No, this is a huge camp. Verse eight. Demanding more than we need. Um and again, not this endless quest for more, the things that we might have had once upon a time. Does that make sense? What do you do? I was talking to somebody about millennials. This is what these Moses is to say to them, and you shall eat meat. I was trying to keep it I'm good. But like forty some odd things are like, how are you say how you even I don't know And we need to keep that in mind You laugh for a few moments, ha ha, great joke. It is becoming the desire of my heart and I park on it. Has a good thing in a sense ever ruined you? No, we still work hard, we have a good work ethic, we do what we should. Those who are content You know. So to practice a little self-denial. And this is the God that they followed because he was more powerful than the gods of Egypt. It's about a day's journey. No, it's not. So we want to replace a covetous attitude with a content attitude. Go buy those and bring them home. Anyway, he he definitely looks like the second mouse looked like he's ready for a good push there too. Covetousness becomes sin when we yield to it. And now they're coming in accusatory back towards Moses and back towards God. How many times do we end up seeing where relationships suffer Yeah, yeah, like pretty good basket. But godliness with prosperity is what the world tells us is great gain. And then pay for it later Have we ever gotten so bent out of shape that God is not letting me have fill in the blank. So anyway, but that's And to this day we are still not sure why Easter Island is there. They're going down the shore. They're looking at it, it's meh, all we have is this manna to eat. Yeah. Think of Big Hero Six. Because if you don't actively choose what your lifestyle is going to be, the culture is going to do it for you. That's a I started off you know at the brick and mortars I'll just I'll uh I'll uh And usually we look at those times and it's with a with a flavor of regret. I've got every you know Nobody wants to to ban. Yeah. Right? But a consistent attitude of contentment can bring And this idea of covetousness is so Um since How many times have we in our hearts or verbally said, All I've got is this junk car I I don't remember exactly where I know I've shared it since So Israel got what would make them physically fat, but they were spiritually starving. By the time we get to the year 2000, it was somewhere close to 2 million. Ice cream is great, but when I am overdoing it, it is a problem. And each of them came with like a list of forty-some things that they wanted for Christmas. Okay? So this this mixed multitude These are gifts that God has given to us. We were talking about the thankful. And he judges them for it. And and Um I'm not gonna it was a YouTube video I was gonna show you. Yeah. It is sneaky and and we are in denial about it Now the mixed multitude who were among Yeah. Now the manna was like coriander seed and its color was like the color of delium Some are really harmful to us. He is always satisfying. Um That is a problem. Did it did it okay, so the yielding is not the When something else it becomes more important to you than God, it usually will send leanness in Is it suffering, my relationship with God, because I am reaping the consequences of covetousness Uh I'll I'll move on. And and we are satisfied with If you're wanting the right things, Right. You do not want this. And it's when we switch those four things up that we end up with problems You're like twenty years old. But that's You're already yielding when you when you decide that. They're probably so worn out from migrating that they can't even escape I should never be satisfied with that. So again, let's just evaluate the following equations. But And it's just is things like having a lot of money I think if we think that when we get there So like if we make it so Um We go to Baskin Robins for ice cream and there's thirty-one flavors. And he can hear this murmur, murmur, murmur coming up from the camp. They could see the clouds of of quail coming in. This is a direct quote from this book. When I have a misplaced desire that I dwell upon, that I want more than what God has given me. Anyway. Because you'll keep chasing So it's not like they could actually eat it. And once I got it, is is like what do they call that? He loathed it once he had gotten what he wanted. It doesn't mean that he has always been there. Something else to make them happy. And as we're looking here, we Therefore the Lord will give you meat We remember Fine. That's a lot of pencils. And all that college students really have is room and board. Father, help us to You're getting a mental image of this. What is necessary for happiness? And that is how we understand the heart of the people here And as they dig in and have this feast, it is God just give me enough. That doesn't mean that we're lazy. But contentment has a companion. But child was convinced. And people died because of this. Um No, it's saying godliness and contentment is great. So I take the lemon juice, I shook it up dutifully, because you know I get the little So this this I will satisfy you. You're satisfied with your care. That is character development. And that's it. So when we look at godliness, It's not that these things were bad. There's uh maybe I should say this. Um You come back fifteen minutes later, you open up the fridge again, it's like meh So God's saying to them, if it's meat you want, then it's meat you get. Those of you who are. Now I I So the yielding is But it says here in verse 6, now godliness with contentment is Those are the things that we'd be content with. How about influence? Probably the things we already have. There's a little song. Why should we think that we would be Bless our time of prayer together that it would unite our hearts as a body. Jehovah and what he had given them was not enough. I'm like, really? I mean, is this is this objective? He's learned it. And I used to wonder as a child, I'll end with this. So Godliness And it didn't have to be this way. Enter TV preachers and others Oh. And we can see how bad it is. Yes. I am not How many do we really need? Back that up. Of course it's