VMware we have to fume a week. The accrual Wait a while. This my song we just let me all All right. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for the time we could spend together tonight. We ask, Lord, that you would Would uh just be with us and that you would give us ears to hear and hearts to be receptive and minds to have clarity and be able to think through through this uh subject that I think will be not only important from an apologetic standpoint but just in our lives personally as we think about uh this this issue and concept of suffering. And uh so I pray that it will be really helpful. I sa I I I believe it will be. And uh we thank you in Christ's name. Amen. Uh you may be seated And we don't have a particular text to have you turn to today. We're continuing our series on apologetics. This one is going to be particularly um really kind of focused on um an area that I think there would be particular edification for the Christian. It certainly will be helpful for those who find human suffering as a barrier. Uh but anyway, so um the question that we're asking, that we're posing tonight is how could a Hmm. How could a good God allow suffering? How could a good God allow suffering? And this is a question that many people that don't know the Lord they ask They experience suffering themselves, or they view so much of the suffering of the world and they they they ask that question If you have not experienced intense suffering at some level, uh it is only a matter of time. Isn't this uh Uh a time of hope, yes, for you. It will be, but not at the beginning. Uh it is a a universal experience of a human condition, albeit at varying levels, to experience suffering. Everyone at some point is going to experience suffering Suffering. How can a good God allow suffering? Some approach this intellectually, this question, and the the question is really an intellectual question. They're they're trying they're trying to uh understand the continuity between God being good and God being allowing suffering in the world Uh others are like, you know, I this is not an intellectual thing for me, this is an emotional thing. I don't you know, one one person said, I don't really know if there's a God or not, but I have gone through so much suffering in my life that Uh whether or not there's a God doesn't matter. I don't trust him if there is one. And so it was it's really more of just a an emotional thing than intellectual. We're gonna cover both tonight, along with spiritual, which I think is the most important But we'll begin uh but either way this question not only becomes a barrier in in a in both sides. belief in in a belief in God, but also is a hindrance to finding immeasurable resources people desperately need from from God in a time of intense suffering. And we're going to see that there are some incredible resources that God gives for suffering times of suffering. But there's a barrier for the unbeliever And can be a barrier for the believer, actually, when it comes to this issue of suffering. We'll first look at this intellectually. We're going to answer the question sort of mentally intellectually and then we'll we'll see it more spiritually and emotionally as well. Number one, um evil and suffering is not evidence against God. So we're gonna we're we're we're that's sort of the premise of the first first um statement we're gonna make. This is what's c common uh said. If God is God, then he isn't good. And if God is good, he isn't God. Have you heard that before? That is that is n that is almost a an If and if God is good, he isn't God. This thinking ultimately comes from a failure to identify and understand the reason for suffering. Okay, so we're looking at three undeniable So understand the objection. The objection is there's so much suffering in the w in the world. I don't understand the reason for all the suffering. And so God can't be God if he is true. God can't be good and God at the same time because of the suffering that I'm seeing. Number one, what's the what's the first truth? Number one, just because we can't see the reason for suffering doesn't mean there isn't one. Okay. Just because We can't see the reason for suffering doesn't mean there isn't one. In fact, to assert that there is no reason merely because we can't see one is not only similar to an argument from silence, but it is a it also smacks of arrogance. So so if somebody says, well I just can't understand the I don't see the reason for that suffering. So therefore there is no reason. That's basically an argument from silence. Is there Anybody understand w the the the the weakness of the of an argument from silence? That in in in academics and there's logical fallacies and various logical fallacies just there's certain things that just they're not logical. And one is to one is a or this is considered a weak argument. A weak argument is you if you say, well, it's not there, therefore It's not true. Or I can't see it, so therefore it's not true. It's a argument from silence. And and those arguments are just weak arguments. outside the realm of what you see could be there. An argument from silence would only work if you're all-knowing and you're not, and I'm not. And so it verges on arrogance, actually To say that there's a reason. There is no reason, and so therefore there is no God. Just because we don't know the reason for suffering doesn't mean there uh there isn't one Number two, one common widely so so number one, just because you don't know the reason doesn't mean there isn't one. Number two, one kind common widely accepted reason Reason for suffering is preparation. Frequent failure brings eventual wisdom, fortitude, and success. And that is even that is even um Agreed to by secularists. They often you'll hear quotes by different people that I I realized that all of my failures led finally led to success, or there was wisdom and fortitude that was gained through success. One of the great examples of this is Joseph. Remember Joseph in the uh in the Old Testament? This is a great example of someone who went Through significant suffering to eventually ascend to being Prime Minister of Egypt. And of course, Joseph actually started out as a, frankly, a self-centered little kid. Remember when he said to his remember when he said to his brothers, hey look at what look at my dream. You're bowing down to me. I mean you can argue that I mean the dream wasn't self-centered, but Broadcasting it to his brothers was either um was either stupid or selfish. And Joseph wasn't stupid. Okay. So that's very simple well. Actually, you have to try and take place How is that associated with a s prosperity gospel? I'm thinking more basically if you were leaving two on your speech and stepping them on the path So if you keep just holding up the current reventful success, the something will get you prepared for something that maybe from this side, there will be times where they're Okay, good point. And that's why we have the rest of what we're gonna say. But but in talking with somebody, if you want them to be able to identify in some empirical evidence that suffering occurs You can say, well, would you not agree that at least in some cases, something that's widely accepted, one common reason is that suffering a cr uh i eventuates to success. Does that make sense? Yeah. Well there's no guarantee now. No, there's no guarantee, and that's why I have one common widely accepted reason, not one guarantee. So yeah. Um Yeah, good good question. Um but you have so you have this you have Joseph who who goes through all kinds of trials, all kinds of rejection. If you think of all the suffering he went through, he it's like everything you could think of He went through rejection of his family. He went through uh incredible loneliness, Joseph did, didn't he? I mean think of the lonely he was in prison. Incredible t persecution for doing right. He run runs away from Potifar's wife and is and is thrown in jail as a result of doing right. Every kind of suffering you can think of, every category of suffering. I don't mean every every uh individual suffering, but every category of suffering you can think of, just about Joseph experienced it. God used him as Prime Minister of Egypt. And so when we're talking to an unsaved person, just they can understand that there is at least that plausible reason for a So you sort of go from number one, just because you don't know the reason doesn't mean there's not one, to and by the way, the way you would say that is not in an arrogant way like I just said that I mean like don't say it just like that, but just try to lead them to a place where they're understanding that hey, do you think possibly that out outside the realm of what you are able to understand There could be a reason. And most um I mean if somebody is humble, they're going to admit that. Um if there's if they're very arrogant or prideful, you probably can't do it do anything with them anyway. And so so this next one then is okay, well here would you not agree that this is a possibility? Uh the next one, it is conceivable then that with enough time and the app appropriate perspective all reasons for suffering would be understood. Okay, so you n you can't admit in other words, there is no uh there is no um You you don't know for sure what the reason is, but just because you don't know doesn't mean there isn't one. Number two, here's an example of what a reason is. Number three, it's conceivable that given enough time and perspective, since there are some reasons for suffering, then there might be more if enough time and perspective is given. And then God has infinite capacity, and this is of course a leap now, but God has infinite capacity to know and even orchestrate trials with valid reasons Even if our intellect is too finite to understand his ways. Now we would all affirm this, okay? But um you You know, you lead people sort of this, hey, just because uh bottom line is suffering is not evidence that there is no God. It's not evidence against God. Because there's outside the realm of pa of your conception there may be reasons, and that's really the point of these arguments. Alright, number two. Uh any other questions on that? Any comments or questions? Okay. Number two. Evil and suffering may be evidence for God. It actually may be evidence for God. C. S. Lewis says this in his book, Mere Christianity. My argument against God was that the universe Of course I could have given up my idea of justice by saying it was nothing but a private idea of my own, but if I did that, then my argument against God collapsed too. For the argument depended on saying that the world was really unjust, not simply that it did not happen to please my private fancies. Consequently consequent Consequently, atheism turns out to be too simple. Do you catch all that? You hear what you make sense what what uh C. S. Lewis is saying He's saying, um uh my sense of uh I'm thinking about the world being unjust, and my argument for being against God is that the world is unjust But my sense of unjustice, where does that come from? And as soon as I and so he's left with, okay, where does that come from? There must be some sort of standard in my heart or something outside of me. Well, if I relegate it just to me personally, okay, this is just a personal notion, well then that doesn't hold any kind of validity if it's just me personally thinking this And therefore, my argument comes down, my argument's broken down, and my very my very sense of injustice for the fact that there is no God ends up not being an argument because I've just made it something personal. how he's putting that it's pretty deep, but uh it bottom line is you can at least point to the fact that there may be a God because there is injustice, because you know that there's injustice There's a sense of that. And that points, Romans 2 points to the fact that we all have a conscience. And we've talked about this before. That there is a sense of right and wrong that God gives us And uh and somebody who's an inquiring skeptic, someone who actually has questions but he wants to know, you could take them to Romans too and show them that. Show them there is a conscience Could there really, this is by another uh another guy, could there really be any such thing as a horrifying wickedness? If there were no God and we just evolved, I don't see how there can be such a thing only if there is a way that rational creatures are supposed to live, obliged to live A secular way of looking at the world has no place for genuine moral obligation of any sort, and thus no way to say there is such a thing as genuine appalling wickedness. Accordingly, if you think there really is such a thing as horrifying wickedness, and not just an illusion of some sort, then you have a powerful argument for the reality of God. Alright, number three. Evil and suffering does not demonstrate that God is indifferent or uncaring. And this is where it gets to something far more personal and very helpful. Helpful. Evil and suffering does not demonstrate that God is indifferent or uncaring. This is one of the things that people say. And can I not can I can I just say this to you? If you're a Christian and you're going through Intense suffering, you have probably thought this before. This has at least had a bit of question in your mind. God, do you even care? Do you do you understand what I'm going through? Have you You seen what I'm going through. Are you just indifferent to all of this? And so we want to give you two I want to give you two reasons why this cannot be the case. That whatever you're going to say, maybe you don't understand the reason for suffering. Whether it's your own or somebody else's, that certainly you can concede. But y by the end of this, you will not, if you believe the Bible anyway, you will certainly not be able to concede That God is in any way indifferent or uncaring when it comes to the issue of evil and suffering. And there are two reasons that we're and we're going to look at both. One is the suffering of God Himself. And number two, the resources he provides to those who suffer. And you're going to find that that somebody going through suffering, either one or both of these are going to be incredibly helpful. And you'll See this in a minute. The first one's going to be incredibly helpful for those who are feeling particularly lonely. And one of the things that people when they go through Through an intense suffering, there is also associated with this, and really part of the suffering, is the intense feeling of loneliness. Because loneliness is arguably one of the hardest, the hardest kinds of suffering. It is probably more difficult than physical pain. and uh psychologically. And we're gonna look at that. But then also also um you'll see another important reason that will We'll look at as well. Let's first of all look at the suffering of God Himself. Just look at a description in Scripture. He took Peter, this is Jesus, and he took Peter. James and John with him, and he began to be troubled and deeply distressed. Then he said to them, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful. Even to death, stay here and watch. In Luke 22, 44, this is at the Garden of Gethsemane, he says, and being in agony, he prayed more earnestly. Then his sweat became like great drops of blood falling down to the ground. Jesus experienced at the Garden of Gethsemane incredible, incredible suffering, and it only got worse from there when he went to the cross. And I think that it's important to understand this. In fact there's a contrast. Mun much of what we're going over is in Tim Keller's book uh on his uh chapter on suffering. And he points out the contrast between the kind of suffering that Jesus went through From the kind of su suffering of other martyrs, of even martyrs of the faith. There are some martyrs of the faith that reported singing, that were that were reported at actually almost being excited going to the stake because they were going to be able able to see Christ and there was going to be able to be reunion with uh you know or union with God and all that and and and they knew that were what they were doing was right and all that. But you actually don't e though you might see that those kind of accounts of Mar Martyrs, you don't see that of Christ. You see this intense agony in Christ as he goes through the cross. Well, why is that? Well, what he experienced was unfathomable loss. I mean, really unfathomable. And I hope to be able to show you that here. In John chapter 1, verse 18, it says, No one has seen God any time. The only begotten Son, obviously, that's Jesus Who is in the bosom of the Father, he has declared him. This verse demonstrates that Jesus was incredibly inseparably close. To his father, completely linked to his father. If you think of the closest relation, earthly relationship The closest earthly tie. Maybe a marriage of, you know, 60 years or something. Or um You know, something like that. Just something that it it is not even comparable. The closest physical relationship or closest earthly relationship you can think of, it's not even comparable to the relationship that Jesus had with his father for all of eternity. It's that kind of closeness. There may be no greater inner agony, Tim Keller says, than the loss of a relationship we desperately want. If a mild acquaintance turns you turns on you, con uh condemns you and criticize you criticizes you and says she never wants to see you again, it is painful. If someone you're dating does the same thing, it is qualitative But if your spouse does this to you, or if one of your parents does this to you when you're still a child, the psychological damage is infinitely worse We cannot fathom, however, what it would be like to lose not just spousal love or parental love that has lasted several years But infinite love of the Father that Jesus had for all of eternity. Jesus' sufferings would would have been eternally unbearable Christian theology has always recognized that Jesus bore as the substitute in our place the endless exclusion from God that the human race has merited. In other words, in a Point in time, he experienced endless exclusion from God, even though in time it wasn't endless. Intensity with which he experienced his separation from the Father was with such intensity that it was as though it was forever. That is, by way, the very definition of hell. Hell is eternal separation from God. And Jesus did experience hell on the cross. Not that he went down into a place called hell, as some purport, but he did experience hell on the cross. Now how did Jesus respond? Now think about it. It this way. How is it that people will respond in hell when they finally die and go to hell? How will they respond? Well, they will respond in rejection toward We know this because of of the the of Christ's uh discussing Lazarus and the rich man. The rich man is down in hell and he rejects that he even had proper opportunity to be able to as we talked about this several weeks ago, to be able To receive uh receive Christ because um he basically was inferring that Moses and the prophets were not good enough. So he was rejecting even then. But when it comes to Jesus, what was Jesus' response? My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Even Even when Jesus was in complete being completely forsaken, the agony that he was experiencing on the cross, not just physical agony, but intense spiritual Spiritual emotional spiritual and emotional agony, unfathomably agony, he cries out as a personal as Personally possessed of my God, he still is going to attribute the Father to his own. It's incredible. He doesn't, in other words, in other words Even though the Father turned his back on his son, Jesus turned chose not to turn his back on his father. Now, let me just put this in perspective. If you've ever experienced rejection, what is the temptation? What makes rejection feel a little better? What is it? Rejecting the person. If you are rejected by someone and you are hurt by someone, someone once told me in counseling It is it is more it is they put it this way, it is easier to feel anger than it is to feel hurt. And that is True. But Jesus, and incredible as he is, chose not to feel anger, to chose not to turn his back on God in rejection when God turned his back on him. himself on on him, but turned and said, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? So so understand that this was an unfathomable about loss. And this ended up in redemption, as you know. Christ came to end evil and suffering without ending us. That's actually his point. In other words, why is the yes, there's suffering in the world, but God wanted there to be a way for him to end evil and suffering Without ending us. As the modern hymn goes, he could have ripped out the page. He could have just wiped it all out and started over. But instead, Jesus Christ came to end evil and suffering without ending us for those of us who would accept him as our Savior. Why does Christ continue to tarry, frankly? We look around and we go, what chaos in the world. It keeps getting worse and worse and worse. It seems At least to us. And the reason that Christ tarries is because he is holding out opportunity for people to come to himself. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says, For he made him who knew no sin to be sin for us, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Now that then brings us to two resources. Because of what Jesus has done for us, there are two resources. resources that are that God offers particularly to sufferers. Number one, complete empathy. You never have to suffer alone when you're in Christ. Never. Why? Because truth Truly, Romans 4:15 is right, for we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but as in all points tempted as we are, yet without sin So Jesus, you you know, you might be going through a situation, and we do go through situations where at least it feels as though no one knows what we're going through. And there's an Intense kind of loneliness. Well, you know, Jesus was the last person to ever have to feel to feel that kind of loneliness, that intensity of loneliness. If we will accept him as our Savior and if we will fellowship with him, because he knows the loneliness that you feel. He understands it. Uh he can empathize when no one else can. And because of that, verse 16, you're able to come boldly. That means openly, like completely openly. Open, like bear your soul to him like you can't anybody else, because he knows and he understands. And he can empathize like no one else can. Expressing himself in openness and transparency to God. Let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find Now um I've the suffering that I've gone through, my greatest my greatest concern has not been loneliness. Perhaps you're saying that. Maybe your greatest concern is whether or not it's actually worth anything Uh you may have heard you may hear somebody like um you know on the news or something that is maybe um killed for a crime uh killed uh killed innocently. And or even uh cancer patient who's who dies or whatever. And those who mourn this person's death might say Um I don't want to see him die in vain. Well, that's an understandable sentiment. But really, do you not feel that way when you go through suffering? I don't want to suffer in vain And I think that that is maybe almost as important as understanding Christ's empathy is understanding The second resource is resurrection. People will also want to know that their suffering is not in vain. If you know, if you know without a doubt that your suffering is not in vain, It gives you a strength to be able to endure the suffering. Not only do you have one who knows who can go with you through the suffering, and you can openly be transparent with in the suffering. But you can have confidence of knowing that this suffering is not in vain. Christianity provides this hope. There are many world religions, but most of them, if not all of them, outside of Christianity, provide consolation, but not resurrection. They provide an end to suffering in heaven or in nirvana or whatever else their your they they They do. But ultimately they don't provide they don't even purport to provide resurrection But Jesus provides resurrection. In Revelation twenty-one, what he is not he we we see a restoration of of things. We see a resurrection And the Bible says that we will rise from the grave. Now, what's the importance of this? The greater the suffering, the greater the experience of glory. That the more suffering you go through this time, how do you know it's not in vain? The greater the suffering this side of heaven, the greater glory you will experience in the other side. Romans 8:18 says it this way: for I consider that the suffering of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us. Keller gave this excellent illustration. The illustration is of the fact, and he apparently this happened to him, that he had a nightmare one night. And in his nightmare, literally all of his family members died. Can you that would be a very horrific nightmare, would it not? Everybody he knew died in his nightmare. I can't think of too many greater uh too much greater suffering But he did. Now it was a nightmare and He woke up. And he woke up and he immediately felt a sense of relief, of course. But he said he felt more than that as he went into the breakfast table and spent time with With his family, he also felt a greater sense of intense appreciation that he didn't otherwise feel. That the s the suffering, quote unquote, of his nightmare Caused a greater glory, if you would, in his experience, because he had a greater appreciation. And that's a a diminution, you know, it's not a comp uh uh a one-for-one illustration. There aren't any. But that gives us, I think, some of a glimpse of the glory that will be revealed to us. Based on the intensity of our suffering, this side of heaven, particularly if we respond to it in the right way. So we can look at our suffering and know this, number one, that God is not uncaring. And not indifferent to our suffering. Why? Because God has gone through greater and more intense suffering in the person of Jesus Christ than you ever have gone through or I ever have gone through in my life. Life. And number two, because of the resurrection, we have greater glory, we we anticipate greater glory based upon the experience. Yes God's plan had him used Yeah, that's a good illustration. But I would just say this the the that's an illustration that's an ex Example of something that is going to be far greater in heaven. Because sometimes people go through suffering and this side of heaven they never It never most of the time you do. Most of the time eventually it's all revealed. Or not all of the revealed, at least enough of it's revealed. Okay, and you kinda be begin to understand as time goes on why you or a close family member or a friend went through the suffering you went through. Um and right, the Ron Hamilton is an example of of one that that God used greatly because But even if you never can, you have this promise that God will God actually in proportion to your suffering will uh cause you to experience greater glory on the other side. It's incredible. Let's think of it that way. When you are married to the to You will. I think we will. And uh and and so we we have this I mean I'm going through this and thinking through the suffering of Christ And certainly there is there is an apologetic um kind of an approach here kind of thing, but there's also really a great experience for us. are great great encouragement for us as Christians. Any questions or thoughts on on any of this? Yes. Two is that uh going back to where where uh said um I just want this offering to not be in vain. Yeah. I want there to be Yeah. It does. That's right. Project are located by opening up. Yeah, that's right. Good Very good. Any other thoughts or questions on this? Okay, let's go ahead then and go to our prayer um our prayer list and I think I think I actually am gonna try to pull this up on here so that you can see it.