Nehemiah chapter eight today. We are in a couple of weeks going to um be working through John and we're going to start a series in the book of John But until then, um I was perfectly fine. I thought, well should I take my jacket off and I was perfectly fine until that fan wasn't blowing on me. Now it's gonna blow on me again, but uh it's all. Um And uh so we're gonna be working through the book of uh John here, and I'm really excited about what the Lord has for us um and I'm really preparing for that, but there are a couple of topical, not really topical messages in the sense that we'll be going through passages of a a passage of scripture. But uh sort of messages that I really have been the Lord has just really impressed upon me that I I believe is are um It's important for us to go through. And um I have a list, most of you are aware, I have sort of a list of messages that I try to preach once a year. actually and the message that we're gonna look at today is one of those I always um commit change things around when I preach I don't ever preach the exact same message twice. But um and uh there are a couple other messages. Next Sunday we'll pre we'll we'll look at a message um that's also one that's sort of a single message rather than in a series But I am looking forward to what the Lord's going to show us in the book of John. And it is an awesome book. It is a book that is intended for us to have abundant life in Christ. That's the point of the book. And um we'll see more of that as we as we um as we uh enter into that book. But but for now what I want to do is turn to Nehemiah chapter eight And talk about a subject that I do believe is very important. It is the subject of worship. And there are as many, as many as churches you individual churches you have, you almost have that many opinions on this subject of worship. And there are different views on how we ought to worship particularly corporately and what should be what should be the focus of worship. And what should we do and what shouldn't we do? And what are some things that will help us and what are some things that are hurtful for us? And those kinds of things. All kinds of I books, lots of books written on this subject. But you know when you think about it, if we narrow it down to two poles, sort of two extremes, you have on one hand, when you're talking about worship, you have sort of on one hand this This idea that worship is is highly emotional. And in fact, you have uh to an extreme a kind of a kind of worship that is based on emotion. We're em where we're we're trying to get into an emotional state and you y we think of worship in that sense Um usually we use music for that. The people that are trying to do that, they they use music and they want to get you into this and it it'll be about the Lord. It's not like it's a not about God, but that music is often a way to get you sort of into this emotional state where you then call that worship And the problem and and there is a sense in which emotion is involved in worship. In the book of Psalms, when you see the term, when when it says, Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. That word O is like an emotionally packed word. But sometimes what you find in those in those kinds of movements in worship is it begins to be based on emotion and it begins to be we're looking for an emotional feeling. We're looking for some sort of something And sometimes decor and atmosphere and all those things sort of factor into this whole concept of worship from that perspective. But folks, you have another extreme. And the other extreme is this idea that our worship is really based upon what we don't do. What we're not going, you know, we're not this and we're not that and we're not this and we're not that and we're not this either Our base our worship well what's your worship service like? Well we're not this and we're not that and we don't do this and we don't do that. Well what is your worship like? Well we don't do these things Have you ever been tempted to express to explain your worship service based upon what you don't do? Folks, what you have in a situation like that is you have, you might have all the right doctrine and all the right truth, but it becomes dead orthodoxy. Where there is a deadness that sets in, where it truth never penetrates the heart, it is only sort of academic And really I think sometimes depending on your personality, you can go to one extreme or the other. I have to admit to you that I'm an egghead. So I tend to, if I'm gonna if I'm gonna drift one way or the other, it's usually not toward the emotion the emotional loosey-goosey people. That's not me. I'm usually gonna drift this direction. But folks, there is a sense in which both of those are not authentic worship. Jonathan Edwards said this. It is a hard thing to be heartily zealous, a hearty zealous friend of what has been good and glorious. And to rejoice much in it, and at the same time to see evil and pernicious tendency of what has been bad, and earnestly to oppose that But yet I am humbly but fully persuaded, we shall never be in the way of truth, nor go in a way acceptable to God. And tending to the advancement of Christ's kingdom till we do so. There is, there is a balance between these two things. There is a center on these two things. And we need to discover what this is. We need to long for authentic, genuine worship. Folks, both individually and corporately as a body. Psalm 84, verse 2 says, My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of the Lord. My heart and my flesh crieth out for the living God. The psalmist there in that passage is incredibly overwhelmed with the pursuit of intense, heartfelt worship toward God. Jonathan Edwards echoes this kind of sentiment when he says that religion, which God requires, and when he says religion, by the way, he's not talking about organized forms. In fact, he's talking about exactly the opposite of that. Religion, which God requires and will accept, does not consist of in weak, dull, and lifeless wishes. Raising us but a little above a state of indifference. God in his word greatly insists upon it that we be good and earnest. fervent in spirit, and our hearts vigorously engaged in religion. It is such a fervent, vigorous engagement of the heart in worship in religion that is the fruit of real circumcision of the heart. Or true regeneration, and that has promises of life Folks, it is important for us to understand then what is worship if we are to pursue it in the way that the psalmists did. If we're going to gain it in the way that the the people and Nehemiah, the corporate people in Nehemiah did, then we've got to understand what it is. And so I would submit to you this definition. Worship is the proper response Ascribing all honor and worth to the Creator God, precisely because he is worthy, delightfully so. At the core of this definition, it is that worship is a response. It is a response to God. And it is because he is worthy. And folks, it ought also to be delightful. When we're thinking, folks, about biblical worship and true worship, this is the kind of definition that we need to be looking at, and you're going to find that there are plenty of passages of scripture that will verify this definition. For example, in Psalm 102, it says Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name. Bring an offering and come before him. Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. O come, let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker, for He is our God, and we are His people. And we are the people of his pasture, the sheep of his hand. Today, if you will hear his voice. Psalm 29, 2, give unto the Lord glory, do unto his name, worship the Lord in the beauty. Holiness. And what you find in Nehemiah chapter 8 is a group of people that they experience true, authentic worship before God. Look if you would at verse six. And Ezra, the priest there, blessed the Lord, the great God, and all the people answered, Amen. Amen. With lifting up their hands, and they bowed their heads and worshiped the Lord with their faces to the ground. What you have there is a whole collective body of the nation of Israel that have after after an intense time of work in rebuilding the wall, they all came together and they worship God. in a genuine authentic sense. The question, folks, that we need to ask ourselves is how is it that we can have authentic Or genuine biblical worship. And let me just say this. This concept of authenticity is something that's thrown around a lot today. It is seems to be a topic of sort of a almost like a buzzword now. Is that church authentic? Are we authentic? Are you authentic? Are we is there authenticism? Well, I would just remind us about this. Certainly, God wants us to be genuine. He wants us to be authentic. He does not want us to be hypocritical or put on. But we need to be careful about this this idea as well, because there is a sense in which As has been said by a group of folks that wrote a book called Worship by the Book, he says this. There is a profound sense in which excellent worship cannot be attained merely by pursuing excellent worship. In the same way that according to Jesus, you cannot find yourself until you lose yourself. So also you cannot find excellent corporate worship until you stop trying to find excellent corporate worship. And pursue God Himself. If we're going to worship God the way that He wants to, folks, the problem is when you look at these two extremes that I mentioned to in the very beginning They they talk about that the the it the problem is is that they are trying to pursue worship for the sake of worship And folks, the problem with that is that worship is a response to something else. It is a byproduct of something else. It's like trying to be happy. Did you know that happiness is not pursuable? You say, really? I mean what about like our you know life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness? I always heard that somewhere. That's not in the Bible. Happiness is something that is God-given. Happiness is a result Of pursuing the right thing. We've got all kinds of Christians and believers and unbelievers alike that are pursuing happiness. And God says in the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew chapter 5, He says Blessed or happy are you those who are pure in heart, and who thirst and hunger after righteousness. And all those kinds of things that you find in those passages. Happiness is a byproduct of pursuing the right thing, and so worship is the same way. Worship is a byproduct of pursuing the right thing in the right way with the right motivation. And the question that we need to ask ourselves is, what is that thing? Or, more importantly, what is that person? And without question, it is God Himself. It is God that we must pursue with all of our minds and all of our hearts if we are going to expect to have the kind of authentic biblical worship that God says we can't have. There are some Christians that are trying to have the worship before they have it's like they want the worship before they know God. That the worship is the means by which you get to know God. And it's exactly the they have it wrong. It's reversed. You know God, and then you respond in worship to Him. This can be a for those of you teenagers, I'll just point out by way of application, this can be a bit of a of a of something that you gotta be careful of with Christian camps. I I think it's great. We have some of our own teams went to a Christian camp. I think they're great. I've been to the wilds myself. I think it's wonderful. But teens, you've got to remember this that the decisions that you make are based upon God's word and truth And sometimes you've got to do it whether you feel like it or not. Sometimes you do right. Commit thy way into the Lord, and thy thoughts shall be established. Sometimes you may not feel like doing right, but you've got to do right, and then you'll you'll the feeling will come later And so when we think about this and we think about who God is and knowing God and that being a response to our worship, we need to factor in what Psalm 138. 2 says, I will worship toward thy holy hill. And praise thy name for thy loving kindness and for thy truth. For thou hast magnified thy word. Above thy en thy entire, thy very name. If we're going to know God, it is Because we're going to appro approach, folks, the Word of God correctly. And that's what we're going to see in the passage. That the focal point of our worship toward God is on His Word. That we are approaching it correctly, and we desperately need God's help for us as we go through this. So let's go to Him in prayer. Father, we come to you today and we thank you for who you are. We thank you for your word, and we thank you that it is the basis of our fellowship because when we know your word correctly, we will know you. For your word is the revelation of who you are. You reveal yourself through your word. And we admit before you that we are so often inclined To bypass approaching your word correctly for the sake of an experience that we think is authentic worship. I pray, Lord, that you would help us today to gain a grasp of the kind of true biblical authentic worship that we find in this passage. As this nation of Israel has exampled it for us. And that we would get on the kind of track and cycle of worship that you want us to be on. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, as you know, and actually Harry has gone through a series on Wednesday nights on the book of Nehemiah, and I certainly appreciate him doing that. It's a wonderful book. As those of you on Wednesday nights are aware of, Nehemiah in chapter one was burdened to rebuild the wall of Jerusalem. He realized it had broken down and as a result uh as as a as an issue of of of practicality he knew that it needed to be built up So that the people of God would have a focal point for their worship and be able to gather corporately in worship. And so God commit God was a uh worked in his life And caused providentially him to be able to go and lead a group of the nation of Israel out to rebuild the wall. And he was commissioned and did an assessment on the work in chapter 2. And then they got to work in chapter 3 And their work was attacked in chapter 4 and 5. And finally, by chapter 6, their work is accomplished. And then they had the registering and the gathering of all of the people. My point in saying all of this, folks, is there is a lot of preparation that went in to the point at which they were then able to corporately worship. And I'll just make this application. You and I are so often quick to think that we need we can have worship without work And certainly we can, if we're not careful careful, worship our work. But there is a sense in which that when the nation of Israel, under Nehemiah's leadership, rebuilt the wall and organized and did all that they did. The reason that it all culminated in worshiping God, what we have to assume is that because they stayed their focus on God through the work. It wasn't as though they stopped doing the work. They just focused on God as they were ministering, as they were working, as they were serving. Their focus was right. They didn't get caught into the work and make the work their God. They worked for God and focused on who He is. And I just want to say how much I appreciate how many of you who work peacefully in this church in various ways. Some of you many of you work just There's a lot that goes into just having, doing the things that need to be done in order that we may corporately worship God together. And what you are doing if you're focused on God is in and of itself an act of worship to God. If we're focused on it and getting the task done and we're not focused on God and and doing it out of a love for God, then it isn't. an act of worship. But folks, there is a real sense in which you can you can work for God And it be a genuine act of worship to God in some of the mund in the mundane things of life. If we are doing them in the way that that honors God. Well, in Nehemiah chapter 1, we're going to see here, in chapter 8, verse 1, we're going to begin to see how God's word was approached, because the key to authentic worship. Is that we have got to approach God's word in the right way. Chapter 8, verse 1 says, and all the people gathered themselves together as one man Folks, just at the very outset of this, they gathered together in unity. As if there was just one person. They gathered in like-mindedness and unity together. They gathered as one man. into the streets that was before before the the water gate. And they spake unto Ezra the scribe to bring the book of the law of Moses, which the Lord had commanded to Israel. And Ezra the priest brought verse 2 the law before the congregation, both of men and women, and all that could could hear with with understanding upon the first day of the seventh month And he read therein before the street that was before the water gate, and from the morning until midday, before the men and the women. And those that understood and the ears of all the people were attentive unto the book of the law We find in these three verses that if we are going to worship God in an authentic way, we've got to approach the Word of God attentively. God wants us to be attentive to the hearing and the reading of the Word of God. And when they gathered together, they actually requested to be preached to. Imagine that. They were attentive. They wanted the Word of God to be expounded for them. They were ready to hear it. And thinking about worship and thinking about the various aspects of worship, we often are very quick To think of worship in terms of music. And although music is a genuine part of our worship, it is a danger for us to have it replace. The preaching or the understanding of the Word of God. I appreciate the words of James Saddocks in a met in a in a book he wrote called The Passion-Driven Sermon. He says this quite often In corporate worship services, I see many Christians coming really close to worshiping worship. Just think about some of the manifestations of this perversion. Referring only to musical praise as worship, designating only musicians as worship leaders, and drawing an obvious distinction between worship and preaching in the corporate services. While all of these seem harmless, they have contributed greatly to the de-emphasis on preaching as an expression of worship. One only has to observe some worshippers standing with raised hands and closed eyes during a segment of musical praise, only to sit restlessly with no Bible in hand during the sermon. What could possibly bring more honor to God than his people to hear and revere his voice? And this is what he says next, folks. Just listen. I submit that the teaching shepherd, he's talking of course about the pastor-teacher, the one preaching. The teaching shepherd is the primary worship leader in the congregation. And the sermon is a significant sacrifice. of praise offered by both the pastor in the pulpit and the people in the pew. I read that last part for you again. He says, I submit that the teaching shepherd is the primary worship leader in the congregation, and the sermon is a significant sacrifice. Of praise offered by both the pastor in the pulpit and the people in the pew. What he is saying there is this, that if there's going to be authentic worship in preaching It is not just on the efforts of the preacher, but based upon the efforts of the listener Service to God is not only relegated when you get up and sing a song, or open in a word of prayer, or or are an instrumentalist or or running the sound or what whatever those kinds of things that are necessary in doing the service. Folks, the great and most significant aspect of our worship is that we are attentive to the word. And that we sacrifice our own selves in that service That when we call this a worship service, that is an accurate term. Because all of us are actually putting forth effort to serve God in our worship. And that is exactly what you find in chapter 8, verses 1 through 3. You find in this context, these people are listening. Now get this. You ready for this? You're not ready for this. I know you're not ready for this. They were listening for six hours. I knew you weren't ready for that. And I'm not suggesting that we have to listen for six hours in order to be able to have authentic worship But it is interesting that they they place their attention and their effort. And so when we come together in corporate worship, it does require both the effort of the preacher, no doubt about it. And the effort of the congregation for there to be a confluence of worship where we're focused on God and His Word in this time of worship. And we've got to be very careful, just by way of application, we've got to be very careful that all of the busyness and the schedules and doing this and doing that and running around and having sign-up sheets and all that, folks, all of that is is in many cases necessary But let's not get our focus off the things that is most important. And it is the preaching and the listening of the Word of God. That is the greatest sacrifice in our corporate worship. And some of you are saying, yeah, you know, someday this is a sacrifice. I mean, you are hard to listen to. Maybe not, I don't know. I don't know. But I will say this it does require all of us when we're thinking about this concept, when we're thinking about corporate worship. Now We see then that they listened carefully and they listened attentively, but let me just point this out, and I think this is absolutely helpful and necessary. Isn't it true, folks? Isn't it true that we are distracted and so easily distracted? That the reason that we don't listen attentively to the Word of God It may in some cases be not so much that our hearts are hardened, though it could be, and though that will eventually end up being the case. But that we are really distracted. And we of course this is certainly the case more today than than than it was. I mean it we are we are constantly bar bombarded by distractions. Did you know that the Bible tells us that there are three major distractions to really being attentive to the Word of God? And I want you to take your Bible and turn to to this passage for us in Matthew chapter thirteen. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Matthew chapter thirteen? I want you to see these And when you're in Matthew chapter thirteen, I'm going to ask you to put a finger there, because we're going to go back to Nehemiah and then back to Matthew thirteen again. But I want you to see this in this passage how the ex the three distractions. And the reason that I want you to see these is because, folks, we've got to be aware of this in our lives. That these are things that are going to choke out the Word of God if we're not aware of them And I'd like you to pick up in verse 21. Now, of course, you know that the context is talking about the seed that is being sown. And the seed is the word of God itself. We see that in the passage. And the seed is given and sown in various kinds of soils. There are four kinds of soils. But in Christ's description of his own parable, he says this about about the Word of God and the importance of attentiveness and the distractions that come that choke out us receiving the truth of the Word of God. Verse 21 it says this. Yet hath he not root in itself, but endureth for a while. For when tribulation or persecution ariseth because of the word, by and by he is offended. He also that receiveth seed among the thorns is he that heareth the word. And notice what happens when he hears the word. And the and the what, folks? The care of this world. That's one. The one first distraction is the care of the world. And the deceitfulness of riches. Choke out the word and become unfruitful. We find here that there is, verse 21, tribulation. And verse 22, the cares of the world, and also the deceitfulness of riches. We have three different distractions in the Word that will keep us from being attentive to the Word of God. And you've got to be very c we both, folks, all of us have to be very careful about these. When tribulation and trials and struggles come, if we are not careful, it will choke out the word. where we are not attentive to it and we do not receive it, we can, during trials and tribulations, actually draw ourselves closer to the word of God and find our solace in the word of God. But if we're not careful, our tribulations will distract us from the Word of God. And the cares of this world. You know what it's talking about in those cases? The cares of this world are talking about just general needs that you have in provision providing for yourself and your family. Food and clothing and raiment. Uh clothing and raiment. Clothing is raiment. Food and clothing and shelter. Those kinds of things that sometimes they are cares for us. We are preoccupied with them. We become really just overly preoccupied with sometimes just surviving. And God says those things can be distractions for us. They can draw us closer to God Because he is our great provider, and he is our all-sufficiency. But folks, if we're not careful, they can distract us from receiving the Word of God And then thirdly, the deceitfulness of riches. The cares of the world are necessities that we need, that we're we're we're working after that we have to pursue But the deceitfulness of riches is also a distraction where we are pursuing money and possessions and things, and I want this, and if only I had this, and if I could have this Folks, it's the sin of covetousness, and that also can distract us from receiving the Word of God. And I would just encourage all of us to be very careful about these things. To be careful that these kinds of things are not distracting us in our own personal worship time with the Lord. What is your individual worship time with God like? Is it a time where you are genuinely and truly receiving God's word, or is it a time where your mind is preoccupied with the cares of the day? And the tribulations and trials that you have, and potentially the pursuit of your own wealth and well-being. Folks, those are things in your life that will nullify the desire for the Word of God in your life. They are things that we must be very careful about. Number two, in verses four through six, we find that we must appreciate we must approach the Word of God submissively. Would you look at verse four with me? And Ezra the scribe stood upon the pulpit of wood which they had made for the purpose, and beside him stood Matathiah and Shemai and Ananiah and Uriah and Hilkiah and all of those different names, all of those people. Verse verse five. You know the reason I had Kim choose I chose that passage for Kim is I wanted to listen to him and read all those names. Ver verse uh he did a great job of that. Verse uh verse five And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people, for he was above all the people. And when he opened it, all the people stood up. And Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God, and all the people answered, folks, what did they answer? Amen. Amen. What they are saying is, let it be done. Let it be so. It is what we want it to be. They were in agreement with the Word of God. And they accepted what God's Word said. And they wanted to submit their hearts to it. And when that happened, when that was the case, do you see what happened here? They put their hands up and their bodies down and their faces to the ground and they worship God. You and I cannot have authentic worship to God if we are not submissive to the Word of God. We will never be able to worship God in the way that God wants us to if we hold it at arm's length and we don't submit our hearts to it. It is a matter not only of our head, but also of our hearts. And we must submit ourselves to it if we are to have the kind of worship that God wants us to have They elevated the Word of God, they promoted the Word of God, and they agreed with the Word of God. Do you see in this passage, folks, that they're bowing their knees to God? Their heads to God, they're bowing their heads to God. They are raising their hands to God. By the way, does that bother you? Did they raise their hands? You ever see in the book of Psalms where it says they raise their hands? I I'm gonna go on. I'm gonna move on. But by the way, they also bowed as they were doing it, right? They weren't trying to draw attention to themselves at all. It really was an act of submission. It's like that it's like if you how many of you all have a do have dogs or a dog or ever had a dog? Okay. A lot of you don't have presently dogs, but you did at one time. Um A dog in submission is one who just goes down the ground and he rolls over and he puts his hands up. He puts his paws up. His hands, his paws. He just he it's just like whatever I'm opening myself up to my master. Whatever he wants is what he wants. Folks, that's the kind of submission that God wants us to have when it comes to His Word. When we read it, I'm going to submit to it. Whatever it says, I'm going to submit. And that is going to bring true authentic worship. I want you to also to see this. That we need to not only approach the god uh approach the word submissively, but we need to approach the word of God understandingly. We need to approach the Word of God understandingly. In fact, you see this multiple times in this passage. Do you see, first of all, in verse 2 it says And Ezra the priest brought the law before the congregation, both of men and women, and all that could hear with what with understanding. And then you have in verse three, those that could uh before the men and the women and those that could understand And then you have in verse 7, you have again, it says the word understand, that they cause the people to understand. And in verse 8, it says that they cause them to understand. And then it says in verse twelve, if you go down to verse twelve, it will again tell them it says because they had under they had understood the words. And in verse thirteen, again, it says That they need they even to understand the words of the law. Folks, do we get the idea that what's important here is that we understand the word It is not enough that we have a cursory some sort of sense of what God's Word is saying. God wants us to understand it. And I uh if you recall, I asked you to to keep your finger in Matthew chapter 13. In Matthew chapter 13, you're going to see the same thing here. And I told you to keep your finger in it, and I didn't keep my finger in it, so anyway. Matthew 13. And verse 13. I want you to see when we're talking here about the Word of God how often it tells us that we need to understand Matthew chapter thirteen, picking up here in verse thirteen, it says, Therefore speak I to them in parables, because they seeing see not, and hearing they hear not, neither do they what? They understand. Verse 15, it says this again, for the people's heart is waxed gross, and their ears are dull of hearing And their eyes they have closed, lest all at all time they should see their eyes and hear their ears, that they should what Understand. And again you see in verse 19 it says, When one heareth the word of the kingdom, and what Understand it. And again in verse nine verse twenty-three it says it again, But he that receiveth the seed into the good ground is he that heareth the word and what? Understandeth it. It is not enough for us just to have a cursory glimpse of a sense of maybe what the Word of God is saying. God wants us to comprehend it. He wants us to understand it. He wants us to approach the Word of God attentively and submissively and understandingly. And folks, when we do all of this, we are then putting ourselves into the position of being able to worst approach the Word of God joyfully. Because then and only then when we have done those kinds of things, you're going to see here in this passage that there is great joy. Nehemiah actually commands it to these people. Look at it look at verse nine. And Nehemiah, which is which uh which is the Tershitha, and Ezra Ezra the priest, the scribe, and the Levites taught the people and said unto the people, This day is holy unto the Lord your God. Mourn not, nor weep. For all the people wept when they heard the words of the law. Folks, why do you suppose they did that, by the way? Why did the people weep when they heard the word? They were under conviction. When you are under, when you see the full face of the Word of God, when its truth penetrates your heart, there isn't any, I mean, you're gonna be convicted There's gonna be that in your life. And that is not wrong. That is right. But but you ought not stay there There then you must turn that conviction and respond in gratefulness and enjoy Because we find in the passage it says in verse 10, Then he said unto them, Go your way, eat the fat, drink the sweet, and send portions unto them whom nothing is prepared. For this day is holy unto the Lord, neither be ye sorry for what? The joy of the Lord is your strength. Christian, are you feeling weak? Are you feeling as though you can't make it? Are you feeling as though you can't possibly do all that God is wanting for you to do? The joy of the Lord is your strength. But you can't get the joy of the Lord if you are not approaching the Word of God correctly. And I've got to be honest with you, I've seen this verse all over Facebook. But I haven't always seen the whole passage. Before you can ever have the joy of the Lord, you've got to be attentive to the Word of God and understand the Word of God. And you've got to be submissive to the Word of God. And then you're ready to have the joy of the Word of God in your life. And it's going to bring for you strength. Now, let me just pause and ask you what strength is. Strength is not just strength is not just um just physical strength. You know, we got some people in here probably lift weights, you know, and they're physically strong No, what we're talking here, folks, is about spiritual and volitional strength. We're talking about the strength of the will. In other words, motivation. Do you ever feel unmotivated? Do you ever have a sense that, you know, I am just really not motivated to do what I know God wants me to do, but I'm not motivated to do it It comes through this means, through approaching the Word of God correctly. And then we find in this passage That we need to approach the Word of God obediently. And we don't have a lot of time here, but in verses thirteen through seventeen you find what we find that there is a group of that these group of people realize they're reading something in the law about the the Feast of the Tabernacles, the Feast of Booths, and that they need they hadn't followed this in a very long time. It had been it had been uh s pro perhaps even centuries since they had followed this. Uh back in the time of Judges or uh Joshua Judges looks it looks like the last time they actually follow uh followed after this feast But it didn't matter how long they had gone without doing it. It didn't matter that it was years and years and years since they had practiced this. Then when they read in the Word of God, they just said, well, God said it says, do it, let's do it So they approached God's word obediently. They did what God asked them to do. And then finally, I want you to see this in verse 18 because this is going to bring it all together. In verse 18 of chapter 8, I want you to see this. It says, and day by day from the first day into the last day, he read in the book of the law for of God. And they kept the feast seven days, and the eighth day, and a solemn assembly according to the manner. They didn't just do this one day, folks. They didn't just have worship one day. They had worship day after day after day for the entire feast time. They approached the Word of God repeatedly. Now, I want you to see that I hope we're getting this cycle here, or this this is God's method of our worship. That we start off by being attentive to the Word of God. We are ready to hear it. We have ears to hear And then we are also we are submissive to the Word of God. Whatever it says that we know it to be true, that we generally understand it, we want to be submissive to it. It is, by the way, interesting that God wants us to have a heart of submission Before we understand it. In the context, if you look at the narrative, you're seeing submission before understanding. Or at least full understanding. And folks, sometimes we don't understand the Word of God because we have we are not we have not submitted we're not submitting ourselves to it And then we need to understand it. We need to thoroughly understand it. It's not enough to just be submissive to it and you do what you think it says. You've got to understand it. And then after you understand it, then you're going to have joy. And when you're joyful and you're strengthened by it, then you have the strength to do it all over again. It is sort of this lifestyle of worship to God. And I would just ask you this question. How is your worship? We want at our church to have good, solid, corporate worship before God, that when we come and meet together, we leave edified as a body of believers But that is only going to happen as we are worshiping God individually. But as we throughout the week are worshiping God in an individual manner Then we come together and collectively we're ready to share in this corporate experience of worship together. And I would just ask you, how is your worship? And I would ask you, if you say, you know, my individual corp, my individual worship or even our corporate worship isn't what God, it's not what it ought to be. Where in that approach to Word of God are you falling short? Or perhaps multiple places? That is the issue when it comes to true, genuine, authentic worship. Let's pray together.