All right. Ecclesiastes chapter 7. And we are picking up here in verse, I believe we start off in verse 15 here. And let me begin this way. Um How many of you um have ever thought about the fact that it would only make sense for you to feel as though you're right. Say, what in the world are you saying? Uh have have you ever had somebody tell you, you know, you think you're right all the time? How many have ever have ever had somebody tell you, you know, you somebody just says to you, you know what, you think you're right all the time. Well if you have a spouse you probably have had that said to you. Okay. Well, is it not true That you would think you're right all the time because if you thought you were wrong, you change it so that you were right. I mean if you really think about it Why wouldn't I then think I'm right if I'm not I mean why would I think I'm wrong if I'm right and if I'm wrong then why wouldn't I just change my opinion so that I'm right? I mean don't we all think we're right? And what we want to look at today has to do with your mistake. That's called a conceit. But anyway anyway. But um But there is sort of this this reality in our lives that we have a strong inclination not only to want to be right But to think we're right. And yet, how many of you have lived enough life to go that, you know, many times I've been wrong? And yet that doesn't keep you from at least thinking you're right until you're told that you're wrong. Right? I was like, I don't know. Would you just read the Bible and explain it? Well, when we come to this text, what we find is that this issue, what we're talking about in this passage, has to do with self-righteousness. And we're going to call it self-wisdom, which basically says, I'm right and I'm wise. And I know what it means to be right right righteous and right. And I know what it means to be wise Now, if you think about it, isn't it true that Solomon probably would have had the most of that as of anybody else in the history of the civilization? In fact, I in my first the first lesson that I taught, or first message I taught on Ecclesiastes here, the introduction. I had I think like two or three or perhaps more people come came to me afterwards and said, you know, the one thing I don't get is how a man can be so wise and have seven hundred wives and three hundred concubines. I mean, how in the world is that even th I don't get it. Well, I'm gonna give you the answer today. It's in this passage. Okay. Because and what it has to do, this passage has to do with the limitations of righteousness and wisdom. There are limitations to those two things. In fact, if we are pursuing righteousness for righteousness' sake and wisdom for wisdom's sake, if we are pursuing those two things to the exclusion of certain things, which we'll get into the text, We it will actually be make us delusional. We will become deluded and blind to our thinking, and it will end, it says it's going to tell us in this passage, in destruction of us. And so we've got some things to work through here, don't we? If we're going to avoid destruction that comes through a an a thought of being self-right and self-wise. How do you break free from the possibility of delusion of thinking you're right when you're not? How do you break free from that? Because obviously we all think we're right unless we are wrong, and then we think we're right because we correct it. So how how do we deal with that problem And the answer is going to become in this passage, and I think it'll be really a big help to us. This is a passage also, just by way of introduction, that that is a pivotal passage for us in Ecclesiastes. We are going to turn the corner here, okay, because So far, prior to chapter seven, we've been dealing with how to pursue things under the sun. What is life like under the sun? And the pursuit of pleasure, the pursuit of um um material things, all those kinds of things without God in view Next portion 7, 1 through 15, he says, okay, you've got to mourn in order for you to be wise. We talked about that the last two last two Wednesday nights Mourning is necessary. It's more better to be in mourning than it is to be uh in a place of laughter because more you need to come to reality, come to grips with reality in whatever you're dealing with and deal with that right. And now he's turning then and he's he is going to this is going to look a little negative, but there's some central and essential truths in this passage that are going to carry us through actually the rest of the book. And you're going to see this in a few moments. Let's pick up here in chat in verse 15, it says All things I have seen in the days of my vanity. So we know now that he is referring to his own experience, which he has said many times in the book of Ecclesiastes. He says, My days or my experience And the days of my vanity. He's now past his days of vanity, where he has mourned and he is now seeing things with God in view, but he's now on the other side of it and he's reflecting. on the days of his vanity. Okay? So this is like a transitional time where he's still remembering the days of his vanity, but he's not there. Um literarily, he's there, chapters one through six. Now he isn't really there, he's looking back, but in his the way he's writing, he's there. Now he is not there, and he's looking back and making some connections here. And so that's structurally the importance of this of this passage. It's sort of a transitional passage He says, Um there is a just man sounds good, right? A just man or a righteous man. Those two words are usually so no usually interchangeable and Scripture, justice and righteousness. A just man that perisheth in his righteousness. He dies in his righteousness. Now, if you rema recall from looking at Ecclesiastes so far, when death is really considered to be a very bad thing, most of the time in Ecclesiastes. When he says something is worse than death, he's saying it's really, really bad. He's saying here that there is such a thing as a righteous person who perishes in his righteousness. Notice the parallel here. And there is a wicked man who actually extends his life, who prolongs his life in his wickedness. What he is saying here is that someone who is wicked may live actually a better life and longer. Let me mention this. He uses the term lengthening of life or long life here. We see this at other places in the Old Testament. Do you remember when the Bible says that those children if they obey their parents, they'll have a long life on the earth What that is, is a is a uh an idiom that is talking about the about life as in a good life or a a life of value Okay, so when you see long life, you can sort of in your mind say what he's talking about is uh a valuable life. So he's saying here that and it might mean long too, I don't know. It it depends. But what he's saying here essentially is the person that's wicked and knows he's wicked Has the same, is is not any worse than the person whose right believes he's righteous and dies in his righteousness Now, if you think over to the book of Romans, do you remember in Romans chapter 1, you have them dealing, you have Paul dealing with the reprobate man, the one who knows he's sinful and he is and he knows it and he is aware of it. Then you have chapter two, he deals with the just man, the righteous man, the Jewish person who's following all of the law, and yet he is still wrong, he's still sinful. By the time you get to Romans chapter three, you have all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Both the one who knows he's fallen short and the one who doesn't know know he's fallen short, they've all fallen short. And all of our righteousnesses are as filthy rags, that passage says in quoting the Old Testament. So you have the same kind of thing here. Saul is essential is essentially admitting that self righteousness Is not righteousness at all, and it actually will end in destruction. He he but if you can just imagine this, the gospel hasn't been clearly laid out yet. Now the gospel in some form is there. They can receive the gospel in the Old Testament, but it is nowhere nearly as clearly laid out as it is in the New Testament. And yet you have you have him Understanding by his own experience and obviously by the wisdom of the Word of God that no one is really righteous. And if you think you're righteous, you're in really bad shape because you're not. The worst position an unsaved person can be in is to think he's righteous and of course he's not. It's the same thing for a Christian, frankly. If a Christian thinks that he's doing right and he's not, it's in a worse he's in a worse position than if he knows he's doing wrong. But he's also that's really bad too. Both of them are bad. Okay. Um and that's basically what he's saying. They're both bad. Verse um fifteen Or verse sixteen. Be not righteous over much, neither make thyself wise. He says, Don't Don't be righteous for righteousness' sake, and don't make yourself wise. Why should it? He says, Why should you destroy yourself? He is saying that the pursuit of righteousness for righteousness' sake and the pursuit of wisdom for wisdom's sake will end in destruction. Now let's pause and think about that for a minute. If somebody is pursuing righteousness for righteousness' sake, what is their motive? Tony? Yeah. Itself Right? Self is the motive. I am trying to please myself. I am trying to feel good, I think somebody said, uh about myself, or I'm trying to maybe let others see that I am about the the motive is still self. I can be righteous and pursue righteousness for the wrong reason. I could do the same thing with wisdom. Why would somebody want to be wise? And it would still end the destruction. Well, if he has the wrong motive. If he is wanting to be wise so that he can feel wise, or wise so that he can You know, what whatever it is, whatever motive it is, there are pursuing those things entirely isolated for the sake of pursuing those things. He says, why would you destroy yourself that way? Okay. And and so he is really trying to emphasize something here that is extremely important for us to understand. And we can we can really fall uh fall prey to doing this in our lives. It's so easy for us to fall into this. It's easy for us to say this to our to to do this with our kids. Have you ever said to your kid, look, you better make a right decision so that you can have a nice life? You better go to the right college so that you can have a good life. Or you better go you better have the right go to the right vocation so that you can have a good life. Now yes, Sony, do you have a question? even in the short term right so you won't get in trouble right now. Right. Well it'd be the same same kind of thing. Although um there is we'll talk about that. There might be a little bit of no no I you'll see in a minute why I mean why I'm I'm having some Some thought about that. But but i if if um if we are saying those kinds of things, it's still it's self-focus. There's a self-focus here. And we have to be extremely careful about this. He basically says if you're doing this, you're ending in destruction, you're going to end in destruction. There is, in other words, a way to even follow the wisdom of the Bible. But not have the right motive, and you might end up having a successful life that's possible, but it is still a dis is still ultimately a vain life It's vanity. And and that's it and that's really what he's trying to get across here. He says then in verse 18, now what is we see the problem Uh actually look verse seventeen. He says, Be not overmuch wicked wicked, neither be thou foolish. Why should thou die before thy time? I mean the same thing he's saying whether you're wicked or righteous or what wiz wise all that is resulting in the same thing, destruction and death. Now you you know there's a sense in which we know We kind of know where we're going, but if you could just imagine somebody that is trying to figure this out, what's the answer to this? How do you break through with this? Let me give you a parallel to understand this a little bit. Have you ever tried to concentrate on being humble? Have you ever decided that you're going to be humble? I am going to be humble. And I'm going to look at the end of the end of the day and say, I that was a humble day for me. I'm a humble person. You understand the the the problem here? I mean, it's a real problem. Okay. So you can't be humble by determining that you're going to be humble. Otherwise, you won't be humble. So sometimes in order to deal with something, you have to know the right thing to focus on. And he's going to give it to us here. He says verse 19 Wisdom strengtheneth No, I'm sorry, 18. It is good that thou shouldest take hold of this. Yea also, from this withdraw not thine hand. For he that, what's it say, fear God shall come forth of them all. Or escape them. New King James says escape them all. How do we escape righteousness for righteousness' sake? Wisdom for wisdom's sake. Wickedness for wickedness. How do we escape all of that? He says, you have got to fear God. Fearing God is how you escape this. Now, let me ask you this question. I think we're in a group here where we can ask the question. Why? Why would fearing God cause us to escape this problem? Any ideas? Kim? Okay. So so uh in the first it we're we're now focused on something besides ourselves. You know, we're focused on God. Yes, the fear the fear of the God is uh the fear of the Lord. Actually I was doing some uh word study a word study on the fear of the Lord, and you find several places uh where it it equates fear the Lord with humility, that they're they seem to be very much linked together in scripture. It would make sense you've got God who is awesome and we're we're knocks. Yeah. Good. Okay. You got it. And actually that's exactly the verse that I that I I cited as the answer to that. So So Psalm 111, 10, as well as Proverbs 1:7 says, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom Wait a minute. Can you pursue wisdom and make wise decisions without pursuing God? Answer yes, Solomon did. Right? I mean didn't he not make great kingdom, great the greatest king. Did he was he not successful? Of course he was, probably the most successful man ever to live on the face of the earth Um and and so he could do that. But There there is a different kind of wisdom, apparently, when we're not focused on pursuing wisdom. When we're focused on pursuing God and fearing now, let me ask you this question Why is the why does it say the love of God is the is the loving God is the beginning of wisdom? Why does it say fearing God? Any ideas on that? Yes. That's really it. Do you know do you know this that you want to know whether you have here's the problem. You know what we like to do? We like to make God the way we want him to be. We're really good at this. Really bad at this, good at this, you know what I mean? You know, if I can make God tolerant, then I can feel good about what I do, even though it's and it's what I want to do. You know that you do not have a biblical view of God if you do not fear him. The key to knowing that that you that you you have a concept of God that's biblical, that's right, Is this concept of fearing God? If you don't have that, you don't know God. You have made God in your own image, you have adjusted him the way that you want him to be. You, if you're going to know God, it's going to be connected to a fear of the Lord. You say, this is just your idea. It's not. Would you take your Bible and turn to Proverbs chapter 2 for a moment? Proverbs chapter two And he actually tells us how to gain the fear of the Lord. He says, My son, if thou wilt, verse one, receive my words and abide in my uh uh commandments with thee. So thy thy so that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom and apply thy heart to understand, yea, if thy Christ out of out of knowledge and lift up thy voice out of understanding, if thou seekest her silver and searchest for for her as for hid treasure, Then shalt thou understand what? And what does it say in parallel to that? And find the knowledge of God. You don't know God if you don't fear God. Now, that then brings us to understanding why the fear of the Lord is so important. To know him is to fear him. And fear him does not mean it does not mean that you are scared of him But it does mean that you are giving him your his proper place. I think somebody actually said that. Okay. And and you what else we see in scripture is the spirit of the Lord is an awareness of his presence. You're aware of God's presence. Now that's consistent with Ecclesiastes, isn't it? Prior to chapter 6 God in view uh world the life without God in view. Now he's saying you need to be aware of God's presence in your life. How do you know you're aware of God's presence in your life? Well, there is this sort of sense of fear of God. You're aware of Him. You're aware that the Bible says the fear of the Lord is to hate sin. The Bible says the fear the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. There's all kinds if you look, it's hot-there are hundreds of times where fear of the Lord is talked about in the Old Testament. It's all over the place. And that's not to negate the love of God. It's not to suggest that he does not love us. He does both. He is just and righteous, and he loves us, which is why he supplied Christ. Required both. So understanding this is going to help us to under to to to understand how to get out of this sort of self focused trap of pursuing righteousness and wisdom to their own to our own destruction when we pursue them. And we're going to understand this even better. when he gives us uh an example. But before we get there, let's look at the rest of these verses. He he explains in verse um, oh, I'm in Proverbs now. Go back to go back to Ecclesiastes here. Ecclesiastes and pick up here in verse um Verse 19, he says, Wisdom strengtheneth the wise, more than ten mighty men which are in the city. Now he just told us before wisdom is will end in destruction if you seek to be wise. Now he's Applauding wisdom, he's saying it strengtheneth wise the wise more than ten mighty men which are in a city. Now he's saying that those who have wisdom is strengthen What's the key? The key, verse 19, is talking about wisdom with the fear of God. Without the fear of God, it's destruction, just as though you didn't have any wisdom. With the fear of God, you now have something that gives strength and power and ability. Now, what he then wants to do is give us, verse 20 gives us the reason: for there is not a just man, we know this, right, upon the earth that doeth good and sinneth not. Tells us very clearly there is no just man. Verse 21. Also take no heed unto all words that are spoken, lest thou hear thy servant curse thee. For oftentimes also thine own heart knoweth that thou thyself likewise hast cursed others. All this time I have this have I proved by my wisdom. So what is he saying in verses 21 through 22? He says, he uses this idea of hearing a servant curse you. Hearing somebody curse Let's just take it this way. Hearing somebody curse you. Maybe you've overheard it. He says, don't get too upset about that. Why? He says, you do the same kind of thing. We are so much we are so it is so much easier for us to see everyone else's sin or unrighteousness or whatever you want to call it than to see our own. Right? It's so much easier to see anybody else's problems than to see our own problems He's pointing that out. He's saying there's nobody that's righteous. As soon as you think that somebody else is unrighteous, look at yourself, you have the same problem. He's pointing out essentially, he's sort of using that as an example of the fact, bottom line, nobody's righteous. And he's and he's demonstrating that. Now let's then get into the example that he gives, which is really Really going to help us understand what he's what he's getting at. Verse 23: All these have I proved by wisdom. I said, I will be wise, but it was far from me. That which is far off and exceeding deep, who can find it out He says this, so now he explains. Verse 325. I applied mine heart to know and to search out and to seek out wisdom and the reason of things, and to know, he says this is the result, and to know what? The wickedness of folly Even the foolishness and madness. He's searching out, applying his heart, as no one else can do, frankly. To wisdom, and he ends up resulting in madness and folly He keeps this it's almost as though this is like a repeated thing. He keeps searching out for wisdom and he ends up with madness and folly. He searches out again for wisdom and he ends up with madness and folly. Here's one that God has endowed him with wisdom. We know that already. And yet he's ending this pursuit of wisdom ends in madness and folly. Well, what's his example of this? Verse 26 gives us the example. He says, I find more bitter than death the woman whose heart is snares and nets, and her hands as bands. Whoso pleaseth God shall escape from her, but the sinner shall be taken by her. Let's read the rest of it. Behold This have I found, saith the preacher, counting one by one, to find out the account which ye my s uh which yet my soul seeketh, but I find not. One man among a thousand I have found. Contrast, but a woman among all those I have not found. How many women did he have? A thousand, seven hundred wives, three hundred concubines. And he says, I can't find a good one out of all of them. Okay. Now this is not a plight this is not a pro this is not a woman. It's not saying that there's no women out there. That's not what the point is. The point is this, he says, I counted them one by one. He says, I keep making the same mistake over and over and over and over and over again I try to learn from my mistake, I try to learn from my problem, but I keep saying making the same, I keep doing the same thing over again. I have one woman after another, and I keep making the same mistake over and over again. I think I'm going to learn from my experience, and I don't learn from my experience. And I keep going. He's saying, this is ending in my destruction. He is dealing with everybody's question when they read Ecclesiastes right here Now what is the answer to that? Why, with all the wisdom in the world, could after a thousand times he still can't get it right? What's the problem? Let me put this in a in a little bit different perspective here that we can kind of grasp, because a thousand women none of us can grasp. Okay. Have you ever met somebody, woman or man, who d who has divorced and remarried multiple times? And they keep marrying the same kind of person? Over and over again. It's like you think, what are you a knucklehead? Don't you understand that you you ended up I know of a woman who who who married the who who I'm not saying it was right for her to get divorced, but everybody here would have understood why she would. Her husband was a real slug. I'm being kind when I say that. Right? And yet she and she specifically Did her very best to try not to marry the same kind of man she married before when she remarried. And she did. The same problems, it was a little different, sort of different context, flavored a little differently, but the same problems, the the guy the guy had a womanizing problem and a gambling problem. And she married a guy with a womanizing problem in a different way and a gambling problem. How does that happen? Here's the key. There is one answer to this. There is only one answer to this. It's in the passage. You might have missed it. Let's look at it again. It's in verse. Um verse twenty three or twenty-four, somewhere around No, it's not in twenty it's in twenty six, I think. And I find more bitter death than death the woman whose heart is snares and nets and her hand is at uh as bands, whoso pleaseth God shall what? There is only one way to escape his demise. You've got to learn he he's gotta What's the problem? Solomon, he didn't change his motive. He still wanted to please himself instead of pleasing God. The only way he was ever going to escape this problem is if he changed his motive to instead of pleasing self Pleasing God. He said, those who please God, they'll escape. You can be the dumbest person on the face of the earth and want to please God, and you'll escape this problem. Or you could be the wisest person on the face of this earth, or the smartest, most analytical person, whatever it is. And you won't escape this problem. He says, and this is not just relegated only to the issue that his problem, everybody has different problems. Everybody has buddy has different downfalls The only answer is that we have to, with all of our hearts and souls, decide that all we want is to please God. That's it. Now, do you ever have have trouble with that? Honestly, do we not have trouble with that? Do we not have mixture in our motives sometimes when it comes to that? And if we're honest with ourselves, we do, don't we? Do you know what the answer is? You've got to go back to fearing God. You've got to then go back to knowing God. To know him is to fear him, and to fear him is then to please desire to please him. You can't always in purity of motive say, I want to plead okay, I know I want to please, I know I want to please please you. You know, you you can try to do that, but sometimes you f you sort of fake yourself out in thinking that that's what you want to do when you really don't want to do that. How do you deal with it? You've got to go back to who God is and go back to fearing him. And then you will then be able to please him. And you'll want to please him. We are too adulterated in our desires. We have the flesh warring against the spirit, the spirit warring against the flesh. They're contrary to one another. We can't do what you would The only answer is to go back to who God is. I think sometimes our problem is we have something wrong about what our concept of God And we've got to really analyze it there. We've got to know what's what is our about our concept of God is faulty, that's causing us to not really fear Him the way that we ought to. And it's causing us to not really be able to please him the way that we ought to. And here's what I mentioned, Tony mentioned the beginning here about kids like motivating them by whether they're getting in trouble. I have two sides of that. I think you can go wrong. I think Tony's right in a sense. You can go wrong there. Where if every all you're doing is saying, if you do this, you're gonna get spanked, and that's really all you ever say Believe me, it's tempting. But but but but you can go wrong there. However, do you know what my kids need to know? They need to fear the Lord. And if they fear me, it will transfer sometimes. In other words, they don't fear me in a in a scared way. But if they fear that if they do wrong, they're going to be disciplined. That can instill in them a fear of the Lord. I remember my mother telling me at a very young age She said, Jimmy, even if I don't see you, God does. I will never see everything, but God sees everything. And she would tell me that very, very frequently. Why does she tell me that? She wanted to instill well it's true, but she wanted to instill in me a fear of God And so that is absolutely that's really where it so so how does this all fit in Ecclesiastes? What is the very final conclusion in Saul in Ecclesiastes 9? What is the whole duty of man? To fear God and keep his commandments. That's the whole duty of man. This is going to become the most important subject in this past in this from here on out, he is going to deal with what it is to fear God. How do you fear God? What does it look like? What do we get distracted by? All those kind of things are going to happen. in the it from this passage all the way through chapter 9. The fear of the Lord is really the rudimentary key to being able to please God and to not ending our lives in destruction. And that is that is absolutely the point of what he's saying. And so we need to ask ourselves the question in in the most simple sense. Do I fear God? I think that a good question is, do I please God? Do I want to please God? But I think a better question probably is, do I fear the Lord? And if I do I understand what that means? And I didn't there are I think three to four hundred times that the fear of the Lord is mentioned in the Old Testament And I would encourage you to do a study on it. Understand what that is. Know what it is and what it is and how how that works. Because as we do that, I I don't have the time. I I wanted to bring more to it, but I'm already over time But as we do that, as we have the fear of the Lord and we find the knowledge of God, then we will want to please Him. That is just a result of it. And when we want to please God, we won't be ensnared by this thing. We'll want to please God, and then God will add his wisdom to that And when we when he does that, then we'll be able to make right decisions from the right foundation. And we get it we we keep making the same mistakes over and over again when we when we don't we don't Look at our motives. It really boils down to our motives. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for the time that we could look at your word today. And um it it it uh it it it it really does, as your as Hebrews tells us. It is um A sword that pierces even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit and of the joints of marrow, and is the discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. And this passage is that kind of passage. And I pray, Lord, that you would allow it to do that in our lives. That it would discern our thoughts and our intents and our heart. that it would purify us from the inside out, that it would cause us to know him and to fear him and to please him and to be able then to make right decisions based upon those things. We pray these things in Christ's name.