One of the concepts that you'll find in this passage as well is the idea of peace. That God wants us, in the first part, the idea is that we need to have peace with Him. And that's primarily by trusting Him. In the second half of this chapter, we're going to learn to have peace with others. Which is harder, having peace with God or peace with others? I think having peace with others is significantly harder. You know why? Because if you don't have peace with God, it's always your fault. Right? I mean God's perfect and Christ has made a perfect way to get to God. And we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. There is always a way to uh I mean the way to peace is to correct yourself when it comes to God. But sometimes when it comes to other people, what your neighbors, well that's a little more dicey. Sometimes they're wrong, sometimes you're wrong, sometimes You're right and they're wrong. Sometimes they're right and you're wrong. And sometimes and most of the time they're a percentage right or and wrong, and you're a percentage right and wrong You ever met somebody that says, well, they're mostly wrong or that they they're they're wrong. If I have one of the spouses they come and they want to talk I'll I'll s I'll and they'll say, well, she did this, this, this, and this. And I'll say, well, okay, maybe if it's only ten per s you're ten percent of the problem there, ninety percent. You tell me y what ten percent you are because I can't help them. They're not here. What what what what ten percent are you? What what what is the because most of the time when we're talking about social things It's not one or the other, it's both, right? Now sometimes it is. Sometimes you can have you may have done everything you knew to do right. Everything you you crossed every uh T, you dotted every I, you did everything you knew to do right, and they still blew up in your face. You ever been through one of those scenarios before? I think I have too. Uh it is ru it is difficult when you are not living at peace with others. Whether it's on the workplace, and it's sort of interesting that this passage is talking about this. We just kind of covered some of this on Sunday in Galatians, talking about loving uh loving one another and the importance of serving one another. And now we're getting it again in another dose on Proverbs chapter 3. And I didn't plan it this way, like to go together. Apparently there's more divine planning going on. On uh in that sense. But this passage is clearly going to be talking about this. Let's go ahead and read through the passage. You're going to see this picking up in verse 21. It says, My son, let them not depart from your eyes. Keep sound wisdom and discretion. So that they will be life to your soul and grace to your neck. Then you will walk safely in your in the way in your way, and your foot will not stumble. When you lie down, you will not be afraid. Yes, you will lie down, and your sleep will be sweet Do not be afraid of sudden terror, nor of trouble from the wicked when it comes. to whom it is due, when it is in your power of your hand to do so. Do not say to your neighbor, Go and come back and tomorrow I will give it. When you have it with you. Do not devise evil against your neighbor, for he dwells by you for safety's sake. Do not strive with a man without cause, if he has done no harm to you. You do not envy the oppressor, and choose not none of his ways, for the perverse person is an abomination to the Lord, but his secret counsel is with the upright The curse of the Lord is on the house of the wicked, but he blesses the home of the just. Surely he scorns the scornful, but gives grace to the humble. The wise shall inherit glory, but shame shall be the legacy of fools. So this is a passage that's going to help us to understand How to live in peaceful community. And the main thing that's going to actually do for us Embedded in the midst of this passage are five prohibitions. Prohibitions are negative commands. They're they're things that it says don't do. It's like a if a if a You know, you see you see in a property it says no trespassing, or you see in a door it says keep out. You see you're gonna we're gonna see five five of these in the in these passage. Things that we we need to be very careful not to do if we're going to be able to avoid um avoid disruptions in a peaceful community. And that's really what we want to look at tonight, avoiding disruptions in a peaceful community. We pick up chapter 3 verse 21. through twenty-four, and we see, first of all, that there is a kind of wisdom that results in a peaceful community. Verse 21. He says, My son, let them not depart from your eyes. Keep sound wisdom and discretion. So there is something he says that you should not let depart from your eyes. It's this wisdom, which we know uh generally what that is, but also this uh and and actually the word wisdom is not not the typical Hebrew word for wisdom. It's the idea of judgment there, having good judgment. The word discernment there is a very interesting word or discretion. It means the ability to process thoughts and come to wise conclusions. That's what the word discretion or discernment there. It's like you're in a particular circumstance and instead of a knee-jerk reaction of doing the wrong thing, you ever do that? You're in a tough bind and you end up just doing the wrong thing. Um what is our well you you all know this, I've mentioned this many times before. What is our res what is our knee-jerk response? One of two things when we get stuck in a corner we Fight or flight. I mean that is just y I've obviously said that quite a few times before or you would know it. from other places. But yeah, it's either fight or flight. And and discretion and discernment, this word here is somebody who doesn't do that. It's not fight or flight. It's I'm going to take the circumstances that I have and I'm going to process them in a way and consider all the things that I need to consider. to see things from God's perspective and then to take the appropriate and right course of action. And you know what he says to do that and what he says? here. He says, stay focused on this. Don't let this go. Keep watch on this. Verse 20. He's my son, do not let not uh them depart from your eyes. Keep sound with don't let it depart from your eyes. Keep it in front of you. I I need to be I need to show discretion. I need to show discretion. Discretion is more than what we think of it. It's the idea of processing through tough circumstances and coming to the right conclusion. And he says, if you do this, there are some results that will happen. Or let's put it this way, there are motivations. You say, well, why should I want to do this? Well, there's some really important motivations in this passage, like life to your soul. That's a good general motivation, isn't it? 22 Uh so they will be life to your soul and grace to your neck. If you have discretion, if you are able to learn to think through things, process things, and make right decisions. Then the result is going to be that you're going to have life to your soul. This was already mentioned also in verse 2. Do you notice that? It says in verse 2, for length of days and long life and peace. They will add you. It's the same idea. This peaceful life you will have if you will learn to respond to different difficult circumstances. Now that doesn't mean you won't have this difficult circumstances. by the way. Doesn't mean that suddenly you will have a bed of roses because you have discretion. It simply means that as you travel through those difficult times, those even tragedies you will be able to have peace in the midst of all of it. Because you're you're you're handling it appropriately. You're navigating it correctly. It's like going through a massive storm. with a very skilled helmsman at the wheel of a ship. And you're not, you're you know there's storms all around, and you're a little nervous because there's storms around around, but you you've got the best Halisman you ever could have and and you're just you're you're trusting in the fact that he's navigating cor correctly and he's gonna get you through that storm. Um if if you were going if you were going on uh on uh on a ship somewhere. There's there's probably and and you were in a storm in this room there's only one person I would want to be at the helms. It would be Dave Dave Utel. The rest of you I uh I would want him to be at the helm because I know he has lots of experience. I've talked to him enough. I've been on the his on his boat he the man knows what he's doing when it comes to that stuff. Just when it comes to that stuff. Everything else no so uh so um i i you know I would I'd be like I'd be okay if in a storm with him You know, with if it were my wife driving a little a little different story, you know. Yeah, that's not fair, is it? Anyway. She's a good driver, just not a I I wouldn't trust her s So that's the idea here, that this discretion helps us to navigate the things of life. And live in peace regardless of the tragedy and the storm. And that really is bears out here in verse 24. You'll notice what it says. When you lie down, you will not be afraid. Yes, you will lie down and your sleep will be sweet. When is the time in life that you are most vulnerable? It's when you're sleeping. It's at night when you're sleeping. You're not on watch when you're sleeping. You in order to be able to sleep, you've got to entirely let your guard down. Right? Why do some of us have a have trouble sleeping? Maybe because our guard's up a little too much sometimes and we have trouble. We hear the crac creaks in the night or we hear things So so he's saying that that when you have discretion, when you when you handle things appropriately in life, when you p pillow your head at night, you're gonna be able to sleep. There have there ever been times where you just said, you know, Lord This this is such a difficult circumstance that I'm going through. And I don't know how to make heads or tails of it. But Lord, by your grace, I think I've handled it the best appropriate way I know how to. Versus man, I blew it on how I handled that. And I'm afraid that it's gonna have more repercussions. You ever you ever sleep you ever pull your head at night and you actually rehearse the things that you said that day? And you think, man a lot, man did I shoot my mouth off and I shouldn't have man I should I said that and that and that I should man I hope that person wasn't offended. Man I wasn't very d I wasn't very uh careful when I talked to that person. I hope that person I didn't hurt that person's feeling. You ever go through that? Some of you are like I have no idea what you're talking about. When I go to sleep, I go to sleep. I don't worry. I don't think about it. But some of us do actually go back through our days sometimes and we think about the things that we said and how they affected other people, that kind of the thing. Well, when you've acted appropriately, you could just peel your head at night and say, well, Lord, I did the best I could with my day. I did the best I could with the interactions that I had. And so he says, when we do that, when we have that kind of discretion, then it really creates for us an an environment of safety. Now it doesn't mean that there's not tragedy and problems and difficulties all the way around us, but there's like this there's this environment within within the bad environment that is safe uh to Verse twenty five, then he says do not be afraid of sudden fear. Did you catch that? It says, don't be afraid of being afraid. Don't be afraid of fear. Or don't be afraid also of sudden terror or sudden tragedy. Have you ever said, you know, everything's Seems to be going fine in my life. But I'm afraid that something's gonna go wrong. And you're afraid of tragedy. He basically just says, Don't do, don't do that. You cannot predict what is going to happen tomorrow. When you try to do that, when you fear what's going to happen tomorrow, even though you have no clue what's going on going to happen tomorrow. You know what you're trying to do? We're trying to control the future. And we can't. We have no possibility of doing that. And so to try to anticipate tragedy. Now if you obviously see something, the Bible also says, sort of the other side of the coin is he that he forse evil and hides himself, the Bible says is wise. So there is this if you obviously see a road that you're going down, and it's a road that's going to lead to destruction, well then go the other way. But on the other hand to just Just constantly be worried about tragedy or struggle is or ruin is something that we shouldn't be worried about. And there's a reason for that. The reason is found in verse 26. For the Lord will be your confidence and will keep your foot from being caught. The implication is that the wicked person, the work person whom the Lord is not is with, is not with, tragedy will end in his ruin. But the person whom the Lord is with, he may go through tragedy. He may go through hard times. He may go through difficult difficult things, but it says that he will keep God will keep him from being tripped up. Have you ever been um in a place where you just couldn't see ahead of you what what you were do doing or you're in a dark place where you couldn't walk take two steps ahead of you without s tr you know, you're maybe gonna trip over something. Well, life is dark and the world is cold, and you're barely young and then you're old, there's a song about that. Um It it's not easy. But there is but but God and it's not like he takes you out of the world, but what he does do is he keeps you from being tripped up as you're walking through the world. He keeps you from being tripped. You can walk firmly and confidently because God is with you. And that's the kind of life he wants us to live. But And this is a big but. The other thing that he hasn't talked to w factored in yet is other people. All of this so far has been about going through hard times. It's like me and God going through hard times and I gotta trust him and I can't worry and I can't I and I got I make sure I don't fear and I gotta make sure that I I handle things with discretion. Okay, but let's practically In everyday life, in everyday social life, how do you live discreetly? How do you live with discernment and discreet? And what he's going to do in this passage is to get give us five different prohibitions. There are five different things he says, don't do these things. And these things will will begin, if we'll implement them in our lives, they will begin to cultivate discretion in our lives. We'll begin to have discretion cultivated when we start with these things. Some of these things, you you you'll say, yeah, that's common sense. And you know Proverbs is having a lot of common sense. sense actually. That's not all that common. Because people people don't always do what makes sense. And so and so Solomon's going to point some things out. Number one, he says, bottom line, don't withhold good if you've got it to give. Don't withhold good, he says, verse 27. Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due, when it is in the power of your hand to do it. Now, very specifically what he's saying is is is when there's somebody that that owes you something or somebody that that has a a right to something or something that somebody that should have something Then don't withhold that from them. Don't wait a day to pay it. Uh I'll illustrate it this way. So uh we we're getting a lot of work done here. Um and we've got bathrooms done. Or we're working on bathrooms bathrooms right now. And the way we structured the contracts, the there's two contracts we structured, but one one one one of the contracts we stuck structured for the bathroom was that he gets uh a third in the beginning contract contractor does he get a progress payment and then he gets a final payment in the end. Well when he asked me for the progress payment, I looked over what he had done and the the inspect the the electrical and plumbing inspection was already done and he had made good progress. And so, you know, if I were being I don't know why I would do this, but it but if I were for some reason not being right or wise, I could like just hold out on him for a week or two or three. Well that wouldn't be very nice would it? Why would I do that So no, he he he made the progress. He should he should get the pay. And so immediately I asked Nancy to cut a check for him and and we got it to him as as quickly as we could We could. Would it be right if he gets the whole bathroom done for us to just uh let's just kinda wait a month or two? No, he deserves to be paid when he gets the job done and we'll do it as qu as soon as we can Well, just practically, why would you do that? I mean, first of all, it's morally right, but but even practically, why would you do that? Well number one, do you he he does a pretty good job for us. We've had him do actually many projects now. He he he gets it he gets started right away, he works through the project and he gets it done on time usually as as much as he can. And you know why he likes working for us? Because we always pay him on time. I guarantee you I know why he likes pay. We never has to worry about he he He he contractors deal with this all the time. I I I've known this from other contractors that my my wife worked for a treat well, same company I worked for tree company, but she worked in the office. And it would be you would be surprised how often vendors would not or not vendors, but people um customers would not pay, clients would not pay. Uh they would hold off on paying And s and sometimes companies have to get lines of credit in order to just stay open until they're the people that they've done work for will will pay them. And that's just frustrating. Do you think and it's wrong, do you think that um that Micah would be so inclined to give us good prices and do a good job as quickly if we didn't pay him immediately? No, in fact he probably wouldn't give us he probably wouldn't we wouldn't g get his business. We probably uh wouldn't uh we we're giving his him business, but we're we probably wouldn't get a service that way. And so my point in simply saying all this is pay on time, do the right thing when you have to do it. If you're able to pay, you should pay as soon as you can. And if they are do it, you should do it. And there should just be sort of this character implemented in us that we're going to do the right thing when it comes to business trans Transactions and those kinds of things. It's really what it's saying here. That's number one. He says this number two, the second prohibition actually does go with this whole idea. Uh uh go with the previous verse. It says, Do not say to your neighbor, go and come back and tomorrow I will give it. When you can pay it. Don't delay, basically, is what he's saying there. And that's really the second prohibition. It really goes hand in hand with the first one. He then is going to move to the third prohibit prohibition. He says this, and this would seem to be something we Would know, but it's important to realize it. It says, Do not devise evil against your neighbor, for he dwells by your safeties, dwells by you for safety's sake. Well, to understand the first part, I think it actually is helpful to understand the second phrase. The man who dwells by your safety sake is actually talking about like a neighbor who trusts you. Somebody who has who you who has confidence in you. We have pretty good, like if we're just talking about our neighbors where I live, we have neighbors that trust us. And neighbors that we we trust. I there we have one neighbor that's cowdy cornered to us, and I've known them since I was a little kid. And um Um if we leave they we they'll get our mail for us. If we if they leave all they're Christians too, that helps too. Um Um and if if if they leave, we get their mail. I mean, you know, they you have this sort of trust built. Well, what if I decide to do harm to them one time? Trust is going to go out the window, right? Do you know trust is something that is hard to earn and valuable to keep? When you when you earn trust and when you when you gain someone's trust, that's something valuable. Don't harm someone And so that's essentially what it's saying here. Be careful with the thing called trust. I remember when I was I've used this illustration before, but I remember when I was young and I told m I my dad and mom told me don't go across the uh don't go on the railroad tracks. Don't walk on the railroad tracks. We were it was a Potaska River not far from our house. I'd go there and do go fishing and I was not supposed to go on those railroad tracks. It was a faster way to get there if you if you take the railroad tracks. But don't don't get on those things. And I d and I di I disobeyed and I held it for about a month and then I finally confessed to it. My conscience man, I can remember my conscience just killing me over that. Um Um to this day and I finally just uh confessed to 'em uh one night. I thought the Lord was gonna come back before I told them. Honestly I did. I was like I thought I was afraid of the rapture coming and I hadn't and I was No I was keeping this. And so um and so my mother said something very I'll never forget it. She said, You know what, Jim? You lost my trust. She said, I I forgive you, but you lost my trust. And you You will have to earn that back. That was a very wise thing for her to tell me. And you know what? After that, I can't remember a single time after that ever betraying her trust again. Not one time that I can remember because I I learned the value of it. I realized I had lost something with her. And I learned the value of it. And I never wanted to lose that again. So this is essentially saying, look, trust is a valuable commodity, a valuable thing. If your neighbors trust you, if the body of Christ trusts you, if there's people in the body of Christ. If when you have that trust, realize it's valuable. Don't devise harmful things toward people that trust you. Even if they do wrong toward you Even if they maybe do something that's unwise toward you, it's better to let it go and maintain their trust than to try to get back at them or to get, you know do something uh the that that's not going to be helpful. So um so that's um important uh to to keep in mind. So that's pro prohibition number three, prohibition number four is do not make false accusations. Look at look at thirty. Do not strive with a man without a cause if he has done no harm, done you no harm. Bottom line, do not be very careful fighting with somebody Well, what does the argument come from? It's usually an accusation. Be really careful about accusations that you make. Be really cautious about false accusations. A man who quickly jumps to conclusions when it comes to accusations is a very foolish man. You know why that is? Because before you would actually accuse somebody of something, you've got to know all the facts. You've got to get all sides of the story. You've got to really ask the right kinds of questions and make sure that you really understand things. Before you can really say, yes, that was indeed wrong. Parents, we have to be careful not to do that with our kids. Don't jump to the conclusion that they're wrong. Make sure that we question them enough. To make sure that they are wrong. There have been a couple of times where I've made the mistake of accusing m uh one of my kids of something they didn't do and I had to backtrack and go, oh man, I I had to apologize for them. That's a rough thing to do. Uh not the apology, just realizing you've accused your kids for the wrong thing. So so be very careful. Even in your mind, when you have in your mind, when we have in our mind things that we think, well that person's this So that person's bad. Look, folks, we don't have the whole story a lot of times. We are so quick to judgment. And that is very important biblically for us The Bible says he that answereth a matter before he hears it is folly unto him. See, this is how we get along in the in in in a community, whether it's a neighborhood, whether it's a church, whether it's a uh a a workplace, if you if you keep remember these things And don't they they'll help us. Don't jump to conclusions when it comes uh to various accusations without getting all the facts. I I've had people come to me before and say, well, do you know so so-and-so did this? And I often I often will tell them, are you sure about that? I'll ask them, I'll I'll make sure. I'll give you one illustration where this happened. So when I was up in out After about a year of being there at that church, I just uh there w I had heard of a Bible institute that was I was invited actually, I think, uh to this Bible institute to to be one of the their instructors. It was kind of a Bible institute that serviced the whole Altuna area. At the very first staff meeting of this, a man got up in public with everybody else that was they're all t instructors, the man got up in public and fal and a and a cu I don't know about falsely, but accused someone uh who I didn't know and who wasn't there who was part of the administration of that Bible institute. And and several of us were like, why what is what is going on here? I mean I I thought it was really strange. I had never that was my first time and I just sat back and I I all I could do is listen. I was my like the new kid on the block. And I'm just sitting here listening to this guy going over and over all these things that this guy who wasn't even there did to to harm this institution. And um and finally I uh had enough I said I said I said look I know I'm new here but I don't know this man number one that we're talking about. Number two, i I either have one of one or two options here. I need to either dismiss out of hand everything that's being said, or I have to go to the other person to find out what the other side of the story is. But my preference would be never to have heard this at all. And and and then finally I need to uh say I'm I'm not part of the problem and I don't think I'm part of the solution here. So I don't and then And that I I had to do it. I th it was funny, it was about fifteen guys, most of them my senior, nobody was doing this. Finally once I said that, they all went, Yeah, yeah, that's right, yeah, that's right and and and and They finally uh stopped the guy stopped talking about it and he felt a little bit embarrassed about it, which he he should have frankly. Be careful, be be careful about accusing people when you sense at all. Bottom line is be really careful about this. You can feel you know you know where we go wrong on this? We go wrong with a f with a wrong sense of justice. All of us have this sort of sense of justice in our heart. God actually put that there, and it's not wrong to have a sense of justice. But when we begin to think that we've got to fix everybody else's problems When we begin to feel as though I'm um I I have to be the one to exact retribution, or I've got to be the one to to deal with this. Well, we we're we're we're on really we're on really thin ice there. And so we need to be very careful about about this. Then finally he says, verse 31, fifth prohibition here, verses thirty one. Really, it's just thirty-one and then the rest of it's something else. But look at verse 31, it says, Do not envy the oppressor and show Choose none of his ways. Well, there's two truths that are in this one verse. Number one, don't envy the oppressor. So are we tempted in life when we are rubbing shoulders with other people? To be envious. And the fact is we are. We are tempted to be envious. There is this inside of us, this flesh that does envy Especially if they are profiting. You ever know seen somebody that is maybe unscrupulous or he is doing the wrong thing and actually he is really profiting? He seems to be living well because he's doing the wrong thing. It's very easy for us to get say, you know, I I wish the Hmm, that's why is he doing the wrong thing and getting good? Doing getting profit from doing the wrong thing. You know we have to just simply say I don't need what he has. I have the Lord. I don't need any more than what the Lord's given given me. There can be this tempt temptation toward envy. We have to be very cautious about envy. An envious spirit in our lives will keep us from having discretion and will keep us from being able to socially be able to have a peaceful community. community. And there isn't any question about the fact that these things are things that do apply in the local church as well as, you know, neighborhoods or or anywhere else. All these things are very important. Then the other thing is the sort of the implication is don't do unscrupulous things or unethical things to try to get gain. That's obviously implied as well. And there's a reason for all of this. This whole economy that God has set us set set here as we've gone through these In verses 32 through 35, he explains these are really motivations for avoiding disruptive commun uh dis disruptions and peaceful communities. Community. Motivation number one we find in verse thirty-two. He says, For perverse person for a perverse person is an abomination to the Lord. The word perf perverse means one who is devious. Or one who is deviating from the path, from the way. And there is this you've seen this in in Proverbs before, for instance in verse six of chapter three, where it says, He will direct your paths. Um And and you'll see things like that in in in Proverbs, the way or the path that you're supposed to be on that God directs. This is somebody who goes off the path. The one who goes off his and into his own way, presumably. He says, um the Lord's disposition to hit toward him is not good. But it says the virtuous one Is uh is is blessed of hit him. Um verse uh thirty-two, but his secret counsel is with the upright. Did you catch that The secret counsel of God is with the upright. What does that mean? The secret counsel with of God is with the upright Do you suppose that there are there are things that God reveals to people who are living uprightly that He doesn't reveal to others? people. There are things that that scripturally we can know when we are walking with God. that we may not otherwise know. That's a real motivation to walk with the Lord, doesn't it? When when you realize that not walking with the Lord may act actually cause you to miss out on God's working in your life and God's uh n uh knowledge of who He is But also we see the Lord's results to all this. One is there is this contrast between blessing and cursing in verse 35. The curse of the Lord is on the house of the wicked, but he blesses the home of the just. Bottom line is, why should we do things the way that this passage is telling us to do do them because one is wicked and one is just. Not paying those who need to be paid is is is wicked. Doing paying who need to be those who need to be paid is just. Envying the oppressor is wicked. Living in contentment is just. So all of these prohibitions are things that the Bible tells us here are things we And then he says there's this contrast between someone who is mocked or and someone who is humble or mocker and humble. It says, um But gives grace to the humble. The word scorn means to mock. It means to um to to I mean that's basically what it means, to mock someone, to to think uh to to be very disrespectful and disparaging toward someone And basically what it says is to those who are scornful, to those who live their lives scorning everybody else, live what talking negatively about everybody else, living a life that is um down on everybody else. The Bible says God scorns that kind of a person. He says then also, but the humble. And that is that not is that not the the opposite of the scornful? A humble person is not going to be one that's constantly talking badly about everybody else. You know why people usually scorn other people? Either talking badly to them or talking badly about them. You know why that is? It's because they're trying to make themselves feel better. Often that is the reason that they do that. They're trying to sort of lift themselves up. If they can identify uh flaws and failures in others, it makes them feel better. Mm that's not humble, is it? A humble person says no, they're they're better than me. A humble person says, no, I it's okay that they have things that I don't or it's okay that they have talents or abilities or money or whatever it is that I don't have. That kind of person, God says he gives grace to. And we see that also in James. God resists the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. And then finally, there's this contrast between the wise who possess glory and the fools who in contrast exude shame. Of course, that just makes sense. A wise person is going to um to receive glory and honor and respect and a fool is going to end up being someone who is shameful. So three concluding applications. Number one, we must cultivate an ability to pro to process a situation and then respond with the best solution. That's really the So number one, stay focused on discretion. Learn to not react to things. Learn to respond in a way that pleases the Lord. And you know, one of the best things you can do just practically is If you don't know how to respond, just don't respond. Just just wait. Don't respond. Do as little response as possible and say and then and then and then process it, okay? And then come out with the best option available. Okay? Um rather than just flight fighting or fleeing. Those two those two uh responses. are are not good responses usually. We must be careful to behave toward our neighbors in a way that avoids disruptive peaceful community. Disrupting peaceful community. We just Need to be careful about that. And then we need to remember God's disposition toward those who are peacemakers versus those who are deviant. Just remember God's disposition in all of this. Um when we're it God does care how we treat others. I think that's the that's one of the things just to bottom line Treatment of others, God cares about that. Sometimes we get this idea that we can treat anybody however which way we want. God really cares about how we treat others And so these are very important lessons to learn in life. in our church, uh, in our neighborhood, in our communities, in our in our workplace, we need to follow these priorities.