Have you ever felt that something was extremely important, but perhaps people close to you didn't see it as important as you did? Something that just really you felt was significant, but maybe for somebody closest to you or somebody around you, you're trying to explain how important it is. They know it's there and they know it It's something of some importance, but it doesn't have the level of importance that it does for for you, and you're trying to convey that. Perhaps a parent trying to convey to their children the importance of a good education, or a husband or a wife trying to convey something to their spouse or wi uh husband uh wife rather trying to convey to his husband a need uh for adult conversation that's so important for moms with small children Or a husband trying to convey the importance of uh going and playing golf with friends or or some you know, this is really important stuff here, you know, or or uh fishing or those kinds of activities that It's necessary to relieve stress and those kinds of things. And you just find it to be very important, but the person around you is just, it just doesn't seem that important. Let me ask you a question. What causes what causes you to feel that something is important and someone else to not feel it so important? Or what causes someone else to feel that something is important and you're not seeing it as all that important. And the answer to that in one word really is perspective, isn't it? It's really a matter of perspective. One person sees something as very important, another person doesn't. And that can be the case with the resurrection. Resurrection, you might say to yourself, the resurrection of Christ, yeah, that's important, but that's not um that's not real super important, or I don't see why it's we're all making this big a deal about that. And you might feel that way. So what is it about the resurrection that's so important? And why is it that some people feel that the resurrection is important and other people may not feel that way? Well, it has to do with perspective, and sometimes what's causing us to not see things as important is is something's clouding our thinking. You ever been driving a car in the dense fog How many of you ever can experience have experienced that before? You're driving through the through dense fog. You ever tried to turn your lights on a higher setting? While you're driving in the car through dense fog, does it work very well? No, because the fog disperses the light. It's as though it does no good at all. In fact, it can make it even worse And some people, it's as though they're living in a fog. They've got clouds of barriers of doubt in their lives. that are keeping them from seeing the light of the resurrection. It's like before it ever gets to them, it's just dispersed, and they really don't see the importance of it. They may not deny that the resurrection exists. They may not deny that Jesus rose from the grave three days later, but for after he dies. But they don't really see the importance of it, the significance of it. They don't really value it and glory in it like perhaps they ought to. And frankly, though someone who knows Christ as their Savior could get to a place spiritually where they really just don't understand or are really not in their spirit valuing the resurrection the way the way that we ought to biblically Well we're going to look into that. We're going to see in Luke 24. The original apostles that were and disciples that were in Luke 24 right after Christ died were were were in a fog, if you will. They were there had clouds of doubt and confusion and all kinds of things, and we're going to see how all that works. And hopefully from the passage, we can learn how to disperse those clouds so that we can really see the light of the resurrection. But before we do, let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, as we come to you this morning, we're thankful for the resurrection. But Lord, it's certainly entirely possible. That for various reasons in our lives, though we are here on Sunday morning in an Easter service, that we're not really we we're here but we don't really and we acknowledge the resurrection but we don't really glory in it. We don't really value it. And today, Father, would you help us as we look at the narrative of the disciples as they are contemplating all of what happened after Christ rose from the grave? Would you help us? to see the importance and the significance of the resurrection this morning. And we pray these things in Christ's name Amen. Well, I want to establish with clarity that the Bible teaches that the resurrection is vitally important. In fact, it is so critical for us to understand this. Christ in his teaching to the disciples in Matthew chapter 16 actually says to the disciples that the church is actually built on the resurrection. It says in that passage, Simon Peter answered and said, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. Jesus answered and said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Bar Jonah, for flesh and blood is not revealed this to you, but the Father, my Father, who is in heaven. And I also say to you that you are Peter and upon this rock and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell will not, or Hades will not prevail against it. And what it's talking about in that passage is actually that the grave will not prevail against the living Christ And that the very foundation of the building of Christ's church is based upon the resurrection itself. But the importance doesn't end there. If you move to the book of Acts and you see the early church, the truth that they they were trying to convince people of was not necessarily the death of Christ that was involved. But they knew that when people saw the truth of the reality of the resurrection, they would immediately see the significance of the death of Christ. I mean, if if Christ truly did bodily, literally rise from the grave, then his death is truly significant and unique. Versus anyone else's death, everybody dies, and that is not particularly unique. And so the the the first century church, they were always emphasizing the resurrection, wanting people to Realize the resurrection. In fact, in order to be an apostle, you actually had to view and actually see the living Christ bodily to be able to attest and witness to the resurrection In Acts 2, verse 31, it says, They foreseeing this spoke concerning the resurrection of Christ, that his soul was not left in hell, nor did his flesh see corruption. He was me talking about the resurrection of Christ, being greatly disturbed that in Acts 4. 2 it says, being greatly disturbed that they taught the people and preached In Jesus, the resurrection of the dead. Almost every chapter in the book of Acts, you see them convincing people of the resurrection, the bodily resurrection of Jesus Christ. And in 1 Corinthians 15, which we read some of those verses earlier in the service, it says, For if the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised? And if Christ be not raised, your faith is in vain, you are yet in your sins. That they also which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are all men most miserable. If Christ is not risen from the grave, if the only hope that we have is this life, and we have no anticipation of our lives being resurrected themselves, then our we are miserable people. But Christ did rise from the grave, didn't he? The passage that we're looking at this morning in Luke 24 is a passage that picks up as uh as the on Sunday essentially it's it's the day where Christ rose from the grave And people are coming, and we are see we'll see in verses 1 through 4 of 24 the first cloud The first cloud that is causing people not to really be able to see the significance of the resurrection. In Luke 24, verse 1, it says Now on the first day of the week, very early in the morning they and certain other women with them came to the tomb bringing the spices which they had prepared. But they found the stone rolled away from the tomb Then they went in and did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. And it happened, as they were greatly perplexed about this, that behold, two men stood by them in shining garments. It says in the passage in verse 4 that they were greatly conf perplexed. They were confused about this. They saw with their own eyes the death of Christ. Some of the people that were that were there. And now he is he is he it's gone. The body's gone. They're confused about it And that really is the first cloud, the first bit of fog, the first barrier for us to really see the significance or even the reality of the resurrection confusion. Confusion is the failure to understand due to unanswered questions. You ever have unanswered questions about the Christian faith? About how God works, about what God is doing, about how He does what He does And those are causing clouds of confusion in your mind that keep you from really seeing the truth of and the value of a living Savior. Confusion is one of the ways that that we find is a barrier, a cloud of doubt. The answer to this is actually the angels that are there tell them Jesus has risen just as he said. He said he was going to rise from the grave, and he's risen just as he said. And at that point, the people that were there, they they thought about it, and that was that was helpful for them. What did Jesus actually say he was going to do? Well in Mark chapter 9, verse 31, it says this, for he taught his disciples and said to them, The Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of men, and they will kill him. And after he is killed, he will rise the third day. Jesus prophesied of his own resurrection, but notice then what they thought. But they did not understand this saying. They didn't understand it. They have no frame of reference for the resurrection. They didn't understand this saying. And you know what it says? They were afraid to ask him. You know, we can be like that, can't we? We have questions we don't really understand, and yet we're afraid to ask And if you know someone who knows the Lord as their Savior, has a good relationship with the Lord, and you and you have questions, you ought not to be afraid to ask. It would have been helpful if the disciples would have just asked, and he could have further explained. They didn't understand then and they were having a hard time understanding now, but they began to put this together, the people that were there And they put these things together. And you find that there's this remedy in verses 8 and 9. It says, and they remembered his words when they returned from the tomb. and told all these things to the eleven and to all the rest. It was Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary the mother of James, and the other women with them who told these things to the apostles. So these were witnesses to the resurrection of the And they went to the apostles. The thing that helped them is that it says they remembered and they they spoke these things. They believed what Jesus has said. They put the things together. And then they went on to the apostles. And that really brings us actually to the next cloud. Cloud number two. The first one is confusion. But when you see the reaction of the disciples to what is being said here, what is being reported to them, you find that the disciples do not believe right away what happened. The apostles don't believe it. Notice what it says in verse 10 of chapter 24. It says, It was Mary Magdalene, well we read that already. Look at verse 11, and their words seemed to the apostles, particularly like idle tales, and they did not believe them. These apostles listen to this eyewit witness account. And they obviously had forgotten the thing that Jesus had prophesied to them as well, and they did not believe. They were skeptical. You ever been skeptical of the truth of God's word or truths that you know to be true? There is a skepticism that can occur that can cloud our thinking from helping us to see the importance of the resurrection of Christ. A skepticism. Well what is this what is skepticism? Skepticism is not being able to believe without being able to perceive from the five senses. In fact, you see that in the passage. Peter doesn't believe, and so he's going to go check this out himself. He's got to go see with his own eyes. He's skeptical. The Bible actually says that, blessed are those who believe and don't see. There is this possibility of really, truly believing Without those feeling it or seeing it or touching it or tasting it or smelling it. Skepticism happens when we refuse to believe what God says is true Because we can't perceive it with one of the five senses. And the Bible says in Hebrews 11, verse 1: now faith is the substance of things hoped for. The evidence of things not seen. If we're going to truly believe and please the Lord with our belief, we're going to have to understand that there are things that simply can't be seen. And faith, by its definition, are believing in those things that can't be seen. Then there's this other cloud that happens. There are a couple of disciples, and they're on what is known as the road to Emmaus, about a seven-mile journey, and they're they're walking along and they're discussing what has occurred Uh perhaps they're talking about the fact that these women, Mary Magdalene and others that were there with them, um Mary the Mother of James and others that were there, uh saw the uh the the the witness that the there were eyewitness accounts of the resurrection and and they're discussing all of this and um and then Jesus appears to them on that road but he he veils the fact that he is who he He really is. In other words, they see him, but they don't really understand who he really is from the scene. We find the scene in verses 13 through through through 35. of this passage, and we won't read all the verses for sake of time. But it says in verse 15 and 16, Jesus is speaking, Jesus is there with them. It says, and so it was while they conversed and reasoned that Jesus himself drew near and went with them. But their eyes were restrained so that they did not know him. And there is a very important reason. We'll learn later why Jesus did this. But there's a very important reason why Jesus did this. Why Jesus uh kept them from seeing who he really was until later. But there was a reason for for the fact that they didn't they didn't really grasp what was going on The fact is these two disciples were discouraged. It says in the passage, see, what they expected was that Jesus would come and Jesus would set up his kingdom and they would rule with them. They were expecting a kingdom takeover. That's not what happened. Their expectations weren't met. And when their expectations weren't met, they became discouraged. You know what discouragement is? Discouragement is really an overwhelming sense of emotion because of the questions that you might be facing and the unrealized expectations that you face. Just think about the times, perhaps, that you have been discouraged. Maybe you've been discouraged because you expected God to work a certain way, and God didn't work the way that you expected. Perhaps you have a conception of God in your mind, one who is all-loving, and he certainly is. But one that perhaps you haven't factored in his justice and some of his other character qualities, and because of that you have a conception of God and there are things that happen, you go, I don't know how in the world This could happen if God is truly a loving God and you become discouraged because your expectation of God does not meet what you're seeing in the world. Discouragement comes really from three different areas. The problem of discouragement is significant. Among those who know Christ is their Savior, and among those who don't, the the problems are significant. Number one, discouragement comes from unrealized expectations. Number two, discouragement comes from misplaced expectations. So some you're certain certain things happen that you don't expect to happen, and other times you're expecting something to happen and it doesn't happen. And sometimes discouragement causes just really causes us to lose hope. You ever been in a place in your life where you you're so used to expecting things? And so often you're let down that it's like you're you're afraid to you're afraid to expect anymore You become cynical is the word, actually. It's going beyond discouragement to a place of cynicism, which is actually very dangerous. But discouragement is something that we all face and that we can all feel. And folks, the answer to that biblically is that we must find our expectation from God Himself. In other words, if we will re if we will put our expectations aside, you know, I think, I suspect that the reason the disciples really didn't understand that Jesus was going to die and that Jesus was going to rise again the way it happened. The reason was because they had in their own mind what they thought was going to happen. They thought he was going to inaugurate his his kingdom on earth. They thought this is what was going to happen And because they had in their own mind, their own expectations, they were clouded and they couldn't see what was really taking place and what did take place And they were discouraged as a result of it. In Psalm 62, verses 5 through 8, it says, My soul, wait thou only upon God. For my expectation is from him. He only is my rock and my salvation. He is my defense. I shall not be moved. And God is my salvation and my glory. The rock of my strength and my refuge is in God. Trust in Him at all times, you people. Pour out your heart before Him. God is a refuge for us. This passage teaches us how we can be sure that God is our refuge. It only happens when we see, when we when we will lay aside our own expectations. And allow God to be God in our lives and and allow Him to be our expectation. Just Him. Nothing else And simply allow him to do what he wants to with us, the way he chooses. And that's exactly what you find in the passage. God is doing what he wants to do the way he chooses. He's unfolding his plan his way, and the disciples have to come to the place where they are adjusting to God's plan. And you'll see that in a few moments. The problem of discouragement, that cloud of discouragement. Where does all of this all of these barriers come from? Where's the root cause of them? And I want to suggest to you the root cause we find in this passage. Jesus actually appears. We're going to skip some parts and we're going to come back for in a few moments, but later on in the passage, Jesus actually appears to the disciples. And when he appears to the disciples, we find in verse 36 what occurs. Verse 36, it says, Now as they said these things, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them. And said to them, Peace to you, but they were terrified and frightened, and supposed that they had seen a spirit. And he said to them, Why are you troubled? And why do doubts arise in your hearts? Do you see the problem? Jesus nails it. He says, you're troubled, you're fearful, and and and and those things are doubts are arising in your hearts. Folks, the root problem of all of these clouds of skepticism and discouragement and confusion and all of these things, folks, it really has to do with fear. The problem, the primary problem is fear. And Jesus asks the question, why are you so afraid? Well, what would we just respond to? How would we respond to that question? Well, it's obvious in the text, folks, that they're really not trusting God. Not trusting his plan. They're not trusting his way. Why are you afraid? The Bible says in 1 John 4, verse 15, there is, actually verse 18, there is no fear in love. But perfect love casteth out fear, because fear has torment. He that feareth is made, is not made perfect in love. To be made uh fee there is no fear in love. If fear is the root of discouragement and and and and skepticism and confusion, if that that is the root Well then the problem, folks, is that we're not seeing the love of God the way we ought. And actually, perhaps we're not loving God in return the way that we ought. Because there is no fear in love. Their focus is clouded. There's confusion and discouragement But I want you to notice how Jesus so masterfully deals with all of this. He's going to deal with this. But before we see that, I want you to see, I want you to see in the passage what doesn't work. And I think that Christ perhaps does it first this way to prove it won't work. You remember before you talk about He doesn't reveal who He is? And now then later on in the passage, we saw that he revealed who he is. See, we must recognize what will cut through the clouds of doubt. It's vitally important that we do that. And we see what doesn't work in verse 38 of the passage. He says, we'll pick up, he said unto them, Why are you troubled and why do doubts arise in your hearts? Then he says, look at me, look, behold my hands and my feet, that is myself. Handle me and see, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones is as you see I have. He says, use some of your five sentence and see and feel. When he said this The Bible says he showed them his hands and his feet, but while they still did not believe for joy and marveled. The word marveled means again to be confused or perplexed. They see the hands, they touch the hands, they see Christ bodily, they're perceiving with his senses, and they're still not believing. There's a reason, folks, that Jesus does what he does in this passage. Because we have got to understand how faith comes. And you're going to see it clearly So we're back to the scene on the with the disciples on the road to Emmaus. Remember, Christ hadn't really revealed them, and finally he breaks bread with them, he does the Lord's Supper with them, and then they realize who he is And in commenting on who Jesus is when they realize it, I want you to notice what it says in verse 25. It says, Then he said to them, O foolish ones, and slow of heart, to believe in all the prophets have spoken Ought not the Christ to have suffered these things to enter into his glory? And then what Jesus did with them is he began, it says, and beginning at Moses, that's in the Old Testament, the first five books of the Old Testament And all the prophets, that's the end of the of the Old Testament. So he's going through the Old Testament explaining these things. He expounded to them in the all in all the scriptures the things concerning himself How is it that he gets these people from discouragement and perplexing and confusion and all these things to a place of faith? He uses the Word of God. Jesus does this. When they realize who Jesus really is, they say to themselves, look at verse 31, they say to themselves, then their eyes were opened, and they knew him, and he vanished from their sight. And then it says this, and they said to one another, verse 32, did not our heart burn within us? He talked with us on the road while he opened the scriptures to us. Did you catch that? See, this is the way the Word of God works in the life of a person to bring true faith in them. The word of God penetrates the truth of the Word of God, penetrates their heart. And it says their heart burn within them. That's the Spirit of God using the Word of God to show them the significance of the truth of the Word of God. And as they saw that, they they they had true, genuine belief. The Bible says In Romans 10, verses 14 through 17, that that's exactly how faith, true, genuine faith comes. In that passage, it says, How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach until they are sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the gospel of peace, who bring glad tidings of good things, but they have not all obeyed the gospel, for Isaiah says Lord, who has believed our report? So then faith comes by hearing the preaching of the Word of God. That's how faith comes. It is God's method by which Faith comes. Jesus in this passage, he preaches to the disciples. How does faith come? And frankly, this is for the believer or the unbeliever, both. How does faith come in the life of the unbeliever? The preaching of the gospel. How does faith grow in the life of the believer? The preaching of the gospel. And as the gospel is preached, Jesus chose this method, this way, for faith to come and to be implanted in the disciples. So that faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. And I would simply ask this question to you this morning. Actually, I have a few questions. Number one, what is clouding your spiritual senses? See, what we're talking about today is a bodily reality, that literal reality, that Christ rose from the grave bodily. This was not just some spiritual thing that happened. It was a a the the the tomb is empty. There is a a literal bodily resurrection that occurred 2,000 years ago But it has to be believed spiritually. So what is it that's clouding your spiritual senses? Perhaps it's discouragement. There's misplaced expectations in your life that causing doubt, fear. Perhaps it's skepticism or confusion, those kinds of things. Folks, if that's the case, the answer is going to always be the same for each one. You have to be under the preaching of the Word of God. And you have to allow the Word, the truth of the Word of God to penetrate your heart and your soul so that you can grow in your faith. That's how faith comes, according to the Word of God. The next question I would have is, have you received the word which is intended to clear the fog of doubt and fear? Have you been readily receiving the word of truth? That's God's way of piercing through this fog, these clouds. It's through the Word of God. The Bible says then also that once we have the Word of God penetrating our hearts, there is no question then we will see the significance of the resurrection. And I want to ask this question, do you this morning see the significance of the resurrection? It is important. It's vital. There is no other doctrine combined with the death of Christ in the atoning work that is in any way more important than this You see, the problem is that we are born dead in our sin. The Bible says this. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 4, it says But God, who is, well, it says earlier than that, it says that we are dead in our trespasses and sins. Actually, verse 5 says this in Ephesians 2. But God is rich in mercy because his great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in trespasses, it then says we were made alive together with Christ. And raised us up together and made us sit together in the heavenly places in Christ. See, we are born spiritually dead because of sin. The sin, the Bible says, is passed down from one generation to another, from Adam on. Wherefore, if by one man sin entered the world, and death by sin, and therefore death passed upon all men. And that all of sin. In fact, you want to verify this? Just look at your life. If you want to see whether you're a dead in sin or not, just look at your life and you're going to find sin, right? All of us will. The Bible says all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. But the Bible says that Jesus, that the the that the wages of sin is death, that Jesus that we are separated from God because of our sin. And that Jesus died to take our punishment from us in our place. So that we could have our sins forgiven and that Jesus could give us his righteousness. And because Jesus rose from the grave, he was made alive. And we can be made alive as well. So that he raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places. The Bible is very clear, as we have seen before, for since by man came death, By man came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. But every man in his own order, Christ the first fruits. Afterwards they that are Christ's at his coming. So my final question is this. Do you know without a doubt that you will spend eternity with God, that you have eternal resurrection life? Common thought today is that you you can't really know that. You really don't know if you have eternal life. The Bible says something different. It says in 1 John 5, these things are written that ye may know that you have eternal life. The word of God is there so that you cannot wonder or hope so, so that you can know so And you can actually leave today confident that you have eternal life. And if you are not confident of this, if you say, you know, I've got questions, I I am I am foggy in my thinking. I really don't understand things. I'm a little confused. Can I encourage you to come and talk with either me after the service? Or maybe there's a friend that you know in the uh that that is really really has a good relationship with the Lord that you'd be comfortable with. Maybe one of our greeters as they as you came in, you could talk to one of them And we'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can truly have eternal life. The Bible says it is free for all those who will place their faith and trust in Christ. And that would be a day, if that were the case in your life, you would be able to greatly rejoice in the resurrection of Christ. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for the resurrection. We thank you for the truth of your word. And Lord, I pray this morning that there may be people here whose faith is waning, or perhaps there has never been faith at all. And they're struggling with this matter of faith because of perhaps things that they have perceived, or questions that they have, confusion or skepticism. Or doubt, ultimately fear. I pray that you and your spirit, Lord, would work in their hearts May their hearts burn within them because of the truth of the word of God that was preached even this morning. It's not my words. It's your word. Father, I pray, Lord, that you would work in the hearts of anyone here that doesn't have assurance of knowing where they will spend eternity. May today be a day that they would come to assurance of these things. Father, we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen.