Do you have a fairly compare? I mean compared and prepared code and appear well. We can go to that going and company. I was doing it all. I think it really could be if I did fire again. Okay, I think we use a table. And then we're going to be able to do that. Man, you may be seated. Take your Bibles and turn to Luke this evening. Luke chapter 11. And tonight we're going to be looking at a basically a two-part series on prayer, probably two parts. We'll look at prayer tonight and understanding what prayer is from what Scripture says and understanding the nature of prayer. And next week we will look at, next Wednesday we'll look at very specific application of corporate prayer. What should corporate prayer look like in a local church? I uh took this book on vacation with me to read. It is on prayer, and I didn't read it on vacation. We had a problem on vacation actually. Um uh you couldn't sit on the beach and read because they had biting flies almost every day. So you could you could be in the ocean, you could be swimming around, but you couldn't just sit on the beach without even bug spray didn't completely resolve the problem. And uh so sitting on the beach and letting my kids play and reading was not something I did very much. So I didn't get nearly as much reading as I d uh as I wanted to done. But I did enjoy uh time with my family, so it was it was still a A good thing. But this book, this is a very, very uh easy read. It's like 130 pages. It's excellent. I would highly recommend it. It's called Prayer, the How Praying Together Shapes the Church. It's by John, and his last name is harder to pronounce than even mine. So I won't on Wachek on Wachekwa. On what sequa. So anyway, um uh but I would I would it's excellent book. I and some of the things that we'll talk about tonight come from that. Uh it it's it's Of course we're we're going to be primarily coming from scripture, but uh some of the insights that he brings out we'll we'll mention tonight as as well as next week. Uh we'll get more into it next week actually, what he he talks about and how how prayer uh what what corporate prayer should really look like. We're in Luke 11, a very familiar passage to us because it's the passage on on one of the passages uh that talk about the Lord's prayer, or we could say it this way, the disciples' prayer. This is the the model prayer that Christ uh gave When the disciples asked them to ask him to teach them how to pray. He said, Lord, teach us to pray. And when that happened, this was the response. And so we're going to go through this, and in fact, actually let's read the passage together. It says, beginning in verse 1, it says, Now it came to pass as he was praying in a certain place. When he ceased, that one of his disciples said to him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples. So he said to them, When you pray, say, Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and give us our sin and forgive us our sins as we also forgive everyone who is indebted to us. And do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. And he said to them, Which of you shall have a friend, and go to him at midnight and say to it to him, Friend, lend me three loaves. For a fr uh, and I have nothing to set before him. And he will answer from within and say Do not trouble me, the door is now shut, and my children are in bed, are with me in bed. I cannot rise and give to you. I say to you, though he will not rise and give to him because he is his friend, yet because of his persistence, he will rise and give him as many as he needs. So I say to you, ask, and it will be given to you Seek and you will find. Knock, and it will be open to you. For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it will be opened If a son asks for bread from any father among you, will he give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will he give him a serpent instead of a fish? Or if he asks for it for an egg, will he offer him a scorpion? If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly father give the the Holy Spirit to those who ask him. What we need to do is go to the Lord in prayer and ask his blessing on our time together. Father, as we come to your word this morning or this evening rather, I pray, Lord, that it would help us, teach us. Lord, we need to learn how to pray just as the disciples did. And I pray, Lord, that as we go through your word, that you would help us to see exactly what your plan is for prayer and how prayer is supposed to be Really, the very breadth of our lives. Help us understand this, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. I don't know about you, but um I have I I have all kinds of what if questions in my mind. As I go through life. What if this? What if that? What if I would have done this? What if I would have done that? What's gonna happen here? What's gonna happen there? What if If questions. How many of you all struggle with what if questions? Any anybody struggle with what if questions Uh all the time I struggle with these kind of questions. Wha you know, a am I raising my children right? What kind of responsi am I fulfilling my responsibility, my kids? Am I are my kids learning what they need to learn? Are they getting their getting educated correctly? Are they getting the the gospel like they should? Am I raising are they getting a good example from me? Or in ministry, are we growing like we should? Or why aren't we growing as well as we should? Am I preaching well? Are people understanding what I'm saying? I mean there all kinds of things go through a my go go through my mind. And I don't think you're any different. And then COVID hit. And then I'm sort of going, oh boy, how do I do ministry when I'm not sure what these regulations are supposed to be and what they're not and whether people actually want to meet with me or whether they're They don't want to meet with me and I mean all of these questions go through about how do I fulfill my responsibility as a pastor uh in meeting with people and loving people. How am I supposed to love people? How am I supposed to reach the community our how is our church supposed to reach the community for Christ When we don't even know if we're really even supposed to be able to touch like rub shoulders with people, definitely you aren't actually supposed to rub shoulders with people and then would people should do they really want us to rub shoulders with them or not? And if you're not going to I mean it goes on and on. Those are the kinds of things that I rus wrestle with in my mind, and I think you do too. Maybe not those particular questions, but you have questions about your kids or your family or p parents or or whatever and and and am I doing the right thing and maybe I'm failing or what all those kinds of things. And I it the thing about it is this All of those questions really should be answered with one simple word, and that's prayer. It all boils down to prayer. And I want to show you this tonight, that that's the c that that that's the case. That that really, uh as Ian Baum said He's uh or as actually as uh John uh this guy John which I can't remember pronounce his last name very well, he says, prayer is oxygen for the Christian It sustains us. So it follows that prayer must be a source of life for any community of Christians. It must be a source of life for any community of Christians. And that did cause me to ask the question, is that the case in our lives, not just as individuals, but as our as our church as Would we see prayer as the source of life? Or do we see it as just something we sort of tack on? Something we just do every once in a while to make ourselves feel like we're, okay, I got that checked off the list. Ian Bound said this about prayer. He said, so we come to one Of the crying evil of these times, maybe of all times, little or no praying. Of these two evils, little or no praying, he says, perhaps little praying is worse than no praying. Little praying is a kind of make-believe, a salvo for the conscience, a farce and a and a delusion. The little estimate we put on prayer is from From the time we give it is is from the time we give to it. This idea of prayer being the very breath that we breathe, being the very life Of ourselves as individuals, as Christians, as well as the church. We think of our corporate setting it on Sunday mornings and on Wednesday night prayer meeting and all those kinds of things. Are we really Are we do we really consider prayer to be essential? I like what he said in the book, prayer and preaching go together like meat and potatoes The meat is the Word of God and the preaching is the Word of God the preaching of the Word of God, that's the meat. But the potatoes really complement the meat. We had meat Y yesterday I think? And Elizabeth uh uh well we had it was fish. It's kind of meat. And uh and we had the day before we had roast And uh and we had potatoes. And they were great potatoes. And uh uh I mean I I at first I one day she was Elizabeth said she was just gonna do meat and vegetables And I'm like, that's good. But like you're missing something without the potato. And and so and I know why she's not doing the potatoes, because she looks at me and says, You gain weight on vacation, you don't need potatoes It's really true. But anyway, um all that to say this, that do we really consider prayer to be almost as essential as the preaching I think that as a church we uh we understand the essential nature of the preaching of the Word of God But I would just to some I mean to to to uh a great degree but I think that that this is an area prayer is an area that we really need to consider it to be, both as individuals and as a church, to be a more essential area in our lives. Well, the first thing to really understand is what prayer is. And I want to actually suggest to you that prayer is not merely talking with God. Now you may have heard that definition before Prayers talking with God. Well, there's a problem with that definition. Here's the problem. The disciples came in Luke chapter 11 to Jesus. Notice what it says. Now it came to pass as he was praying in a certain place when he s when he ceased that uh when he ceased that one of his disciples said to him, Lord, teach us to pray Now here's what Jesus didn't say. Well, you've been talking to me all along. I'm God, you've been talking to me all along, and so you have been pranked. Is that what Jesus said? No, Jesus didn't say that. Jesus said, when you pray, this is what you say. Now, he wasn't saying very he was giving a pattern for how to pray, and we understand that But he didn't say, well, you've been talking to me all along. That's what prayer is. Prayer is talking to God. No, prayer includes talking to God, but prayer is more than just talking to God. There's something more that God has in mind when we think of prayer. And I want us to make sure that we understand this. And what I'd like us to do, uh in in kind of thinking through this is there are four aspects of prayer. And you may want to write these down. I didn't prepare a pr a PowerPoint tonight, but you may w I really would encourage you actually to write these down. And I actually would ask you to take your Bibles and turn to Genesis chapter 1 and And we're going to start in verse 26. And we're going to flip around a little bit here as we go through this passage. But Genesis chapter 1, 26. And I want us to understand four very, very valuable um descriptions of what prayer is. And I want to begin with this idea. Number one, prayer is God's prescription for life in a fallen world. Prayer is God's, is God's prescription for life in a fallen world. In Genesis chapter 1, verse 26 through 28, we have this Great foundational passage where God creates man, mankind, people in his image. And he gives them the responsibility to have dominion. We have this great plan of God to have this relationship with with his creation, uh his special creation, mankind. And we find then in Genesis chapter 3, verses 1 through 14 that What happens? Well, Adam and Eve, they blow it, right? We know that that's the fall. That's when sin enters into the issue. And so now sin corrupts and sin causes problems with God's original design of us being in um in fellowship with him. And notice in Genesis chapter 1, it says this verse 26, and God said to them, let us make man in our image. According to our likeness, let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps from the earth. Notice that God says in verse twenty-six That he is establishing a dominion. In other words, he's establishing a kingdom. And we are actually the rulers of this kingdom. We're to have dominion over the world. Then all people are. And then there's 28. How are we supposed to, what's supposed to happen in this kingdom? Then God blessed them and said and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it. They're supposed to be fruitful, they're supposed to multiply, they're supposed to have kids who have kids, who have kids who have kids, who have lots of kids. Populates the earth, and to subdue it and have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over every living thing that moves on the earth. And you have this problem in chapter 3 That's the fall of man. And then you have in chapter 4, we pick up here, oh actually, chapter verse, very important verse, very pivotal verse, chapter 3, verse 15. What does chapter 3 verse 15 say? It says, I will create enmities between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed. What's going to happen? Christ is going to bruise the head of Satan. Chapter 3, verse 15. We won't get into all of that, but basically what you have is the very roots of the gospel, that God is going to make a provision to set his creation right His creation has fallen, and now he's going to set up make a provision for that. Okay, and that's the gospel. And we're moving quickly here because I want to get to a very important point. In Genesis chapter 4, we actually have the first time prayer is mentioned. It's actually mentioned in verse 26, but I want to set it up this way. What happens in Genesis chapter 4? You have two two characters, two major characters, who are they? Cain and Abel, right? What happens with Cain and Abel? Well, Cain kills off Abel. Was that supposed to happen? Cain is then cursed, he's punished, and he sort of set aside Why? Why did this happen? Because of what? Chapter 3. The fall. The fall is why it's happened. Understand Now, they're living in a fallen world, and when and Cain and Abel didn't do what God originally intended for them to do in chapter one, right? He didn't do what they intended them what he intended them to do. Okay, with that in mind, then Adam and Eve don't only have have uh have Cain and Abel, there's somebody else That comes along. Look at Genesis chapter 4, verse 25. And Adam knew his wife again, and she bore a son named and named him who? Seth, for God has appointed another seed for me instead of Abel. Why? whom Cain killed. God had originally intended for a uh for Abel to to make to provide for that another a seed. That didn't work because Cain killed them off because of sin. And as for Seth, to him also a son was born, and his name was Enosh. Then notice what it says here. Catch this. Then men began to what? To call on the name of the Lord. Did you catch that? Then men began to call upon the name of the Lord. You catch what's happening here? You want to define prayer? That's what prayer is. It is to call on the name of the Lord. That's what prayer is. Prayer is a plea, a call for help. Now understand the context. This is a call for help. This is a 911 kind of a call for help. Why? Because sin is such a problem and we're living in a fallen world And it's not going the way God originally said it was commanded for it to go. And so we need the gospel to be applied. We need to God to fulfill his gospel promise To continue a godly seed. And that's in Seth, and then later on, eventually, even all the way to Christ. You catch this? So prayer is God's prescription for life in a fallen world. Number two, prayer is the hope between the already and the not yet. Prayer is the hope between the already and the not yet. Let me explain the already and the not yet. Have you heard that phrase before? The already and the not yet? That's what we're living in. In fact, that's what the Old Testament believers were living in as well. They were living in the already and not yet. The already back then was what? Was creation. And what were they looking forward to? The not yet, the Messiah. Well, we're still living in the already, the Messiah has come, but the not yet, the coming of Christ. In the already, but the not yet, which is what we're living in, we still have this constant problem of living in a fallen world. And folks, what then is the solution to that? Well, it's the gospel is the solution, right? The gospel is the solution to sin. It's the only solution to sin. Well, how is how do we participate in the gospel? And the answer is prayer. Now, here's what prayer does. Prayer gives us hope. It is the hope. Prayer is the hope between the already and the not yet. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Psalm? Psalm 13, Psalm 13. Hope is the prayer is the hope between the already and the not yet. And I want you to see. That David is longing for God to fulfill his promise. What is prayer? It is a call on God, it is a call for help from God. To fulfill his gospel promise. And it brings us hope. Notice in Psalm 13 What David says, how long, O Lord, will you forget me forever? Have you ever been there I mean, look at how despondent he is. He is flat on his face before God. He says, I feel, God, like you've totally abandoned me. I feel like you have forgotten me completely. He says, Lord, how long are you just going to forget me? Now, has God forgotten him? No, God hasn't forgotten him, but that's the way he feels. Isn't it wonderful that God gave us a book of the Bible A long, the longest book of the Bible that talks a lot about how someone feels toward God and can feel toward God, even a godly man like David, and David does How long, O Lord, will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? How long Shall I take counsel in my soul? How having sorrow in my own heart daily? How long will my enemy be exalted over me Consider and hear me, O Lord my God, enlighten my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death, lest my enemies say, I have prevailed against him Lest those who trouble me rejoice when I am moved. But that's a big word. Number verse 5. I have what? I have trusted in your mercy. My heart shall rejoice in your what? In your salvation, I will sing to the Lord, because he has dealt bountifully with me. What is Psalm 13? What is it? Look back at verse 1 and tell me what it is. How long, O Lord, what is that? It's a prayer. It's exactly what it is. It's prayer How is it that in a few short verses, six short verses, a man goes from, God, you've forgotten me? To God, my heart shall rejoice in your salvation. I will sing to the Lord, you've dealt bountifully with me. How does somebody go from God, you've forgotten me to Lord, you're bountiful with me? The answer is prayer. It is a call on God to fulfill His gospel promises. And when you call on God There is this expected hope that God will, in his way, not my way, but in his way, he is going to fulfill his gospel promise To deliver me from this problem of sin. So prayer number three, we now move in the New Testament. Number three, prayer is asking. Prayer is asking. Matthew chapter 6, verse 7, it says, and when we when you pray When you pray, use not vain repetitions as the heathen do, for they think that they shall be heard for much speaking, but uh being uh Be not therefore like unto them, for your father knows what things you have need of before you ask Prayer is asking. Now, the question then would become, what are we supposed to ask for? Keep that in your mind because we're learning what we're supposed to ask for. But understand number three, prayer is asking. Number four, prayer is actively engaging in God's will. Prayer is actively engaging in God's will. John chapter 15, verse 8 says, Here and is my Father glorified. that ye bear much fruit, so shall ye be my disciples. Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you and ordained you that you should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain How does your fruit remain and that whatsoever you shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it to you. So prayer is glor is intended, it has it's actually a purpose to glorify God is both its purpose and its condition. I need to come to God wanting whatever I'm asking for to glorify Him. That's the purpose. And it's also the condition. In other words, I'm asking That he would be glorified. Otherwise, the prayer is not a godly biblical prayer. Now, with that in mind, then let's then move to the next point here And the next point here is this. What exact what am I supposed to ask for? I mean, there's all kinds of things that we can ask for. But of course, James chapter 4 says that there's a way to ask wrongly. The Bible says you can ask amiss. There's a wrong way to ask. There's a wrong thing to ask for. So what are we supposed to ask for? And in John in Luke chapter eleven, verses nine through thirteen, we actually have. So skip down there if you're in Luke, uh chapter eleven, that's where our text is tonight, and you look at nine through thirteen. And you have some things going on here that are going to help us with this. And you'll notice just a few things about this passage. Number one, you've got this paternal comparison. That he is our father. And just as a father desires to give to his children, so God desires to give good things to those who ask. Notice that. So when we ask God, when we call on God for help to fulfill his gospel promises in our lives. When we do that, then we are calling on a God who loves us and wants to fulfill those promises. Number two, the request for bread is physical need. We've got this request for bread. So it includes what are we supposed to ask for? Well it includes physical needs And then also in 11, 9 through 13 it says, If ye then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more shall your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to them who ask? It's also spiritual needs as well. It's both physical and spiritual needs. So we're talking here about something that we need. We're asking, we're calling on God for something that we really need. That's why it says in Hebrews chapter 4, verse 7. 16. Let us there come boldly unto the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of what? In time of need. Now, the problem becomes why do we not pray enough? Sometimes it's because we we can't discern our own needs. In Revelation 3, verse 17, that was exactly the problem. It says, Because thou sayest, I am rich and increase with goods, and have need of nothing. And know not that thou art that you are wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. Revelation 3. 17, it's talking about the lukewarm person Who thinks he's in need of nothing? He can't tell he's in need of anything. Folks, are we needy people? Every one of us are needy people. We live in a fallen world. We live in a sinful world. Our own hearts are sinful. Our hearts deceive us. Every one of us are needy people. And it is a travesty when we think we're not or we can't tell our own needs. Why don't we pray, or why do we have a casual, why do we, you know, as Ian Baum said, or why do we pray? Two problems are we don't pray or we pray a little because we're not overwhelmed with our own need If you are here tonight and you know how needy you are, you are exactly in the place where God wants you to be to be able to pray. That's what we saw with David, right, in Psalm 13. Here's a man who is in need. He feels like God's abandoned him. He's needy. Then we see, so what is a spiritual need? That becomes the next question. What's the need? Well, we look back at Luke chapter 11, and we actually find what a need is. In fact, We'll look at verse 2 here and we're going to see what this need is. Now I want you to remember again that I said in the beginning that prayer is asking. And when we read the Lord's Prayer, or really better described as the disciples' prayer, when we read this prayer that Christ gave as a pattern for his disciples. We come to this to verse 2, and it says, When you pray, say, and from everything beyond that, our Father, which are our Father, after our Father, which are in heaven, addressing who we're talking to. It's the Father, our Heavenly Father. After that, everything is a is a is a is a request. Every single thing that we have here is a request. It is asking. But folks, it's more than just, Lord, if you feel like it, would you do this? Lord, uh what do you think about this? It doesn't read that way. Look at it. Hallowed be your name. Would your name be hallowed? We are calling on you for your name to be hollowed, to be holy in the earth, to be identifiable. Your kingdom come. We are calling on you to bring forth your kingdom in our world, your rule in our world. Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. All three of those things are requests. They're all asking So what do we see here? We see that a real need, a real need is something that needs to happen in order to further God's kingdom. And you know why sometimes we don't see our need? We don't see our need because we're not kingdom-focused. We don't see our need because we're not really looking to further God's kingdom. If we're not look really looking to further God's kingdom, then we're not going to see our need. And if we're not looking to for if we think we have a need, but we're not looking to further God's kingdom, then we're going to ask amiss. Because we're trying to fulfill the needs the way we want to fulfill them instead of how God wants to fulfill them. So God says here that we need to pray according to God's kingdom. According to what would fulfill, what would restore. Go back all the way to Genesis chapter 1. What did God say were created for what? To establish a kingdom, to establish dominion One day Christ is going to come and what is Christ going to do? He's going to do what? Establish his kingdom. All things will be set right. And you and I, if we know Christ as our Lord and Savior, are part of that kingdom. And we're hopeful. We're looking to the day where that's going to happen. Where faith becomes sight. Where we're living in a fallen world now. We're in the already, but not yet, but there's gonna be a day. So how do we deal with that? Well, we don't deal with that by trying to make ourselves as comfortable as possible. I love what uh I was listening to an interview, very a short part of an interview uh um by um Tripp. Um The one with the that wears goofy stuff. Yeah, uh yeah, Paul Paul David, I think. And he said, the the time God did not call us between the already and not yet to be comfortable. He didn't call us to this time for comfort. He doesn't want it to be comfortable. He wants it to be transformative. In the time between the already and the not yet, how is it that we are going to be transformed? It is through prayer. And that's how fruitfulness, true fruitfulness in ministry comes. Paul says this in Philippians chapter 1, verse 6, he prays. That they would be filled with the fruits of righteousness. Christ says in John 15, hearing of my Father glorified, that you bear much fruit. How are we fruitfulness in ministry? How are we fruitful in the lives of our kids? How are we fruitful in all these ways? It's through prayer. Well, okay, very specifically then, let's look at the passage again. We're in Luke chapter 11, and I want to give you three clear needs. These are these are general categories of things that that are could be deficient That need to be to occur in order for the furtherance of God's kingdom. Number one is provision. He says, verse 3, give us this day our daily pro daily bread. And I don't alliterate very often, but these are alliterated so you can remember them. And actually, I I hardly ever alliterate because I have I don't like it very much. But um these these um and I can go into explain why, but that would be a rabbit trail. Okay, but these words are actually really good And I didn't come up with them as they're from this book, so that's why they're illiterate. Anyway, provision, number one. Number two, pardon. Look at what it says, verse 4 And forgive us our sins as we also forgive everyone who is indebted to us. Do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from evil. So you have provision You have pardon, forgiveness, and number three, protection. Provision, pardon, and protection. And did you know? Now remember, the goal of all of these, provision, pardon, and protection, is not for me to be comfortable. It's not for me to get what I want. It's for the furtherance of God's kingdom, which, by the way, the happiest you'll be in life is when you stop pursuing your own happiness and pursue God's kingdom. But when you're pursuing God's kingdom, when you pray for provision, for pardon, and for protection, Those are the three things in the passage. And those are the things that we ought to be praying for. Lord, would you provide for my family for the For furtherance of God's kingdom, of your kingdom, in ways that would further your kingdom. And Lord, not based upon what I want, or not based upon some whim or what I think you might do, but based upon Gospel promise that the guy it is the gospel that brings forth the kingdom, and it is the gospel that that these provisions are needed. Even our daily bread is needed in order for the gospel to go forward. Provision, pardon, and protection. Lord, keep us from temptation. Lord, protect us From evil, from calamity. That is the prayer that is a pattern for us. Now we're going to get into them more next week. There are four kinds of prayers. We won't hit that tonight. And then we're going to talk about And then we're going to talk about uh how this sh what this should look like in a corporate setting. By the way, there's one thing I haven't mentioned yet and I want to mention at this point. I want you to notice the very first word in this prayer that Christ prays. He says, when you pray, say, and what's the next word? It's our. And through this he says, our Father, which art in heaven. Do you know that when you think of prayer, you know, we we're so individualistic in our culture When we think of prayer, we almost always think of it as an individual thing. Do you know that prayer is more often mentioned corporately than individually, the Bible? It is more of a corporate thing than an individual thing. It's both, and don't get me wrong, it's definitely both. But it's more frequently mentioned, the concept of prayer is more frequently mentioned in the New Testament, particularly As a corporate thing. Prayer is something that a church ought to be living and breathing. And so I need to stop because we need to pray, don't we? Be kind of remiss if we didn't pray after talking about prayer. Let me give you three gospel applications to sum all this up. Ready? Number one Prayer calls on God to execute His gospel promises in our earthly circumstances. Prayer calls, and I'll give you these next week as well, but prayer calls on God to execute his gospel promises in our earthly circumstances. Number two, prayer applies future hope in the midst of present need. Did you catch that? Are you struggling with hope? Prayer applies future hope in the midst of present need. And number three, prayer results in fruitful ministry in God's way and in God's timing. Prayer results in fruitful ministry in God's way in God's timing. And what we're going to do now is we're going to pray, but we're going to do something a little different tonight as we go to corporate prayer. I would encourage you to get your prayer get a prayer list. There are some available right out here. You can grab one. Feel free to do that if you'd like. Or it has been emailed to you if you prefer to have it on your phone. Here's what we're going to do tonight, though. We are I we are going to ask for