Proverbs chapter one, we're going to start our series in Proverbs tonight. And I want, but yeah, I can't remember that. Proverbs chapter one. Teams are up here. We have a team run now. There you go. All right, Proverbs chapter one. How many of you all like to play volleyball? Alright, a little bit name right, not sure. but okay. I really enjoy volleyball. I grew up playing volleyball in um I I grew up playing playing volleyball. Uh my my grandparents had a pool in their backyard in a large backyard and they would have pool parties over there and uh we would play volleyball one we could do a poll party, that kind of stuff. We I grew up doing a lot of that. And uh, you know, a pool volleyball game is a little different than a uh a pool volleyball game is a little different than other kinds of volleyball. Can you turn me down a little bit, Dave? I'm I'm too hot. Um and um because if you if you go to like a profession if you watch a profession professional volleyball player volleyball team play, it's a little different. Um I s went to high school and they used to like to play volleyball and we used to occa occasionally go into v volleyball tournament tournaments and things sort of I w we went to Washington Bible College one time and did a tournament and things like that, I remember. And one of the things I they asked me if I knew how to play bo uh volleyball when I first went to that school in high school and I said, Yeah sure I know how to play volleyball And I got on that volleyball team and I'm just hitting it over and they're getting mad at me. They're coming to me and I'm hitting it over. I'm thinking, I'm doing fine. I'm just I'm hitting it over, it's getting over. What's the problem? Anyone know what the problem was? I wasn't setting it up. And they had a real problem because I had a real problem. I had to learn to set and then often maybe a double set or set and spike. And so you're going to be far better at volleyball if you learn to set and spike than if you're just hitting it over. Right? I mean that just makes sense. You can you can accurately put it exactly where you want it and that kind of thing. And so And so what Proverbs is here is a passage uh what what how this starts off is Solomon is going to set us up for understanding the rest of the book of Proverbs. And this is a very, very helpful and important lesson for us. Verses 1 through 7 is going to set us up for the rest of the book. And so we're going to go through this kind of in a detailed way. so that we can really grasp what not only Solomon's intention was, but also God's intention for this great book. I'll begin by reading in Proverbs chapter 1. It says, For the Proverbs of Solomon, the son of David, king of Israel To know wisdom and instruction, to receive the words of understanding, to receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, judgment, and equity. To give prudence to the simple, to the young man knowledge and discretion. A wise man will hear and increase learning. A man of understanding will attain wise counsel, to understand a proverb and an enigma, the words of the wise and their riddles The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and instruction. So what Solomon is going to do here is he's going to set us up to understand the rest of the book so that we can we can glean as much as we possibly can out of this book. We begin by understanding who wrote the book, and we know from the first verse it says that Solomon wrote this book. So who is Solomon in the first verse? He is the He's the son of David, okay? And he is also the king. So there's no question who wrote the book of Proverbs. We do know that later on in the book of Proverbs we have some uh some uh chapters that may have been written by other people uh Lemuel and others there there there although that could have been a yufa uh another name for Solomon. But um that's a possibility. But as a whole whole most of the Psalms uh the Proverbs rather are written to written from Solomon. Now what do we know about Solomon that is really significant? What do we know about him? What stands out when you think of Solomon besides a ton of wives? Outside of that, the good stuff. What what what what do we know about Solomon? Yes. Yes. When when God came to him and asked him for wisdom. Now teenagers, I want you guys to be involved here, okay? You guys remember the story when when uh when Solomon was uh Uh when God asked uh Solomon he could have anything in the whole kingdom and what did he say? He wanted uh what? What do you want what did he ask for? What did what did Solomon ask for? Anybody know? No, it wasn't wisdom. He said he on understanding heart, which is basically wisdom. Okay. So yeah, it it was it is wisdom. Okay. But but specifically in understanding how Julie's like, What? What what in the world? Everybody's like, What what's wrong with that? No, and so God did, he gave he was the wisest man outside of Christ, he was the wisest man uh in history, and he wrote for us three different books of the Bible. Okay, somebody d name one of the One of the three books. Carrie. Ecclesiastes. Ecclesiastes. What's another one? Nobody wants to say that one. Song of Solomon, okay? And Proverbs. And and from what we can tell, he wrote one book in his young life He wrote one book in his older life, when he was older, and he wrote one book when he was middle-aged. So which book do you suppose, all right teens, so which book do you suppose he wrote uh when he was older? Which book out of the three? Eric? Good. He was older and he wrote a book Ecclesiastes the book of Ecclesiastes to look back on life and explain what life is like and we found as we went through the book of Ecclesiastes He's a bit cynical in his old old age a lot, isn't he? But we there was a lot of wisdom there for us as well. He under we can understand what truly what life really is and the pr priorities of uh of wisdom So that's his o so how about when he was young? Which one do you think he wrote when he was young? Song of Solomon. He was young and he wrote that book. He was writing in relation to the Shulamite woman. And so he was so his young there. So Proverbs and he is what? He's middle-aged, okay? So that kind of gives you an idea. He's probably in his what? 40s, 50s, okay? He's middle-aged No, sixties is not middle age anymore. Anyway, so it approaching middle age from the other side, okay. Um so So and definitely not seventies. Okay, so um he was in it he was forties, fifties, somewhere around there. We also want to make note, and this is in verse eight, who he was writing to. What was his initial recipient? Who got the book first? His son. And so how old do you suppose his son? He's middle aged, so how old do you pu suppose his son is? Maybe a teenager? Like you guys? So you got guys like old guys like Brad and Hisham back there. Talking to young guys like you all. That's the that's the picture, okay? Alright, this is fun. I like this. Anyway, okay. All right. So this is this is the picture you have of and now he wants to impart great wisdom. See now you feel better. Great wisdom uh to you all. uh to to his son. And so this book is written for that reason. That helps us a little bit to understand why he wrote the book and who who he was a little bit. Now Then so we understand that that means it's very this book is going to be very applicable to who? Well, it's actually applicable to everyone. Okay, there's no question about that. If you're middle-aged, you can learn a lot. If you're approaching middle age from the other side, you can learn a lot. And if you're young, you can learn a lot. Okay. So you can learn a lot no matter what. But particularly if you're young, there is a lot to learn in this book. of Proverbs. Now, the ver verses two and three are going to begin the next section of the book. And verses 1 through 7 is what's called the prologue. Most of wisdom literature in the Old Testament has a prologue, and it tells us, usually it gives us an indication of what the purpose of the book is. And it's so important to know the prologue of these wisdom literature books because then it helps us to understand the rest of the book. So now we're going to learn what the purpose of the book is The purpose of the book is number one, just number one purpose is to gain wisdom, and there are three statements that help us to understand more about what he means by this. And those are found in verses 2 through 3. To know wisdom and instruction To perceive the word of under the words of understanding, to receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, judgment, and equity Alright, so what does it mean? Verse 2, to know wisdom and instruction. Obviously, this book is a book about wisdom. And we need to understand what it means. Well, first of all, to let's sit let's look at what it means to know. When it says to know, what is it talking about? It's talking about to acknowledge or to recognize. This is more than just uh the ability to identify wisdom. This is to acknowledge it, to recognize it, to to I to be able to to It's a there's more of a of a it's more than just an intellectual thing. It's like it's like it it's in your mind, but it's also in your heart. You go, yeah, that is wise. You ever read through Proverbs and you're reading through the book of Proverbs and you're going, man That is just really wise. That's what we should be doing. We should be going through there and seeing the wisdom of this book in the book of Proverbs. So the question then is: what is wisdom? Something just when you think of the word wisdom, what do you think of? What is wisdom? Teenagers, what do you think of? What's wisdom? Any ideas? Yeah. Very good. Okay. Application of knowledge. Excellent. Wisdom has very much to do with application. Okay? Good. Excellent. Very good. What else? What else is wiz what wisdom? What is wisdom? Yes, Kim? Okay, it's applying truth. Good. Alright, that gives us a little actually both of those are correct. Let's look, well, I'll just read it to you so you don't have to turn there. But in the in Exodus 28. 3, we actually have the very first time the word wisdom is used in the Old Testament. And this is what it says. In the King James it says it this way, and thou shalt speak unto all that are wise-hearted, whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom. That they may make Aaron's garments to consecrate him, that he may minister unto me in the priest's office. Well, let's look at another translation just to help us understand this word a little bit more. The ESV says, you shall speak to all the skillful. Whom I have filled with the spirit of skill uses the word skill. New American Standard uses the same word, skill, and the Net Bible uses the same. All these other versions use the word skill. Now that's going to help us a little bit. So wisdom has to do with skill. And you've already told we've already learned what it's the skill to do what? It's the skill to Apply truth. That's what it is. Wisdom is the skill to be able to apply truth. It's more than just knowing truth. It's the skill to be able to apply truth. For instance, Can you know the game of uh of soccer really well, but not be able to play soccer? Okay, right? Of course you can. A a coach even may be able to know the game, but he's not out there, he doesn't have the skill necessarily to play on the field. Okay, there's a difference between knowledge and skill. And there's a difference between knowledge and wisdom. Wisdom is the skill to be able to apply truth. It's like the difference between a commentator who's explaining a uh how soccer works and the guy on the field who's kicking the soccer ball into the goal. Wisdom is the skill to apply truth. And God wants us to understand not just truth. He wants us to have the skill to be able to apply truth. The book of Exodus also calls it giftedness, and 2 Samuel as well does the same thing. I think one of the most important things for us to understand about this concept of wisdom is that its source is from God God is the source of wisdom. 1 Kings chapter 328 says, and all Israel heard the judgment which the king had judged And they feared the king, for they saw that the wisdom of God was in him to do judgment. And it says in 1 Kings 4. 29, which is our passage about Solomon, God giving it God gave Solomon wisdom. and understanding exceeding much, and largeness of heart, even as the sand that is on the seashore. And so we find that wisdom has to do with a skill of applying truth And its source is from God. Now that is extremely important. It's important for this reason. Does the world say that wisdom is from God? No, the world where does the world say wisdom is from? The world says wisdom is from man. Or from your heart. Did somebody say that? From your heart. Look into your heart and you'll find wisdom. What a bunch of baloney. You're not going to find wisdom in your heart. You'll find foolishness in your heart. Okay, actually. Wisdom is from God. And that is an important thing for us to understand, starting off here. So the by the passage says wisdom, but it also uses this word instruction. That is the word often translated teaching, but it has the idea of admonishment or correction. That's important for us to understand, or discipline So, why would it say to know wisdom and correction here? There's a reason for that. The wisest people are easily corrected. You talk to a wise man and you explain to him about an error in his ways, and the Bible says he will love you. Proverbs says he'll love you for it. Talk to a foolish man about the errors of his ways, and he will spite you. He will be offended by it. And so wisdom and correction go hand in hand, according to scripture here. It's more than just the idea of just nor just straight instruction. There is this idea of correction in thinking. In other words, as we go through this book, God wants us to have corrective thinking. To allow this book to wreck to correct our thinking. Do we ever need that? What keeps us from having what ca let me put it this way, what causes us to have wrong thinking? Any ideas what causes us to wrong ha have wrong thinking? Anybody? Pride. Pride. Ourselves is the first place, right? Which and pride. Okay, that's good. What else? The world is another place. Yeah, our feelings. Good. That's another place. And the devil. Okay? Those are all places. Our world, our culture, and Satan actually is the principal power of the air. He uses the world to affect our f cells. There's all kinds of We used to call it, I heard a message called it stinkin' thinking. It's a lot of stinkin' thinking in the world. And the book of Proverbs can correct our stinkin' thinking who's f that finds its source in the world. to finding its source in God and being correct, right thinking. Then it says this, and this is still all under this idea of wisdom, that we want to God wants us to gain wisdom It says to understand words of insight. Look at verse 2. To know wisdom, to under uh an instruction, to perceive the words of understanding. Or some this is the word understanding there could also be translated insight insight. To perceive insight. Well, what does this word insight mean? What's it talking about? Insight. Insight is the idea of uh to it's talk it's it's the idea of to perceive things through the senses. That's the word. So let's think about that. If you see something written on a piece of paper, Let's say let's say you well, I'll give you an illustration. So I was reading in uh a book on John Adams, which you all probably by now know that I'm reading. And um He was describing when he was in Philadelphia uh the the wonderful food that was there in his journals to his wife his letters to his wife. I mean his wife's out It's interesting. His wife's out, you know, farming and taking care of the kids and he's writing the d the talk about talking about the cobblers and all the good food and the drink and everything that he's he's partaking of while he's uh in Congress. Uh he hated the congr congressional settings but he liked uh going to the uh the city tavern afterwards to to have this food. And and he's very descriptive about the food and you're reading it and you're going, this that must be nice Well, Monday I went there. Big difference. Right? I mean I read it and that was kind of neat on the page. Monday I went down and sat there and ate there. And I'm not sure the food is exactly the same, but they're trying to keep it aut authentic. So there's a big difference between reading it on the page And being there. Insight is perceiving reality, what's really real. Let me give you another illustration Uh how many of you well um most of uh us have bought a house, okay, in this room I'm looking around. Not the teens of course, but um you will one day. Well I'll tell you guys you can learn a lesson from this. from my bad decision. Uh so when I was up in Pennsylvania we're look we looked at a bunch of different houses and one of the houses we looked at we and I I w Elizabeth and I sort of fell in love with too quickly before we Really looked through the house carefully and we've made an offer on the house. And um and afterwards during the inspection You know it's funny when you actually buy something, or when you make an offer on something and it's accepted, you start walking through and you see things differently. Every house I've bought, I've seen even the house that I grew up in After I bought it from my dad, I started seeing all of the problems with it. I grew up in this house. You'd think I'd know it already. Suddenly I'm seeing all those problems and he's going, hey yeah, right, your your problems now. Okay. It's true. Well he's retired and I'm not and so my wife keeps asking him to fix the stuff, which is nice. Anyway, so um So you've got this ha uh so so you th there's this big difference between looking at something and then Seeing all of the details and really knowing it. And that's what he's saying here. He's saying that this this kind of insight, this understanding, to perceive the words of understanding is to really know. truth, to really understand it like you're like as if you were there and you're seeing the details of it to really perceive what's really true. Then he says this, he says verse 3, to receive uh the instruction of wisdom. This is talking here then about moral instruction of wise behavior. And he and he says to receive the instruction of wisdom, justice judgment and equity. It's interesting that he does make a distinction between those things that are ethical or moral and those things that are wisdom. Now, all ethical things are wise. I mean, to do ethical things is wise. But there are some issues in life that aren't right or wrong, but they are wise or foolish. There's a lot of things like that actually. Gambling. The Bible doesn't say it's actually wrong, but it says it's foolish. Okay? So if you're doing foolish things, then what do you end up with? Okay. A bad lot bad situation, okay, usually. So so it makes this distinction between these two things. And so it says justice. This book is not only going to give us those wise slash foolish kinds of things and help us understand those. But it is also going to help us to know justice, judgment, and equity. To know right from wrong. Proverbs actually will help us with this. And we're going to need to know when we go through Proverbs, there are some times where it's going to say certain things that are clearly this is wrong and this is right. There are other times where it's going to say, this is wise, this is unwise. And it is important for us to know the difference because the book of Proverbs is full of a bunch of different sayings. that have been collected by Solomon. One of the things we didn't discuss when we talked about Solomon is the fact that these are very likely it was not as though Solomon sat down and wrote all thirty-one chapters all at the same time. It's very unlikely that Solomon d did that. In fact, the stylistic structure changes from chapters After chapter fifteen over to chapter sixteen you see a a different structure almost entirely to the book of Proverbs. Much like much more likely that he wrote it over some time period And it's very likely that he collected these proverbial sayings. Perhaps he collected them from other people. Perhaps he examined looked at life and wrote them down. And of course once they're in Scripture, they're inspired by God. God is the author of all this. But God obviously uses different ways to get to his Bible, uh to to to have have this all written down for us. A wise man will hear and so we have this here in this passage. So a wise man will hear an increase in learning, and a man of understanding will attain wise counsel. So so then it's gonna tell us here um In verses five, uh four through five, actually start pick up a verse four, we've got three different kinds of people here. So now he's on we understand what the purpose of the book is, but look at verses four through five. To give prudence to the what's the next word there? Prudence to the simple, to the young man, knowledge and discretion. So first we need to talk about the simple man. This the simple man is one, the Bible actually says, is also one who is often characterized by youth. It says the simple person is also the young man. The young man, and what is the simple person able to receive from the book of Proverbs? The Bible says, knowledge and discretion. That's what he's able to receive. So the simple man, the simple person is someone who is able to receive those kinds of things. In fact, you'll find different places in the book of Proverbs where the simple is mentioned and it says the simple need to learn this. But it also says this about the simple. For example, when it talks about the the harlot in chapter 5, it says the simple go down and are deceived by the harlot. So the simple is one who is who can't who listens to everything. and doesn't have a discernment to know what's good and right to listen to versus what and wise to listen to versus what is foolish to listen to You might use the word naive. A simple man is a simple person is one who is naive. He doesn't have the dis the discernment. The good news is that a simple person has great profit from the book of Proverbs. Has great potential to be able to learn and to gain discretion from the book of Proverbs. Then you have, it says, the wise man, what will the wise man do? Well, the wise man is going to continue to hear and increase in learning. And a man of understanding will attain wise counsel. So if the wise man reads Proverbs, what's going to happen to him? He's going to keep getting wiser. So the benefit for Proverbs are those who are simple and those who are wise. There is another category that will have absolutely no, and it's it's implied here. um have absolutely no um benefit to Proverbs. You know that who that is? It's the fool. The fool's not mentioned here for one simple reason. The fool will not be able to benefit from Proverbs for one reason. Does anybody know why the fool will not be able to benefit from Proverbs? Lisa. Because he won't need the advice you want. Yeah, the biggest problem with a fool is that a fool does not listen. If a fool does not listen to instruction, there is no way for him to perceive to receive what's in this book. There is nothing worse than to be in the position of being a fool because a fool simply will not listen. That is the description of a fool. If you want to describe a fool, it's one who will not listen to sound instruction. He just simply won't listen. That is a very dangerous place to be in, isn't it? It is a very dangerous place to be in a place where you sit simply say, you know what, I'm just not listening anymore. I'm not going to listen to wise counsel. I'm not going to listen to people that are concerned. I'm not going to listen anymore And this is something that we have to be vi all of us have the possibility of getting into that place where we just simply think that we're not going to listen. Why would we choose not to listen anymore? I'm just curious. Why would we choose? Guys, why would you choose not to listen Why would I choose that? Why would we choose that? Any ideas? Any ideas anybody? Yes. Okay. Just do you think you think it all applies to everybody else except for you, Karen? Okay. I think I know better already? Good? Yeah, Mitchell? Okay, okay. You're not getting the results that you want quick enough? Uh that's a good one. That's that's good. You don't want to know? Somebody else have one? Eric, did you have one? Oh yeah, just being apathetic. Okay, apathetic. You just uh almost lummer is the same same kind of thing. Um good. Um those are all reasons. What else? I think the biggest reason is probably pride, right? I mean we we which has kind of been said as well we don't want to listen because we're too prideful to listen. We think we know it all already. So foolish people that's the that's where they get to. They get to the place where they don't think they need to be told what to do They know what they want to do already. I am out of time and so we're going to go ahead and end here. I man, I really wanted to get to first seven, but that's not going to happen today. So we will pick up uh there next Wednesday and uh let's go ahead then teens you can let's let's pray let's pray real quick and we'll ask the Lord to help us with this book of Proverbs and then uh and then we'll be dismissed and Harry can come and leave the rest of the the prayer time. Father, we do pray, Lord, that as we go through this book of Proverbs That you would help us to gain this wisdom that is from you. You are the source of the wisdom. And Lord, we want to see things as they really are, from you who are the creator of the ends of the earth. You're the one who made all of this. who knows it better than anybody else because you made it. You understand how things work better than we ever will. And you've given us your word specifically here in the book of Proverbs, to help us to understand how it all works and also to understand how we can live according to it. according to your wisdom. And Lord, I pray that you would help us to um and and Lord I pray that you'd help us even to know you more. You are all wise. So as we study a book on wisdom, we'll know you better because you are wise. When you created the foundations of the world, you did it in wisdom. When you saved us, you did it in wisdom. And so I pray, Lord, that you would help us to know you more through this book and also be able to have the skill to be able to learn to not just know truth intellectually But to apply truth practically in our lives. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.