Well I'm certainly grateful for the opportunity. Um this might be a come as a shock to you, maybe even as a surprise to you, but he's really busy. So I I'm I'm I'm more than willing to uh to fill the pulpit for a a Sunday and um Aren't you thankful this weekend? Um maybe as you have gone uh to be with your family and you've maybe reflected over The many things that God has provided for you, the guidance that He has provided, the finances the the other things. You know, one thing that I've heard from many of you uh in in the weeks leading up to Thanksgiving is how you have said that you are thankful for this church. You're thankful for the friendships that you have, for the relationships that you have. You're thankful for what God is doing in our midst, right? And I think as we uh as we think about that, I echo those same statements, those same thoughts. I can think of no other place I would want to serve alongside people than right here. I can think of no other place that I'd rather be than worshiping with you all this morning. This is a good place. And God is doing great things in our midst Well while we think of those good things that we are enjoying now, I think all of us can recall times past, whether there are stories that you've heard or perhaps even experienced yourself, times in church that have not been as great. Times where perhaps there was a split, a strong division. Perhaps there was great gain made by the enemy, and you witnessed it, or you saw it. Certainly, the passage that we're looking at tonight, or this morning rather, doesn't, isn't the only thing, only elements. to um that factor into problems within a church, but it certainly is one. You know, I think every I believe every single one of us Want to see Bethel thrive in every area. I think that each one of us would want others to be making those spiritual steps that God has put in place before them. And that they be making those steps without any hindrance whatsoever. Spiritual growth, right? Discipleship should be taking place on a regular basis. We wouldn't want anything to stop that. Let me ask you, if you had been a hindrance or were being a hindrance to someone else's spiritual growth, would you not want to know? And if you were doing that or had been doing that, wouldn't you want to stop? Who would want to continue harming a fellow Christian Well, the answer is perhaps more believers than you might think You know, the Corinthians certainly had major problems in their church. In fact, the whole the whole book is almost almost the whole book is dealing with issue after issue. As you know, it's sort of this book of the Bible that the term carnal Christian comes about. And Paul deals with many different issues. And the issue that we're talking about today is found in our chapter, but it just so you know, it continues in chapter 9 and chapter 10. And really is dealt with at a lengthy uh at a lengthy amount. And also, for study purposes, a parallel passage, which we'll be referring to a few times this morning, will be Romans 14. So if you would, please turn in your Bibles to First Corinthians chapter eight if you're not there already. We are looking at how at being a help and not a hindrance to the local church. How we can be a help and not a hindrance to the local church Now I am in no way saying that we have this particular problem here at Bethel. I don't see that. I'm not aware of it But in talking with enough people over time, I know for a fact that within Christianity in general, these truths from God's word that we're looking at today seem to get ignored. They seem to get forgotten. And perhaps sometimes I've I've seen cases where they don't even people don't even know about it. They don't even realize this isn't even on the radar. So, in order to maintain a foundation and an atmosphere for spiritual growth in the church We really must maintain accurate understanding of four truths from this passage If we're going to maintain a foundation and an atmosphere for spiritual growth, we have to have an accurate understanding of four truths from this passage. What are these four truths, if you wanted to jot these down real fast? The four truths that are the truth about knowledge, about idols About weakness and about our impact. And we're going to go over those at length. Now, I will say at the outset, this is more of an overview. This is not too deep, but I think deep enough. Really, as I was going through this, my four main points could very easily become four individual sermons So buckle up. We're probably gonna be here for another two hours and fifteen minutes, roughly, give or take. No, I'm just I'm just kidding. So but we even even so I think it's important to see this pet chapter as a whole, in its entirety, so we really get the flow of thought, we really see what Paul is dealing with. And I think it will impact us in a great way and challenge us and encourage us. Before we go any further, let's pray as we dig into this. Father, We're thankful for your word and what you have chosen to place in it. We're thankful, Lord, for the book of Corinthians. And there is so much rich truth and application that we can glean from it. So often, Lord, we struggle and deal with so many of the same things that those believers did way back then. And so, Lord, as we go to this, I pray that your truth would have its impact, its desired impact on the hearts of all of us today. Lord, I pray for your truth that it would go forth clearly. I cannot speak apart from your strength and grace, Lord. And so I pray, I cast my dependence on you and pray for your help And Lord, I ask that we will be challenged and encouraged, and that these truths would go would sink deep into the hearts of who we are. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. As we think about this chapter as a whole, I'd like to ask a couple questions. You know, you may be stating right now at this point, maybe you're thinking in your head, well this is kind of random. This is kind of strange. I don't know how what kind of benefit this would have. Well, let's talk about that right at the beginning. Why should we understand this passage? What is the benefit of knowing this passage well? Well this text can act as an alarm, number one. It can act as an alarm It reveals blind spots in our life. In other words, it can reveal a way of living that is wrong, that we perhaps didn't even know about before God. That God would have us to correct. So it can act as an alarm. This text can also act as a guide. Do we not all have decisions to make every day? Countless, right? Several. From not that important to very important. But yet we make decisions. And those decisions have an impact on us, and they definitely have an impact on other people as well, right? So it can act as an as a guide. Chapter 8 of 1 Corinthians can help us to make the best possible decision. This passage can also act as a reminder. These principles are often forgotten in our daily lives. And they can be forgotten to the detriment of ourselves and to others in the church body So so far, in case you're writing these it can act as an alarm, as a guide, as a reminder, this text can also act as a source of spiritual growth See, following these principles in the text can put you in a position of great spiritual encouragement and benefit to another believer. And for your own spiritual growth as well. Also, this text can act as a warning. This text can certainly act as a warning for all of us because failure to follow these principles in this text can greatly damage and harm a brother or sister in Christ. And be detrimental to ourselves as well. And finally, why should we understand this passage? What is the benefit? Well, this text can act as a prescription. Following these principles on a regular basis. And these certainly aren't the only ones, but they are absolutely necessary to help maintain a healthy body life in the church So necessary to help maintain a healthy body life in this church. So let's look. We had it as our scripture reading. Let's read the first three verses here. I'm reading from the New King James, by the way. Verse 1. Now concerning things offered to idols, we know that all we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffs up, but love edifies. If anyone thinks that he knows anything, he knows nothing, yet as he ought to know. But if anyone loves God, this one is known by him. Where it says, now as touching things or now concerning. This is a cue in the book of 1 Corinthians. You see, there was a previous part, if you take your Bibles and turn back just probably a couple pages to chapter 7. When Paul begins to say this have this phrase now concerning. In verse 1 of chapter 7, he says, now concerning the things whereof ye wrote unto me. And then he goes on to deal with what they were asking. You see, the Corinthians evidently had a message or a letter for Paul, questions that they wanted answered, things that they were dealing with that they wanted apostolic authority authority on. So in chapter eight then it's the second second item on the list, so to speak So apparently they initiated this. Paul, what do you have to say about things offered, meat offered to idols, things offered to idols? But he starts out by not really touching on the immediate subject. You notice here that he says he says things offered to idols, but then he starts talking about this knowledge business. He says we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffs up, but love edifies If anyone thinks that he knows anything, he knows nothing, yet as he ought to know. But if anyone loves God, this one is known by him. You see, Paul is pinpointing a particular problem. In the Corinthian church, that he knows about. He's aware of it. The Corinthians have an issue. And it's an issue that is dealt with in multiple arenas, in multiple venues in this book. What he's dealing with is their their their pride, their it uh their priorities, if you will You see, they were prioritizing knowledge, having knowledge. And he states here that knowledge puffs up. Knowledge just makes you more proud if that's all it is, if that's all it ever becomes. For the Corinthians, social advancement and gaining knowledge had risen to the top of the priority list for them. And it was evident in their interpersonal relationships with each other. In really in these three chapters, eight, nine, and ten, you see a lot of talk about their freedom, about their rights. They what they were saying was they knew they had this freedom in Christ. They knew they had rights. They knew they they were had these privileges So Paul then is telling them that you have to prioritize love over your knowledge. Love over knowledge is key. The key element that the Corinthians were lacking was love Do you remember a little bit later in this book in chapter 13? It's a very famous chapter. It's called the Love Chapter for a reason, right? They are They are foc he focuses on that as sort of a culmination to part of his argument saying you could do all kinds of things. You could give yourself up, you could give your body to be burned, you could sell everything you have, but if you don't have love You've got nothing and you are nothing. So this sort of brings into into the view this concept for them. Love is the key element that the Corinthians were lacking and that all churches must have. Honestly, this can be a temptation for more, some than others Some of us are natural students, some of us are naturally bent on learning and we like enjoying getting facts and getting knowledge. But never whether whether that's your bent or not, having knowledge by itself is nothing. It is useless with no purpose It's like having the greatest car, a Mercedes-Benz of some sort, or a Ferrari, or whatever it is that you really like, but never having any gas. It's like having owning that yacht, that forty-foot yacht, and it's beautiful and it's gorgeous, and man, it looks great sitting there on the sea, but you don't have any fuel, so you're not going anywhere. The man who loves is the one who really knows. One commentator says, the one who loves is the one who really knows, while the man who says he knows does not necessarily act in a helpful way to others. This is the real issue, because some Corinthians then they are acting out of not acting out of love, but are simply exercising their rights. So Paul is reminding his readers: love trumps all things here, trumps knowledge, and it should be made the main priority. Well how how is it that they were exercising their rights without love? What was going on here? Well See, they had knowledge, and their knowledge was technically correct, but it was their application and use of their knowledge that was harming other believers. And that brings us to the second point, which is the truth about idols. Beginning in verse 4. Therefore, concerning the eating of things offered to idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world. And that there is no other God but one. For even if there are so called gods, whether in heaven or in earth, as there are many gods and many lords, yet for us there is one God, the Father of whom are all things And we for him, and one Lord Jesus Christ, through whom are all things, and through whom we live. Now, it's interesting. Many commentators view these these three verses. And suggest that this might actually be Paul quoting the Corinthians themselves in their letter. And whether it is or not, it's likely that this is part of Paul's teaching on idols and worship of idols. So the truth is that an idol really is nothing. But for us to really properly understand this, we need to look into their culture a little bit. and what they were what they were dealing with, how this was done. Because this is truly something quite foreign to us. We're no we don't go to a market and we don't have a temple where the where pagan worship is taking place down the street. So what did it look like? What did it feel like? How was it taking place? Basically, there were two main sources of meat in the ancient world. There was the regular market where you would have regular butchers, that was their main job, and in that that market Those people are trying to make a living, and so they they have a certain price for for selling those those meats. The second source of meat though was the local temples of the time And because of the sacrifices that were taking place there, meat was offered on a regular, was available on a regular basis. They would not normally consume the entire animal. Usually they would they would burn the most undesirable parts. and and take care of it that way. But there wasn't usually much left over. And so from what was left over, they would take that to a marketplace and sell it, and they'd be able to sell it at a cheaper rate than others. So maybe you're beginning to see, hopefully, a little bit of the controversy here. You have some who, in a very real way, they uh never had anything to do with idol worship, never participated in any of it. They have this uh They have these options on the table. More expensive meat, less expensive meat. Paul's teaching says that That the meat offered to idol is just meat It's neither bad nor good nor nor worse nor better. It's just me. I'm going to go with this because uh an idol is nothing. It's not a God But you have on the other side, you have certain Christians, certain believers of the time, who in fact perhaps were saved out of that lifestyle. Saved out of that realm. They were pagans. They were idol worshippers. And for them To have meat associated with with idolatry of any sort, well, that meat to them is completely contaminated And yet they, in observation, on occasion, perhaps, see a fellow believer, a Christian that they know Go to the marketplace, go to where the temple meat is, buy that, and consume it. Or perhaps they're at a at a at a friend's house and they they find out that this meat is offered to idols and they just they they they feel appalled and offended and can't deal with it How could you do this? This is wrong. And the one who purchased it says, no, it's not. It's fine. An idol is nothing. Paul said it, remember? So herein lies the rub. You've got you've got some some beating of heads here a little bit. So when we think about applying this to our day, let's think of a couple things here We need to verify, we need to know what this passage is talking about if we're going to apply it to today. Sometimes, let's just say at the outset that this This passage can get misused and it can get abused at times. And hopefully we're we'll cover this in such a way that we'll know not know how not to do that. So what is this passage really talking about? When thinking about activities and beliefs and such that we interact with on a regular basis, this passage is talking about verifiable activities that the Lord permits. In other words, there's no controv there's no from God's point of view, there's no controversy There is in fact nothing wrong in this case back then in eating meat offered to an idol. So verifiable activities that the Lord permits The other thing that we can gather here, I think, and this also comes a lot from Romans 14 as well, the parallel passage that I mentioned. You know, we as Christians we discuss a lot and we talk about a lot of different things. Some of it, a lot of it, has to do with things of Scripture. And there are times where we may disagree at times. There are also times where sometimes it may not be appropriate to talk about certain things to a young new believer. I can remember as a freshman in college, uh I I knew some things, I think, but Uh I went uh I went in there very much as a novice and I remember it had to be the fur in the within the first couple weeks, uh a guy came up to me, he was a sophomore And he was acting very sophomoric, if I may say, because we're sitting uh at the dining hall and he engages me in a conversation about Calvinism and Arminianism. And I had a vague idea of what the two things were. That's about it. And he starts talking to me about the sovereignty of God and an election and God's choosing and all of that, and I had very little to contribute. And to be honest, if I'm being honest, at that very moment, I was not ready to handle those kind of concepts. You know, the uh there was a part of me that balked some at the idea of God electing some and not electing others. And it was hard for me to deal with and I mean I ended up having really bad answers and he basically finished the conversation is with well if you don't believe that then you might as well take Romans 9 out of the Bible and then that was it. That was the end. But I was not spiritually equipped to handle it. You know, we we need to be careful about who we engage with and what topics we engage with at times. So this passage is talking about verifiable activities that the Lord permits, and I think we can also broaden it to a broader uh a larger principle here. And we need to be careful about weaker Christians, novice Christians, immature Christians, who aren't maybe ready to deal with certain doctrines in theology as well. What is this passage not talking about? Let's move to that. What is this passage not talking about? This is where things, this is where people go off and and misuse this passage. This passage is not talking about actions that are forbidden by God. Okay? Some examples. Drunkenness is forbidden by God. Okay Corrupt communication is forbidden by God. There are certain things that we cannot take this passage and apply it to those situations because they violate commands in Scripture. Secondly, this passage is also not talking about, doesn't include areas that are actual doctrinal deviances. Okay? If things such as blasphemy, heresy, wrong doctrine, if someone is teaching wrong doctrine, they are to be labeled a false teacher. They are to have no part in the body of Christ. So it isn't like we could have a a a a a dialogue with them and try to win them over. No, that that they they don't have part in it. In thinking about this, I think this is a very helpful thought and illustration for all of us, whether we have kids or not. is is to talk about how parents deal with their children, just in in life in general And saved or unsaved parents often will deal with them this way, although that sometimes is changing perhaps very rapidly. But there are things as an adult that you do that you would not allow your children to do, correct? Why is that? Well, could be a variety of reasons. But for ac for instance Things uh such as the uh uh arena of their abilities, their capabilities. I'm not gonna ask Silas to go park the car. He's incapable of doing that He may try, and I bet he would he might try, I don't know. But but he is incapable that would not be a good request for me to do because he is not ready for that, right? It's probably not a good idea for me to ask Ezra or Ruby or any of my kids to go take my chainsaw and go cut up some some logs. They're not ready to handle that. They're not mature enough to deal with that and make good decisions. Right? But I'm you you would say, well no one would say this, but w w would anyone say you're a bad parent? Not letting your 10-year-old drive. Come on. Get with the times. No one would say that because it's it's obvious, right? They're not those kids are not ready to handle that. What if we asked what if I asked Silas or Ruby to cook an entire meal? That might be the most interesting meal we ever had. Right? Hey I mean Ruby's good and she's learning some things about cooking and helps mommy in the kitchen, but goodness no. But we're not doing that yet. Definitely not there. See, our kids, physically and mentally, they grow up, right? But there are stages. And we as parents are supposed to recognize those stages. and and give them more responsibility and and tasks as they are able. And it's it's tough to discern at times, right? I think this gives us an idea because We um We want to see our children grow up, right? We we don't want them to stay kids the rest of their lives and and and so forth and what I do want Silas to eventually drive a car. I do want those things to happen But it's as time progresses and the maturity level grows and so forth. It is a constant it is a difficult balance to achieve, right? Sometimes though it doesn't have to do necessarily with physically or mentally in the life of a child. It can be spiritually too, and what we expose our kids to. Certain forms of entertainment, video games, movies, books. You know, we we withhold some of those things from our kids as well because they're not ready for it yet. It's not time. They don't know they don't don't process it correctly. There needs to be spiritual maturity in that, in those realms. The role of a parent is is quite difficult in that. There are certain things that we'd love our kids to enjoy. Yet we know it's not time, so we we we have to say no sometimes. The same thing happens within a local church. Now while we're not parents of each other or children of the other, there is an aspect in which we In our relationships with each other, we have this responsibility to each other to know How something that I do will affect someone else, or how something I say will affect someone else. So, if we're looking at biblical terms here, you could easily say that a child would be the depiction of a weaker brother. And the depend the stronger brother could be a parent in that scenario. And that really leads us then to the truth about weakness. What is the weaker brother dealing with here in this passage? And how will it affect us? Let's read these next two verses. Starting in verse seven, however, there is not in every one that knowledge, for some with consciousness of the idol, until now eat it as a thing offered to an idol, and their conscience being weak is defiled But food does not commend us to God, for neither if we eat are we better, nor if if we do not eat are we the worst or are we the worst. So here we have in written form then the the scenario, the the depiction of the weaker brother. You know, I had someone say one time uh they they they were In a position of reactionary. And had gone down a path of really exercising their liberty, so to speak. Some things could have been called to question as far as what God would have approved of and what what wouldn't have. But at one point, and this really will tell you the attitude of this person One time in a conversation, this individual literally said out loud, Well, who is this weaker brother? I've never met him Basically stating that I don't think my actions are harming anybody. I'll do what I want to do and it's and it's just fine. But the truth is, weaker Christians are everywhere. I have to admit to you, right now, I am weak in certain areas. I am strong in some in some areas. And as I look across the room, I believe that some of you are probably weak in certain areas and strong in other areas. It doesn't mean These concepts of being a stronger or a weaker brother doesn't mean that the Christian is this the stronger brother is this invincible Mighty super Christian that can now handle everything and has got it all figured out. No, it more likely means that he he is more spiritually mature has grown in his walk with the Lord and is strong in multiple areas, but probably still has some weak areas as well. The weaker brother probably isn't this picture of this diminished, lowly, can't do anything Christian. because of all these weaknesses. No, it's it's likely, more likely, that he's got some strengths, but he also is weak in a lot of areas. And he is growing in them, but it's not, you know, it is something that God is working through him uh through in him You know, as long as there are Christians in the world, there will be stronger and weaker believers. It's not a first century thing. It's not a not a eighteenth century thing. So let's move then. Let's move then to a true, uh just a working definition of a weaker brother. I really think that you could interpose two words. You could substitute weaker for immature. So we're I'll probably use that a little interchangeably here as we go forward. But the definition of a weaker or immature believer. They are an immature believer who offends or violates his own conscience when he sees another believer performing an act. They think is wrong, and they do it too. They are in fact, they do it in doubt, not in faith. And what is is done not in faith is sin to them. This is this is uh a difficult truth to grasp, but this is the truth Someone who does the right thing with a defiled conscience is actually sinning before God. In Romans 14 Um twenty-three it says this and you can turn there real real quick if you'd like. Sort of at the end of the uh towards the end of the argument that Paul gives, he says, but he who doubts is condemned if he eats. And it is actually the same concept there, eating meat offered to idols. But he who doubts is condemned if he eats, because he does not eat from faith. And for whatever is not from faith is sin. You see, the weaker brother, the immature believer, they do it. They're emboldened by the stronger brother, and they see what they're doing. They do it, but they don't do it in confidence. They don't do it with any measure of security. They do it actually going against their conscience, against what they feel is right. Which really leads then to the the an another part that we need to really understand here, and that is the truth about conscience. See, the truth about conscience is that it can act as a guide, but it is fallible. It is fallible, it is moldable, it's changeable, it can be seared, it can be calloused. It is placed there by God as a guide and a help, but it is not to be solely relied upon, such as the Holy Spirit can be relied upon. We cannot confuse our conscience for the Holy Spirit or vice versa. So that means, practically speaking, the conscience can lead you to doing the wrong thing. But at the same time It can keep you from doing the wrong thing. And Paul's argument and God's argument in these passages is that if you if if you're doubting If you're not sure, if there's a question mark in your head, don't violate your conscience. Because if you're doing it, you're setting yourself up for a habit. That down the road, or maybe even very soon, is going to cause you to sin, going to cause you problems. So that was the definition of a weaker brother or an immature believer. We need now from this passage what can we glean from it regarding the obligation of a weaker brother? The obligation of a weaker brother Is this and and it it it's multiple fold here but but bear with me. The immature believer must not under any circumstances violate what goes against his conscience. We covered that. That's here as well. Also, the immature believer must recognize their own weakness, their own immature state, and not be fooled. What do I mean by that? Well There are times when an immature believer can confuse their perspective that what they what they are doing which is based on conscience, they believe it's based on truth. They sometimes will take what their conscience is telling them and make it an an objective principle that all should follow. And as you probably are running through your head right now, that's legalism. That's legalism. They can sometimes believe that they actually are the stronger brother. with their right perspective, with the only right perspective. So a weak and mature believer can be fooled. They can be fooled into thinking that, well, because I have these standards and because I've got these walls around me, I'm actually more spiritual and I'm really where I need to be. Where in fact the opposite is true. You've put those standards there to help you, to guard you, which is probably good for you. But not necessarily right and good for everybody. Now Paul's great concern here then was for the weaker brother and that the strong believers, the the stronger brothers would act correctly. But really that the strong believers, the mature believers, would walk alongside the weaker saints and help them to grow and stop being weak. Some people have a false notion, though, that the strong Christians are the ones who live by the rules and regulations and who get offended when others exercise their freedom in Christ. But it's not the case. This is from now, this next part is from another commentary. It is the weak Christian who must have the security of law and who are afraid to use their freedom in Christ. It is the weak Christians who are prone to judge and criticize stronger believers and to stumble over what they do. And this, of course, makes it difficult for the strong saints to minister to their weaker brothers and sisters. So the final obligation then for the weaker brother is that they must replace any pride with love They must replace any pride they might have with love. And this is hard to do. Because none of us want to consider ourselves weak, right? I don't want to. None of us want to consider ourselves immature in the faith. I don't want to. But it is God's desire And should be the desire of the stronger Christian for the weaker brother to grow in his immaturity and to eventually enjoy the freedom they have in Christ. Galatians 5. 1 says, Stand fast therefore in the liberty by which Christ has made us free, and do not be entangled again with the yoke of bondage. Now in in my limited amount of lifetime I have seen a lot of people and heard a lot of people say different things. There was one individual that said more or less, not a quote, but more or less said, rock music, rock songs, and especially certain songs, take me back to a time when I was rejecting God, living my way and not a Christian's way. Not God's way. It's like it's trying to call me back to that way of life You know, if I hear a rock song in in the supermarket or something, it doesn't do that to me. Just doesn't. But I have to recognize for that man when he told me that that for him it does. So I'm definitely not gonna just not care about what I'm listening to. Because for him Uh recalling that conversation for him, it wasn't just rock music, but it was anything that had the flavor of it. And I think you know what I mean when I say that It's not it's not right for me to just not care about that. And we'll see as we go through this, there's some strong language ahead for those who are stronger in certain areas. You know, at at uh Timberland Bible Chapel, the the church plant that we were a part of, informing the Constitution, we as a group made it the church's policy to to have members not engage in any type of drinking, alcohol And that wasn't because we were being legalistic. It was because in that area, alcoholism was so prevalent and so everywhere We had members that were saved out of that. We had individuals that were going through it right then and there And the w wisdom seemed to say at the time that, you know what, let's just let's as a congregation agree. To not do this so that we don't cause anyone who is weak in this to be to s to stunt their spiritual growth. Because that's what it would do. I remember a teacher that I had, one of my favorite teachers in in Bible college. I mean, i to me he he was like a giant of theology. I mean he just When he taught, it was amazing. So it was really interesting for me to hear him say one day, I can't have video games. What? I can't have video games because I get so into it and think about it so often that all I can ever think about is video games. And I saw it played out one time because I found out it wasn't just video games, it was board games too, because we were we were we w we had a um a uh New Year's Eve uh activity where we all got to the church and played a bunch of games and I was playing a game of risk with him, which I think was more up his alley than anything I than I've ever seen. And I mean he transforms into this other guy where he I mean he got the role that he went and he he wanted and he got, yeah baby. I mean, who is this guy? Teach me something about Christ. Hurry up, because I don't know what's going on. And um but this that was that was his an area that he was weak in. He wasn't stating no one should play video games, but for him, he had to limit himself. And at that point in his life, he was limiting himself completely. None of it. He would have none of it You know for me, uh and some of you know a couple of these things already, I think, but um for me I do not want to have cable TV. That's for me. And and uh obviously my family. Because they're with me. But why? Because I waste too much time that I don't have time to waste and I make bad decisions. I don't really want to have a smartphone because I feel like it's gonna have be the same thing. I'm gonna waste too much time and I'm gonna make bad decisions. That's for me. That's an area that I'm weak. I'm not gonna tell you put that smartphone away. That I I I shouldn't do that But what areas do you believe that maybe you are weak in? Maybe that you haven't acknowledged? Maybe that you've been ignoring. Can I tell you that if you're doing something, doing something that's going against your conscience, to you it is sin. That leads us then now to the to the truth about our your in our impact. And we really got to move here. Let's read this passage and then and then keep going here. Verse 9. But beware lest somehow this liberty of yours becomes a stumbling block to those who are weak. For if anyone sees you have knowledge eating in an idol's temple, will not the conscience of him who is weak be emboldened to eat those things offered to idols? And because of your knowledge shall the weak brother perish, for whom Christ died. But when you thus sin against the brethren and wound their weak conscience, you sin against Christ Therefore, if food makes my brother stumble, I will never eat meat again eat meat, lest I make my brother stumble Romans fifteen says this, talking about that obligation that the mature or strong believer has. 15 verse 1 through 3 says this we who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak, and not to please ourselves. Let each of us please his neighbor for his good to build him up. For Christ did not please himself. Here's our example. Christ did not please himself, but as it is written, the reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me. As a friend of another believer, you and I, we can either be a help or a huge hindrance for someone. The bottom line is this, will you look out for your own interests or will you first look out for the interests of others? Real quick, a definition of the stronger brother. A believer who through spiritual maturity recognizes, knows the objective, verifiable truth of a subject, and the permissiveness of a particular activity. He understands and acts according to the freedom he has in Christ. But what are the obligations for this stronger brother? The mature believer, the stronger brother, mature believer, must contain his knowledge of a particular doctrinal issue and recognize if his brother is ready to understand and wrestle with this particular truth. Also, the mature believer must recognize the spiritual condition of his fellow believer. Evaluating whether or not doing something in front of or with them will embolden them Towards an act that violates their conscience. A mature believer must not use their knowledge as an opportunity to think that they are better than anyone else It's not true. But we can fall into that trap if we are strong in a certain area. But note this as well. This is incredibly important. The mature believer must be very careful that they haven't slipped too far in their liberty, that they have violated God's commands by actually doing improper activities and sinning in the process. It is possible. that those who have actually seared their conscience and become callous to personal holiness and believe anything is permissible. You can very easily go from a weaker brother searing their conscience and then going way past the stronger brother to a part to a point of licentiousness And finally, the last obligation of the stronger brother is they, just like the weaker, must replace any pride with love. Think of the impact that you would have on your kids if you just let them do, watch, read, or listen to whatever they wanted. You know what? More than that though, how does a strong how will a stronger brother effectively minister to a weaker one? Or something that they are weak in. You know what? This will require brother our us to know our brothers and sisters in Christ. Beyond a superficial level. Does that make sense? How do I know if I'm offending someone or causing someone to stumble or shut down their spiritual growth? Well you gotta know about them You gotta be in their lives. It's the only way. And when you're knowing them, that means you're really listening to them as well. You know what? In conversations that I've had sometimes with people, sometimes another person's struggle can be extremely surprising. Stuff that you would have never thought was a problem, never been a problem for you, how could it ever be a problem for someone else? But you know what? If we if that happens, our response, if we are strong in that area, our response should just be to stop altogether or just avoid it when they we know that they will be around The temptation for the stronger brother is that just to blow it off is no big deal, but it is. Did you catch the warning in this passage? In verse 11, and through thy knowledge shall the weak brother perish, for whom Christ died? In Romans 14, it uses the term destroy. You can destroy another Christian, a fellow believer, by your acts of liberty in front of them. Because you're not acting in love, you're just flaunting it. This pastor says we could end up destroying a fellow believer. Therefore, the stakes, my friends, are actually very high. No, the conclusion for the matter for Paul was to completely restrict himself to the highest standard. If something I do negatively affects a fellow believer, Then I won't do it, even though it is totally permissible. That's what he says here essentially. If meat will make my brother to offend, I will eat no flesh. I won't eat it. I won't do it in front of them And Romans fourteen, twenty through twenty-two, it says, for for meat destroy not the work of God. All things are indeed pure, but it is evil for that man who eateth with offense. That is, the one who has a weak conscience, it's evil for them to do that. It is good neither to eat listen to this. It is good neither to eat flesh, nor drink wine, nor do anything whereby my thy brother stumbleth, or is offended, or is made weak. Hast thou faith? Or in other words, are you a strong believer? Have it to thyself before God. Happy is he that condemneth not himself and that thing which he alloweth. It is vitally important for us to avoid being a growth inhibitor. These passages indicate that we could possibly destroy the work of God that He is doing in someone else. You know, it makes me wonder, in light of those thoughts that we had in the beginning, if this mentality of a stronger brother sometimes Isn't the cause for those who sometimes leave the church? Those events that take place in a person's life When they see other people hurting other people within the church. Well finally, as we conclude As we take thoughts on this, we must base our decisions and actions in light of the truths of this passage. Let these truths, let these principles be a filter for you. Because too often these principles will go ignored to the detriment of the church body. Also, stronger, mature Christians must support and help those who are weak in some areas. This means knowing each other in more than just a superficial way. Stronger, mature Christians must not flaunt their liberty with no consideration how it will affect someone else in the body of Christ. It has to be taken into consideration. Also in that we gotta make sure that what we're doing doesn't violate a biblical command or principle. If we have done that in any way, then we've moved from liberty to licentiousness, and that's not the purpose of liberty. It's not what the freedom in Christ was supposed to do for us. Also, weaker, immature Christians must never go against their conscience. By heeding that call, it prevents them from sinning. Weaker, immature Christians must never impose their standards as law for everyone, thinking that their position is actually that of a stronger believer. You know, you may find, again, you may find that there are some areas where you are strong, others where you are weak. That's okay. I think that's normal. But wherever you find yourself on the spectrum today Apply these principles from chapter 8 immediately. They will do you well as you navigate through this life. Let's pray Father, we're thankful for your goodness to us. We thank you that you give us your Holy Spirit to help us. And Lord, I pray that you would help us as we navigate through this life to take into consideration how our actions and speech affects others. I pray, Lord, that that we would be a people that would seek to help each other and not hinder each other. Help us, Lord, to respond in humility in whichever places we find ourselves in, Lord, and help us to not ignore the call from the scriptures. to act in a way that is like Christ in all of this. Father, I pray for your help because These commands could never ever be obeyed and observed in our own strength So Lord, we need your grace and strength and your help if we're going to obey any of these principles. Father, I pray that As we move forward, Lord, as a as a body of believers, that you would just do wondrous things and that in our midst and and that you would make it so that we just continue to grow leaps and bounds In our walk with you, taking those spiritual steps that you would have in front of us unhinderedly without pause. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.