Okay, James chapter one. And we are picking up tonight in uh we'll pick up Pick up here in verse 19. And uh let's go ahead and just read this together, this passage together. It says this: Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak. See with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls. But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own self. For if any be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass For he beholdeth himself and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, and continueth Therein, he being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this man shall be blessed in his deed. So what we have here I mean all you have to do is read this passage and you might get convicted. Uh because he begins really by by getting into the real issues now That he's he's kind of started off by talking about trials and difficulties that we're going through, and that the whole purpose of the book of James, let's let's actually review that. What's the purpose of the book of James? Does anybody can anybody remember? I know it's Wednesday night, everybody's tired. Okay, let me help you with this again. Um the purpose of the book of Jesus James is going to be found in verse four of chapter one. Let patience have her perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire wanting to be It says that ye may, that's a purpose statement, that ye may be what? Perfect, which means what? Mature The purpose of the book of James is that we grow in our maturity, that we come to a place where we are spiritually mature. When we get saved, when we trust Christ as our personal Lord and Jesus, Savior, we don't start out as spiritually mature. We start out as spiritual babes. And what we have to learn to do is we have to learn what it is to be spiritually mature and really has to do with the consistency of applying God's word. Certainly we're not talking here about perfection or flawlessness. But there is a completeness about a believer, that a Christian who is mature has everything that he needs, so that he is lacking nothing. He has everything that he needs. to live a life that pleases the Lord. And he's able to access those things. He knows where to go to get the things that he needs spiritually from God's Word. And so when trials come into his life and difficulties come into his life, he knows how to respond correctly. He counts it joy. And he's we're commanded to do that. And we are he asks for wisdom. That's the kind of maturity that we're looking for And when he goes through temptations, as we looked about about last week, he knows when he's tempted and he knows how to avoid temptation as well. Now, tonight what we're looking at is really has to do with how do we respond, responding to life in the way that God wants us to. responding in a way that that pleases the Lord. And really, if you think of the Christian life, a lot of it has to do with how we respond. You get up in the morning and you go and and you're at first the beginning stages you're you might have to respond yourself Okay. But, you know, it's not long before you interact with somebody else, right? And you have to know how to respond to them. Or you you know, you get up in the morning and you make your cup pot of coffee and And uh and you you forget to take the old filter out and you put the the uh and you have a filter with old grounds already in there and And uh and you put new grounds on top of it and you fill it up and everything goes everywhere and you have to learn how to respond correctly. You can tell that's happened to me before on more than one occasion actually. And you have to learn how to respond correctly. I mean all of life is learning how to respond and and and responding in the right way, in in a godly manner, in a Christ-like manner. When you look at Christ's life on this earth, he was always interacting with people. And you watch how he responds when the Pharisees and Sadducees come to him. Or when the disciples ask him a question, or when somebody comes and wants healing from him. How does Christ respond? Learning how to respond and responding in the right way. Will help us to gauge how we're what direction we're moving in Christ's likeness. And James says this: he says, be swift to hear or listen. slow to speak, and slow to wrath. Now, is that not exactly the opposite of what is natural? I mean, really for all of us. What is natural is that we are slow to listen. If you don't if you have any question about that, just spend time with a three-year-old. Spend time with my three-year-old. You'll find very quickly that they are slow to listen. They are quick to speak and quick to tell you everything and quick to run around and do whatever they want, but they are very slow to listen. Um we are also quick to speak, aren't we? The natural thing is for us to be quick to say things. And then we are often very quick to wrath. But here's the question I'd like to ask, and I'd like some discussion of this if possible, even though I know you're tired. But if we could if you could wake up just for like you know five minutes and then you go back to sleep after I finish talking. But then you might want to be quick to hear. Anyway, um, but um so so why are we this way? Why are we so just if we analyze this for a minute Why, and there's I think there's more than one reason, but why are we so um qu slow quick to quick to speak and slow to hear? Why is that? Yes, Lisa Okay. We're we're occupied with ourselves. We're sort of centrally focused on ourselves, okay? Yeah, I think there's a lot of truth to that. By the way, you can be quick to speak right now if you raise your hand. Nobody wants to say anything right now. What else? Okay, we already we make the assumption. We already assume we've got the right answers. Okay, good. What else? Yes? Yes. Control thing. Okay, we want to control. It's a it's a matter of control. Good. What else? I wrote down a c I was thinking through a couple of different things. One is sometimes we think of ourselves as too important And other times we think of ourselves um we are too we are insecure. Either of those things can cause this. If you're too important if you think of yourself as too important, then you want to tell everybody else how it is. And you don't want to listen to anybody else because you already know how it is. But insecurity can cause you to become defensive. So you're immediately, you know, something's something says something and there and there's like this defense mechanism that goes up. The same thing can happen with, you know, uh um or um You don't want to listen to what somebody has to say because you immediately sort of don't want to hear it. Does that make sense? Um so it can be insecurity, it can be imp importance. Uh e either one of those uh uh can can c causes that this it to be this way. Swift to hear, slow to speak, and slow and slow to wrath. Have you ever had somebody come up to you? And they had something they had some constructive criticism for you. How many of you all like to hear constructive criticism? Okay. Even if you know the person Loves you. None of us really enjoy constructive criticism, right? But a wise person says, you know what, there might be something there. I need to listen to. A wise person will say, okay, you know, uh um I I heard it said not too long ago. I read a an article that said there's bringing Pretty much three kinds of people in life. You've got your fans, you've got your friends, and you've got your foes. Your foes are people that will always immediately tell you everything that's wrong with you. And they re You've got your fans that always see everything like they they don't they don't see anything wrong with you ever, which is can't be true of any of us, right? And then you've got your friends who care enough to say something to you if they see something that that is that could be you know improved or ha or ha to help you. And so a true friend, biblically, if you look at the book of Proverbs, what does it say about a friend? It says that a friend is is one who it says, deceitful are the kisses of an of an enemy, but faithful are the wounds of a friend. And so when we actually think about all of this You know, we we we need to the mature person listens, listens to listens here's the person out when they when they have something. And it's hard to do, isn't it? I know No, it's hard because I've had lots of people come up to me from time to time and and and want to offer one uh sort of criticism or not. And it's easy to come back, well you don't know what I'm going with through Here's the issue, or here's the problem, or if you knew everything I was dealing with, you wouldn't you wouldn't be saying this. You want to immediately run to a defense. But if we're going to respond correctly, we're going to learn to listen And we're going to learn to be slow to respond. Doesn't mean we never respond, but we're going to think through our response. We're going to listen. before. And um one of the things in scripture in the book of Proverbs, you know you have the the fool in the book of Proverbs. Um and and the Bible says uh about the pro the the the foolish person, the fool is a person who is so filled with their own thoughts, that's why they don't listen. They can't And so a fool has no ability to listen. You got the simple who listens to everything because he has no thoughts You have the fool who has is full of thoughts, has his own thoughts and can't listen to anybody because he's as full of his own thoughts. You have the scorner who's trying to get the fool to always listen to him. Okay, so so you know a fool actually according to the Proverbs by someone who who just won't listen, who can't listen, who doesn't listen. I often tell my kids this. I'll say, look, don't grow up to be a fool. That sounds harsh, but it's true. Because uh there are plenty of people out there that have grown up that way, haven't they? Uh we've all encountered them before. And so and if we're not and if we're really honest with ourselves, we can all be that way as well Now let me ask you a question. Those who are who are slow to hear and swift to speak, are they not also inclined to wrath? What's the connection? What do you think? Any ideas? Yes, Lisa? Okay. Okay, good. Not really processing it because if you pro process that you probably wouldn't react in wrath. Okay? Alright and I and and and it's almost a difference between reacting and responding. Responding is something that you do after you've thought through it Okay, here's how I properly respond to the situation I'm in. Whereas I'm just it's a knee-jerk reaction, it's not thought through at all. And so it turns to r and and so that comes out usually Good. Any other connections that you would make between these things? Would you agree that if we can dis discipline ourselves to listen, to be swift to hear? and slow to speak, then perhaps we're gonna have less wrath. Is that fair? Yeah, that's fair, isn't it? So we do want to get more into this though. This really is the the the measurement uh you know if you want to ask yourself the question am i am i spiritually mature this is a measurement of it now all of us fall short of this so like if No, all of us can look at times where we ha aren't this way. And one of the things you I I think it's none of us can really measure this for anybody else. It's uh maybe your kids, but other than that y you know it's probably unwise to measure this for anybody else. But um but in in in measuring this for myself, one of the things I want to do is gauge it and say, okay, well, compare to last year, how am I doing on this? What is the progress I'm making in this area? It's not, okay, I messed up once or or I blew it, but we all blow it. But is there progress? Because I'll tell you, this can be very discouraging to l to w to to just go through this and to think through this and man I man I yelled at my c kids two weeks ago. But but the question that I think is wise to ask is, are we making forward progress in this? But then Thankfully, James doesn't stop here. This is just the measurement. This isn't the root issues. In fact, he's later on gonna say the tongue, what does he say about the tongue? No man can tame it No man can tame the tongue. You've got to go deeper than the tongue in order to be able to apply this correctly. And he's going to do this in this passage. So he says, Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear Slow to speak, and slow to wrath. And he's going to make a very clear definitive statement. He says that man's wrath does not produce God's righteousness. If we react in wrath, if we react in anger, that's not righteous. That's not God's righteousness. Why do you think that James would mention this at this point? Why would you mention this? Mm-hmm. Okay. Yes, so he's reminding us. Good. Yes. Okay. Yeah, it really does, doesn't it? How many of you all after you've gotten angry ha have wrestled with whether or not that was the right re reaction I I'm gonna be honest with you, I have there have been times I've I've like laid the law down. Now, I'm not saying that you can't be firm with somebody, and I have to lay the law down with my kids. And and uh and And and you have to confront in a right way sometimes. The person that is unwilling to confront someone is often the same person that will lash out in right Wrath. So it's not like the person that's that's lashes out in wrath is willing to lovingly confront. Usually actually they're not willing to. But what it's interesting is You know, sometimes you react and you know that that person was wrong and you begin to sort of rationalize it. You spor begin to sort of say, you know what, I reacted that way because that because of what that person did or said And James reminding us that, you know, really, the wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God. That's not what it does. There are a couple of places in Scripture where it talks about righteous anger. Ephesians says, be angry and sin not, is what it says. Um we do see righteous anger with Christ in the temple, but if you remember, as I I just preached on this not too long ago, uh what Christ did there was not Not out of control as some people say. That's not what happened. He was very controlled actually about with what he did. He was really not expressing And so to be angry about sin, to be angry that someone is you know about uh your own sin is You have a hatred of your own sin. That is fine. But to react towards someone else in wrath, we did, you know, he just reminded us, hey, look, that does not produce God's righteousness. That's not right, that's not God's righteousness. It comes from somewhere else, not the Lord. The internal requirement then is putting away and receiving. He said To well let's just look at the passage what it says here. He says, wherefore lay apart or put away all filthiness, and this word superfluid. That's a good good old King James word. It just means abundance of, okay? Or um or the remaining the the as I said there, the remaining Remaining so you have like this abundance and then there's just remaining left over. So it's remaining naughtiness. So put away filthiness and put away remaining naughtiness. And receive with weak with meekness the engrafted word, which is able to receive your souls. So what he does, he's now dealing, is he dealing with extra Internal things in this or internal things. No question now he's dealing with internal things. Now here's what that's not talking about. It's not talking about Salvation in the way that we usually think of it. What he says is this he says, first of all, put away these things and replace them. Or you're supposed to put away filthiness and and remaining naughtiness, but you're going to replace it or receive with meekness the engrafted word. Which is basically word that has been implanted in your heart. In other words, it's attached. It's not just something you've heard, it's gone in one ear after the other. It's there and it's implanting. It's staying. It's like you would take a something that you want to plant in the ground, you want to just stay, you gotta dig a hole first, stick it in there, and cover it up after after you're done. And so so the word of God can be one of those things where it we just hear it goes in one ear without the other, and and really nothing actually happens. It doesn't actually take root. And what he's saying is James is making a distinction between God's word just kind of Going in one ear and wrote the other, and God's word actually taking root in the life of of a believer where he's receiving with meekness. And he and that's the necessary quality. Really the word meekness there, I I think I think um you know humility is really what we're talking about there. It is the word um meekness which is sort of strength under control or harnessed strength. But essentially the point is is that when we come to God's Word, we have to come with humility. We have to come ready to receive it and ready for God to impl uh for uh for it to be implanted and to remain with us. And he says, this is what's going to rescue your soul. Do you know why he words it that way? Isn't that a little odd the way he words it, or doesn't it's it's not, but what doesn't it seem a little odd the way he words that Receive with meekness the engrafted word that you're able to save your soul. James is saying here essentially that our souls are really in trouble. I mean, we're born, our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked. Our souls aren't right. Even after we trust Christ as Savior, God puts within us And so we have this warring going on, which he's going to talk about in James chapter four. We've got this spirit Spirit within us that wars against it, and uh we have one spirit sort of warring against the other, we've got the flesh warring against the spirit of God, and they're r warring against each other, and it really affects our souls. Our souls are not at peace. The only way to rescue your soul from this battle is to receive with humility God's Word It's how we do it. Receive with meatness the engrafted words, able to save your souls. Well, that's the internal process. What's the external process? Well Be be doers of the word and not hearers only. He warns people, he says, be a doer of the word and not Not hearers only, he says, make sure those who are hearers only, they're in one ear out the other, they're not really allowing the word of God to implant in their hearts, they're not receiving it They're just listening to it and they're not doing anything about it. They're not really applying it. What does it say about a person that does that? What are they doing to themselves? They're deceiving themselves. And so it's very easy for us, even in our own person our own spiritual life. You ever, you know, um we're uh my wife and I in the mornings are reading reading through the Bible. And we can read through four chapters together. And it's not and it if we're not careful, we can read through all four chapters and like not even remember what we read. Which is why we try to discuss each chapter after we read it. Helps a little bit. You if it's not i if if if if if we really don't work at this, um it It it's easy for us just to listen and hear, but never to apply. It's really interesting that uh the Lord in his sovereignty allowed me to preach a message Sunday morning. On, you know, it really Christ is said in that passage, you know, my meat or my food is to do the will of the Father and to accomplish the work. And now tonight Or come this is just the next passage, he's saying, Be a doer of the word. And when I sort of see God doing these things and putting these things together like this, because I didn't do it because I'm just going over the next passage, I sort of see I guess our church needs this. Or maybe I need I know I knew I know I need it. And maybe our church needs it. Where we need to remember that it's not just about how Knowledge where we're just gave gathering it all in, it is about we've got to do it. We've got to be doers of the word. And if we think that we're knowledgeable about the word, but we never actually apply the word, we never actually We're actually deceiving ourselves. And it is a very easy thing, but a very um it's a warning for us really here when it comes to this. Now he gives a great illustration of this. Actually, before we get to there, let's just read the illustration in this passage. He says that Well he says in verse twenty three. What is he talking about there? He he's looking at himself in the mirror, right? So he's a man that looks at looks at So it says he is like unto a man beholding a natural his natural face in a glass, for he beholdeth himself and goeth away. So what does he do? He looks in the mirror. And he beholds himself. He sees himself for who he really is. Is that right? That's what he's saying. Behold himself. What is the mirror? Well the mirror is the word of God. You just stopped talking about the Word of God. of God and you read things like, let every man be swift to hear and slow to speak and slow to wrath, and you go, I'm not that way. I am swift to to speak and I am slow to hear and I am quick to wrath. I am not that way. And you and the Bible, what it does is the Bible says it's a a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. In the book of Hebrews 4 it says And so what happens is when we come to God's word and we're looking at it, it it corrects us who we are. What we are And what the bi uh what we think we are, we come to God's word and we say, Oh, you know what, I'm not exactly what I thought I was. I'm I'm a lot worse than I thought I was or I really need to work on this area. This is not right. So so God's Word does that for us. It helps us to see who we really are and usually gives for us correction on what we need And what he says here in the passages is that is this Is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass. For he beholdeth himself and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. So, what's the problem? He goes away. He he's he's clearly understands God's word. This is not a matter of understanding. He's got it. He knows who he is in light of God's word. That's not the problem. The problem is, is he walks away from God's word and he forgets who he is. He forgets, he just, oh man, that's really you know, and I'll tell you, I'll I'll just be use the illustration this way It's one of the reasons why I am not strong on long drawn out altar calls and invitations. The reason for that is that there are many times where someone will after you know you'll study a passage and you'll you'll be listening to a message. I remember doing this in college. They always had altar calls and invitations And I'd listen I'd listen to a message and I'd be really convicted about something. And uh so I'd go forward and I'd get on my knees and I'd pray to the Lord and ask him to help me. deal with whatever I was dealing with. And uh and I go up and I'd we'd go to lunch afterwards or whatever and I never thought about it again. It di it wasn't like it really changed I just got convicted about what I was about what I was dealing with. There's a difference between getting convicted and actually going out and doing and applying what God's Word says. And so I remember in co uh I was in seminary one time I had a I had a 35 minute drive home where I where I lived uh I lived off campus and uh it was about 35 minute drive Actually and I and I was working in a local church and so the pastor preached a message and it was really very convicting. But I didn't go forward. I just Just listened. And then I drove home for thirty-five minutes and thought about it and prayed about it. And I just really I I and as I thought about it and I prayed about it, not only did I get convicted about it not only did I ask the Lord's help for it, but I thought of ways that I could immediately begin applying what I what what I had learned and what I needed to do. And I thought through well, you know This is my pro I don't remember what the problem is that was now, but but uh so you know hopefully hope but I know I remember thinking through it and okay if I do this, this and this, then I can apply it this way. And I thought, you know, this is a whole lot more healthy than making some quick decision to do something and then going away and forgetting about it completely. And so what he is really saying here is we can be very easy to do that. So what happens on Tuesday from Monday mor Sunday morning to Tuesday? Do we even think about what we've heard? Do we do we even or if we're studying our personal devotions, do we really think about what we are reading and ask ourselves how can we be a doer of the work? How can we really apply it It is so easy for us to be involved in a service or involved in our own personal devotions and then walk away and not even live in light of any of it. And God's saying if we do that we're deceiving ourselves. The truth's not in us. We're deceiving ourselves. And he's warning against that. And he gives us this illustration. And finally, we have the conclusion in verse 25, where he says this but whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, he calls it. And by the way, when we apply scripture We often think of if we're not careful, we can think of Scripture being constraining. But Scripture is the exact opposite. Scripture applied correctly is liberal. Liberating. You get to know who you really are, you know what God wants you to do, and there is a liberation that occurs when you begin to see who you really are, who you are in light of God's Word, and when you begin to change as a result of what God wants you to how God wants you to change. There's actually a liberty to that process. He says, and what? He looks into it and he does what? This is the key word. He continues in it. He's gonna continue. It's not he looks in it, forgets about it, but whosoever looks in the li the law of liberty and continu Continues therein. He's not a forgetful here, but a what? The contrast is, you're either forgetful here or you are a what? You're a doer of the work. There's no in between. It's not I'm a forgetful here. You got a forgetful here on one side and I'm a rememberer on the other. How do you know if you're remembered or not? If you're doing it, that's how you know if you remember it or not. If it took how do you know if it took hold or if it's in your heart? Because you're doing it, that's how you know the difference. And uh the man will be blessed in his deed. I occasionally, it's not very often, but I occasionally will get a letter or or somebody will just say something to me like the Lord really worked on their hearts about a particular message. not just after the service right away, which I don't mind that, that's great, but but um you know days later. And it is always encouraging when I hear of how God is working, you know, like days later, somebody writes to me and says, hey The Lord really used that message. You know, because it's not it's not right afterwards when I remember them, it's five, six days later, the Lord, hey, the Lord really used that. That is just a really neat thing when the Lord does that that it's always encouraging to me when that when that happens and to know that God is working in the lives of uh of his people that way and it all ought to be an encouragement for all of us to to allow God to work in our our hearts and our lives through his word that we continue in it, uh being not a forgetful here, but a doer of the work, this man it says shall be blessed. Let's remember what does the word blessed mean? I got a couple people who said it. Blessed means happy. That's what it means. There's no getting around it. That's what the word means. It means happy. Isn't that a nice thing? God wants us to be happy. If we're happy when we follow God's word and we continue in it, that's how we gain Hopefully this I don't know that this was a lot of brand new material for us, but you know, we're really good forgetters, aren't we? We have really good forgetters, don't we? I was just um teaching at the uh at the Johns Hopkins thing last night, and I'm going through the book of Ephesians with them. And And um I was preaching or teaching them in in Ephesians chapter three and and just reminded of the truth in that passage. And I'm going I'm I'm studying it over again yesterday. before I had to and I'm thinking, boy, I'm really glad I'm teaching this to them. Because I'm r I it's like you forget about this stuff. It's just you you just you just it's not like you don't have the knowledge, but you forget to think Think about it. And uh it's it's so important for us to continue to review these things because we are that way, and uh may we learn to be continu And grow and as mach mature Christians the way that God wants us to grow, so that we can be truly happy. Um that we please the Lord, and that that His pleasure becomes our pleasure. So that these things are not mutually exclusive. It's not God's happy or I'm happy. It's God's happy and I'm happy. And in fact, I'm happy because God's happy. That's the way that God really wants us to live. Let's pray together. Father, we do know that we need your uh strength and power to To continue in your word. And we know that we so easily stray away from it. We know this because we think of very clear, tangible measures measurements in our lives like how well we listen or how well we s uh or how how quick we are to speak and we know our own failures in these areas, Lord. and it causes us to realize we need to we need to continue in your word more and um and not be forgetful here. So I pray, Lord, that you'd help us to do that to in this area, Lord, so that we can truly grow in Christ likeness, grow in spiritual maturity. that we can glorify you with our lives. And pray that you just dismiss us with your blessing and safety. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.