You've got to realize that God is creator, and you've got to realize that God is holy. That's the kind of confession that you can do corporately. I said, I confess my transgression unto the Lord, and you forgive the iniquity of my sin. But there is forgiveness with you that you may be feared. You know, when we are confessing our sin corporately, we're understanding that we're all sinful, and we understand that individually And then one leads to the other, which leads to the other. Is that any like thoughts of primary results? Can anybody tell me one? Maybe think about man because I say that a lot to myself. We're almost ready to start. Lies away forth mear to the heart of God. Oh Jesus, bless renew, send from the heart of God, all God who may be for thee. And he's holy, so you're separated from him. And then once you're able, once you are in a place of thankfulness, and then you're going to want to grow in Christ, and there are going to be things that you see that are necessary for the sake of God's kingdom, and you're going to be want We are others. Adoration. uh that I've mentioned before, that the guy with the weird name that starts with an O. Sovereign. Set this the justice of God. So it's a matter of praying, thinking about the goodness of God and what that maybe doesn't mean and what it does mean. Okay? And that this is one that I would say that uh you know uh uh uh a worship service comes kind of more naturally. The truth is I try to pray through every one of these at some point during the worship service, but I think there's a better way to there's a more effective way to do this in the future, which you're going to see here in a minute. Oh when you just had us all Oh there's the attributes. We s we could say the word. uh let me really think about what it means that God is a faithful God. The many, many times that Israel suffered, or Israel uh rather not suffered, but well suffered too, but not that that they they strayed from God and went and yet God was faithful been thankful that you've done you were this way in my life. Now you might think to yourself, um, confession, uh, isn't that just something that's personal? Although the nation of Israel, they're in Babylon in captivity, they obviously have failed God as a whole. trying to figure out is is he praying as as a pro as a to God about the children of Israel with a group of people or is he by himself and I don't see He's praying with people. And he continues anyway, he continues this kind of prayer, and we see that there. Heeded your servants, the prophets, who spoke in your name to your to our kings and our princes, to our fathers and all the people of the land. Well, all of us are undone. We're confessing our own unfaithfulness. My soul waits for the Lord more than those who watch for the morning. When send again. us collectively and God. and cruel bondage. uh that we should have when we're thanksgiving when we're when we're thanking the Lord and and could doing that together. But for us to hear the transition from guilt to grace to grace to gratefulness, for us to hear that transition as someone prays and as we're praying with them Just like when Christ prayed, he said, Our Father which art in heaven. And that's part of what we're what we would be doing, we're doing in corporate prayer. You realize there's nothing, you deserve absolutely nothing, that you are completely destitute spiritually, and you're coming to God that way. So supplication is what the it's the natural response to all the rest of these. And to pray in a way that pleases the Lord. And being ready to really pray that is something that is a good idea in well, it's frankly a good idea in individual prayer as well, but also in corporate prayer. Uh that that would not uh frankly none of that that should be the case. who he is praised and confess thanksgiving. Nehemiah prayer, but usually it should follow this type of order so we're in that right place. Uh not over time yet, but uh didn't I we don't have as much time to pray as I wanted to. And it is because of what Christ has done for us, and it is in spite of the fact, and uh certainly of no doing of our own, in spite of the fact that we have sinned against you greatly Then you begin to see your sin. want to begin to pray about those kinds of things. What it looks like. And so this is, these are four ways to participate in prayer. Number one, the prayer of praise sets the foundation of our time together. Which is praising God for who he is. Wisdom. It is not just moral rightness, that's holiness, it's different than holiness. in a prayer where we're pray praising God for an attribute is uh is uh is going to cause us to wonder about uh wan to wonder about that yes. its primary role as to reveal God. And then you can, all of these, you can pray to God, okay, as you re as the as you reveal real reveal. But specifically, these specific perfections, these pers specific um attributes of God. At some point or another n uh mention in a in prayer uh a praise to God for who He is. He's faithful. uh relentlessly over time created a plan and a way for Christ to come uh to earth is actually uh a demonstration of his faithfulness. And how God is faithful to me to me. while you're praying. When we pray this way to him, when we praise him, he is pleased by that. But the truth is we could actually find examples of corporate confession in Scripture. that I think with the um where it just with the um there is this one guy the other guy and then say four yeah Good good thought process, but but it's not that's not really what we're talking about. And made confession and said, Oh Lord, great and awesome, so you actually got adoration in there, great and awesome, who keeps his covenant and mercy With those who love him and with those who keep his commandments, we have sinned and committed iniquity. I can't really think of a time where Daniel ever did anything wrong. He prays, we have sinned and committed iniquity, we have done wickedly and rebelled, even by departing from your precepts and your judgments. As a group, not necessarily all assembled. those near and those far off, all the countries of uh to which you have driven them, because of the unfaithfulness which they have committed against you. um than just a individual thing. Every one of us, anytime we doubt, anytime we say, I don't I don't bel you know, I'm if I have anxiety even over what's happening in my circumstances Well, if you look at how faithful he is, he is always faithful, then you look at yourself. Okay, and me too. But that starts, that should start corporately. A community that repeatedly confesses sin together is a community that is glad, growing, gracious, and grounded. keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, by no means clearing the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children children and children's children to the third and fourth generation. gather together as in in i uh uh as Israel, as they gather together as God's people, they realize the importance of recognizing that God is a forgiving God and recognizing that he doesn't just clear the guilty, he forgives the guilty. And he could do that because of Christ. your d decline and death sets in spiritually when you're not confessing your sin to the Lord. My vitality was turned in a drought of summer. What do you think happens? then we're not going to easily withhold forgiveness. as something strange or disqualifying. There's it's like a constant reminder that we're all we're all equal in our sin and we all need Christ that we certainly can corporately uh confess together. And it can be a great testimony. the various hardships in their lives, my heart is redirected to gratitude and joy. It can be a generally encouraging thing for all of us. And so supplication is the final one. This is something I'm I'm in need of. Lord according to his will. He says slow down. Near to the heart of God, a place where we are savior me, near to the heart of God. Near to the heart of God, there is a place of full release, near to the heart of God. A place where all is joy and peace, near to the heart of God. Stand from the heart of God all God to wait before thee, near to the heart of God. and then to be able to draw nearer to you boldly because of all that Christ has done for us. And we are going to look at our final sort of final lesson in this mini-series on corporate worship Corporately pray together in a prayer meeting. thinking about a perfection of God, an attribute of God, something that we can praise Him for benevolent that it spills out. God is faithful even though I'm not, even despite the fact that I'm not faithful. So does that help? Daniel is a perfect example of a corporate prayer. He had to be, that's what he is. So that's that's the that's the point. O Lord, righteousness belongs to you, but to us shame of face, as it is this day, to the men of Judah, to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and all Israel. And you look at that moral attribute of God and you can realize immediately how that you fall short. I don't even have I don't even have good motives for people all the time. No. See, here's what should happen. an extension of our corporate worship time. Exodus 34, 6 says, The Lord passed before him and proclaimed the Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering, abounding in goodness and truth. And then we are going about individually and continuing to worship God in a similar fashion to what we're doing on Sunday. He likes he likes alliteration. There's gladness. That we are we are not we are not people that are consistently obedient or whatever we're confessing. And is that not exactly what we are? I don't think I typed that right. By means of anybody else, this is not anything has nothing to do with Catholic confession whatsoever. um some deep dark sin that you need to quit confess to the Lord that really shouldn't go beyond that. don't apply to everybody else that just apply to you, those would be ones that you would do just between you and the Lord. This time of thanksgiving is vital to Sunday gathering because a broken spirit can be a great obstacle to bearing God's gracious words. sometimes with needs and and and there is something encouraging, something strengthening. And so before we ever come to the worship come to the preaching time, we want to have we want to collectively get uh have a thanksgiving time together. Consider God who God is and what he can do and yet this world is so broken and we get complaining. Sometimes sometimes we get stuck on one of these. issue of the fact that I'm not been faithful to you. that that encourages me to be thankful as well. There's we we should be thanking God before we're asking God for s for things. Be careful for nothing. um who lead in prayer, those who will pray should prepare. Okay, that is that is um basically the lesson for tonight, and we are over time. um have more people praying different aspects of this and so you'll be seeing that in the days ahead. The the shorter aspect? Alright, let's pray together. And Lord, as we look at your word, we pray that it would be helpful for us to gain just learn a more about what corporate prayer And I think it hopefully it will be very helpful for us. Once you realize that you are forgiven of your sin, the response to that would be what? I try to really be conscious of that too. the revelation of who God is. Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be the name. And so these things should go together. Psalm 130 says, I'll just read it to you, out of the depths of I have cried to you, O Lord, Lord, hear my voice. uh for you know uh a prayer of adoration for um the faithfulness of God. is and what it ought to look like in our lives as Christians. Anybody know canybody name one or two or name one? They are all really responses to the gospel. of prayer responses to different aspects of the gospel. identifying how this should work in the corporate setting and what what will happen, what is likely to happen when you pray this way in a corporate setting. The wonder of these prayers, if you're praying a prayer of adoration, is not just simply a form of listing off God's attributes, but of unpacking them. If I'm praying uh if I'm praying that out hourly in a corporate setting, if I'm just listing them, that's not the same as, okay. Oh I I it I I don't know. The goodness of God and the fact that He is always good. Let your ears be attentive to the to the voice of my supplications. There's a sense in which you're all sinners, you all realize that the the only thing um that it redeems you is Christ and and the fact that that uh his gospel That God is a forgiving God, He's forgiven your sin. Uh Lord, thank you. Any questions about supplication? by praying together. who he is and how he's working in your life. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord does not impute iniquity, and whose spirit there is no deceit. Gracious community. Really realizing what that forgiveness within the confession looks like. Yeah, yeah. There is a place of quiet rest, dear to the heart of God, a place where sin. kinds of prayer are in Scripture that we are told either at least by example, but sometimes by command to emulate. Faithfulness, good. And so when we read, you can open any passage of Scripture, and you should be looking for, okay, what does this reveal about who God is? really meditating and if I'm personally doing it, I'm not really meditating on any one of those attributes, I'm just sort of listing them And Daniel chapter nine, and we're just going to read through it. When you really understand who God is, you can take any attribute of God, particularly any moral attribute of God, I guess primarily any moral attribute of God. Can anybody in here raise their hand and say, yes, I'm faithful to God every day? God's omnipotence, and then consider all that's still broken in this world in my life, and I grumble. That's so we can have a little bit of a better taste of how he's been working in the life. Okay, Thanksgiving. All right. A lot of times I'll pray this or we'll have maybe one other person praying on Sunday morning. We're gonna have to be careful with that right now with COVID and kids and all that. Adoration. That should reveal a particular character of God, and then we pray about that. Something else, the holiness of God. In other words, when I'm not confessing to the Lord, when I'm not recognizing my sin before the Lord, what happens? He's you get the picture? Okay. Okay, I'm not going to be able to do it. And yet Christ has taken on our sin on himself and died in our place so that we could be rightly related to you, have right standing before you, have peace with you Okay, intercession, that would be part of supplication. They really should be something that we're not just doing individually, but something that we should be doing corporately as a body of believers. Daniel, I always found it a little bit interesting that Daniel praised this. Exodus 6. Anyway, uh any other thoughts on Thanksgiving, questions on Thanksgiving? Wisdom. There's a tense in which uh sense in which I am doubting the goodness of God. The truth is there are things that happen in our lives that become obstacles to receiving God's grace. You should pray as you watch the news or you probably shouldn't watch the news. I really think that that's exactly the purpose of that's exactly the value of corporate Thanksgiving together, of going through this corporately. And that's certainly true. versus actually playing a baseball game and one is far more interesting than the other and actually watching a baseball game isn't so bad once you've played it. Yeah. Okay, pardon. But but even praying corporately, we are reminded of the gospel through praying like this But this is actually talking about the morning worship service. and participate in prayer in a more meaningful way in our morning worship service. Sovereign. Means describing it, understanding what it means, not just, okay, so what does holiness mean? Alright. So confession becomes the reflex of our souls, he says. He's saying we. So prayer is something that that we said before, prayer is something that is more often a collec maybe I use the word collective thing, a collective thing And I'm missing one. We got another two minutes before we'll start. Okay, immutable, unchanging, always the same. Any thoughts or questions or comments about adoration? Yes, oh yes, while you're praying. He's not going to walk away going, yeah, what a bunch of hypocrites. There's no what I'm saying is there's no priests that we're confessing to to get to God like a Catholic corporate Catholic confession idea. When we are corporately praying together and thanking the Lord for things, there is something that is encouraging about that. It becomes a light to others. And when a body of believers confess to the Lord, there's gladness. When send again. But it really is it there there's something about just being a part of it and participating in it. We can't doubt very true. In other words, don't worry about anything. It's not something you're supposed to rush through. Very good. He's a wise God. On this, he says it should be not as sh not as short. So we not only give space and understanding, we send against, but we also expect it. They were so occupied with their bondage, with their their anguish of spirit that they just they couldn't even listen. Yeah. None of us match up to the holiness of God. Okay, so let's suppose on a Sunday morning we are all saying, we're really spending a little bit of time and we're saying, Lord, we really do confess that we are unfaithful to you So sometimes it might be hard for uh Thanksgiving when you're in the confession aspect of sin and you really are having a hard time Putting it in practice, he recommends three things. I'm just curious. Yeah. Yeah. 9 says it this way. Next one, Thanksgiving. Um so so that's those are the kinds of things when you when when we're praying together So there's a gladness. All right, that's confession. You know, if if we get this out of order, this is such an important thing, and we come to the Lord and recognize Okay. What else? So if I'm praising God for something, I'm saying, okay, Lord, uh thank you for your holiness, your goodness, and your faithfulness, and your truth your immutability. Good, good. Alright. Okay, so uh when it comes to that, so how can you do that? As we pray these things, adoration, confession, thanksgiving, supplication, this is the kind of thing we'll be praying every single day in our life with the Lord, our devotions. Let's all stand saying near the heart of God. Uh actually well I'll take it. So you realize who God or God is, and the response to that would be adoration. Good. There's just there's many, many. That gets into sin, okay? An unsafe person comes in. I mean, regardless of whether or not he he was as sinful as ever uh other people, he was certainly sinful, right? All right, when you confessed your sin and you realize God's grace in your life, what's the result? Father, we thank you for the time that we can spend together tonight in corporate prayer. Is that like in a corporate thing I think? I can understand that, but we we use we use that word all the time. It doesn't really matter. He's praying with people. Thank you. Didn't Moses ask God into heaven? And that's what we're going to look at today are these four characteristics and really how they're supposed to be part of the worship service. So he's understanding this and he's recognizing this. You you can't what it's saying is that you can't be stingy with your forgiveness if you're if you're forgi if you're um asking God for forgiveness. I'm so grateful for your forgiveness in my life over the What are some attributes of God, perfections of God that would come to mind that we could praise God for? And it is. Correct. 2 Corinthians 6 10 says, as sorrowful yet always rejoicing, as poor yet making many rich, as having nothing yet possessing all things. Nahem 1. That's our that and singing, that's our involvement and our participation in the worship service. We sort of said, let's let's revamp some things with our prayer meeting, which we're going to do tonight What else? That's actually a very good question. And now we're going to bring our request before Him. That's what God intended it to be. So if it works, it's okay. A glad community. So Moses spoke thus to the children of Israel, but they did not heed Moses. So that would be also a corporate prayer. You can't shout out about God's forgiveness if you're not stingy with your own. What's the result of that? I think about my life and looking back and seeing how many times I've failed him and yet he's been faithful. Devotions, our devotional worship, our personal worship time should really be Yes, Brad. Kristen? So this is not primarily an instruction book. Now I'm sure he did, but I can't think of a time where he was actually failing God and all these things. Appreciate that. You're realizing that it all of us do that. I don't know if that's exactly answering your question, but I think it can help. He can't help but be good to others. Yes, yes. Thank you. Okay, so repenting together is also a great motivator toward evangelism. Any questions about confessing corporately? Whatever it when you he when you hear that, uh that kind of thing, then um or just thankfulness for the gospel or whatever it is Maybe if somebody doesn't know the Lord, they come to our church and they hear us praying this way. Yeah. That's what God God, by the way, you want to know a good Bible study or not, or a good book on the Bible or not, those kind of things, ask the question, is it revealing God? A prayer of confession in Scripture that was corporate. We're setting the day, we're setting the week off with Sunday, and we're all corporately worshiping together on Sunday. I wait for the Lord, my soul waits, and in his word I do hope. He said, well, you shouldn't teach free prayer. But by supplication and prayer by thanksgiving and prayer and supplication, let your request be made known to God. So there's a real sense in which adoration, confession, thanksgiving, supplication is sort of it's really reminding us That the point is that he's praying with corporate prayer not corporate prayer And so that that's the same when it comes with this idea of confession. The reason that we can keep short prayers on Sunday nights or on Wednesday nights when we're praying is we're praying for one or two, three things at a time. The gospel shows his faithfulness, the fact that God relentlessly sent That's your next one. Praising God for who he is. And by meditating on those things, you start recognizing him for his greatness, for his goodness, for his evidence. We're not going to you know executed it or anything, but I do want you to see what a confession, a corporate confession would look like looks like Okay, well that's one's pretty obvious. We can all pray that in confession to God. You've got to know something about God. Excellent. Okay. Um it and it takes the fact out that if we believe that he's always good, then we really have to trust We're going to want to forgive others. If you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand And so an individual, when he when there's when there's confession, when an individual confesses to the Lord Um and and you would want to be careful not to at least I mean it doesn't mean that the duration has to be long, but you don't want to be thinking how to rush through this. In other words, he's not praying I, me, my. How is that going to affect him? Forgiving. All of that could have been in in a prayer. Corporate confession levels the playing field with which provides a great testimony to both Christians and non-Christians alike. We're actually teaching each other how to pray corporately. Your spiritual bones are growing old. I mean, you see a change when he acknowledges sin to God, when he confesses sin to the Lord, he's forgiven of his iniquity. Now we're in the right place. That's part of confession. What else? Karen? 7 says the Lord is good, a stronghold in a day of trouble, and he knows those who trust in him. It's like in Philippians where it tells us I don't even know I don't even want what's like like he's always good. I acknowledge my sin to you, and my iniquity I have not hidden At least those two things you need to know about God. We talked about before the illustration of the difference between looking, watching a baseball game versus How about the goodness of God? So we were typically listening um what do you mean by unpacking the Maybe I'm going to read Psalms and see what he means by being faithful. I'm not typing too well tonight. Um any any questions about confession there? Let's let's let's look at it. Pick up in verse three. That was for Dave. Thanksgiving. Okay, and we'll see this in a minute. It should be thanksgiving. We see that in Philippians, Philippians 4, and other places as well. So this is not something where you'd actually have to write out the prayer, though I suppose you could. And let me ask you this. Good. There are times where it's I, Lord, I am in need of prayer, I, but he's saying we, and yet he's confessing. No way. I I'm yes, when when I doubt, I am not believing in the goodness of God. It says in Psalm 32, 1, Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Well he says it this way, next next verse. Yes, more than those who watch for the morning. We pray these things in Christ's name. And um and we're we're we're drawing things from this and we're specifically You're thankful, but you know what? Forgiving, good. I think it's one of the easiest ones to understand what you're doing. God is a forgiving God, and we are a sinful people. Confession is probably the one we get stuck on the most, probably. Slow down. Good? All powerful. We thank the Lord for it. And so that can be a corporate corporate confession The prayer supplication during corporate worship allows us to unburden ourselves to God. So the same thing when we mentioned, yeah, that's a good point. Uh I would I we have to keep the service uh somewhat short, but um we I'd like to Okay. Okay. Broader participation is helpful and edifying. Adoration. Uh I know what you're talking about, but it's not really in a corporate thing, but you're thinking, which is good. He's going to walk away going, if he is listening to the prayers, he's going to walk away going, oh, they really, they see God as great and they're sinful. Now what I'm talking about here is is this being last week we talked more about how to how to uh Then we get to supplication and now we're in the right frame of mind to know what to pray. Yes, Moses is an example. Does that not immediately, as soon as you look at yourself, does that not immediately cause you to go, well, I am not always good? Adoration leads to confession. God comes first, and then once you realize who God is, He is enjoys our acknowledging who he is. Okay. Well, Jesus did. But once we go through this process of adoration and confession and So I'm praying and I'm thinking about how he's faithful. It's perfect because it's in the Bible. It says, Then I set my face toward the Lord God to make request by prayer and supplication with fasting, sackcloth, and ashes, and I pray to the Lord my God. Um I almost wish there was a different word because I I don't like the association. All right. Thankfulness. In fact, today you probably weren't faithful to God at some point or another. Yeah, that's just a pumpkin. Jesus bless me birth Save from the heart of God Does anybody know Take your Bible and turn to Daniel chapter nine And this is what he means by that. Are you always faithful? We need that. We still have to be aware of all that. So you've got confession, thanksgiving, supplication. We look at ourselves and we say, woe is me. There's a connection there. So if God's word is It doesn't mean we are all together. So he says, even by departing from your precepts and your judgments, neither have we But if there are sent assuming that It should be gratefulness. So with the exception so now when we're talking about Sunday morning And we're taking a lot of what we're looking at, we're taking that taking from this book on prayer. Growing community, repenting together is also a great motivator toward evangelism. All powerful. We praise Him for it. And it's quite lengthy. And because it's alliterated, it's obviously true. So I think that that's something to think about. Other other attributes of God. Okay. But when I witness my brothers and sisters giving thanks to God despite or even for Five five ten. Pardon. It has lots of instruction. I mean, how would you do that in a corporate setting? Any questions about Thanksgiving and what we're supposed to be doing there? Now um And so even by praying this way corporately, we're going to look at different aspects of this in what Yeah. But there is general that we can all that applies to everyone, general sin that applies to everyone No, right. It's the fact that that things come, that God is so There's a lot to this. My bones grew old through my groaning all the day long You you know you watch the news for thirty minutes and it ain't gonna be long before you're probably g grumbling What else? This is just a personal testimony of what happens in when there is thanksgiving, corporate prayer and thanksgiving. Amen. That could really legitimately affect him. Then you see your sin, and the response to that would be confession. Next attribute or next next way of praying is confession. If there's anybody who I would think didn't fail God in Scripture, it's actually Daniel Okay? To hear someone else pray um So oftentimes we want to rush a prayer and you know maybe we have a quick, you know Thankfulness, good, that's right. And praying this is what God says about it is that it's pleasing to him Yeah, he did it on I think on more than one occasion. There are needs. Usually we do You ever can you identify with that? He said, Our Father, which He's praying. Well, reading some scriptures, understanding the faithfulness of God, thinking through that a little bit. Those who do pray Or we praise you that you're this way. It was not just David saying, Lord, I'm confessing to you, but this was it was a corporate confession. Now, let me just say this. We thank you that there is a way through Christ as our intercessor that we can be near to your heart. And it when it comes to the worship service, that's how we participate. How can we pray in a more meaningful way? Well, what sets the foundation for the time together is really a prayer of adoration. This is the author of this book. No, I'm saying there's certain s there are certain sins that Think of it this way, when you come to Christ, what's the first thing you realize? Somebody said holy? Do you know that the goodness of God, when you look at Scripture and look at understand what the goodness of God is, it is For the for day and night your hand was heavy upon me. Confession leads to thanksgiving. I mean, you know, in the right place to ask the What's that? I mean all of us O Israel, hope in the Lord, for with the Lord there is mercy. Why? He's praying we. So you can confess corporately based upon that Why? Corporate prayer can help us. Supplication is the final one. It's right up there. Um When I kept silent Okay. There's decay that sets in spiritually. I'll start off this way. We should desire to praise God not just generally, Lord praise you for who you are. We're not talking about the Catholic idea of confession at all. Yeah, oh yeah, yeah, there's no intermediary yeah, it's only between us and God. We're overwhelmed with something, with our sin. Alright, you may be seated. We have done wickedly and rebelled, even by departing from your precepts and your judgments. Grounded community, the leaders in the church confess their weakness. There should be just so these lead one leads to the other. Because of the anguish of spirit He created you, so you're answerable to him. It's inscription in the Bible. God's faithfulness we've mentioned already And I say people comes in a person comes in, we're praising the greatness of God, the faithfulness of God So we thank you for that tonight. That's good. Yeah. And so unpacking that You're just praising God for who he is. So so um you see we got some decorations up here. But that's not God's first goal. So that's adoration Because I mean, just think about it. At the end of your thankfulness, you're still like, you know what, I really need this There's lots of them. Is that okay? This is something that I would like to do more of. But uh unfortunately. Thanksgiving. So earlier, when when the disciples said teach us how to pray, he said what? The gospel message is personally applied and publicly announced when we do this. And a call to worship, which we're doing on Sunday mornings in Psalms. Look at what Isaiah said. I'm not talking about And if we pray corporately this way, then we're reminded of this, of the importance of this. So you we get so those are the kind of things that really set Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thanksgiving. That's what it means to unpack faithfulness. And yet No, it's not. I'm not writing that. Here's what he's talking about. Holy? Yeah. Why could he do that? That you've Good. He says the only proper response to grace is gratitude It teaches, there's a teaching aspect to it. Does that help? That's one. He's faithful even when he doesn't look like he's faithful. That's That really is the same thing as petition, but supplication really, you are coming to God as a beggar. Exodus 34, 6 through 7, which we're going to see in a minute. And I want you to notice something about these four kinds of prayer. I think it's like you're acknowledging your acknowledging Joey. This is but you are, if you're you know, if you're asked to pray Do you know how many different Absolutely. That's not true actually. So I might say I might think of the fact, okay, what is it faithful? I actually like to hear what your thoughts are on that. You're thinking through that, um, which is a good And so we should have confession individually every day as well. Okay. He's made us to do that. There is a place of calm sweep. Any other ones? I'm undone But yeah. What's the first one? There's Josh? But no, you're not supposed to rush through it We all come in together with Uh this is what he says by personal testimony. And If you think of Oh Jesus, bless Remer. We're getting to these others in a minute This is to God only, not through anybody else, not In fact it's quite quite interesting to some of us. But um anyway, Lisa. Not a lot at a time. Before it ever says supplication, it actually says prayer and thanksgiving. The worship time together. The word blessed means happy. It's a heaviness, so I think restlessness is good too. He prays as he teaches the disciples how to pray. So then why is it encouraged to So let's begin by looking at this term adoration. Any other questions about that All starts, the foundation all starts with who God is God's first goal in giving us this is to reveal himself to us. O Lord, to us belongs shame of face I mean, I don't suppose that's wrong, but that's not really Okay. And I think that's when we can finally All right, welcome everyone. Okay. But um We are involved The members don't see their own weaknesses. Yeah. Well, you've got to realize who God is. Yeah. Yes. It's not it's not That's the kind of attitude. Does anybody know of any? Is that the primary? How do you define a corporate Well God is dependable. He says, I sometimes consider But um anyway That's the point We we like watching baseball. Do they see the Bible? Paw Pause for a minute.