Let's go ahead and open with a word of prayer. Father, we praise you and thank you that We are here tonight and able to worship you. We're able able to meet together. And Lord, I pray as we as we looked at this morning that we would be Just aware that you desire to meet with us and that your presence is with us and that you want us to worship you in your presence. And tonight, Lord, as Enrique preaches from such an important and helpful and incredible passage of Scripture, Daniel chapter 9, I pray that our hearts would be opened and Our minds would be alert and we would be receptive to this wonderful intercessory prayer by Daniel. And Lord, that we would learn from it and grow from it. And Lord, as we uh have our prayer time together this evening and all that we have that we're doing, Lord, I pray that we would honor and glorify you. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, reading from Daniel chapter 9 and you said through 17? 1 through 19. 1 through 19. Alright. I think your Bibles turned to Daniel chapter 9, and we'll be reading verses 1 through 19 before Enrique comes to Daniel chapter 9, 1 through 19. In the first year of Darius, the son of Ahuerus, of the lineage of the Medes who was made king over the realm of the Chaldeans. In the first year of his reign, I, Daniel, understood by the books the number of the years specified by the word of the Lord through Jeremiah the prophet, that he would accomplish seventy years in the desolation of Jerusalem. Then I set my face toward the Lord God to make requests by prayer and supplications with fasting, sackcloth, and ashes. And I prayed to the Lord my God and made confession and said, O Lord, great and awesome God, who keeps his covenant and mercy with those who love him, and with those who keep his commandments. We have sinned and committed iniquity. We have done wickedly and rebelled, even by departing from your precepts and your judgments. Neither have we heeded your servants, the prophets, who spoke in your name to our kings and our princes. to our fathers and all the people of the land. Our Lord righteousness belongs to you. But to us shame of face as it is this day, to the men of Judah and The inhabitants of Jerusalem and all Israel, those need those near and those far off, and all the countries to which you have driven them, because of the unfaithfulness which they had committed against you. O Lord, to us belong shame of face, to our kings, our princes, and our fathers, because we have sinned against you. To the Lord our God belong mercy and forgiveness, though we have rebelled against him. We have not obeyed the voice of the Lord our God, to walk in his laws which he set before us by his servants, the prophets. Yet all Israel had transgressed your law and has departed so as not to obey your voice. Therefore, the curse and the oath written in the law of Moses and the servants of God have been poured out on us because we have sinned against him. And he has confirmed his words, which he spoke against us and against our judges who judged us by bringing upon us a great disaster, for under the whole heaven such has never been done as what has been done to Jerusalem. As it is written in the law of Moses, all this disaster has come upon us. Yet we have not made our prayer before the Lord our God. We have we that we might turn from our iniquities and understand your truth. Therefore, the Lord has kept the disaster in mind and brought it upon us. For the Lord our God is righteous in all the works which He has done Those we have not obeyed his though we have not obeyed his voice. And now, O Lord our God, who brought you your people out of the land of Egypt with might with a mighty hand and made yourself a name as it is this day. We have sinned, we have done wickedly. O Lord, according to all your righteousness, I pray, let your anger and your fury be turned away from your city, Jerusalem. Your holy mountain because of our sins, and for the iniquities of our fathers, Jerusalem and your peoples are of reproach to all those around us. Now therefore, O God, hear the prayer of your servant and his supplications, and for the Lord's sake cause your face to shine on your sanctuary, which is desolate. O my God, incline your ear and hear. Open your eyes and see our desolations in the city which is called by your name. For we do not present our supplications before you because of your righteous deeds. but because of your great mercies. O Lord, hear. O Lord, forgive. O Lord, listen and act. Do not delay for your own sake, my God, for your city and your people are called by your name. Thank you, Pastor Jim, for reading that for us. Have you ever been a part of a fractured relationship? Maybe uh a a relationship in the workplace. Perhaps it was a familial relationship and Due to circumstances or due to one person offending the other, you end up with a relationship that is no longer at peace, but there is hostility. there. There is um difficulty and in fact when one thinks of the other person there there's just no peace and there's no there's no ease Well, in some senses, what we have with God and Israel is a fractured relationship. Except in this case, only one party is at fault, and that would be Israel. Israel is the one at fault in this relationship. God has been true to his word. God has been faithful. God has been merciful. God has been kind. God has been patient. And Israel, through their covetousness and their idolatry, and through all of those things, took that for granted from God. And they find themselves in a place where they don't want to be. And Daniel sees all this. And takes note of all of this, and he is propelled, compelled, to pray for himself, for his people, and for his nation. While this prayer of Daniel's is made for a specific purpose with a specific desired outcome. I would suggest that there are timeless principles for us in this passage that we can take home tonight. In all reality. In fact, we are going to be praying right after our time together. And it's very uh heavy on my heart to see us take some of the principles that we have s we we will see today and really apply them immediately if we haven't been applying them already. I must say that as I studied this passage out This uh I was convicted and assured at the same time because I think there are some things that I have been practicing in my prayer life, but I also I think I also saw that I didn't have a concrete answer as to why I was doing what I was doing. And thanks be to God that I believe I have a more clear picture as a result of studying this passage. And I hope to share that with you tonight. So Daniel sees Israel's and God's relationship as terribly fractured. God has done everything he's supposed to do, but Israel has not repented. Daniel is seeking the restoration between God and his people. And you know, to be a follower of God. Seeking restoration and maintaining our walk with God is of utmost importance. So how do we do that? Well, we're going to see three timeless principles tonight of how to seek restoration with God and ultimately how to maintain that restored relationship with God as well. Let's go back to the passage, and we see our first point beginning here, which is restoration with God comes by confessing sin honestly. Restoration with God comes by confessing sin honestly. It says here, we get into some of the details regarding the timing of this prayer. It says in verse 1, in the first year of Darius the son of Ahazuerus, of the line of the Medes, who was made king over the realm of the Chaldeans You'd notice that since since the we began the prophetic section, um we've been going back in time somewhat in the chronology of things. We've already been through this in Daniel. And it's like Daniel's taking a look back and telling us, you know, while while Darius was king And when he was made king over the realm of the Chaldeans, this happened. Um we find out that that Daniel was seeing other visions. He was being given more prophecy concerning the future that don't involve kings. You know, some of the times we see Daniel interacting with the kings and He they're getting dreams and they're getting visions and Daniel is summoned. But these visions that we've been seeing, they are divinely initiated to Daniel, specifically to him. And he's been given some visions up to this point, as we've looked at already in Daniel chapter seven and chapter eight. So we're going to see here that by by the timing that we're given Almost all the commentators agree this is this is pretty this is pretty much right on five thirty eight BC is the uh is the time of of when Uh the the Jews were being uh excuse me. Yes. Five thirty eight BC. Five thirty seven BC is the time where Cyrus permitted the Jews to return from exile. You remember that from From Nehemiah. And so they declare, commentators, scholars, and all that say that Daniel has been away from his homeland for 69 years at this point. Now take a moment to let that settle in. I mean it's It's not like he's been in prison for sixty-nine years, but he's been away from his homeland. He's been away from he was taken, right? Taken away. He was one of the the captives, led away, and and taken to Babylon. You know, it would be possible for many of us in that situation to become very bitter and have a victim mentality. And you can imagine the types of prayers that any of us might have in that situation. Why, God? Why are you allowing this to happen? Why me? You know, I si I I look back on the history of Israel and I see the kingdom of David and when Solomon was reigning, and those seemed like great times. Why couldn't I have been alive then? Why am I alive to see these days? You might think that, but as we'll see in his prayer, that's not what on is on Daniel's mind at all. Continuing to read, it says in verse 2, In the first year of his reign, that is Syra uh Darius's reign, I, Daniel, understood by the books, the numbers of the years specified by the word of the Lord through the Jeremiah the prophet. that he would accomplish seventy years seventy years in the desolations of Jerusalem. What is he talking about here? Well, you might remember way back in our introductory message that Jeremiah and Daniel are very much contemporaries. They are contemporary prophets. They overlap in their in their ministries. Evidently That when Darius took over Babylon, which Daniel knew about was going to happen, he was foretold that, it propelled him to understand the events that he was seeing. See, what is going on? Let me let me research this. And so he studied what was told by Jeremiah regarding the 70-year captivity. And he understood the fact that this time was coming to an end. He understood that The events that he was seeing were very momentous because it signaled the end of this scattering and that the Jewish people were going to be allowed to return to Jerusalem. It says in Jeremiah 29, starting in verse 10, it says, For thus says the Lord, and this is actually a a A well-known passage, you might recognize it. For thus says the Lord, after seventy years are completed at Babylon, I will visit you. And perform my good word to you, toward you, and cause you to return to this place. You see the promise that is being made there. And then it launches into one of the most encouraging passages in Jeremiah, for I know the thoughts that I think toward you, says the Lord, thoughts of peace and not of evil, to give you a future. And a hope and then it goes on from there. That's the context of that passage there So he understands the timing and the events and what's going on, and he says in verse 3, Then I set my face toward the Lord God to make requests by prayer and supplications, with fasting, sackcloth, and ashes. All of the descriptions here, the fasting, sackcloth, ashes, this is a picture of a man in mourning. He is not jubilant as he goes into this prayer, he is mourning, and we'll soon see why. He sets his face toward God, he turns to God and prays a prayer of what? Well, really it's Confession, intercession, and petition. We see all of those things, and we see that he is mourning in grief. Because of the sin of his nation. It says in verse 4, and I prayed to the Lord my God and made confession and said, Oh Lord. Great and awesome God, who keeps his covenant and mercy to those who love him and those who keep his commandments. Daniel begins his confession with adoration. Adoration of who God is and his character. We see here that this word supplication especially has the idea of the word intercession. This is an intercessory prayer. What that means is that Daniel is praying not for individually just himself, but he has others in mind. When And when he and the others that he has in mind are his people. The people that he does see suffering, the people that he sees that aren't where they need to be with God and aren't where they need they should be physically. And so he takes it upon himself. And this is certainly isn't the only intercessory prayer in Scripture. We see Moses do it, we see others do it. But by far, this is one of the most complete and uh detailed and rich prayers, I think, that we could find in the Old Testament. So he intercedes. But he doesn't intercede in such a way that he separates himself from the rest of Israel. No, in fact, he includes himself. You're going to see, and you all we already saw as we read through this, the use of we and us. is used over and over and over again. He does not exclude himself from those sinners. He does not exclude himself from those in need of repentance He doesn't exclude himself from any of that. No, he includes himself in the in that. You know, if if Daniel had a victim mentality. If he was just mad at the world, mad at God, and mad at Israel for putting him in this position, he would not be interceding on their behalf. And it really, I think, requires us to pause for a moment and think how ought a believer intercede for others Really the number one quality is humbly. How do we do it? We do it in humility. I would suggest that If we do not have enough humility, we won't likely begin to intercede for someone else in the first place Daniel, in this case, he joins with his nation, accepts the blame for the current situation of his nation, this current condition. He doesn't have an attitude that it's all my predecessor's fault and I'm just the victim. No, he includes himself. And he looks at his nation and he looks at his people. He sees they are away from the Lord. They're not where they're supposed to be. Certainly we can remember times when we have not been close to the Lord. Perhaps there are times when we have turned our back on God. It is so vitally important that when we see others turn from God, to remember that, but for the grace of God, there go I as well. You you and I probably know people right now who name the name of Christ. However, there may be something missing. Can we put it that way? What is our attitude towards them? How are we dealing with that? How do we pray for them? Do we pray for them like we should? No, if we are just simply proud and judgmental of others, that will not lead to us praying on their behalf. Pride leads to that. But a humble heart will be willing to intercede on behalf of others, regardless of their sin, because the interceder sees themselves as sinful too. When you think of those who have wronged you that need Christ, do you pray for them? When a fellow believer has done wrong, when you see that, what is our perception of them? Has that perception led us to silently judge them in our hearts? Or does it lead us to pray for them? This is incredibly important, an incredible humble attitude that we see in Daniel that we really should mimic. Moving on here in verse five, let's continue on. Here we begin. We see the we and the us language, verse five: we have sinned and committed iniquity. We have done wickedly and rebelled, even by departing from your precepts and judgments. What's he talking about? He's saying, We have sinned, we have not kept your clear commands. You know, it's interesting going through Exodus as we have, and we just saw this morning how what did the Israelites say? All that the Lord has said, we will do. All that he has commanded us, we will obey. And I mean they don't sin immediately, but it's coming, right? We know it's coming around the corner. From the very get-go, God's people rejected his commands Then he launches next in the verse six, Neither have we heeded your servants, the prophets, who spoke in your name to our kings and our princes, to our fathers, and all the people of the land. God in his gracious mercy, when they sinned, God sent messengers, God sent prophets to warn them, to show them, to tell them. You are doing wrong. You are erring. You are straying from God's way. Turn. Repent. Go back. It's interesting to me, though, that he says this. He's not we have not heeded the servants, the prophets. He is one. He is one and yet His use of we includes he he means himself as one of the sinners who have brought this judgment on them. We see here that Daniel is fully aware, fully aware that the years in Babylon and now the years under the Medes and the Persians were divine discipline on Israel. He knew that they needed to be restored. They needed restoration. And it began with this confession of sin, the sin of his people. and identifying himself with their sin, as though he were personally responsible for it. Now we move into this section where there is clear contrast between How Israel has acted and how God has acted. Starting in verse 7:O Lord, righteousness belongs to you, but shame of face to us. As it is this day to the men of Judah, to the inhabitants of Jerusalem and all Israel, those near and those far off, and all the countries to which you have driven them, because of the unfaithfulness which they have committed against you Why? Why do we have shame? Because we have been unfaithful. Again, he says it in verse 8: O Lord, to us belongs shame of faith. And he he divulges more. He says, To our kings, our princes, and our fathers, because we have sinned against you. But, again, the contrast, to the Lord our God belong mercy and forgiveness. Though we have rebelled against him, and I wonder if he has in mind here the patience that God had showed Israel all those centuries. Of disobedience, of kings going into idolatry, and people following them, and then a good king would rise up and turn the people around, and then a bad king would rise up and turn back into idolatry. Daniel vividly sees the mercy and the forgiveness of God. Verse 10: We have not obeyed the voice of the Lord our God. to walk in his laws, which he set before us by the servants, the prophets. What does it mean here when it says, which he set before us? God was in no way ambiguous as to what he expected. It was plainly given to them. And Daniel is saying essentially, we are totally without excuse. We can offer nothing. No good reason. And here we really see so clearly How a follower of God ought to handle guilt over sin. Israel is guilty, right? I mean, there's no doubt about it. And Daniel admits as much. How should a believer handle guilt over sin? We see here that it is by honestly confessing it Honestly confessing it. Can't dodge its reality. Don't call sin something else so that it sugarcoats it or glosses over it. Honestly identify it and confess it. We cannot lie to ourselves about our sin or the consequences we might face. We cannot be in the business of justifying our sin or absolving ourselves of guilt. We are guilty. John, 1 John 1, 8 and 9, if we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. But if we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins, to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. To seek God's restoration, to seek restoration with God and to maintain it must happen by confessing sin honestly. But it also comes from viewing God's judgment correctly. It also comes from viewing God's judgment correctly. We see that in the passage verses 11 through 14. Starting there in verse eleven, yes, all Israel has transgressed your law and has departed so as not to obey your voice. Therefore The curse and the oath written in the law of Moses, the servant of God, has been poured out on us because we have sinned against him. What is it saying there about the the cur the the curse and the oath? Well it's it's referring back to The promises that God gave back in Deuteronomy, if you will heed my voice and keep my commands, I will bless you. But if you disobey and not listen to my voice There will be curses. There will be cursing. There will be consequences. And God was very specific. Other people will inhabit your land that I've given you. And you will be driven away, and you will be scattered. Verse twelve you can find that passage by the way in Deuteronomy twenty eight fifteen through sixty-eight if you want to know. Daniel nine twelve, then, and he has confirmed his words which he spoke against us and against our judges who judged us by bringing upon us a great disaster. For unto the whole heaven has never such uh never been done as what has been done to Jerusalem. What does this mean? What is he saying exactly here? God forewarned. Through the judges, to the judges, God forewarned. He spoke against us, told us. And this, what we're witnessing now with Babylon and with the Medes and the Persian, is just confirmation of what God said is true The disaster that's being spoken there is likely the fall of Jerusalem itself, when that was finally attacked and destroyed. Verse 13, as it is written in the law of Moses, all this disaster has come upon us. Yet we have not made our prayer before the Lord our God. That we might not turn from our iniquities and understand your truth. He's saying, We haven't repented. We haven't lifted up our voice to you and sought restoration. 14. Therefore the Lord has kept the disaster in mind and brought it upon us. For the Lord our God is righteous in all the works which he does, though we have not obeyed his voice. And now, O Lord your God our God, who brought your people out of the land of Egypt with a mighty hand and made yourself a name, as it is this day, we have sinned, we have done wickedly. Real quick, Daniel rightly sees the judgment of God here. He rightly views it. He sees the judgment of God as forewarned. He sees it as deserved, and he sees it as God holding true to his word. He sees it as forewarned, he sees it as deserved, and he sees it as holding God true to his word. He sees the judgment of God rightly. How ought a believer to view the judgment of God? Really, we should see it as a part of his righteous character. At the very least. See it as a part of his righteous character. In this case, in this context, God warned his people about the coming judgment. He was extraordinarily patient with them. But eventually sin had to be judged just as he forewarned by scattering them across the land, by giving the land of Israel to foreigners. You know, we can very much inaccurately view God in this area and twist what God's judgment is. God's judgment, this is not something that he does lightly or on a whim. It is not something that he chooses to do because he gets annoyed with us. Or because he likes to prank us. Judgment doesn't come from him because of how he felt on a particular day. No, that's actually how we as humans offer up judgment, isn't it? No, God's judgment is fair. God's judgment is fair. God's just judgment is often delayed. And sometimes held back entirely because of his mercy. God's judgment is fair and is often delayed because of his mercy. And God's judgment is always just, always righteous when it is delivered to a person or a group of people. God's judgment must be viewed correctly. Our sin, as we've seen also from this prayer, must be confessed honestly. But also, restoration from God comes by petitioning God properly Restoration with God comes by petitioning God properly, and we see that in verses 15 through 19. We've seen Daniel in his prayer really methodically go through this, haven't we? He's acknowledged the sin and confessed it. He's acknowledged God's part and said, You are right to do everything that you have done. However, Lord, I have a request. I beg you. He goes before God and now asks his request in here. And we will see that Daniel's request is not based on Israel's merits, and it's a good thing too. But it's on God totally. After all this confession and all acknowledging that God's judgment is completely right, now Daniel is ready to launch into his requests. Verse 16, O Lord, according to all your righteousness I love I love that phrase. According to all your righteousness, I pray, let your anger and your fury be turned away from your city. Jerusalem, your holy mountain. Because for our sins and for the iniquities of our fathers, Jerusalem and your people are a reproach to those around us. Now, therefore, our God, hear the prayer of your servant and his supplication, and for the Lord's sake, cause your face to shine on your sanctuary. Which is desolate. That phrase, uh, cause your face to shine. It's not the only time we see that type of reference. We see that actually in Numbers 6, 23, and 24, actually in a few verses after that, beginning in verse 23, speak to Aaron and his sons, saying, This is the way you shall bless the children of Israel. Say to them The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face to shine upon you. And now we get a window into what that means, because it says, and be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace. What he's asking here is asking for God to be gracious to him and his people. That he would give his people peace. O my God, incline your ear, verse 18, and hear. Open your eyes and see our desolations, and the city which is called by your name. For we do not present our supplications before you because of our righteous deeds He's he's making it very clear this has nothing to do with our merit. This has nothing to do with what we deserve No, it's because of your righteous deeds, but because of your great mercies. We see really short, almost broken, repetitious wording from Daniel here. And really there's there is an urgency. Now it says here Sorry, I'm missing the verse there where it says uh do not delay or um do not defer. Yeah, do not defer. It says there, do defer not or do not delay. What he's saying there, he has in picture the prophecies of Jeremiah. And he's he's ri realizing that the time is up. The time is up, and he's saying, please do not wait any longer. Don't delay any longer. Please let this reproach be over for us. And we see here a couple times also here in ver uh In verse 19, it says, O Lord, he concludes the prayer with this, O Lord, hear, O Lord, forgive, O Lord. Listen and act. You see the stuttering there most do there it is. I'm sorry, verse nineteen, I I skipped ahead there. Do not delay for your own sake, my God, for your city and your people. Are called by what? Are called by your name. The basis of Daniel making his petitions, we've seen so far already, is it's based on the character of God and who he is, his mercies and his graciousness, but also We see that Daniel is making a connection and making an attachment. That attachment he's making is that God, your people. are diminished, oppressed, they have no hope, and your name is attached to us I'm praying this to you, Father, not because I just don't like it. I'm praying this because your name is at stake. Your reputation. I want to see your reputation magnified. I want to see your name uplifted, raised up among the nations. I want to see your name made great. Daniel's fear is that God's name is being diminished because diminished because of the state of his people, because of the state of Israel. It's almost as if, and of course this isn't true, but it almost as if God looks uh uh impotent. It looks like God is uninterested He is concerned for God's reputation. Daniel wants the Lord to act quickly on behalf of his people that bore his name. That all this would actually bring glory to God for his name's sake. Now, a small teaser for next message. He gets his answer in the next passage. And we see there that God is not done with Israel, although it looks like it. God will be letting Daniel know that all his promises are still true for the people of Israel, that the unconditional covenants of the past are still true, and he will actually provide a timeline for Daniel. And everybody who ends up reading his words in this book. So how ought a believer to petition God Well certainly that isn't reduced to just these two things. But from this passage, what really launches out to me is that it's Two of the things in the forefront of our mind ought to be the character of God and the magnification of his name. When we go to the Lord in prayer, even before we go to the Lord in prayer, even when we in our mindset, what do we think of? When we talk about the requests that we make to God, we must appeal to the character of God in our supplications. And not because we see some merit in ourselves, and when we see that the name of God is at stake. We can ask God to magnify his name in the situation. Our requests To God, I would submit to you, ought not be based solely on what we think we need, or based solely on what we think others might need. It is important to include the that that we base our petitions on the character of God. It is important that we base our petitions on the furtherance of His name, of His kingdom, and the furtherance of the gospel. If we are not doing this, I think we have the potential to have the wrong outcome in mind. You know what, we see situations that we want resolved, right? And we want a certain outcome, and that's what we pray for, but have we ever considered why we ask for that And this really is what hit home for me in this study. Why do I want something resolved? When there's a job situation, why do we want that to be resolved? We pray that a family who is having some difficulties and struggling, we we pray that that issue gets fixed. Why do we pray for that? We pray that we have someone's having financial issues, and we pray that those financial issues would be remedied. Why do we pray that? We pray that someone's health problems would be healed. Why? Well, when we look at all those things, we initially say, Well, those things are bad. They're they're not good. We want them better. We want them to be good. Isn't that reason enough to ask God to act in some way Yes, in one sense, because God loves us and wants the best for us. But I would say that it may not be enough. We must look to the character of God and appeal to the character of God on the basis of who He is. And we ought to pray that the Lord's name would be magnified. His kingdom would be furthered, and the gospel would reach the hearts of those who don't know him. Too often, I think, when we pray, we have a very small picture in mind. And I think what if I was to sum it up in this, I would say, when we pray, we ought to have the big picture in mind. Of what God is doing, what His plans are. And I want to be sensitive here because I know people are having job situations that they're dealing with. And there are health struggles that people are going through right now. But when we pray for those things to be resolved, we have to ask ourselves why we are praying for that. Does this mean that every request we have must reference God's name and must, you know, appeal to his character? Probably not. But in our heart, okay? In our heart, in in the condition, the attitude of our heart, it can't just be, well, I want this fixed because it needs to be fixed I want this better because better is better and bad is bad. It should go beyond that. It should go deeper than that. So we've seen here many timeless principles. Let's just go over them again as we conclude, and I hope we can take these home with us tonight. And mold them over in our heads. So what do we take home from this? Well, how ought a believer to handle guilt over sin? Honestly confess it. Honestly confess it. We cannot lie about our sin. We can't lie about the consequences that we might be facing. We can't be in the business of justifying our sin, absolving ourselves of guilt. Honestly confess it. We also saw Daniel's intercession and how he did that. How ought a believer intercede for others? Well, it should be done humbly. It should be done humbly. Daniel, he joins in the nation. He includes himself. as as an offender, not just a victim. He's not judgmental of the rest of his people. If he'd had that, he would have been proud, and he wouldn't have prayed on their behalf. But a humble heart will be willing to intercede on the behalf of others, regardless of their sin, without judgment. How ought a believer view the judgment of God? Well, it's as a part of his righteous character. Judgment, the God's judgment is right. God's judgment is good. But we also remember that his judgment is often delayed because of his mercy. He is patient. He doesn't judge on a whim. And finally, how ought a believer petition God? It's on the basis of his character and the magnifying of his name. We ought to appeal to the character of God in our supplication. Not on some merit we perhaps see on ourselves or others. And we ought to ask for his name to be magnified. And his name to be made great. In whatever situation we see people in or ourselves in, we ought to pray for God's name to be magnified in the situation. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this truly timeless prayer and truly relevant prayer from Daniel. And I ask, Lord, that you would embed these truths in our hearts. Help us, Lord, as we consider. Our prayer life and our heart attitude towards you. Truly, Lord, our prayers are a reflection of our attitude and our mindset towards you. And so, Lord, I pray that our hearts would be right. And if in any way that there is any uh uh heart attitude that is found in any of us that is not right, I pray that you would make us aware of that tonight. That we could rectify it. Lord, I thank you. I thank you that you offer us a relationship with you, and that you stand firm and faithful and true in it completely. It is us who needs the help. And I pray, Lord, that you would provide the grace and the help that we need to maintain fellowship with you in this relationship that you have given us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Bevel Baptist Church is a family made up of people from very different backgrounds and from every age group. But we all have one thing in common. We have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. When a person discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God, they're given a sense of purpose and meaning in life. When that same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught, they will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows in purpose and meaning. Our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday mornings. through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our lives, and through our discipleship home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Additionally, there are one-on-one and couple-to-couple counseling and discipleship opportunities. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually any way you possibly can. Our children's ministries are extremely important to us. We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and out of their classrooms. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing, loving family community. We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what Bethel's like. But we'd love to meet you personally. Join us for a worship service, a small group for Bible study. Let us be a blessing to you and your family.