Our country is and the way our world is, and the things that we are anticipating I wanna I I'm gonna start off actually with some good news today. I heard that there was a Supreme Court decision um I guess very recently. Uh there was a there was a college student down in Georgia who um who was actually uh fined, I believe he was fined or t one way or uh told he wasn't able to to be able to preach in a in an area on campus that was intended for for free speech, but he wasn't able to give the gospel there. He was he was making announcements and giving the gospel and and and I guess preaching or something. And uh and it went all of the all the way to the Supreme Court. Um and uh and the Supreme Court uh Um ruled in the young man's favor. He he sued for a dollar. He sued the sued the uh college for a dollar. And the reason he did that was a very good reason. Uh he wasn't wanting damages. He wanted to be very clear that this was not about m monetary damages. This is about a moral a moral principle. And uh do you know what the do you know what the ruling was as far as the m the the the number of people? Yeah, thank you, Brad. Eight to one. Okay. Eight to one. There are three liberal judges that actually are you know, or left leaning judges that actually went with the majority It was Clarence Thomas who actually wrote the majority opinion. You know the only judge that didn't? John Roberts. Dis he dissented. Uh anyway. So um but that's a great thing. Um I'm noticing that it's nice and dark hairy if unless you want it dark back there. Okay. There's a light right a light switch over there if you want your Okay, alright. All right. So yeah, right. Nobody look back there knocking. Anyway, so all right. So um I wanted to mention something else as well that um that uh somebody asked some questions about Pastor Coates la a couple of people asked me some questions about Pastor Coates last week And I wanted to fill you in on a couple of things. I did a little bit more research to understand what was going on. Actually the the police, the uh the Royal Canadian police. police up there as well as the health department up there. They started they started uh um attending that church and citing and uh finding him personally. And finding the church, they tried to put a sign, a closing sign up on their building back in December. And they kept doing that kind of a thing. And uh and so it was it was really a matter of and and and they find the pastor at least once, Pastor Coates at least once And they had continued to d have a presence there. They were only supposed to be fifteen percent peop uh fifteen percent c capacity, which is, you know, ridiculous. I mean when you really think about it, how in the world I mean first of all, I mean if you really think about this, you're going to turn away the 16th percent person? Like, first of all, hard a little hard to calculate, but if even if you know the number, which you could figure out the number. Okay, now you can't come. It's just anyway, so so they that was not acceptable. And so it's it's actually because the people were becoming very um the The pe people at church were becoming it was it was really hindering their worship, it was hindering their fellowship. They the presence of the of the police kept they just kept coming and kept um trying to get them to comply and uh the the church to comply. And um they were not they were actually very reasonable about their restrictions. They even ha they had an area where people could could social distance and mask if they wanted and uh they had thought through things. They even closed down for two weeks at one point when they when like one or two people got COVID. They were very, very careful even though um even though they were they were defying the law by having uh over fifteen percent of people in the in the c you know in the in the building And so finally, after you know a couple months of this, this is what Pastor Coates then finally said that he preached from Romans 13 and then two days later decided to turn himself in to sort of quell the the f the you know, them from from doing and what's interesting is he's he's been in jail ever all the all since that time. He still is. I think we heard uh somebody said on Sunday that They won't have a trial, I think, till April. May, May. And um and so uh he's still in jail. Uh his um Um but his church is continuing. They preach this Sunday to people. They're continuing to go on and apparently I don't know why, but I guess the I guess it's enough to take your pastor and put 'em in jail and then they'll let you do what you want, I guess. So Uh you know, you might not see me one of these weeks, who knows. But um anyway, so uh somebody else needs to get up here if I don't if I'm not here, so That's okay. But uh all that to say that that's kind of that fills in some of the gaps of like why would he turn himself in? I mean they weren't n he was not trying to turn himself in, he wasn't trying to be a martyr. They were just doing what they were doing uh uh and and realized that they just couldn't fulfill the the the the mandate biblically to assemble and also fulfill the government mandate uh to be an under twenty under fifteen percent people anymore. And they're conscious they just couldn't do that anymore. And and so that's what came of it. So keep a keep him in prayer, but I that may hopefully that helps a lot in understanding what's going on there. And um I hate that you know I hate to say this, but the truth of the matter is what happens up in Canada doesn't usually stay up there. It usually filters down. California and Canada end up coming to the rest of the country as far as what happens. as far as legislation and and those kinds of things. And so um and so just we need to continue to be in prayer for him. But that brings up the subject that we're talking about tonight again. And that is how God wants us to relate to government in such a way that it actually preserves the Christian testimony and glorifies God. And I I can tell you this, that I've watched uh two interviews now uh of the wife uh of of Pastor Coates' wife as she's been interviewed on several occasions by different people. And um and she is doing an in my mind a very excellent job at Really, really being a wonderful testimony for the Lord, she is not speaking in a defiant, rebellious manner against the government. kinds of things. But anyway, um uh she definitely uh in the interviews are being really um uh in my mind, uh just a wonderful testimony of what it looks like to be submissively disobedient. And so if you want a good illustration of what that looks like, listen to one of her watch one of her interviews. You should watch one of her interviews I mean I really would highly recommend uh doing that. It's worth most of them seem to be about an hour and uh I would uh I would highly recommend that you do that. Um She is not losing her faith, her kids are not losing their faith. In fact, they're probably strengthening in their faith because of this. Pastor Coates is not losing his faith. Um they're all the whole church is actually being stronger. In fact their heart is um their their heart and unity one to another is is something and love for one another is being shown in a great way. all of that. So really as Christians we should not we should not look ahead and and just be in horror about the fact the possibility of persecution. The Christian Church over 2,000 years, for the most part, in most regions, has been persecuted. The United States over the last couple hundred years, it's been an exception. to the rule. We are the exception. We are not the rule. And um and what we find in 1 Peter is exactly the context of they are They are looking ahead and they're already being persecuted for their faith, and they're looking ahead and they're seeing and they're knowing that they're going to experience more persecution. They already are. They're being accused falsely of different things And Peter wants to help them to understand how they're to deal with this. And in verses 13 through 14, we learned last week that God wants us to submit to government whenever we can. And so we talked about that last week. We talked about what it meant to be submissive, what that included. We looked at Romans 14. And if you'll recall from last week as well, we talked, we said that both in 1 Peter and in Romans 13. That God says that the role of government is to punish evildoers and to reward well-doing, to reward doing good. And then the question then becomes: what is doing good? Who defines that? And for us as Christians, it is God who defines that. And we looked at Genesis last week and we noted that as God created us in his image, he gave us dominion or he gave us authority. to do certain things. And we talked about four of those different things, marriage and family, uh uh um We talked about uh let's see, let me get down my notes here. Um we talked about functioning as a family, the right to life in Genesis nine, the right to worship. and uh the right to work, all four of those are our authorities or rights that we have as create uh creator creations that are made in the image of God. And that's kind of, and then we talked very briefly about the question of what can can and should we submissively, when can and should we submissively disobey government biblically? And if we can go go to that slide. Thank you. When can and should we submissively disobey government biblically? And I want to review these a little bit before we move on to the next part of this pass passage. It's uh number one when uh number one when the government requires us to disobey God's commands. An example of that, for example, is if somebody were required us to have an ab you know, a family to have an abortion. That would be an example of the government requiring someone to disobey God's commands. That does happen in other countries and it could happen someday in this country. And that would be an obvious one in my mind of when you would defy the government, when you would submissively disobey the government. And there are many others that you could think of as well. But number two, when the government prohibits us from obeying God's commands. And it prohibits us from obeying God's commands. Two clear examples of this is preaching the gospel. Okay, that's an obvious one. And you find that in the book of Acts, they preached the gospel, and when they told them they couldn't do that, they didn't listen. So if you're preaching the gospel, that's one. And uh one another one that's obvious is to assemble together. The Bible commands us to assemble as a church and for for them for someone to say the government to prohibit that, then we have, under God, we have the ability to submissively disobey. Number three, which we talked about just briefly as well, when the government impedes or hinders the God-given rights or authority of another institution ordained by God. Now what we want to avoid, and what's clear in the passage is, you can't just decide as an individual that I'm just going to defy the government When there's nothing clear in Scripture that tells me I need to do there's no command I'm breaking, there's no command that I need to follow. It's nothing that uh it's just I don't want to do it. That isn't should not be a bearing at all on whether or not we follow the government. Uh and we'll see that even more, even even clearer as we go through this. But when an institution, when for example, we mentioned last week a mere in a marriage, there is a decision To the government says you can only have three kids and there's a decision to have more kids than that that would be in my mind within the ability them within their ability to be able biblically to morally submissively disobey. And somebody asked me afterwards, I think somebody asked me afterwards or maybe I was just thinking about it, do they have to tell the government? No, they don't have to tell the government. the government. We actually find that in Scripture as well, where in the first century, uh at least at least at least by example in the first century You know, they hid in the catacombs to worship God. They weren't defiant like I'm just going to go out and do whatever I want, except preaching the gospel. They went to the synagogues and did that But coming together and assembling and praying together and those kinds of things, it wasn't they they hid to do it because they knew they were gonna be killed if they didn't. And uh especially as Nero really really became more uh violent in in in his uh disposition toward toward Christians. So it's not so in a situation like that, but there's still a way to be submissive in all of that, and it's important for us to understand that. Now, with all of that in mind, we want to move then to verse 15, and that's going to bring us to our second point, which is that God wants us to relate to government for the right purpose. What is God's goal when it comes to our relating to government? And we find it in verse 15. It says, For this is the will of God. What is the will of God? What is this? Well, the previous verses tell us it's to submit to government, to submit to the authorities of man, the government. So to submit to government is the will of God. Why do we do what we do? Why is it that we're submitting to government? It is because it is God's will for us to do that. And to understand that isn't very important. And I just have two two implications of this. Number one, this is not in the PowerPoint, but number one, relating to government should not be a battle of wills. This should not be a matter of my will against the government's will Christians need to avoid that. This is a matter of I'm following after the will of God. I'm submitting to government because it is the will of God. I am submissively disobeying government because it is the will of God It has nothing to do with my will, my forcing my will on the government, or the government forcing its will on me. This is the should not be how we are thinking about how we should respond. Now we can be concerned about government overreach. I think at this point maybe all of us are concerned about most of us are concerned about government overreach in one one way or another or concerned are they really gonna you know once You know, unfortunately the way peop human nature is once somebody has power, it's they don't easily release it, and uh it'll be interesting to see if that happens or not. But um and I and I you know I'm I'm praying a certain way and concerned about that. Um but You know, that is something that we need to understand. This should not be for a Christian on any level ever, where I'm it's just my will battling against the will of the government This really should not be what it's all about. And number two, a Christian should not be thinking merely in terms of what he wants. This should not be about what I want That's important. When we're talking about relating to the government, we're our decision to obey the government, to submit to the government, should should have everything to do with what God wants and have nothing to do with what I want. Except that I would I want what God wants. That would be the only way. There's a book that I read a long time ago, quite a few years ago, when I first started as a senior pastor, and And the book said, it was Bruce Ware who was the author of the book, and he said in the book basically that we will believe what we most want to believe And we will do what we most want to do of the options available. Now that is important to understand. We believe what we most want to believe So if I want a certain thing from the government, or if I want the government to not act in a certain way I have to be very, very careful about that because I contend, it's very easy for me to build a belief system But the root of the system the root of the belief system is not on what God wants, it's what I what I want. And that is shaky ground. We should not be bul be building our beliefs on what we want. That means whether or not I like to wear masks. has no bearing on whether or not the government should require masks. I'm not even speaking to whether they should or not. I'm just simply saying whether I like it or not has nothing to do with it Has everything to do with what God's will is. What should I be doing in accordance with the will of God? Now we can, you know, admit we don't love wearing masks. But that shouldn't, it should not be about we should not construct a belief based upon what we want. It is very Easy for us to do that, I've seen this done over and over again. I know I I'm sure I know I've done it myself. In fact, there's often times where I begin to construct my thinking on something and I check myself on that. Okay, wait a minute. Is my thinking just based upon what I want? That would be a really healthy thing for us to uh a very healthy question for us to ask a lot. Is my thinking on this, is my belief on this, really is the root of it just what I want? And if it is, then that's the wrong basis for anything. The root of my belief system should be what? What does God want? What is his will? And God's will is for us to submissively to obey the government wherever we can, and to do it because it is his will Then we see the result. Result, number one, it says that by doing good, well what doing what good? Speak submissive of the government, as we've been talking about the whole time. By doing that, it says you may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. Now here's what's going on in the first century What's happening is that the Christians in these churches are disobeying the government when they have to, and only when they have to. The government says don't preach the gospel and they're preaching the gospel anyway. The government says don't assemble and they're assembling anyway But because they're doing a few things that are against what the Roman government is requiring them to do, they are getting lumped in, other they're getting accused of doing other things Other things are being lumped in with them. They're getting they're they're uh they're associating with other things. It it's terrible when Nero actually starts fires in his own city and and in and is o uh among a whole neighborhood and starts all fires and then blames the Christians for it. How does Peter say to respond to that Peter says, be so submissively obedient to government. Be so submissive that when people When they want to accuse you, they can see that your lifestyle just doesn't match that, that their ignorance is called into question By ignorant, they're not saying unintelligent or whatever or anything like that. It's the absence of knowledge. They're hearing rumors, they're believing what they hear But by doing well and doing right and handling things in a submissive manner, that God's people would be a good testimony. I uh uh was listening to this interview, one of the interviews by this uh the the wife of uh Pastor Coates. And her name's Erin. And um she she was uh at one point uh one of the interviewers said, what can we pray for? I think this is the one with Pastor George Lawson whose Baltimore Bible Church up here was interviewing her. What can we pray for? And she said, please pray that our testimony is is pure and right before the government, before people. There are people that are trying to attach other things to us. They're trying to attach white supremacy to us. And we're not white supremacists. Here. And they're trying to attach other kinds of things to us, and we really that will that will actually be detrimental to the cause of Christ, to the testimony of Christ. Please pray that that kind of thing doesn't happen. And we need to think about that. Folks, if if we are persecuted for our faith, and if we have to defy the government at some point in the future, If we have to disobey the government, we ought to be so submissive to the government in every other area that we possibly can That people, when they look at it, they say, okay, they had to they had to disobey in that area, but these people are not rebellious people They had to do the right thing because their consciences, uh they had to follow their consciences, but these people are not trying to go against the government. That's not what they're doing That's the kind of attitude that we ought to have. That's the kind of testimony that is ultimately going to glorify God. And that's why it says in 1 Peter, just a couple of verses before, chapter 2, verse 12, having your conduct honorable among the Gentiles. That when they speak evil against you, when they speak against you as evildoers, they may, by your good works, which they observe, glorify God in the day of visitation. God works in their lives. Right now it says they are foolish people. And the word foolishness doesn't mean doesn't mean stupid. It's not talking about their intellectual capacity. It's talking about, as it says in Proverbs chapter 1, verse 7, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and instruction. They can't see things from God's perspective. And the world doesn't see things from God's perspective, do they? They see things from their perspective. And what we want is to be such a good testimony among people, among the world, who are foolish and ignorant, not stupid, but they lack knowledge to understand what we're doing. And they lack the wisdom to be able to see things from God's perspective. And we want them to be able to see that we are wanting to be cooperative, we want to be submissive. We want to be obedient to the government wherever possible so that they have we have a good testimony before them. Now We understand the purpose of submitting together. So anytime you think, why am I doing this? Why on earth am I putting on a mask? You know, at a state at you know, uh at a at a uh um a state park or something Why am I doing that? Why am I by the way, you don't have to as long as you're a social distance and I just make sure I stay away from everybody when I'm running I I I don't really want to wear a mask when I'm running. Um I'm pretty sure I'm legal as long as I don't get But anyway, but but why why would in in certain situations you're going, this doesn't make any sense. I don't understand it. Why? Because we want to have a good testimony. We want to have a good testimony before others Number three, God wants us to relate to government with right motivations. Now, this is quite interesting. God is what he's going to say in verse 16 is that we are actually free to obey. He says this, verse 16, as free, yet not using liberty as occasion for vice, but as bondservants of God. He wants that. There are three motivations here. Okay. Number one, submit as free from slavery of sin. He's talking about slavery from sin, freedom from sin. He's saying, when you submit to the government, When you are submissive and obedient in your nature, in your in your attitude, in the way that you you relate to the government, when you have that kind of submission Understand you can and not be all upset about it and not be all bitter about it because you've actually been freed from something else. The slavery of sin In other words, we understand what real slavery is like. Do we not? Real slavery, do you know the government can never enslave us like sin can enslave us Do you know that there is no no way that any any individual can enslave us the way that sin can enslave us? But because we are free, we don't have to fear the tyranny of the government. We don't have to fear the enslavement of the government. Why? Because we've been freed in Christ. And we can submit as free from the slavery of sin. The Bible says in 1 Peter chapter 1, just a couple verses before, knowing that you were not redeemed with corruptible things like silver and gold from your aimless conduct received by tradition from your fathers. But with the precious blood of Christ as a lamb, without blemish and without spot. Our submission is not from a standpoint and then and then secondly it says uh uh also just just I'll point this out. That our submission is not from a standpoint of weakness or because we're abused or because we're victimized. We are free in Christ. And so never is the Christian a victim. I appreciate, by the way, I appreciate this about the Coates family. They are not acting like victims. And he the this guy's done nothing wrong. He's preached the gospel, but he is not acting, they're not acting like that. And that's what he's saying. You're free from sin. You're not a victim. Do you know there really is no such thing as a legitimate victim Who's a Christian? I don't mean a victim of some sort of abuse or something like that. That can happen. I'm just simply saying overall, the identity of a Christian is not victim. And that's what he's saying here. We don't have to submit to government as, oh no, I'm a victim of the tyranny of the government. Not as victims. Number two, it says don't use our freedom as liberty or license To sin. Understand. Don't say to yourself, okay, well, I'm free from sin. I'm free from the penalty of sin. So therefore I can do what I want. I can just disobey the government. It doesn't matter No, don't use your liberty in Christ to act as though you're free from the government. Submission, don't do that, Scripture says. And then finally, submit as bondservants of Christ. God actually is saying in his word that we can actually use The rules and laws of the government to help us and to teach us and to give us opportunity to submit To Christ, to be enslaved to Christ. Do you know that you are always enslaved to someone? Always. We are born that way. We are born either in bondage to sin or we are born in bondage to Christ. We're born enslaved to sin, or we're born enslaved to Christ. I'm not born enslaved, or we're reborn. We're born again enslaved to Christ. We know that from Romans chapter 6, verse 15. What then shall we sin because we are not under the law but under grace? Certainly not. Do you not know that to whom you present yourselves slaves to obey, you you are that one's slaves whom you obey, whether sin leading to death or obedience leading to righteousness? But be But God be thanked that though you were slaves of sin, yet you obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine which you were which you were delivered And having been set free from sin, you become you became slaves of righteousness So God says that we are now, how are we to live? We're to live not liberated from sin and now we just do what we want. No. We are under the master of Christ. And by the way, don't forget this. Sin is an evil, violent master that that will that will beat you up every time you submit yourself to it. And God is a loving, gracious Father who will love you and give you grace when you submit to Him. Submit yourself to God, resist the devil, and He will flee from you. Number four, God wants us to relate to government in light of relating to everyone. So what Peter now is going to do here. He is going to actually bring everything tie everything together in four Four different categories of people that he wants us to relate to and how we are to relate to them. Now, here is what we are tempted to do among people as people. We are tempted to try to figure out who we need who we need to honor and who we don't. We're tempted to try to figure out, okay, well, who do I read this? Well, that guy's the government, so uh, you know, I I'll I'll I'll follow him. I got you, I don't have a choice, which actually isn't supposed to be our attitude, actually, we're bond serving with Christ. But you know that person I only have to worry about. I don't have to here's what here's what he says then. He anticipates our human nature. Look, number and there are four of them. Number one, it says, honor all men, value all people. It says all people, everyone we are to value. Everyone. You mean the guy who repulses me? You mean the guy who's in gross sin that I just don't even want to think about? You mean the the the woman that just I just can't even I can't even stand We are to honor all people. Why? For the very same reason that we have all certain rights, because we are all made in the image of God. There is no one that we are to relate to, government or otherwise, or in our society, or I mean Peter's primary concern is our testimony. And we get a bad testimony, folks. When we pick and choose who we're going to honor, our testimony gets tainted when we despise certain people and we honor others. Because God says to honor all people, because they are all made in the image of God. Genesis 1:26, then God said, Let us make man in our image according to our likeness. Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the air. Verse twenty-seven, So God created man in his own image. In the image of God he created him. Male and female, he created them. So that means every individual on the face of this earth, every person that's born on the face of this earth has value. And we need to understand that as Christians. And we need to treat people that way. And sometimes it's hard in our society to do that. And we still must do that Do we struggle with that? Do we struggle as Christians with that? Are we tempted to value some people and just despise others? I think probably in our society it is more difficult now. This area is more more needful now for us to remember than even in the first century. Value all people. Number two, love God's people. Love God's people. That's what it says. Love the brethren. We're to value all people and honor all people. But folks, there ought to be a special love for brothers and sisters in Christ. Why? Because that's exactly the heart of God. Did you know that God has, God loves all people? But God does, there isn't any question about this, God does have a special love for his children. And God wants us to love each other. And in times where the where where persecution occurs In times where the government is overreaching, in times where there is tyranny, in times where there is opposition from the world, it is time for Christians to get together and to love each other. And to value each other, to really truly love one another. Then it says to fear God, number three. Fear the Lord. God desires for us to fear Him. Now fear does not mean dread It's not talking about that here. If you look at the Old Testament, fear is an extremely full term when you talk about the fear of the Lord. It's the beginning of wisdom It is ultimate reverence. It includes absolute belief and allegiance and loyalty. That's what it is to fear the Lord, that you're totally loyal to Him. that you're totally reverent before him, that you're honoring him above everything else, that you're you're you're absolutely allegiant to him. There's even more. We could spend a whole probably six months or more on the concept of the fear of the Lord in the Old Testament. It's a very full term. God wants us to fear Him And then finally, God wants us to value and respect government. It says very simply, honor the king. Honor the king. Who was the king back then? Nero was the king. Nero was the king. He was the he was the emperor at that point. And God says, honor him. Those are the we are we know. Look, you say, well, how do I know if I'm relating right to uh to the government, how do I know if I'm doing this right? It Peter simplifies this really clearly. Are you doing these four things? Are you honoring everyone? Are you loving God's people? Are you fearing the Lord? And are you are you honoring the king? Are you honoring, valuing and respecting the government? And God says, if we'll do this, then what's the result? Point number two. It preserves our testimony. And we can glorify God. There very well may be coming a day, folks, and maybe it's going to be sooner than later, where we're going to have to say, you know, we're just going to have to submissively disobey in one area or another. And we just have to be ready for that. That could happen. But in the midst of all of it, let us all be also prepared to do it in such a way that people are like, you know, these people aren't rebellious. They just got to follow after their Lord. May we do it that way, and that way we can have a good testimony and ultimately God can work through the those kinds of difficulties And and God can work in the midst of our whatever it is, whatever situation we're in, whether we're persecuted or not, God can give us a good testimony with others by how we relate to authority. Together. Father, we come to you this evening and we thank you for your word. And Lord, we pray that you would help us as we think through this passage. As we think through what it says and and um it some of it grates on us a little. We don't like some of it Uh some of it is different than, you know, we we we get really upset over certain things and we're concerned, I think many of us are concerned about the But Father May we resolve that it's this is not about what we want. It's not about our our desires, how we want what we want. It's about what you want. And may we be submissive and only disobedient when we need to be May we have that kind of a spirit so that we can have the right testimony before others. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Bethel Baptist Church is a family made up of people from very different backgrounds and from every Every age group. But we all have one thing in common. We have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. When a person discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God, they are given a sense of Purpose and meaning in life. When that same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught, they will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows in purpose and meaning. Our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday Morning, through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our lives, and through our discipleship home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Additionally, there are one-on-one and couple-to-couple counseling and discipleship opportunities. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually any way you possibly can Our children's ministries are extremely important to us. We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and out of their classrooms. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing, loving family community. We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what Bethle is like. But we'd love to meet you personally. Join us for a worship service, a small group for Bible study. Let us be a blessing to you and your family.