No, no. And you can get a little bit more Any other way to report the board? Yeah, I'm gonna do it. Instead of happy, the rest of the army processes are I don't want to Oh yeah, I'm just gonna hide it. And now we're going to have a number of things. Yeah, we just are just Yeah, we are just I think all the uh No, what was uh Yeah. I just Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, okay. Okay, okay. Oh no, I never know I just want to go in I don't know. I don't know, you never know. I mean more often. The airport trailer by the way Yeah, yeah, I think that it was more in the moment I would say promotion to the Yeah, I would I don't want to Well there's no way Okay. For the bottom, I will have a very hard on local. I didn't use up the five or And then we'll go there when we don't have any Yeah, I don't think that's the same thing. You feel like playing or Okay. Oh, is she supposed to is Caitlyn supposed to play that? I I didn't even know how to have to play. Let's see. Hey guys. Good evening. Do a bite of it. I run to Christ. Let's all stand together. I am right to Christ when chased by me and by the control. No, no, no. I knew that here we can please fix thus joy and for me I run to Christ when born by life, and by my soul represent. Come along me because strife society is way. My wrong price went back by hell and final idea The devil please the stranger tell e draws my camera I write to cry with soft by sin And find us for escape in every nation I rise and price when playing by sheep and by my wonderful best I bore contrast, he please my case, my advocate and friend Alright, let's pray together. Father, we come to you this evening and thank you that we can run to Christ. And in the midst of turmoil and all kinds kinds of un uh unsettling circumstances that we find ourselves in, you invite us to run to you. And to find our refuge, to find our strength And I pray today that as we look at your word from Psalm forty six, that it would be a help to us and an encouragement to our souls in uh Um in difficult and trying times. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, you may be seated and take your Bibles and turn to um Turn to Psalm forty six. Psalm forty six All right. I wanted to take a break from our um series on apologies. tonight just to just to cover some go over a a very encouraging psalm that I think that will be helpful for us uh as we uh just go through Life. This is a one that's quite encouraging. It's a sort of a beloved psalm. It's one that's very familiar. But one that I think from time to time we need to sort of return to and look at. We're dealing with in our lives all kinds of noise, whether it's um the nations and the world and politics And issues in our country or um issues in our family or social issues or coworker issues. We're constantly dealing with And bombard it with all kinds of issues. And that's really what this psalm addresses. It addresses the problems and the turmoil. And three three times in this passage you'll see that he says he is a Refuge and a strength. Notice what it says, verse 1. God is our refuge and strength. And then in verse 7, it says the same thing: God is our refuge and strength. And then again in verse eleven, it says The Lord of hosts is with us, the God of Jacob is our refuge. So we see three times in this path In this passage, it clearly we see what the Psalm is all about. It's about God being our refuge and our strength. And I think it's very interesting. This is this was Written during the time where uh Sennacherib is uh is the king of Assyria and he is conquering and there is there are comp Competing kingdoms. The kingdom of Babylon is competing, and there's all kinds of turmoil in the land. This is written during that time. And there is just this is just one of the Those encouraging psalms that I think it's helpful for us to go over and to review, and we'll do that tonight. I want us to notice, first of all, the description of this turmoil Um in verses two b and three. Look at what it says here. It says, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea Though its waters roar and be troubled, though the mountains shake with its swelling. So you have this this description of mountains and sea and water doing all kinds of crazy things. So the earth be removed, actually verse 2 says there as well. What is all this talking about? Well, this is not talking actually about mountains, earth, sea, and waters. Okay? I mean if you read that passage and you read these two verses If you just say, Okay, well God is with me when I'm at sea and it's tumultuous, unless you know you're you're Dave and I'm Now let me just say something about that. When you read different genres of the Bible, some of the genres are going to be interpreted metaphor. Metaphorically. We generally want to take the Bible literally, but it's really actually a better way to say it. We want to take the Bible normally And when we think of the Bible, the normal interpretation of the Bible, there are certain passages, certain genres of the Bible, certain parts of the Bible that we should take very, very literally. Epistles from Paul to the church. At Corinth. It's going to be a very literal, you're going to take it very, very literally. But when you get into Psalms and you see things like God is a refuge and a strength In times where Mary uh mountains are being carried in the midst of the sea, there's very likely something else going on there besides mountains going into the sea. There's there's there's something else happening here. And that is definitely the case in this passage. And so I actually want us to look at this because I think if we see what this is, we're going to really be helped by this passage more. Number one, what are the what is the terminal in the passage? Well, it's significant changes You see where it says though the earth be removed. Well the word removed could also be translated uh it could be translated shaken or changed. The earth is changed or shaken. It's talking here about the the changes or great revolutions of the earth. The fact that the church uh earth rather goes through changes and Revolutions. You ever find yourself going through all kinds of changes? Are we not living in a world where hardly anything is the same? Where one there's one change after another after Another, after another, in our lives, in our world. And this passage is going to help us with understanding a God who is a refuge and a source of Oh now that helps me a little bit. It's not just about mountains going into the sea and the sea swelling up and all that there's there's more going on here right well notice uh uh and and and notice secondly that this is actually talking about national and political ideas The word mountain actually is a ill it's it's it's an illustration or a metaphor for empires. Talking about empires here. National empires. Psalm thirty verse seven act David actually says about his own own empire. He says, Lord, by your favor you have made my mountain stand strong. He's talking there about the fact that his kingdom was uh he uh he was attributing the fact that God had made his kingdom to be strong. Talking here about kingdoms. And it's So it's saying, though the mountain or the kingdoms be carried into the midst of the sea. Well, what is the sea talking about? The sea is talking about worlds. The sea Revelation chapter twenty seventeen, verse fifteen, which is actually also figurative language. You have this term this verse that says Then he said to me, The waters which you saw where the harlot sits are peoples, multitudes, nations, and tongues. So in Revelation seventeen verse fifteen fifteen it says that the waters are peoples, multitudes, nations, and tongues. Well what is that? Well it's everything. It's the word So it's saying that when the mountains or when the nations are swallowed up or carried away by the world, there's all of this turmoil, there's all of this dissension, there's competing powers going on when that kind of thing is happening. And then notice it says this what happens to these waters? Well they roar, verse three. They're troubled, these peoples and nations and and And uh all the they're they're roared, they're troubled, and they shake with its swelling. The shake with its swelling is talking about um talking about a high uh a haughty elation of Spirit. There's haughtiness there's swelling in these nations and in these peoples, and people are bragging and people are boasting about their power and wanting to get more power and all of that kind of thing. I mean that that's the setting that we find Psalm forty six in. And can we not say that that is certainly as much the case Back uh now as it was back when Sennacherib was taking over the the known world and trying to and then not doing too well in southern Babylonia and and all the things that were going on back Them. We have the same things going on today. And God is going to tell his people, he's reminding his people that he is a refuge and a strength in times of significant changes, of national and political unrest, and of strife and dissension. And we need to really grasp what he is saying when he says that he is a refuge and strength. So we understand the setting. We understand the circumstances that that uh that these this is written in. And he says three times that he's a refugee, or twice he says or three times he says a refugee Twice he says he's a strength. What is he talking about here when he says he's a refuge or a strength? Well, there's a sense in which that is even not entirely literal When you think of a refuge, a literal refuge, what is it what are you talking about? He's talking about a refuge would be like a shelter, right? Well, is God saying that He is actually Literally a shelter. No, actually what he's saying is that he provides protection, right? He's a refuge. So he is the one who provides protection. But he not only provides protection, he also provides strength. Well what is strength? Is he talking here about lifting weights like like you know you'll You'll be able to pump more iron because God is going to give you the ability to be able to pump iron. Is that what he's saying? That you will increase in your deadlifting capacity if you will just You know, do whatever the pastor is saying, trust in the Lord or something. Is that what Santa is saying? No. There's something else going on here when it's talking about strength. But what is it talking about when it's talking about strength Well let me ask you this question. When there's all kinds of changes going on and nothing is staying the same, and you've got all kinds of noise and competing powers and you turn on The news every second, and every time you turn on the news, and there's all kinds of turmoil going on, and your life is full of turmoil, and your family is for full of turmoil, and you go to your job and it's full of turmoil turmoil. And you d what might you just feel like doing? Giving up, right? Will you not feel like, man, I just what's the Point. I just feel like giving up. Well, God says when you feel like giving up, He says that He will give you strength. Really This strength is talking about motivation. In times of struggle and trial and difficulty, God says that He is our source of protection and he is our source of meditation. Now let me just pause and say this about about this passage in about our world. God is our source of refuge and our source of strength. He is the one to whom we are we are to put our place Our trust and dependency. And can I just say on a very practical level that we ought to be trusting him, not our politics? And we ought to be trusting him and not our country. And not our nation. We ought to be trusting God and not our way of life or what we want to have. We ought to be trusting the Lord instead of those things. When you think about our nation, and I this is just a practical illustration, but when you think about our nation, our nation is rightly called an experiment. is a very young nation. It's n the the the founding fathers when they when they brought forth this nation made the assumption that people had consciousness consciences and that they would abide by their conscience if they were free to do so. There isn't any question about that in the way they were thinking. Most of them were deists. Yeah that you there are a few that were Christians. But one thing I don't think, frankly, if you want in my opinion and if you don't, that's okay. Um I'll give it to you anyway and you can disregard it. it but um I don't think they they factored into depravity of man enough. I really don't think they did. I don't think they had any clue how really depraved man can be and how corrupt sin is. The Bible says that righteousness righteousness upholds a nation, but sin is or approach to any people. And that includes the United States. And the answer to the problems of our country The answers to the problems of our world are not found in a political party. It's not found even in ideology. The answer to the problems of our country is righteousness versus It's the gospel versus versus not not having the gospel, ignor ignoring the gospel. That's what's really actually uh what is really important. And I think frankly, what I see sometimes In our among Christians, is Christians get really uptight. They get really fearful when they are placing their trust in the wrong place. When they're placing the trust in something that is sinking sand or something that is not reliable. We're all like that. And I'm just going to tell you: what's not reliable is our country What's not reliable is our politics. What's not reliable are those kinds of things. But what is reliable is God and the gospel. And Christ, those are the things that are truly reliable. And those are the things that we ought to run to. And notice what it says. Notice the what happens when And we rely on God. There are two results. Number two, look at verse 2. There are two results. Actually, one is in verse 1. The second second part of verse 1 is It says a very present help in trouble. He gives us a very present help. You ever read that and said, what does it mean when it says a very present help? I mean, I understand help. Help is just assistance, it's helpful. What does a very present help mean? Like the app opposite is like a not so very past help. What what does it mean? Uh A very present health. Very present health is talking about an experience. A true experience Of God's help. This is not just an intellectual kind of understanding that God is somehow out there and able to help The psalmist is saying that God is one who can provide a genuine experience of help. In other words, you can feel help Oh feelings. How does feelings feelings? Is feelings really in the Bible? Yeah, feelings are in the Bible. You have to keep it in their proper place. You can't trust them at all. But feelings are in the Bible. And David often expresses his emotions. And he's expressing his emotions here, or actually, this is a uh this is the uh uh of the Chief musician. And then he says this, result number two, verse two, therefore we will not fear. We will not fear That is, no matter what is going on in our world, no matter what is going on in our life, in our turmoil, there is a way to live in which Which we experience the genuine help of God and in which we do not experience fear. But I can tell you right now now it's not going to be found by watching Fox News or CNN or MSNBC or Facebook or Twitter or Pinterest or TikTok or I I'm running out of you know you whatever else I missed. You're not going to find it there It's going to be found in God. Notice what it says then in verses four through seven. It says this there is a refuge, a river, whose streams should Now catch this. What's interesting about this is it says the city of God. What would you assume if you're talking about Jerusalem, right, right, okay. There's one problem with it. There's no s there's no river that runs through Jerusalem Okay. Alright, so you have a uh i again you're going to have to take this metaphorically. There is no other way to take it. What is it talking about when it says there is a river Whose streams shall make glad the city of God. Well, if you look at the previous passage, what did we find were the waters that were roaring? What was that Well it was turmoil. And so what is this river uh with uh uh whose streams make glad the city of God? This is peace. That there is a way in or for us to live in peace in the midst of turmoil. a holy place of the tabernacle of the Most High. He's talking about the tabernacle. What is the significance of the tabernacle? It is it is where what? Where God's presence is It is the presence of God. He is saying that peace is in the midst of the presence of God. So he's saying here, the holy place of the tabernacle of the Most High, and we see verse five, God is what? In the midst of her She shall not be moved. She shall help her, God shall help her just at the break of dawn. In the nick of time, just when it seems as though there is that that all is going to be lost, God will help her. He is in the midst of her. He is in the midst of He uttered his voice. The nation raged, the kingdoms were moved. Notice the contrast. You've got God will not be moved And she, the people of God, will not be moved. Contrasted with the nations' rage, and the kingdoms were moved. They're going to be moved. You know the truth of the matter is, this experiment in this nation is going to be moved. It's going to be. I guarantee you, you know United States is not eternal. There's no question about that. God's kingdom is eternal. The United States is not. And neither is it And so it countries are gonna be moved, nations are gonna be moved, things are gonna go bad. It's just the nature of sin. If you look at every every look at the history of Civilization, every nation, every kingdom has risen and fallen, and risen and fallen and risen and fallen. Why? Because righteousness exalts a nation, and sin is a reproach To the any people, and man is depraved and ends up corrupting every nation. And that should make us go, wow, we can't wait till what? We talk about self- The coming of Christ. That's our hope. Christ is our hope. And so he says so it says God is in the midst of her. Rage, the kingdom will move, he uttered his voice, and the earth melted. Will that happen one day? That's still in the future. Or Christ will come, he will set up his Kingdom. Eventually, then after a thousand years, then he's going to make a new heaven and a new earth and refurbish everything. And it all will be as God originally created it to be. That's our hope, brothers and sisters in Christ. But until then, the Lord is a very present help in time of trouble. The Lord of hosts is with us, the God of Jacob is our refuge. Now here then becomes the question how do we how do we take hold of this resource Of the peace of God that produces a provision and a protection and And uh where we don't have to fear. How do we get that? How do we how do we remain unmoved in a moving world? How does that happen? There are three ways. To maintain this kind of refuge and peace in our lives. Verses eight and nine says this come behold the works of the Lord. Who has made desolations in the earth? He makes wars to cease to the end of the earth. He breaks the bow and cuts the spears in two. He burns The chariot and fire. You know what we need to do sometimes? We need to sit back and we need to just think about God's work, what God has done in the world. Every kingdom that has ever exalted itself against the knowledge of God has been destroyed by God. God tears down kingdoms. He tears He causes wars to cease. He breaks the bow. The bow, of course, and the arrow were that was like that was like cutting technology, you know cutting edge technology back then. That was that was like the the best kind of of of uh of um weaponry that you could have. God cuts through it all. It doesn't mean a thing to him And he and he does all of this in his time. He says, Come behold the works of the Lord. And frankly, if in times where we can't find we can't behold the works of the Lord We just can't really see them. We don't really see what God is doing. We have a lot of scripture to show us the works of God. Just take the Old Testament and start reading And you'll start seeing God's work over and over and over again in the history of Israel and in the Old Testament and various places. Look at Revel look read the book of Revelation And see what God is doing. So number one, we need to see God's uh we need to come behold the works of the Lord. Number two, we need We need to not only come behold the works of the Lord, but we need to be still and know that God is God. Look at verse 10 This is where that famous verse, now we see the setting and the whole conduct, context, and everything. It says, be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the heathen. I will be exalted in the earth. Notice he says, be still, present tense, and know that I am God. Present tense. And then he says, future tense, I will be exalted among the nations, I will be exalted in the earth. So God is saying that no matter what we're going through. No matter what it seems as though uh whatever is happening, he says what we need to do is to be still and to know That he is God. How often does that happen? How often are we taking the time and the quietness of our own hearts before God to just We're living in a very busy world. We're living in all kinds of changes. All kinds of issues See it's such a busy time, I just uh it's such a busy world, I just don't know how I can take the time. I don't know how I can afford the time How can you afford not to? I don't think for cr we're we're you know, if I one of the things I think perhaps God is doing with all of us and with our world is he is arranging things where we only are going to be able to depend on him directly. He's putting things in place where we can't Can't you know we we we sometimes bolster our own uh cells up, our sense of security by whatever it is, our bank accounts or our country or whatever it is that That we we find our sense of security. How many things does God have to remove from our lives before we just say, you know, um God is our source of security? He's our refuge and our strength. And we simply need to be still and know that He is God. Rivers make glad the the city of God. There is this place, this sense, this place of peace and refuge. There is this place where we can be unmoved In the midst of movement, where we can be uh motivated in the midst of change. There is a way to be that way. But you can't do it without knowing God. And we can't do it without being still and knowing that He is God. Be still and know that He is God. Stop striving. Tune your soul to God. I I um one of the things that I probably we probably won't be hearing for quite a while are orchestras. How many of you all like orchestral music? It's about My favorite kind of uh music probably. I love orchestral music. Uh I love all the various instruments and all that. I really enjoyed when I was in college listening to uh uh some pretty good orchestras and then any time we I get a chance, if I can find a free orchestra which is hard to find, um I will I you know uh Annapolis uh there was an Annapolis City or Annapolis Orchestra did a thing every I think it was Memorial Day or something and we go to that and anyway. Um I I'd love to listen to orchestras. And uh But one of the things in the beginning of an orchestra is do you like to listen to the first five minutes of an orchestra uh when whenever we're all getting seated and everything? They're all tuning up or doing whatever they're doing. I don't know what they're doing. They're doing something it works is is that they're all competing or all they're all doing whatever they're doing with their n instruments and then uh the conductor directs the oboe to play one note and each section tunes in to the oboe's one note. Everybody tunes in to that note. And you know, that's what we need to do with when it comes to our relationship with the Lord. Sometimes we need to actually tune out all of the noise. from all of the different places where we get noise from and we need to do whatever it takes to to be still and to know that God is God and that He is in control. And God says if we do that, that we will actually experience health. Not just some intellectual idea that God will help us, but we'll actually experience it. He is a very present help. And finally, Understand this that God will we need to be content that God will be exalted. Number three, be content that God will be exalted. Exalted. It it will happen. It's going to happen. God will be exalted. He says, Be still know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth. God will be exalted. That's that's it's gonna happen. But it's okay if it's not the United States that's exalted. okay that if my political party is not exalted. It's okay if my way of life is not exalted. It's okay if my freedoms are taken away It's okay. Why? Because God there is a way to be with God where we are not to be moved. And when we we understand that and when we just experientially this is not be still and know that I'm got okay let me be still for five seconds okay yeah you I know you're got okay and keep going. No this is this is Is an experience. You are experiencing with your mind, with your will, and with your emotions. All of your being, your mind, your will, and your emotions, you are experiencing that God really is who he says he is. If we do that and we are just content, Lord, whatever whatever happens in this world, Lord, may you be exalted and I know you will. And I'm thankful that you you will. It's a lot simpler to live that way. It's a lot less stressful to live that way. Lord, I'll be faithful to you I'll be still and know that you're God, I'll do what you want me to do, and I know you'll be exalted eventually. And that's it. And then live accord in obedience to God's will and His word in his way. And if we do that, then there is that place of peace and help that we can experience on a day-to-day basis. And And hopefully that's a help to all of us. Let's pray together. Father, as we look at this passage and and we see what it has here, um most of these truths are not new, novel kinds of ideas that we've never heard before. But I would venture to guess that we've got a we need to be removed And I I can't think of too many exhortations in Scripture that are more important for us to be reminded of Than to be reminded that we need to be still and know that you're God. Or would you help us to do that Would you help us to arrange our priorities to make time to be still and know that you are God? Would you help us to to s establish our hearts, our souls, and our lives on that truth to live a life that's Pleasing in your sight as a good steward of what you've given to us. And may we just be content and know that you will be Be exalted in this earth, in your time and in your way. We thank you, Lord, that in the midst of that, in the midst of everything, in the midst of the turmoil oil. Um you if we'll do this, if we'll if we'll be still before you, we can experience your health So I pray, Lord, that you'd really help us with this. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Alright. We have an a a new thing tonight.