But we can go do it back and down and looking three and three. But we have a lot of people. Still, my soul be still, and do not fear, though winds of change may raise you No longer friend the parts of unexpected song You are my God, and I will trust in you and not. We should get all day spring. I'll spend this. Alright, I shouldn't be shut. I come and I will tell you I spent best enemy to rest in new alone. Two Of course, I'm asking for it. I really say, I don't know what controls come, and all the words for us. Singing. Please be seated. Chose that song for a number of reasons. You'll see as we get started. How many of you sleep through the night? One one two I'm jealo I'm jealous of I sleep through the night. For those of you who don't, you you find their time That you seem to be most vulnerable to what's going on during a day, these times that are the twilight part of your sleep, you're not quite asleep, but not quite awake. You wake up at night thinking, did I do such Still for waking and with thought of knowing God. Psalm four four stand in awe and sin not. Commune with your own heart upon your bed and be still. Be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the heathen and will be exalted in the earth. There are two Hebrew verbs used for that for still, neither of which I can Can read in Hebrew, but I can't pronounce in English. But both suggest the same meaning, rest and be silent. In Psalm 44, the word the word is Dhamma, which is used forty-six times in the in the Bible They both have broad meetings but convey being quiet, holding your peace, or be slackened. Today we might just say chill out. says that we must know God but the imperative before that is to be still and as an example I chose uh Samuel in Samuel 1 Samuel 3:3. And ere the lamp of God went out in the temple of the Lord where the ark of God was, and Samuel was laid down to sleep. That the Lord called Samuel when he answered, Here am I And he ran unto Eli and said, Here am I, for thou callest me, and said, I cannot lie down again. And he went and laid down. And the Lord called again Samuel, and Samuel arose and went to Eli and said, Here am I, for thou Didst call me. And he answered, I called not my son, lie down again. Now Samuel did not yet know the Lord, neither was the word of the Lord yet revealed unto him. And the Lord called Samuel again a third time And he arose, Here am I, for thou didst call me. And Eli perceived that the Lord had called the child. So Samuel went and laid down in his place. And the Lord came and stood and called at as at other times Samuel Samuel, then Samuel answered, speaking, speak for thy servant heareth servant heareth. Not sure if Samuel was actually asleep, but he certainly was attuned to God's call four times I would think you would agree that Samuel was still and not consumed by the worries of the world if he was that attuned to God's calling. How much time does God spend trying to get my attention? Entirely too much. We don't all none of us want to be a Balaam. So tonight, all this is to suggest that we have chilled When we have a better time of knowing God. In those quiet times, day or night, for me that usually revolves around thinking about God's creation, which then prompted me to think about the ways we can know God through his creation Through the physical world around us that is confirmed in God's word and how we can depend on its accuracy. So tonight I'm going to take us through some of the observations that we know today that are in the scripture Before science figured them out and confirm what God told us in his word thousands of years ago. The Bible is not a science book, but there is science in the Bible And more tonight than we're gonna possibly cover. But for me it's exhilarating to see what is there and to be comfort comforted by the fact that we do not have to have a blind faith in observ observing Observing reality from God's word increases my faith and I hope yours as well. We don't have to leave out minds at the our minds at the church door when we go to church or forget science because science is confirmed in Scripture Long because science is confirmed in scripture long before scientists figured it out, or avoid talking to b to biblical scientific relation if we talk to strangers who have no idea that The Bible and true science have always agreed, which is another subject entirely, but we'll see some of these in the uh here tonight. God's creation. God finished his creation, and since he is God of order and law, they went looking for these laws. Francis Bacon, anybody ever heard of Francis Bacon? Oh well One person good. Francis Bacon is often called and credited with devising the scientific scientific method in which experimentation and collecting collected data are used to make conclusions He accepted the flood narrative and the six thousand year old age of the earth. Unfortunately, few scientists today are using the scientific method as outlined by Bacon. This type of science leaves little room for falsification and true testing of hypotheses and theories. That quotation comes out of uh ICR's acts and facts in May of this year. That said, unf has unfortunately science has been redefined. The old science questions of is it observable, testable, testable, falsifiable, and repeatable have been replaced with verification science, the same science that the evolutionists use. We just need to verify it. This is the only choice left since it cannot be observed, cannot be tested, cannot be falsified, and cannot be repeated scientifically. We're going to fly through many passages in the Bible so that to save time we'll not turn to each one. Much of this information I took from Jack MacArthur, Dr. Jack MacArthur. the voice of Calvary, the father of John MacArthur. He did many, many, many broadcasts and a lot of great deal of research on science in the Bible and Affirmed that with science uh that we know today. But to get things started, I thought we'd start with Romans one twenty. For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen being Understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Because that when they knew God they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but Became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools, and changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made Like to a corruptible man and to birds and four-footed beasts and creeping things. Genesis 2:1, 2, and 3 states that thus the heavens and earth were finished, and all the host of them. And the seventh day God ended his work which he had made, and he rested on the seventh day, and from all his work which he had made. And God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it, because that in he had rested from all All his work which God created and made. Note in several cases it said here God rested from all his work and then it was finished. It was done. It was complete. There is no more creating going on. So that removes uh the theories of uh uh evolutionary uh God using evolution to create this. So why do we study this This first Peter gives us the reason to do it, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and be ready always to give an answer to every man that ask you a reason of the hope that is within you with meekness and in fear in with in meekness and fear. This is a great reason for the hope we have in Christ and God's infallible, inerrant word. It's uplifting and faith building. So we'll start with the Job twenty eight five As for the earth out of it cometh bread and under and under it is turned up as it were fire. The earth has a very is a liquid molten core It always has and it always will have. That's always give evolutionists fits because if the earth were billions of years old, the molten core would have long since uh cooled off and solidified But the Bible speaks to it is just like being an oven for baking bread. And it's been a major problem for evolutionists for years. One degree for every fifty-five feet you go down on the earth. How did the writer of Job know that? You'll be hearing this question a lot over and over tonight. Job thirty eight twelve, hast thou command Commanded the morning since thy days, and caused the day springs to know his place, that this that it might take hold of the ends of the earth, and that the wicked might be shaken out of it, it is turned as clay to the sea And as a stand as a garment. That those sections talk about the rotation of the earth as it revolves around its axis. They use as an example of it as a seal That they use to imprint garments or use to imprint pottery. And that rotation brings uh its surface to the sunlight just as an imprint of the seal does Their line is gone through all the earth, and their words to the end of the earth, end of the world, and them he hath set a tabernacle for the Son, which is a bridegroom coming out of his chamber and rejoicieth rejoiceth as a strong man to run a race. His going forth is from the end of the heaven and his circuit unto the ends of it, and there is nothing hid from the heat thereof. Originally um there were many critics who thought that this song was long source of amusement. In speaking of the sun, the psalmist in the heavens he was pitched as a tent for the sun, which is like a bridegroom coming These diverses obviously believed in an ancient notion of the sun revolving around the earth, but now it is believed by leading astronomers that the sun with the entire solar system actually does move through space at the Furthermore, it's probable that our galaxy The sun's circuit is from one end of the heavens to the other. Again, that kind of science found in the book of Job. Here in Jeremiah thirty three twenty two As the host of heaven cannot be numbered, neither the sands of the sea measured, so will I multiply the seed of David my servant than the Levites that minister unto me. Many men, Patolon Included and others numbered the stars at those time of around a thousand or so. We all know that they are indeed countless, uninnumerable. First Corinthians fifteen, thirty-nine All flesh is not the same flesh, but there is one kind of flesh of men, another kind of flesh of beasts, another kind of another of fishes, and another of birds. This again flies in the face of evolution Another there is one glory of the sun, another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars, for one star differ from another star in glory. Again, the writer of of in this case Paul was given by inspiration the fact that the stars are all different. No way there's no way in the world at that time in the world they could possibly have known that since the best number they could come up with Writings in First Corinthians. Recent textbooks on astronomy tell us that there's an average of 100 billion stars in the galaxy. There are about 10 billion galaxies within the range of the great 200-inch Hale telescope And if Einstein was correct, total space is about is at least one hundred thousand times greater than observable space. This means there must be one hundred septilian, that's ten to the twenty twenty sixth power in space, and this is beyond comprehension. Again, how did the writer not know differences? Glories to different stars? Psalms 135-7, he caught In Jeremiah is very similar verse, Jeremiah ten thirteen, when he uttered his voice there is a Multitude of waters in the heaven and causeth vapors to ascend from the ends of the earth, he maketh lightning with rain, and bringeth forth wind out of his treasuries. without electrical activity, period. Nobody knew that. Job certainly didn't know it. He wrote the book, but he was given that information by God and it has been scientific And you'll notice that in the vast, very strong thunderstorms, you'll find the most electrical activity going on. Job 37, 16 Dost thou know the balancing of the clouds, the wonderful works of him which is in perfect knowledge? There's another interesting question. We have a we have an environmental system that continually operates through evapor Operation, rain, condensation. How is how is that of known in in the times that the Bible was written thousands of years from today? Isaiah 4022. He that sitteth upon the Circle in this verse also can connotate spheres Sphericity or roundness. Thousands of years before Columbus we knew the earth was round. In Job 25, 5, behold, even to the moon and it shineth not, yea, the stars are not pure Psalm thirty eight thirty sever thirty eighty nine thirty seven it should be established forever as the moon as a faithful witness in the heavens. Good movie projecting screens generally were covered with very fine beads of glass because they reflected light so beautifully. That fact is also true of the moon's surface itself, which makes it a great witness and is and in the in the sky To rule the night. Man at one time thought that the that the earth or that the moon was gigantic and must be very, very far away, further than the sun, because it was cool. Little did he know that it didn't even shine on its own. Job twenty six seven, he stretched out the north over the empty place, and he hangeth the earth upon nothing. Three thousand years before Copernicus we find out The Egyptians didn't believe that. They believed the earth was held in five columns, four in the four corners, the one in the middle they just kind of assumed. Hindus believed that the earth would rode on the back of an elephant that rode on the back of a turtle moving through the sea. And it caused and when the turtle moved, the elephant moved, and when the elephant moved, the earth moved, and that's The Greeks believed it was Atlas. In Job 38, 19, there is a way where light dwelleth, and as for darkness, where is the place thereof? This This is an indication and and discussion of the fact that light is not is constant and it does not stay in one place, it actually travels. So it it brings to the it brings to science the meanings of of the the ability of light to move. Again, a scientific fact that wasn't discovered till probably two or three hundred years ago. Uh Job twenty twenty eight thirty eight twenty thou shouldst take it to bound thereof, and thou that knowest the paths of the house of it, it doesn't dwell in one place. Job twenty-eight twenty-five to make the The weight of the wind, he weighed the waters by measure. The Hebrew word for wind can also be translated as air. Everybody today knows that air has weights, fifteen fifteen point something pounds Per square inch, we take it for granted. But again, three thousand years ago we find that in God's writings. Uh if Moses wrote it, not only did he get it directly from God, but he didn't put in what the Egyptians Egyptians believed because that's what he was taught. He was taught by the finest scholars and professors in Egyptian science that they have, but they didn't know any of this. How many of you have ever heard of Matthew von Hast thou entered into the springs of the sea, or hast thou walked in search of Matthew Fontaine Maury was an American astronomer, naval officer, historian, oceanographer uh meteorologist, cryptographer, author, geologist, and educator. He also was a Confederate officer. He was nicknamed Pathfinder of the Sea and Father of the Modern oceanography and naval meteorology, and later scientist of the seas, for his extensive work in his books, especially the physical geography of the sea, the first such extensive and compreh and comprehensive Believe God's word and went looking for the paths in the ocean. And he found them. Maori was a Confederate officer, believed the Bible, and went to looking for rivers in the sea which he found Nancy and I rode one of those rivers one of those rivers past uh the Gulf Stream home from the Bahamas part way. There was a statue elected who erected to him For that reason, but it was removed in July of this year. First law of thermodynamics and the conservation of energy. Nehemiah nine six. Thou even thou will open O Lord alone hast made heaven, the heavens and heavens, and all the hosts, the earth and all the things that are therein, the sea and all that is in there, thou preservest them all in the host of heavens worship That speaks to the conservation of energy. Energy and matter cannot be created nor destroyed. It also speaks to the fact that God created his creation and was done Doing it. Ecclesiastes one nine. The thing which has been is that which shall be, and that which will be shall be done is that which shall be done, and there is no new thing under the sun Is there anything whereof you maybe said, see, this is new? It has already been already of old time which is before us. Yes, you can convert matter into energy, you can convert energy into matter Yes, you can create and rearrange things to build different kinds of things, but the total amount of mass in the universe Remains constant. Second law of thermodynamics. Anybody familiar with that one is also called the law of increasing entropy. The universe is running down. It's a that is a proven fact that uh we are in fact slowing down and if time marches on long enough it will eventually come to a halt. Hebrews 1 ten says, And thou Lord at the beginning hast laid the foundation The nation of the earth and the heavens heavens are the work of thine hands. They shall perish, but they remainest that they all shall wax old as a garment. How many of you have rooms in your house you don't go into any uh very often? And when you do go into them you find them cleaner than they were when you were in there the last time. Me neither. I usually find the other way around. You'll also find that if you let anything sit for anything with time, uh the curtains on your on your windows, even with all the advances in science, eventually I've been trying to beat the law for years. I keep adding energy, but it doesn't seem to be doing any good. Any ideas why we have entropy? Why do we have why all of a sudden do we have entropy? Why do we have a decrease in order Which is another way of looking at it. After man sinned, God cursed his creation. That is when we got the second law of thermodynamics, and we see now that everything left to itself tends toward disorder Romans 8 20 states that the creature was made subject to vanity, not willingly, but by reason of him who had subjected the same Adams, something else that was not too much. If you get your microscopes out and they're powerful enough, you can start to see things you never hold there. And that is that is my brief discussion of some of the science that's in the Bible. There's a great deal of it. MacArthur did a wonderful job of documenting it and backing it up with uh authors from scientists who made make statements about lightning, for instance. So as a As a final closing in Philippians four eight finally, my brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are This recommendation will provide the still that you need to see God all around us. Any questions Okay, we will entertain prayer requests. Sure is quiet. Mary's gonna write him down because my hearing is so bad that even if you were yelling at me I might not hear you. So Oh, Jeff's gonna pass out uh bullets. Good. Thank you. Oh, my child is after that disrupted after 12 days in the hospital today, but it was why it was open a few weeks ago. Oh. So she has it now and then my aunt Yeah, I'm going to put on it right now. So Gary, how's how's Ron doing? He's um is he is he made is he making headway? Uh I'm not sure but it he does listen to the sermon fair, which is good. And uh But I have a camera to read a covered thing