All right. So we are still in Daniel eleven and as Pastor Jim said we will be discussing the second half And Tony will discuss the third half next week. So we went over verses t two to twenty last time. And I know it was a lot of information to cover. So we were going to kind of go over a little bit what we did last week to catch up and to bring those who were not here up to speed. Well, before we start, our uh section tonight has uh if we can just put it in one sentence. In times of persecution and apostasy, only the right knowledge of God and His Word are and will be the strength of the righteous. Yep, thank you. In times of persecution and apostasy, only the right knowledge of God and his word are and will be the strength of the righteous So we went over uh verses two to twenty last time, and verses two to twenty are basically a historical background to set the stage for that section that we're going to go over tonight, which is twenty-one to thirty-five. In 2 to 20, we went over many names and kings and all these people. Today we're going to focus on one thing, on one person. And that person is um the the king who was hating the Jews and he was persecuting the Jews. So let's go over what we did last time. So I can have the first picture. Okay, so I hope you can see this. So we said that at the time of this vision given to Daniel, it was King Cyrus. So King Cyrus was there. That was the first one at that time. After King Cyrus, there was a second king who came after him, Combiases. And Cumbias is mentioned in the Book of Israel and in different books in the Old Testament. He is also known as Aheshorash. After Cambiasis, there came the next king who it was also known as Artixerces. With also the name Ceremandis as also mentioned or known as this name And then after him was Darius, and then the last one, which is basically covered in verse 2, Exerces. Exerces was uh the king that married Esther. So he was known for his riches, he was known for his invasion degrees, and those are the four kings that came after Cyrus. And that was the first part of the prophecy that Daniel received in in chapter 11, verse 2. There is a period of time that was about 144 years between Exorcist Alexander the Great. There were a few kings here and there, but they were not really major or worth mentioning, so we jumped next to uh uh Alexander the Great Alexander the Great reigned from three thirty-five to three twenty-three, not really a very long period of time, which about is about twelve years. Um but in twelve years he invaded the entire known world at that time and um he died and uh the bible told us that none of his children will take the kingdom But his four generals divided his kingdom into four divisions. And the four divisions basically Our concern related to this vision is basically the first one to Lucas, the first one on the left. Not yet. We'll go back one second. That's okay. So, yes, in the bottom, the blue boxes. So Lucas was basically the one who founded that division in Syria, that kingdom, and then the Ptolemies in Egypt. And I do apologize because I mispronounced it last time. So the Ptolemies, uh the Ptolemic uh kingdom or uh dynasty basically was over Egypt. The Bible referred to the king in Syria as the king of the north and the king in Egypt as the king of the south. Alright. Then we went over the two dynasties, the Ptolemies and the Seleucid, the Seleucid dynasty, and the struggle between the North and the South, and basically North and South basically based on where Israel is. And their tug and war and battle and Israel basically was in the middle. So um as you can see on the chart uh it started with the Lucas Nick Nicator and um You can count about eight kings. We went over them last time. I can this is actually from the internet. Um I think it's a very accurate Uh this chart is is very good. The previous chart I would not really worry about the dates because they're a little Different. But eight kings under the Seleucid kingdom in Syria, and then on the other side the Ptolemies are in Egypt. We ended up In verse 20, where it says, there shall arise in his place one who imposes taxes. Speaking of a Seleucus the Fourth. So Lucas IV died in 175, and then his son, actually his younger brother, seized the throne illegitimately Because as you know, a king would the kingdom would typically go to his son. It didn't. This brother took over, and his name was Antiochus Epiphanes. That was in 175. And that was the guy in the bottom here. And that was in verses 21 to 35. In the pink, and that's what we're going to focus on. On the other side, if you want to follow, um there is going to be Ptolemy the fifth, the sixth, and the seven on those three empty boxes. So this is just a pre a brief idea of where we were and how um we are we are at this point. So we will continue. In one seventy five, as I said Antioch Antiochus uh Epaphines came, uh seized the the power, he took over the reign of the uh solicit kingdom. This man caused so much damage To the Jewish faith and the Jewish worship. He was one of the greatest threats to Israel over the history. He murdered thousands of Jewish people He called himself Epiphanes Epiphanes. And Epiphanes means the glorious, the illustrious. And some other people called him EpiManes means he's a madman. He was crazy So our section today, if you could keep open your uh Bible with me and follow or your um phone and we're gonna go you know verse by verse or two at a time Um like I said it's just a historical and description of that one person, but then we are going to reach our conclusion at the end. 21 it says, and in his place shall rise a vile person, speaking of Epiphanes, to whom they will not give the honor of royalty But he shall come in peaceably and seize the kingdom by intrigue. One writer described Epiphane's as um an odd humoured man, rude, boisterous, base, and sordid He did not receive an honor when he became king. Why? Because he took it illegitimately. It didn't belong to him. It belonged to the son of his brother. And the son's name was Demetrius Suter. S-O-T-E-R. But that son was held hostage in Rome at that time. So he took over. He came and uh as the Bible is telling us that he came peaceably, he sneaked in and uh steelessly and and it tells us that he sees there's a kingdom in intrigue. He didn't take the kingdom by invading it. But while the the the governors and and uh the elders were feeling secure, he kind of snuck up on them and he came and took over with his trickery and flatteries Those who cooperated with him, he promised them great reward. That's how he navigated his way to the kingdom. Verse 22, it says, with the force of a flood, they shall be swept away from before him. And be broken. Now we're talking about the different group here. We're talking about the Ptolemies, the Egyptian king. Verses 22 and 25, they connect. Describe the same incident. So it says that you shall be swept away from before him and be broken and also the Prince of the Covenant. Describing the king of Egypt because he had an agreement with Epiphany, Epiphanes. And after the league is made with him, he shall act deceitfully, and he shall come up and become strong with a small number of people. So Ptolemy the Fourth died in 2000 and 203 BC. That's num the Ptolemy the Fourth. His younger son we talked about last week, he was like four to six years old, he became king. Ptolemy the fifth. Ptolemy the fifth reigned between 181 to 146. Ptolemy's uh uh the force attacked the north in a hundred in uh the year one sixty-nine BC, hoping to regain what his father lost. If you remember from last time that Egypt controlled Judea and Phoenicia and Syria had Asia Minor and Persia But from verse 13 in this chapter down, Syria's the Syria uh the kingdom in Syria expanded, they came down, they took Phoenicia, which is Lebanon, and they took Judea from Egypt. And that was the case up to this point. So this young king who we said that the king of the north gave him his daughter to marry so he can control Egypt but the daughter loved her husband, that young king tried to regain what his father lost. Sorry. And uh basically uh it says that he was broken, means he was defeated. The king of Egypt was defeated. It says that he was captured, he also, the king of Egypt, Ptolemy V was captured and was held a hostage in Syria. Ptolemy V was called as a Prince of Covenant here because he agreed eventually with Antiochus Epiphanes. to uh go back to Egypt but to just have an agreement to be ally with the Silicon, the uh Anta Antiochus Epiphanes. So he agreed to be an ally with him But at times uh at that time his younger brother when he was hostage in in in Syria, his younger brother Ptolemy the si the seventh That uh so Ptolemy the the sixth at that time was the younger son. I'm sorry, Ptolemy the the fifth was the that younger king. He died and then Ptolemy the sixth now took over in Egypt but then he went to get what he was lost what his father lost and the sixth is the one that was held a hostage But while he was held hostage in Syria, his younger brother Ptolemy the Seventh took over the kingdom in Egypt. And that's why Ptolemy The sixth who wanted to have that agreement with the king of Syria so he can help me go back and take the kingdom of Egypt and he agreed with him, okay let's go. Uh let's do that. So Antiochus agreed to help him because he considered it to give him a foothold in Egypt Ptolemy the sixth regained the throne of Egypt, however, it wasn't in his heart that he will follow through. He will go back and he will just change his mind. And that's what the Bible tells us in verse 22, where it says, he shall act deceitfully. He shall come up and become strong with a small number of people. If we move on to 24, he shall enter peaceably even into what he's speaking about epiphanes now. Of course he's gonna get upset. He's not gonna let him go trick him and um take the kingdom in Egypt and and you know um And deceiv deceived him for nothing. So he shall enter peaceably, enter even into the richest places of the provinces. This is talking about Epiphanes will go attack Egypt and he will take the treasures of Egypt and the Judea on his way. And he shall do what his fathers have not done, nor his forefathers. He shall disperse among them the plunder, spoil, and riches, and shall devise his plans against the stronghold, but only for a time. So Antiochus, Epiphanes, came, took the treasures of Egypt, took the treasures of Judah But he was helped because there was treason in the courts of the king of Egypt already happening. And that kind of weakened the king of Egypt to stand for Antiochus and to fight back. So what does it mean at the end of this verse would it tell us, but only for a time. It's just very obvious. The Lord is telling us, regardless of his wealth, power, military abilities, cunning skills He would not exceed his limits. That was allotted to him by the Lord. So he's only given abilities to do what he came. He invaded Judea He invaded Egypt, he took their treasures, but only for a time. So the book of Romans the thirteen one tells us There is no authority except from God. And the authorities that exist are appointed by God. And Daniel 4. 17 tells us this decision by the decree of the watchers and the sentence by the word of the Holy One in order that the living may know that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men, gives it to whomever he will, and sits over it the lowest of men. So the question that you and I might think tonight, so are you saying that no authority was given except by God? That crazy king in Syria, he came and destroyed Judah and took Egypt as treasure. That king was appointed by God I'll let you think about this question and we'll come back to it in a minute. Let's continue. Verse 25. He shall stir up again as I said 22 and 25 connect. So he shall stir up his power and his courage against the king of the south with great army. And the king of the south shall be stirred up to battle with a very great and mighty army, but he shall not stand, nor they shall devise the plans against him. For they shall uh devise the plans against him. Yes, those who ate of the portions of his delicacies shall destroy him, his army shall be swept away And many shall fall down and slain. Again, as I said, this is describing the king of the south. He's going the king of the south with his great army. He's gonna go back and try to restore what his father lost, Phoenicia and Judea. He got the army going. But then he lost. Why? As you can see, those who ate at his table, those who ate his delicacy They are the ones who caused him to be weakened and to be destroyed. So that caused Anteakos Bethenes to be so angry because you know King of the South, you're weak, you're coming to attack me. He's gonna go back and and it's still up his wrath, he's gonna go back and revenge. Verse 27 Both these kings and as we said, you know, he was taken as hostage when he was uh king of Egypt was taken as a hostage in Syria at that time But they sat down at the table and they made these agreements. So 27, tell us both these kings' hearts shall be bent on evil. And they shall speak lies at the same table, but it shall not prosper. Again, for the end will still be at the appointed time. In 27 here we see that Antiochus had disagreement with the king of Egypt However, he just, you know, uh he's gonna get even more mad because the king of Egypt just betrayed him and tricked him God again reminds us at the end of verse 27, the Antiochus end will come at the appointed time by God. He was just fulfilling prophecy on a schedule. So he goes back and he's trying to come this time and invade Egypt and uh and he will be successful. He's gonna come back and invade Egypt. Verse 28, while returning to his land, so now he came, he took his wrath, he defeated Egypt. Go him back. Go him back, returning to his land with great riches, his heart shall be moved against his holy covenant. What is the holy covenant? The holy covenant is God's covenant with his people. That Israel will be his people. God wanted his name to be bestowed upon Israel. So Hames just went crazy about it. He um moved against the holy covenant, so he shall do damage and return to his own land. God is revealing this vision to Daniel for one purpose: that there will be difficult days and tribulations coming on his people. To prepare Daniel, to tell Daniel what is going to happen. While on his way back from his successful campaign to invade Egypt, that was in 169 BC Antiochus found there was an insurrection in Palestine. There was a false report of his death. They were like, yay, he went to Egypt, he got defeated, he died. He came back, found that happening in Israel Then he attacked Israel and killed many thousands of people. His hatred to God's covenant with Israel led him to kill eighty thousand Jewish Men, women and children. He looted the temple and profaned it with the help. Guess who helped him to profane the temple? High priest. The high priest, his name was Jason Menelaus. Jason Minelayus. His name and this incident is mentioned in the historical book The second Maccabees 515-21. Verse 29 At the appointed time he shall return and go for towards the south. But it this time we're talking about unpacking again. He's gonna come back the second time. He wants to go back and attack Egypt and Judea again. At the appointed time he shall return and go toward the south, but it shall not be like the former or the latter. This time it's going to be different. For ships from Cyprus shall come against him, therefore he shall be grieved, and return in rage against the Holy Covenant and do damage again. So this time he came, he wants to invade Egypt again, but the Ptolemies, the kingdom in Egypt, cried out for help to who? to Rome. So the ships from Rome came from Cyprus to help Egypt and Alexandria at that time. The Romans led by the general his name was Gaius Popelios That guy came and he did not really fight with Antiochus Epiphanes. He told him, here is a letter from the synod in Rome ordering you to evacuate Egypt now. And you want you know what he did? He draw a circ circle around him and he told him, you need to reply before you step out of this circle. And because Epiphanes, Antiochus Epiphanes knew what happened with his father, because remember when we were studying last week, his father went and invaded the islands. Around Greece and and he had some successes. But then Rome drove him all the way back to Asia Minor and imposed that tribute on him. Very huge tribute. He knows that Rome was growing in might. And they told him, if you don't leave, you have to face war with Rome. He was humiliated. He had to slip out of the circle deciding that he is leaving Egypt. But this verse tells us what he did. He did something horrible. At the end of the verse it says, Therefore he shall be grieved and return in rage. Again, it's the holy covenant and do damage. He went back, attacked Israel again. Verses 30b and 31, it tells us so he shall return and show regard for those who forsake the holy covenant. And forces shall be mustered by him, and they shall defile the sanctuary for fortress. Then they shall take away the daily sacrifice and place there the abomination of desolation. He came back, he murdered more people on his way. But not only that He allied with those people who were not believers, were not faithful Jewish people. But Um he sent his uh chief tax collector and um this guy came with forces. He mustered this he mustered uh forces he came with forces, but he k the f the thing is that His tax collector when he came to Ju Judah and Israel did not pretend that he wants war. He just came peaceably and you know got in And uh that is mentioned in the book of Maccabees 1 and also uh chapter 5. Chapter 1 and chapter 5 But then on the Sabbath, when all the Jewish people practicing their worship, he attacked them suddenly, killed hundreds and and and thousands of Jews at that time. Um he awarded the upstate Jews, including the high priest, that corrupt the high priest. And all the Jewish practices were forbidden from that time. That was in the year of 167. No circumcision, no feasts, no possessing of scripture, no sacrifices, all of these practices were forbidden by the death penalty. On December 15th, the climax of the desecration, they brought the statue of Zeus. Zeus was the Olympia king, the Olympian god of the sky and the thunder. And the king of all other gods and men, and consequently the chief figure of the Greek mythology. They brought the statue of Zeus and put it in the temple in Israel. Not only that, that was December 15th of 167 BC. Ten days later, they offered a swine sacrifice in the temple. And this completed the uh desecration of the temple The desecration of the temple triggered the Zamaccabean revolt, which was cruelly suppressed by Antiochus, killing tens of thousands of Jewish people. Although the entire series of incidents, including the persecution of the Jews, the dis uh desecration of the temple, And the stopping of the daily sacrifice were all fulf fulfilled historically at that time. Yet per se um It's also a prophecy for future persecution of Israel to come during the Great Tribulation. I have one last uh point of this chapter, verses thirty-two to the end. Let's just read it together and then we can draw our conclusion. So 32 tell us those who do wickedly against the covenant shall corrupt with flattery, but the people who know their God shall be strong and carry out great exploits. Referring to the Maccabees. And those of the people who understand shall instruct many, yet for many days they shall fall by sword and flame by captivity and plundering. Antiochus tried to corrupt Israel by giving words and rewards to those who obeyed him. Yet even in the darkest time of tribulation, God keeps a remnant of faithful people for himself. One of those faithful people, his name uh priest by the name Matha Matashayas Who refused to forsake the wood to worship God? He refused. Refused to eat profane and defiled foods. He had five sons, one of them Judas Judith, and another one was uh Jonathan and Simeon. Those are three of his five sons And they later were known by the Maccabees, although the name was first given to Judah, Judas Many Jews choose to die rather than to be defiled by food or profane or to profane the Holy Covenant. So the Maccabees basically had some successes. They were very few in number. They tried to uh revolt against uh the forces, the Syrian forces But by December 25, 164 BC, the temple and the Jewish worship completely stopped. in the temple. But through their uh fights and pushing back on the Syrian forces, they were able to to get back the um re um re um sanctify this uh temple again. And that was in in the same day, December 25, in 167 B. C. The book of Hebrews 13, verses 34 and 35 describes some of the atrocities that happened. Says they quenched the violence of fire, they escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, became valiant in battle, turned to flight the armies of the aliens. Women received their dead raised to life again. Many people were killed at that time. Now, verse 24 and 20 uh sorry 34 and 35. Now when they fall, they shall be aided with little help. When the Jewish people were killed and fall, they were helped with little help, the Maccabees, because they were few in number. But many shall join with them by intrigue And some of those of understanding shall fall to refine them, purify them, and make them white until the time of the end because it is still for the appointed time. The little help, as we said, refers to the Maccabees fights with Antiochus forces. And as we mentioned in verse 32, many of the faithful will suffer persecution and even martyrdom. I asked you a question a few minutes ago. Is this very wicked, vile king appointed by God? And the answer is yes God knows what he's doing. The purpose of all this was to purge and refine Israel for their sinful practices and strengthened their faith. It was also to separate the wheat from the chaff, the sheep from the goats. The time of the end of this suffering was appointed by the Lord. And we learn that Antiochus Ipithin died in 163, not very long after he did what he did in Israel. during his expedition in Persia. Some day some say that he died insane, bringing a close to a period of the most wicked things that happened to Israel. My conclusion here is, number one, the world hates God and consequently directs its animosity towards the saints who when wicked men rule, the saints should expect to suffer. The world hates God. That's actually inconsistent. It's consistent with what the Word of God said. What did Jesus say in John 15? 18 to 19. He said, if the world hates you, you know that it hated me before ye before it hated you If you were of the world, the world would love its own. Yet because you are not of the world, but I choose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. And in Matthew 24, 9, Christ said, Then they will deliver you up for to tribulation and kill you, and you will be hated by all the nations for my name's sake. The world hates God and they turn their animosity to God towards his saints. It doesn't end there though. My second point is, although the suffering of the saints is certain, God assures their security in the midst of suffering God will not only give the means to endure, but they will be enriched during the suffering. They will not only have discernment, but they will instruct others about the truth of the truth, and many will come to repentance. As we can see from that atrocity that happened to Israel, that the people who have understanding and were faithful, they started to teach other people the truth. and to be faithful, and many joined the Maccabees revolt. Though the faithful will be persecuted, and some of them will be put to death, some will die This will by no means hinder God's work in purging and purifying his church. God allows the wicked to triumph over the righteous for a time. But it it is always for his glory and for his good What's happened to Israel in that period of time between one hundred sixty seven to one sixty-four is a horrible thing. Yet it tells us in the next section of the chapter, and Tony will t um this um teach us that next week. It tells us that there is more tribulation to come. There is more persecution to God's people to come But we were promised it is for the appointed time and it is for a purpose. God will use it to enrich his church. Let's pray. Father, we thank you so much, O Lord, for um your word and we thank you for the great truth that we can um learn and study in your word and the wisdom we can gain from it and the encouragement that you have for us that you are a faithful God And behind every atrocity or trouble or tribulation, there is a great purpose behind it. Lord, may you find us faithful. May you find us to be people who love the word and people who love you and stay stayed fast fast to the Lord and And um whatever happened, even some will lose their lives, that we would still be faithful to you. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Bethel Baptist Church is a family made up of people from very different backgrounds and from every age group. But we all have one thing in common. We have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. When a person discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God, they are given a sense of purpose and meaning in life. When that same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught, they will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows in purpose and meaning. Our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday mornings. Through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our lives, and through our discipleship home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Additionally, there are one-on-one and couple-to-couple of counseling and discipleship opportunities. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually in any way we possibly can. Our children's ministries are extremely important to us. We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and out of their classrooms. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing, loving family community. We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what Bethel is like. But we'd love to meet you personally. Join us for a worship service, a small group for Bible study. Let us be a blessing to you and your family.