First Peter chapter three. I intended actually to preach through verses eight through twelve. But there was so much in verse 8 and such so much application in verse 8 that I decided that we will just look at uh at verse 8 tonight. First Peter chapter three Verse 8 of chapter 3 says this, finally, all of you be of one mind, having compassion one for another. Love is brethren, be tender, be courteous. Not returning evil for evil, that's verse nine, but or or reviling for reviling, but contrary wise blessing, knowing that you are were called to this, that you may inherit a blessing The central theme of verse 8 is actually not in the first phrase or the first words, but it's actually found in the third phrase there. It's the word love as brothers. That's the focus. The focus of this verse is loving as the brethren. And we need to ask what that means. Let me ask you this question How much do you love your church family? How much do you love your church family? The reason I asked that question is not just an arbitrary question. It's really the question, it really uh goes with the command that we actually find in this in this passage. Because what the command in this passage is, when it says love as brethren, it is actually saying love God's people as your family. As your family. Now, oftentimes I think when we think of our church When we think of our church family, we think of church as somewhere where we need to go, somewhere where God commands us to go. Certainly, you know, we like people some time some of us and some of us don't. Some of us depend on the day. Um there are some people that actually if they didn't have commands like this in the Bible They would be very tempted to just sort of stay on the outskirts of a church family and just sort of not not really want to get involved, not really want to integrate into the church family And frankly, even though there are commands like this, there are some people that really struggle with getting really involved in a local church really get involved where they can say, this is my extended family. And yet God, that's what God is commanding us to do in this verse. It is to view his church. It is to view, it's to love as brethren. The word love there is a very familiar word. It's the word Philadelphia. Or we get our our the city right up two m uh two hours away from here, Philadelphia. It's brotherly love. It's loving as brethren. Loving, family kind of love. And this passage is commanding us that when it comes to our church, that we ought to, in any church, it ought to be that we love as a family. Do we love our church family that way? That's really the question. There are some Christians that say, you know, I I I it's you know church is just too messy. You know, church would be great if it weren't for people. And but you know you got people and you got people are messy and they got you know you got problems and you got issues and controversies and fighting and and people get rude and people get in my business and I don't want people in my business. Have you heard things like that before? Have you felt things like that before? Some of us if our our flesh would would want us to sort of Kind of say, you know, I think what I would really would prefer to do is just kind of stay home and stream the service. For a while we had no choice, did we? But God, or you know, I'll just read my Bible, I'll pray for people, and I'll stream the service. But I don't want this messy stuff. I don't want to get involved in the nitty-gritty of relationships Well the truth of the matter is, yes, there is heartache and turmoil and possibility for possibility for um betrayal and all kinds of things that happen in relationships, but isn't it also true that the most enriching aspects of our lives also have to do with our relationships. It's tragic when a Christian goes throughout his life and doesn't have any close relationships with other believers. It's it's even more tragic, and I've heard this occasionally. Uh I've I heard this up in up in Pennsylvania when I pastored up there years ago. I have okay I occasionally I have people say, you know, I have closer friends that are unsaved than I do that are saved. That is tragic. It's extremely sad. And it never was the way God intended. What God says in this passage is that we are to be, we are to love each other as a family, as extended family. And the passage, this is the point of the passage, and this is not just Peter's idea. This is throughout the New Testament you find this. For example, in Romans chapter 12, verse 10, it says Be kindly affectioned one to another with brotherly love. There it is again. In honor, giving preference to one another. In 1 Thessalonians 4, verse 9, it says, But concerning brotherly love, you have no need that I should write to you, for you yourselves are taught by God to love one another. You're taught by God. One person said how many command one person said to another re uh uh in church history I don't remember the the exact um names right now, but how many commandments there are? And somebody said eleven. They said, no, if there's ten commandments, somebody said somebody said, well there's actually eleven because the le the eleventh is to love. Actually, there are two commandments that comprise all of the other commandments, right? That summarize all the other commandments. It is to love God and what else? To love one another. And this passage is telling us that we must love the brethren In Hebrews 13, verse 1, it says, let brotherly love continue. This is love of brothers and sisters in Christ. In 2 Peter 1 verse 7 it says, To godliness, brotherly kindness, and to brotherly kindness, love. Peter will say multiple times throughout 1 and 2 Peter that we need to love one another. It is over and over and over again. that God tells us to do this, that we are to view the family of God as our family and to love each other as family. So how do we do that? What does it look like? What does it look like to love one another as family? That's what the rest of this verse is talking about. And on either side of this phrase, love the brethren, or love as brethren, you have two phrases before it. Two terms, if you will, before it and two terms after it. And these two terms before it and two terms af after it are the couplets where you have the sandwich in the middle. It's actually called a chiasm in script. a str uh structural literary device that's used in Greek. Okay, and it's a chiasm. It tells you that's the center, and then what does the rest of this look like on the outside of the center of loving others? And we're going to go through this. We're going to see these concepts. And number one, how do we love others? Number one, we must love emotionally. Two of these terms really are very emotionally related. Emotionally, and I'll say this as well, volitionally, that is our will. We must love both with our emotions and with our will. Now, love, by definition, is not only an emotion. But folks, the kind of love here that's talked about in this context is law is emotional love. So although love is not only an emotion, love is emotional. Does that make sense? And so to say that love has no emotional association with it is wrong. To say that love is only an emotion is also wrong. No, love is a choice that we make. As we look and view and choose to relate to other brothers and sisters in Christ, but if we're going to love as family, it's going to include emotion. And it's going to include our wills. And the first thing that we see here is that we ought to be sympathetic and understanding. Look at verse 8. Finally, of all all of you, be one of one mind. We're going to get to that in a minute. But have compassion one of another. And then you'll see on the other side of love as brethren, be tender hearted. Those are two terms we're going to look at Have compassion and tenderhearted. And really, those are very close to each other in meaning. They're different words, but they're very, very close to get to each other. The first term means to be sympathetic Can I ask you a question? Are you a sympathetic person? Would somebody characterize you as someone who sympathizes with others? Are you the kind of person that if someone in our body in the body of Christ were hurting, they would go to you? Because they know they would receive sympathy. Well what's sympathy? Christ, did you know Christ is our example of sympathy? The Bible says that Christ sympathizes with our weaknesses. Says that in the book of Hebrews. That he was in point, he was point attempted in all points, like as we are, yet without sin. And because of that, he is able to identify with our weaknesses. And throughout Scripture we have uh we have this idea of of sympathy and affection. It says in 2 Corinthians 6, verse 12, uses the word affection in that verse. In 2 Corinthians 7, verse 15 it says, and his affections Okay, so it's this word affection in Philippians 1. 8 it says, For God is my witness how greatly I long for you with the affection of Jesus Christ. In Philippians chapter 2 verse 1, it says, Therefore if there be any consolation of Christ in Christ, and there be comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any affection and mercy In Colossians chapter 3 verse 12 it says, Therefore, as the elect of God holy and beloved, put on tender mercies, kindness, humility, meekness, long suffering Over and over and over again, God wants us to be sympathetic toward each other, to have understanding toward the needs of others, to bear one another's burdens, to un to feel what others are feeling in the body of Christ. Because we are to love as family members. It says also that we are to be tender-hearted and compassionate. This other word here is also found in Romans chapter 12, verse 15. It says, rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those that weep. And in 1 Corinthians 12, verse 26 it says, And if one member suffers, all the members suffer with it. Or if one member is honored, all the members rejoice with it. The Bible describes the church as a body. And if you are hurting in one area, your whole body knows it, right? You break an arm. And believe me, it's not like you you can just sort of say, okay, that arm's broken, I'll just let it dangle and I'll do everything I want to do. You know, forget the arm. It's just, you know, I'll just let it go and doesn't matter. I'll just You know. I mean you ever seen somebody just kinda walk along with a broken arm and somebody says, What's that broken arm? Wha what's happening with that broken arm? And you say, Oh, it's just broken, uh, it's all right No, you care for it, you take care of it, you put it in a cast, you make sure it's things are it's gonna mend correctly. There it's part of your body. It matters And what Scripture tells us here is that we are to be tender, hearted, and compassionate so that when the members, when other members of the body of Christ hurt, we hurt. Can that be said of us? Can that be said of you and me? And our example is Christ He is the prime example. In the Gospels, we find this word compassionate, which is a very similar word to the word here. In fact, you find this all over the place in all of the Gospels. But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion for them, because they were weary and scattered like sheep having no shepherd. He was moved. Jesus was moved with compassion on them. In Matthew 14, 14 it says, And when Jesus went out, he saw a great multitude, and he was moved with compassion on them and healed their sick. In Matthew 15, verse 36, it says, verse 32, it says, Now Jesus called his disciples to himself and said, I have compassion on the multitude because they have not continued, now continue with me three days In Matthew 18, 27 it says, And the master of the of that servant was moved with compassion released him and forgave him the debt. In Matthew 20, verse 34, it says, So Jesus had compassion and touched their eyes, and immediately their eyes received sight, and they followed him And every time, I think, if it's if it's not every time, it's the vast majority of the times in the New Testament, when it says he was moved with compassion, then it's followed up with an action. He does something tangible. He does something. He's moved with compassion. And this idea is not this not, oh yeah, that's really sad. Okay, I'll pray for you. No, no. Oh yeah, you got cancer? Okay. Yeah, I'll pray for you. No, no. This is move with compassion to the point where you say, What can I do? How can I help? And you find ways to help. That's this po that's what this text is saying. That is the example of Christ. In other words, if we're growing in Christ-likeness, which is ex which is God's goal for every one of us. If we're growing in Christ's likeness, we actually ought to be growing in this area, becoming more compassionate. more sympathetic, more able to take on the needs, the the hurts and the needs of others. And it's not good enough to say, you know, that's just not me. I honestly I've made that excuse before. Uh that's just not me. Somebody wants compassion, they can go elsewhere. They want they want teaching, I'll give it to them. They want compassion, they need to go see you know my wife or somebody. But you know the truth of the matter is it's not as though It's not as though, you know, and and and the truth is there are people gifted in the church that are that they really have this gift of mercy. But this passage isn't saying, okay, you mercy people, make sure you use your gift. No, actually it's saying that all of us are to be moved with compassion. All of us are to be are to have that kind of a heart. So we are to, with our will and with our emotions, we are to love one another, but not only that, we are to love each other relationally Then there are two terms that show us. These are the outside terms. So you've got the center term, love is the brethren. You've got these two terms either side of that term, love the love as as brothers. And then the two outer terms, so the first term and the last term of the passage, go together as well. And they and and they tell us to love each love one another relationally. And the first one is to be of one mind. That is that the mindset of God's people, of God's family, is one of harmony. Now, God has said on many occasions that His desire for His church is to be so exemplary in unity and in harmony that it would be An amazing, irrefutable evidence to the world of the truth of the gospel The people would see the church's unity. Unsaved people would see their love for each other and their unity. Like it says, Jesus said this: you will know That they are Christians by what? Their love one for another. They are mine by their love one for another. And God intended for us to be that light to the world because God is a unity and we are to be a unity and the gospel and we're to be unified around the gospel and that is to be a witness to the world. But sadly, is it not true that sadly many churches have fallen so short of that? We are to be of one mind In Romans chapter 15, verse 5, it says, Now may the God of patience and comfort grant you to be like-minded toward one another according to Christ Jesus. In 1 Corinthians 1, verse 10, the church at Corinth was having a lot of problems. They were not acting like a church. There was divide divisions and strife and people were, some were of Apollos and some were of Cephas. You remember all the problems in the Church of Corinth? Paul says this in the very first chapter, verse 10, Now I plead with you, brethren, by the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that you also Speak the same thing, and that there be no divisions among you, but that you be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment. He says to the church of Corinth, the very first, this is the tenth verse of the first chapter, you guys need to get it together. In 2 Corinthians chapter 13, verse 11, it says, Finally, brethren, farewell, become complete, be of good comfort, be of one mind. This is the very last verse. That's been inscripturated to the Corinth from Paul. It says, be of good comfort, be of one mind, live in peace, and the God of love and peace will be with you. Now how do we do all of that? Well the answer is found in the next word, and that is The word's translated here courteous, but it's really the word it's the word humble, humility. It's mentioned on several occasions, one of which is in Philippians chapter 4. And it says in Philippians chapter 4, verse 1, it says, Therefore is there any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any affections and mercies, fulfilling my joy, that be my like-minded of the same Love being of one accord and one one mind. You remember the passage? It says, Let this mind be of you which is also in Christ Jesus what? Bottom line, that gee we need to be like Jesus who came and he emptied himself. And humbled himself and became a servant. This very last word that we want to look at tonight is this word humility. God said, how does this all happen? It happens in humility. Why does strife happen in a church? Well, the Bible says that only by pride comes contention. Only by pride. That is, if you have contention among a brother and sister in Christ, or a brother and brother in Christ, or a sister and sister in Christ, there's got to be pride somewhere on some side. And often on both sides. Only by pride comes contention. God wants us to live in humanity. Humility with one another, to to to esteem others better than ourselves In Acts 20, verse 19, it says, serving the Lord with all humility, with many tears and trials which happened to me by the plotting of the Jews. In Romans chapter 12, verse 16, it says, Be of the same mind toward one another. Do not set your mind on high things, but associate with the humble. Do not be wise in your own opinion. 2 Corinthians 10, verse 1 says, Now I, Paul, myself, am pleading with you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ. who in presence am low lowly among you, but being absent and bold toward you. Ephesians 4 2. With all lowliness and gen Do we get the idea? Like we could verse after verse after verse after verse throughout the New Testament. Tells us to love one another, to be compassionate toward each other, to be uh sympathetic toward each other, to be courteous toward or humble toward each other. None of these words in this, none of them are mentioned only one time in the New Testament. They are mentioned multiple times in multiple books of the New Testament because God really wants us to do this as a body of believers. In um James chapter 1 verse 9 it says, Let the l lowly brother glory in his exaltation. In James chapter 4, verse 6, but God gives more grace, wherefore he says God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. It's all this word. And finally, in 1 Peter 5, verse 5, it says, Likewise, you younger, submit yourself to the elder. Yet all of you be submissive one to another, and be clothed with humility. For God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. So let's look at the ver let's look at these characteristics and let's ask ourselves the question See, this one verse gives us the answer to what it looks like when we love others in the body of Christ as our own family. What does that look like? This is what it looks like. Finally, all of you be of one mind, having compassion for one another, love as brothers, be tender-hearted, be courteous, or be humble. Sadly, sometimes what happens in a church, who are the people that need this the most? Who are the Christians that need this most? The compassion and the one another, the love as brother, and the tender heartedness. Who are the people that need it the most? It's the people that are hurting. It's the people that are suffering and struggling in their lives. And our job as a church is to come up alongside them And to help, and to love them. You know what's a what's really sad is that there is a temptation, and I think it's Satan induced. I think it's the de I think it's It's it's evil, that's the the world and the devil that wants to do this, the our flesh our own flesh wants to do this. When we are burdened, when we are suffering As Christians, sometimes what we're tempted to do is say, you know what, I just need to be by myself. And I don't, I just can't be around the body. I can't be around people at church. I just need to be by myself and deal and live and deal with this myself. Do you know the Bible just doesn't teach that in the New Testament We love our independence. It's a Western value. Pull yourself up by your own bootstraps. Hey, I'll handle it myself, I'll do it myself, I'll figure this out myself, I've got it It's a it's uh in our Western world that is a that is a value in our independence. But do you know that the New Testament, as I've gone through all of these passages of scriptures, it seems to be very clear that we are not to be independent, we are to be interdependent. The New Testament just does not allow for the Christian to say to himself, I can just handle this myself. And it certainly doesn't allow folks for us to for us to say to um It certainly doesn't allow us to say, well, I'll just do my thing at church and I don't want to show compassion to anybody else. And so we see in the passage here what it looks like to love one another as family. Let me just say that I would just really encourage us to really think through this and and really ask ourselves the questions, are we loving each other this way. I would dare say that there is nobody here that can really say I'm doing this completely the right way. And you know why that is? Because it is something that's going to require supernatural This is not sympathetic Sentimental moral moralism here. This is not sentimental moralism. This is going to require the work of the Spirit of God in us to love this way. This is going to require Our knowing the love of God in our own hearts in order to love others this way. This is going to require the work of the gospel in our lives for us to be able to love each other this way. And this is something that we should really, when we read this verse and think through it and go through it, it really should bring us to a place of dependency on the Lord and say, Lord, would you help me to to love others this way? In a way that I cannot do by myself. And if we can do that, then we will be the kind of church that God wants us to be to the world. A good testimony to the world. And um and it's I think it's very important for us to understand um how to do that. Let me just encourage you this way. And maybe they're you're listening by way of streaming. If you're listening by way of streaming and you're used to streaming, and you say, you know, I kind of like this streaming thing, well if you have no other option, then streaming is a good option. option. But if you have an option to be vitally linked to a local church, then you ought to be. And if you could be there in person, then you ought to be. Because you can't do this through streaming. But we as Christians need to understand how important it is. When we're hurting, we ought to come to church, not be away from church. As much as we possibly can. And I think, I hope, that actually what I hope has happened to us, and what I pray has happened to us, is that when we were away from each other that it actually created a greater a greater appreciation for each other now that we can be together, even though we have to wear masks. Hopefully that will happen that will subside eventually as well. Let's let's really uh purpose to do just this, to love each other as families. Do we do that? Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we thank you for who you are. We thank you for your word this evening. We fa we thank you for your truth. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us to love one another. Love each other in this way. And um Lord to be able to bear one another's burdens. We admit before you we need we we are incapable of doing this. There are times where I hear burdens of other people, and I really, Lord, I independent And I admit before you that there are times I feel very helpless as to what to do in helping them tangibly in some way. And Lord, I think all of us need to understand that we depend on you. We need you to help us to know how to do this in a way that pleases you. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. But we really would love to meet you in person. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can possibly have. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes, and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. It is called the Exchange. The Exchange is an easy-to-use four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship with God according to the Bible. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call, so we can walk you through this helpful resource. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273 or email us at info at bbcofmd. org. May the Lord richly bless you. We hope to see you soon.