Brad is up tonight and he'll be preaching from the second part of uh Daniel chapter ten, I believe, right? Daniel ten? And so we'll look forward to uh hearing from him. Then after that we'll sing one song and then we'll have prayer requests of be uh maybe thinking about things that you'd like to pray for or testimonies of praise as well. I mean it you know we'll do it both together Uh but a few things that just you want to praise the Lord about, uh certainly that's a good time to do that as well. Also I want to mention that um so afterwards, after the service, we have a time most of you probably figured out by now, we have a time called a peer uh it's a peer review word. the those who are preaching on Sunday night we sort of critique each other. Um I'm gonna just say that any person of the male variety is open to come to that. You if you're a female you're not to be a preacher biblically so you're not gonna be But men you are certainly welcome to come and uh and join us. Any man is welcome to come and it you won't be doing the critiquing unless you're if you're not willing to be up here preaching, you're not willing to be You're not going to be able to be a critique critiquing. However, you can listen and and uh you know laugh at our jokes and and and cry at at the dumb things we say and uh all that kind of thing and uh just participate. We wanted to give you a chance to participate. Because sometimes we have pretty good fellowship down there and sometimes we don't. Anyway. So anyway, well depend depends on how Brad preaches tonight. But um no pressure, Brad. Anyway, but I did want to open that up to all of the men that come on Sunday night so that you're able to to uh uh at least participate in s on some level uh in that. And there is good fellowship usually that happens as well and that kind of thing Something that Rick and I have talked about for quite a while. I kept me mention meaning to mention and I never actually brought it up. Okay, so uh we're going to pray and then Brad will come and preach for us and uh we're looking forward to that and then we will uh pray after that. Let's pray together. Father, we praise you and thank you for who you are, as we have been seeing clearly in the book of Daniel, how you work with your people uh in the midst of of a time where they were completely um set on the shelf uh in the as they went through Babylonian captivity and um And bat the Babylonians took over really as a chastening uh as they chastened the um uh as you use the Babylonians to chase in Israel. And yet you use men like Daniel in the midst of a pagan society To stand up for what is right, to live in a godly way before pagan people. And you also reveal yourself in your word to people who You reel yourself to us through your word and you show how sovereign you are in all things. How you are in control over all things. We see that as a theme over and over and over again in the book of Daniel. And as we look also to Bible prophecy in Daniel and we see all of what is going on. there. We just thank you that you know the end from the beginning that we are able to trust in your sovereign hand. And we look forward to learning tonight. We pray that you'd be with Brad as he speaks your word, preaches your word. I pray that you'd help it to present it clearly and uh help us Lord as we listen to it that our minds would be alert and our hearts would be receptive to your word and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right, bruh. Good evening, everyone. Find it interesting that Pastor opens it up to all men when I'm the one being critiqued. But I I guess we'll see how that goes. So, no, just just kidding, just kidding. She sits in her little swing with feet kicking. and a big smile on her face. She doesn't know what mommy has just given her, but it was cold and sweet, and she wants as much of it as she can get and as soon as she can get it. She's enraptured. She's in awe. For the very first time, her tongue has savored ice cream. Her little brain cannot imagine what anything in the entire world is more delightful and fulfilling than this She's ready to live her life in pursuit of that cold, sweet wonder that the big people call ice cream. Yes. This you may uh remember this this passage from Paul Tripp's book, All, that we went through as a church in our small groups. And Paul Tripp says that our hearts are always captured by something, and that's how God made us, in fact. But all too often we stand in awe of God's creation instead of our great God. We can we can be adrenaline junkies chasing the next thing that gives us that high that we're looking for, that sense of all. They say that after getting high for the first time, drug addicts will chase the feeling of that very first experience, never really being able to repeat it. Many other things can be addictive where we seek to fill that sense of all that only our great God can fill. But this can be much more subtle for the believer. God is good to us, and we can easily, even unconsciously, start to seek the blessings of God. Instead of the God of the blessings. We start to have plans and ideas of how things should work out if we're faithful followers of the Lord. And sometimes God needs to get our attention to redirect our gaze to God's all-inducing glory. We're going to continue tonight with our study of Daniel chapter 10, which we started a few weeks ago. And I think we'll find that there are times even when prophets, great prophets like Daniel need their gaze redirected from earthly situations and preconceived ideas to the great and awesome God that we serve. So our proposition tonight is God turns the gaze of his beloved prophet from his circumstances to the all-inspiring glory of God. By way of review, let's go ahead and read Daniel chapter 10, verses 1 through 3. It says, in the third year of Cyrus, king of Persia, A message was revealed to Daniel, whose name was called Belteshazzar. The message was true, but the appointed time was long, and he understood the message and had understanding of the vision. In those days I, Daniel, was mourning three full weeks. I ate no pleasant food, no meat or wine came into my mouth, nor did I anoint myself at all. So as we've looked at previously, um we just want to review the historical context. Daniel's serving in the Persian Empire And this is the third year of Cyrus, king of Persia, as it says in verse 1. And at this point, Daniel's probably around 85 years old. And this would be the last message that this godly prophet was to receive from God. Very significant. In the first year of Cyrus, as we read in Ezra chapter 1, Cyrus is in Cyrus's reign, he had issued a decree to allow the Jewish exiles to return to Jerusalem to rebuild the temple. So in the context of our passage, it's a few years later, and we find Daniel, he's mourning for a period of 21 days. In fact, it says Daniel's mourning and fasting is a partial fast. And according to verse 12, he's praying. The passage doesn't specifically say why Daniel was mourning, but from what has previously been communicated about Daniel in this book, we know about Daniel's character and about his focus. And we also, the passage also hints to the direction of his morning and prayer. It's safe to conclude that Daniel is greatly distressed about his people, the Jews. Remember in chapter 9, we see Daniel offering an intercessory prayer for the sins of Israel. He's confessing that they deserve God's correction to be exiled to Babylon. And he appealed to God's covenant, promise, and prophecy through the prophet Jeremiah that his exile and the desolation of the holy city would only last for 70 years. So a few years later, after Cyrus's decree for the exiles to return, that's our setting. And we see that unfortunately many of the exiles had still remained in the land of their captivity, although they had liberty to return. And a few years after the exiles were allowed to return, they were comfortable with their new life in the pagan land, unfortunately. And Daniel was undoubtedly concerned about this spiritual condition. We also learn from the book of Ezra that the second year after the Jewish exile returned, Jewish exiles returned, uh the rebuilding of the temple, that effort was halted uh due to outside opposition. And you know, Daniel as a youth, just like many of the returning exiles Um Daniel wasn't returning in exile, but many of those who were older that returned, they would have remembered the glory of Solomon's temple. So Daniel looked for a day when the temple would be rebuilt and the glory of God could once again indwell the Holy of Holies, and spiritual renewal would spread amongst the people. But this was not the current reality, and Daniel was mourning. He was distraught, and he directed that emotion to his God in prayer. God would have a message for Daniel concerning his people. However, first, he would need to redirect Daniel's focus. And this leads us to our first point. God reveals his all-inspiring glory through the heavenly man. And we looked at this heavenly man last week, but we're going to go ahead and and review that in verses four through nine, let me read that. Now on the twenty-fourth day of the first month as I was by the side of the great river, that is the Tigris, I lifted my eyes and looked, and behold, a certain man clothed in linen, whose waist was girded with gold of Ufas, his body was like burrow, his face like the appearance of lightning, his eyes like torches of fire, his arms and feet like burnished bronze in colour And the sound of his words like the voice of a multitude. And I, Daniel, alone saw the vision, for the men who were with me did not see the vision. But a great terror fell upon them, so that they fled to hide themselves. Therefore, I was left alone when I saw this great vision, and no strength remained in me, for my vigor was turned to frailty in me, and I return retained no strength. Yet I heard the sound of his words, and while I heard the sound of his words, I was in a deep sleep on my face with my face to the ground. So a few weeks ago we did a comparison of uh Revelation chapter 1, when the Lord Jesus Christ revealed himself. to the Apostle John. And we found that it was very close description to Daniel chapter 4 or Daniel chapter 10 here. The first point, go ahead and put that up. Please, we have the heavenly man, the Lord Jesus Christ. We have he's clothed in linen, right, is what it says here. And in Revelation 1, 12 through 16, says he is clothed in a garment or linen garment. His face was as lightning. And in Revelation it says, continence as the sun. So he was shining as the sun. In Daniel chapter 10, his feet and his and his hands were of bronze. In Revelation 1, his feet were fine brass. And in Daniel 10, his words like the voice of a multitude in Revelation 1, his voice as the sounds of many waters. And not only was it a very close comparison describing these two individuals, the heavenly man and the Lord Jesus Christ, in in Revelation, but the reaction or the response was also very similar. We see in Daniel 10, uh the men with Daniel fled in great terror. And Daniel, it says, lost his strength, his vigor turned to frailty, and he retained no strength. And in Revelation 1, we see that the Apostle John, it says, he fell, he dropped as if he was dead. Okay, so we we have a very similar reaction here in the presence of this heavenly man and uh in Revelation 1, who was the Lord Jesus Christ. And in fact, uh Daniel fell down with his face to the ground and went to and went into a deep sleep. So that's very close to very similar to uh the Apostle John when it says he fell down as as if he was dead. When a person is in a state of shock Time seems to stand still. It's as if everything happens in slow motion. Sound is muffled, vision is foggy, and a sense of numbness fills the body. We see from Daniel's reaction, God's glory and majesty were almost too much to behold. Daniel was left face down on the ground, drained from all strength, and really not able to move. This brings us to our second point. God encourages and restores his beloved prophet through a heavenly messenger. So let's continue on with the passage, and I'm going to read verses 10 through uh 11. 1. Suddenly a hand touched me, which made me tremble on my knees, and on the palms of my hands. And he said to me, O Daniel, greatly beloved, understand the words that I speak to you, and stand upright, for I have now been sent to you. While he was speaking this word to me, I stood trembling. Then he said to me, Do not fear, Daniel, for from the first day that you set your heart to understand, and to humble yourself before your God. Your words were heard, and I have come because of your words. But the prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me twenty one days, and behold, Michael, one of the chief priests, came to help me for I had been left alone there with the kings of Persia. Now I have come to make you understand what will happen to your people in the latter days, for the vision refers to many days yet to come. When I had spoken such words, when he had spoken such words to me, I turned my face toward the ground and became speechless. And suddenly one having the likeness of the sons of man touched my lips Then I opened my mouth and spoke, saying to him who stood before me, My Lord, because of the vision my sorrows have overwhelmed me, and I have retained no strength. For how can this servant of my Lord talk with you, my Lord? As for me, no strength remains in me now, nor is any breath left in me. Then again the one having the likeness of a man touched me and strengthened me, and he said, O man greatly beloved, fear not. Peace be to you. Be strong. Yes, be strong. So when he spoke to me, I was strengthened and said, Let my Lord speak, for you have strengthened me Then he said, Do you know why I have come to you? And now I must return to fight with the Prince of Persia. And when I have gone forth, indeed, the Prince of Greece will come. But I will tell you what is noted in the scripture of truth No one upholds me against these except Michael, your prince. Also in the first year of Darius the Mead, I, even I, stood up to confirm and strengthen him. So during this encounter with this heavenly messenger, this heavenly messenger does several things to encourage and strengthen Daniel. In verse 10, it says, He's suddenly a hand touched me. In verse 11 it says, He said to me, O Daniel, man greatly beloved. In verse twelve, do not fear Daniel. In verse eighteen, it says, Then again the one having the likeness of a man touched me and strengthened me. Verse 19, and he said, O man, greatly beloved, fear not. Peace be to you. Be strong. Yes, be strong. When someone is in shock or um going through a traumatic situation, one of the things that that you do is you know, speak gently to that person. You know, human touch or, you know, in this case, touch of a heavenly being, you know, gently touching someone to try to sort of get them, encourage them and get them out of that state. So we see that this heavenly messenger is very encouraging. He calls Daniel beloved. He tells him not to fear. And he he has um the act of touching him and comforting him. And we see as a result of the heavenly messenger's actions, we see Daniel's posture and continence change. throughout this passage as well. He moves from being prostrate on the ground with no strength to move, right? That's where we where he was left in verse nine. to forcing himself up to his hands and his knees, but he's but he's trembling, you know? He's just barely able to get up to his hands and his knees. And then he forces himself up to a standing position in verse 11, but again he's still trembling. Finally, in verse 19. He's he's sort of coming out of the state, and we see his final position, he's standing calm and collected, and with a collected demeanor, his strength having been fully restored. So who was this heavenly messenger? Some say it was the glorious man in the vision Daniel just had. That's a possibility. Others say it was an angel, distinct from the glorious man, very likely Gabriel. Remember, it was Gabriel who came to Daniel to reveal the meaning of previous visions and to give him a message from God. In chapter 9, verses 21 through 22, it says, Yes. While I was speaking in prayer, the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision at the beginning, being caused to fly swiftly, reached me. about the time of the evening offering. And he informed me and talked with me and said, O Daniel, I have now come forth to give you skill to understand. So we see that Gabriel, this powerful angel, he had revealed himself to Daniel previously and was given a message to send to Daniel on more than one occasion. So likely it was Gabriel in this passage. Verse 12 says, Then he said to me, Do not fear, Daniel, for from the first day that you set your heart to understand and to humble yourself before your God Your words were heard, and I've come because of your words. It's significant to point out Daniel's humility. It's recognized here by the angel Gabriel. In first Peter 5 6, it says, Humble yourself, therefore, under God's mighty hand, so that in due time he may lift you up. Psalm 25, 9 says, He guides the humble in what is right and teaches them his way. James 4, 6, but he gives more grace. Therefore he says, God resists the proud. But gives more grace to the humble. Daniel was a humble man, although he was in a high position of power in Babylon and then Persia. But Daniel was a praying man also. He was persistent and he was persistent in prayer. Remember it said previously that he prayed three times per a day? And remember that was uh when he was trapped and thrown in the lion's den. But he was persistent in prayer and he sought God in prayer. He humbled himself before God. Prayer involves confessing sin. That's really an act of humility, as Daniel did in his intercessory prayer for his people in Daniel 9. That's the prostrate position that we start out in, right? It's humbling ourselves before God. And oftentimes when we're involved in sin, we avoid prayer because we know that we're coming before a holy God. And we don't want to confess that sin. Daniel was a man who not only confessed his sin, but he interceded for his people, Israel, who was very concerned about. Prayer, proper prayer, is an act of humility. And Philippians 4 tells us to present our request to God by prayer and supplication. Remember, supplication is the act of coming to God as a pauper, as a beggar, recognizing our total dependence and need. If we pray like this, like the prophet Daniel, we can be confident God hears our prayers. Isn't that a wonderful um truth, his response here, he said, O Daniel, man greatly beloved, understand the words that I speak to you and understand, for I have now been sent to you. It says, do not fear in verse 12, for from the first day that you set your heart to understand and to humble yourself before your God, your words were heard. How encouraging is that? You know, if we humble ourselves before God, we know that our words will be heard. Although Daniel's prayer was heard from the very first moment he started praying, it was actually three weeks before Gabriel reached Daniel. Daniel, who was starting to regain his senses after the shock of seeing the vision of the heavenly man, was about to be shocked again as Gabriel would for a moment pull back the curtain. and give Daniel a look into the spiritual realm that is all around us, but we're usually not consciously aware of. This brings us to our third point. God directs spiritual warfare on behalf of his prophet and his people. Verses 13 through 14. So let's read those verses. I'm actually going to start out in verse 12 here. Then he said to me, Do not fear, Daniel, for from the first day that you set your heart to understand and to humble yourself before your God Your words were heard, and I have come because of your words. But the prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me twenty-one days, and behold, Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me. For I have been left alone there for the kings of per with the kings of Persia. Now I have come to make you understand what will happen to your people in the latter days, for the vision refers to many days yet to come. Ephesians chapter six, verses ten through twelve. It talks about spiritual warfare and the need to put on the full armor of God. It says, finally, finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood. But against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places. There's a spiritual battle going on around us. God has his angels fighting on our behalf to accomplish his purposes. That's again another amazing truth. Verse 13 of Daniel 10, it talks about the prince of the kingdom of Persia. uh opposing or with he says he withstood Gabriel for a period of time here. And so clearly this was not a mere human a prince a physical prince, a human prince of Persia, but was probably a demonic being Satan is called the prince of this world in John 12. 31 and the prince of the power of the air in Ephesians 2. 2. This was a demonic being charged with influencing the most powerful nation or empire at that time, Persia, which makes a lot of sense, doesn't it? Satan being the prince of this world would be focused on the leading empire and um trying to certainly trying to influence them trying to influence them. MacArthur says, Satan engages in spiritual warfare to influence generations and nations against God and his people. So the angel Gabriel needed help from Michael, the archangel, to overcome this evil demon. In fact, there were multiple demons fighting this battle. Verse 13 says uh plural kings of Persia. So he was left alone with kings of Persia. So there were multiple demons in this involved in this spiritual warfare. God heard Daniel's prayer and sent a heavenly messenger to tell him what would happen to his people, the Jews, but in the future. God would give Daniel an answer to his prayer. I think Daniel was concerned about the current circumstances of the Jewish people and of God's temple and the fact that They were not worshiping God in his temple. And he would give him a message, but it would be about the future of his people. Daniel's we see Daniel's response in verse fifteen. It says, When he had spoken such words to me, I turned my face toward the ground and became speechless. As a result of the angel's encouragement, Daniel had started to recover. Remember earlier in in the verses there, he was kind to him and spoke kind words to him. He was starting to recover after the shock of the the awesome heavenly man in that vision. But now hearing this about the spiritual battle and the message he was about to receive of his future people, Daniel became downcast again. So the angel again strengthens Daniel in in verses eighteen through nineteen A it says Then again the one having the likeness of a man touched me and strengthened me and he said O man greatly beloved fear not Peace be to you, be strong, yes, be strong. So The angel again encourages Daniel and this time finally Daniel is strengthened. We see his response here at the end of Verse 19 it says, So when he spoke to me, I was strengthened and said, Let my Lord speak, for you have strengthened me. Daniel is strengthened and refocused, and now he's ready to hear the angel's message. And the rest of the book of Daniel will be focused on that last message to this amazing, humble, faithful prophet of God. In Daniel 10, 20 through 21, the angel assures that Daniel understands his purpose as as he previously communicated. Remember he communicated that in verse 14. Says, now I've come to make you understand what will happen to your people in the latter days. For the vision refers to many days yet to come. But Daniel is still weak and he's he's coming out of this sort of state of shock. So the angel is Again, just reminding you, says, do you know why I've come to you? Sort of like you'd be speaking to someone who's coming out of that state of shock. You know, do you do you remember what the conversation we just had? And he also says to Daniel, he says, but I will tell you what is noted in the scripture of truth. The word scripture here means scripture, book, or writing. And it's God's plan of certain and true designs for men and nations. Which he can reveal according to his discretion. Which he can reveal according to his discretion. So what application can we take away from this difficult and somewhat mysterious passage of Scripture? Number one, God answers the humble and persistent prayers of believers. God answers the humble and persistent prayers of believers. Daniel was a humble man of God, confessing his sins, and he was persistent in prayer. Number two and awesome, all-inspiring God. Seek to know your great and all-inspiring God. No problem is too big for our God. You know when you read the Word of God Seek to know his person and his character. Do you just when you're reading or are you reading through maybe you're reading trying to read through the Bible in a year? When you read the passage, God is revealing himself and his character. Seek to know your God. You know, we all need to seek to know God, who he is. He is all-inspiring. Number three, God is loving and cares for the needs of his people. You know, Daniel had an angel minister to him. And and some people say that, you know, um they feel like angels have ministered to them. I know a f a friend of mine uh recently told me a story about that and you know some what does it say about entertaining angels unaware in the New Testament. Um Always behaving properly because we never know when we could be entertaining angels unaware. But obviously we don't want to speculate too much about that. You know, Elijah was another one who was ministered to by angels. But we don't have to speculate. We have the Holy Spirit of God who is indwelling us as believers. We are the temple of God. You know, the temple that Daniel sought to be rebuilt, where God's presence dwelt That allowed God's presence to be amongst his people. We now are that temple, the temple of God. We have the Holy Spirit indwelling in us as believers. He's our great helper. God is loving and cares for the needs of his people. Otherwise, he would not indwell us with his spirit. Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your great word and for who you are. Father, help us to Be inspired by you. Help us to be in all of you, our great God. Help us to seek the God of the blessings and not the blessings of God. Lord, you are the great blessing in our lives. And we'll never fill that void of awe with anything any of your creation, Lord. You're the only one that can fill that. Help us to desire you. Help us our gaze to to move from concerns and problems and preoccupations and plans of our own to our all inspiring and wonderful and awesome and and holy God. And knowing that you are in control of all circumstances, help us to desire your plan for our lives. Help us to seek to know you more fully each day. And help us to be prepared for the message that you give us, Father, as you were preparing Daniel for the message he was to receive. And help us to be ready to be obedient, Lord. And we just pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. People from very different backgrounds and from every age group. But we all have one thing in common. We have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. When a person discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God, they're given a sense of purpose and meaning in life. When that same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught, they will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows in purpose and meaning. Our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday mornings. Through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our lives, and through our discipleship home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Additionally, there are one-on-one and couple-to-couple counseling and discipleship opportunities. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually any way you possibly can. Our children's ministries are extremely important to us. We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and out of their classrooms. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing, loving family community. We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what Bethel is like. But we'd love to meet you personally. Join us for a worship service, a small group for Bible study. Let us be a blessing to you and your family.