Father, we come to you and thank you that We can just sing with a resounding unity that it is in Christ alone that we stand. And Lord, when we think of all that is happening in our world Particularly on a day uh where uh a new president has been inaugurated, uh Lord, we thank you that we can truly stand and find It really doesn't matter who is president and who is not and who's what administration it is. Lord, in the sense of what our identity is. Our identity remains the same. Our identity is in Christ. And I pray, Lord, that we would be encouraged and challenged by this truth tonight, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Alright, you can take your Bibles and turn to First Peter chapter 2 tonight. 1 Peter chapter 2. We're going to be looking at just two verses. First Peter verses four and five. First Peter four and five You've probably noticed in our world that identity is a big deal. And it always actually has been. In fact, God has created us to want to identify. There is this longing in our heart. To identify and to belong and to be able to say, this is who I am. And there are different different things that pull at us in this world. that would want us to identify different ways. And if you think that this is just one group or another, it is not. It is all groups. Some people think, well, you know, it's really teenagers that have this problem. Well, I was I definitely think that it's not just teenagers that have this problem. When I was up in Pennsylvania, for example, uh they're really big in hunting up there. So I thought, okay, that sounds like fun, I'll go hunting And uh I thought that what hunting was, you know, is that you go, you put on some warm clothes You get a gun, you go outside, you know, you wait for a deer, you shoot it, and you take it home. Okay. I mean that's what I thought hunting was Hunting is way more than that. Hunting is an entire culture. Hunting includes you have to have all the right g like these guys the ladies uh you know we we we sometimes tease our ladies about all the different clothes they have. A hun they have got all these clothes, they're all decked out in the best boots and the best and they're all talking about their clothes and how this will do this and This will do this and this will camouflage you better and this will snow and all. I mean it is amazing. There is this whole identity Frankly, there's identities in all kinds of areas. And you know, some you you ever seen a like if you if somebody says, you know, I ride a motorcycle I thought riding a motorcycle is buying a motorcycle, getting on it and sitting on it and riding. It's not. They gotta get the whole helmet and the threads and the right kind of s thing that goes with everything else and And then they start they ride in groups together and it's it's a whole lot more about identity than it is riding a motorcycle half the time. It's the same way with sports. Sports is the same way. I thought sports is just watching a game and seeing if who wins and who loses And you know, I had no idea that it involved onesies and things like this. I mean there's this whole there's this whole culture culture when it comes to sports and identity. And how you know why is the big deal that the you know why would you make somebody else wear somebody else's jersey? It's the it's the whole feeling of identity You know, and some of that's not wrong, some of that's fine and all in good fun, and uh to some extent that's that's okay. Uh but if you take things too far, like perhaps we did tonight. Maybe we have we're identifying a little too much in a particular area. In all seriousness, though, and we can joke around about it and everything, but in all seriousness, though, God wants us to stand in our identity in Christ. He desperately wants us to do this. And that's what we find in this passage in 1 Peter. And in 1 Peter chapter 2, picking up here in verse 4, it says this. coming to him as to a living stone, rejected indeed by men, but chosen by God and precious. You also as living stones are being built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. God says and God desires if we are really going to be able to stand, That's what's going to cause us to be able to stand amid trials and difficulties and adversity is to stand in the very identity of Christ. That's what this passage is talking about. This passage is saying that we, God desires for us to identify with Christ. That is our identity. And we're going to learn what that means and why that is so important. Why is it so important that we identify with Christ? Well, the first reason is because of what Jesus did and who Jesus is. We'll see this here in verse 4. It says, coming to Him. As to a living stone, rejected indeed by men, but chosen by God and precious. The word coming there The word coming means to be associated with. When God says he wants us to identify with Christ, what he's saying is he wants us to be associated with Jesus Christ, that our association is Jesus. Can I ask you a question? Can you say that tonight? That your association is Jesus. Christ. That's what God wants us to associate with. To associate with Him. And there's a reason why that is. It says coming to Him. As to a living stone, he's going to identify Jesus, first of all, as a living stone. He says, as a living stone, rejected indeed by men, but chosen by God. and precious. He begins by saying that Jesus is a living stone. What does he mean by a living stone? First of all, a stone is stable It's a rock. It is essentially unchanging amid the storms and weathers, the times of wet you know, inclement weather. It's a stone. It's stable. But in Jesus' case, it's not just a dead stone. It's a living stone. It's alive. This actually points to the fact that it that Jesus is active and the resurrection. To really understand what this means, I want us to turn to look to a couple of passages It says in several passages that Jesus is either the cornerstone or the stone, or both. We the first time we see this is in Psalm 118. Would you turn there for a minute with me? Psalm 118 And we'll pick up in verse 21. It says this. Verse 21 says, I will praise you, for you have answered me and have become my salvation. The stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone This was the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day the Lord has made, and we will rejoice and be glad in it. The next time we're going to see this is in Matthew 21. We'll see it again in Luke 20 and again in Mark 12. In every one of the Gospels, with the exception of John, you see this quoted again. The stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. And then we find an explanation of this in Acts chapter 4. So if you would turn there now, Acts chapter 4 and pick up here in verse 10. It says this, Acts chapter 4. Let it be known to you all and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth Whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead by him, this man stands here before you whole. This Meaning Jesus is the stone which the builders which was rejected by you builders, which has become the chief cornerstone. He actually identifies who the builders are in this passage. Who are the builders? The builders are the leaders of Israel. Who rejected the stone? Well, we also see that in Matthew and Mark and Luke. It was Israel that rejected the stone. The stone builders rejected the stone. Jesus Christ. And so because in God's awesome, marvelous plan, God actually knew this was going to happen If you read through the Gospels in Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, you're going to see opportunity after opportunity after opportunity where Jesus presents himself to Israel, and you have rejection after rejection after rejection. And Jesus does this for two reasons. One, to give them the opportunity so that they are without excuse, Israel is. Knowing that they actually would reject Jesus, but then being able then to offer the whole offer Jesus to everyone, to the Gentiles and to all nations. And that was God's plan. And so with the resurrection, we have a living stone. He has then become the chief cornerstone. Now, the passage then says this in 1 Peter, and it is a precious and priceless stone. Of course, we know that to be true. Jesus is precious. He is priceless. There is no other leader like him. Jesus is priceless. He is precious. Now why is it, catch this, why is it that Peter would say this to people that were that were in the midst of persecution? And we're looking ahead to even more persecution. Remember our context. Remember that we're talking about actually Jewish and Gentile Christians In a large area, different churches, that a general there's a general epistle that's written to several different churches. And Nero has come into power. He has not put put the full weight of of persecution on the people yet, but they know it's coming. They're looking ahead and they're seeing That it's coming. And Peter wants to encourage them. And the way he encouraged them is he says this look, Jesus was rejected by men. But he was chosen by God. Don't expect any different. He's saying that when you are rejected by men Understand that it is you who are chosen also by God This, in other words, for a Christian, and Peter's going to later on say this, he's going to say, don't be surprised when trials come upon you Can I just say this just as a practical application? We really should not be surprised by today's inauguration We just shouldn't be surprised. The direction that this country is going is symptomatic of the sin of this nation. It's symptomatic of the rejection of the gospel. We should not be surprised. It's That is not to say that the previous administration was somehow righteous. It was not. But we shouldn't be surprised by these things. We should not be surprised when the world rejects truth. We shouldn't be surprised when morality is is I mean we shouldn't be surprised by these things Now, I don't know what will happen in our country in the future, but if persecution comes, we should not be surprised. Every country has its rise and its fall. Every country in the history of civilization has a rise and a fall. Every country does. Nations will rise up against nations, peoples will rise up against peoples. The Bible says in Romans or in Matthew 24 that the end is not yet, just because that happens. That is just the nature of things, and we do not put our identity in a nation. We do not put our identity In a party. We do not place our identity in anything except for Jesus Christ. It is in Jesus we stand. And that is something that is absolutely necessary for us to understand. Now, with that in mind, why should we place our identity in Jesus? It's because of what He is doing. Verse 5. What is he doing? Look at verse 5. You also, as living stones, Are being built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. You also, as living stones, are being built up a spiritual house. He just said that Jesus is the living stone. And now he says that we, as his people that know Christ as our Lord and Savior, we are living stones. That is, we are to identify in Jesus, and we see what Jesus is doing here in this passage. I want us to notice when he says that we are living stones, that he is building up, that really, in the context, he's really talking about everything here is corporate. He says, you also as living stones, plural. He says, are being built up as a spiritual house, that is, the group of stones. Are a holy priesthood, that's a corporate term. All of these are corporate terms. And in our individualistic society It's important for us to understand when we look at verse 5 that these this is to this is talking about the body of Christ. What it is saying here, folks, is that you cannot identify with Christ. Adequately, unless you are identifying with the body of Christ completely. And that is important for us to understand. Why? Because God is doing something here He has a plan. He is building a spiritual house, the Bible says there. Now it's interesting. That we have had been preoccupied for the last while with nation building. But God is far more concerned, He is far more concerned about building his temple. Than building a nation. Nations will rise, nations will fall, but his kingdom will last forever. That is the thing that he is building. He's building his kingdom right now. And he is building his kingdom through you and me. Aren't you glad you're part of that? Isn't it better than being any better than being part of any country that will rise and fall, any party, any sports team? Any motorcycle group? Isn't it better than being part of any of that? We get to be a part Of the kingdom of God, which has its which will last for eternity. And the way that we are a part of the kingdom of God is by being intimately connected with his body. He says you are living stones. He says, you also are living stones, are being built up a spiritual household. Now it's interesting. He says this: you're built up a spiritual household. And then he says You are also a holy priesthood. You are both a household and a priesthood. When he says household, he's really referring to the Old Testament tabernacle or temple. He's referring to that. Uh in fact, there are several times in Scripture where the God says that the church, and he's not talking about the building at all The body of believers, the group of believers that God is saving, that is actually his temple His habitation. In 1 Corinthians 3, verse 16, it says, Do you not know that your body is the, or do you not know that you are the temple of God? And that's actually plural, that you are the temple of God, and that Spirit of God dwells in you. If anyone defiles the temple of God, God will destroy him. For the temple of God is holy, which temple you are. How will he defile the saying that anyway defiles the church, which Many will try, then he will destroy them. In 1 Corinthians 6, verse 19, it says, Or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit? Even in that context, it's plural: your body, the body of Christ. Who is in you whom you have from God and you are not your own. One of the best passages to describe this in Ephesians, would you take your Bible and turn there? Ephesians chapter 2, verse 19. 19 through 22. It says this, and Peter carries this exact subject matter, the same theme in his book as well. He says, now therefore, you are no longer strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens of the United States of America. It's not what it says. I'm not saying we're not citizens of the United States of America, but that's not what the passage is talking about. Fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God. Having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus himself being the chief cornerstone, in whom the whole building being fitted together grows into a holy temple in whom you also are being built together for a dwelling place of God in the Spirit. What is God doing in this time period? What is God doing between the first coming of Christ and the second coming of Christ? Christ told us, I will build my church. That's what Christ is doing. So if you want to know what Christ is doing in this world, if you want to understand what in the world is going on, understand that God's primary program is not a nation. God's primary program is his people, the church, which will be his kingdom forever. This should be a comfort to us. It should be an encouragement to us, and it also should challenge us. So he says, this is interesting, it almost seems like a mixed metaphor here. He says we are both the temple and we are also the priesthood. Now, if you remember back in your elementary school, middle school days, writing a paper, you know, you shouldn't ha use uh use a mixed metaphor. That's not a good idea But the reason that you have you find this in Scripture from time to time, Jesus will use mixed metaphors. And you have Peter using a mixed metaphor here. And the reason that he has to use them is because there's no way to contain a subject matter sometimes with just one metaphor. He's got to use both to get the full picture. And so look at what it says. Not only are we the temple, but he says we are the priesthood. Now, in the Old Testament, there was only one tribe that could be part of the priesthood. And that was the Levitical tribe, the tribe of Levi. There's only one out of twelve that could be the priesthood. But in God's new covenant, which we learned about on Sunday, in God's new covenant, every believer is. A priest. What does that mean? It means that we all have direct access to God. We do not have to go through a mediator except for Jesus. Jesus is our only mediator. Because and we as a priest and Christ as our high priest, we have direct access to God. We are a holy priest. We are God is building stones, living stones together as a building, and He is building us up for His kingdom. And he is, we are a priesthood, so we have this direct access to God, but we find that it's actually for a very important purpose. Notice the next part of the passage. It says, You also are living stones, are being built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood. Why? Number one, to offer up spiritual sacrifices. Acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. We are to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God. God. The reason, the purpose that God is has made He is in this, He has created this thing called the Church, this organism called the Church. Made up of living stones that are God's habitation on earth, that ultimately is to spread God's glory. And what is our purpose? Our purpose is to offer up spiritual sacrifices. Now he makes it clear: it's not physical sacrifices like the Old Testament, it's spiritual sacrifices. But what exactly is he talking about when he says spiritual sacrifices? Well, we get a hint of what he's talking about if you look at verse 9. In verse 9, it says this, and we'll get to this later, but I want you to But you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, his own special people that you may proclaim. Okay, here's a purpose again That you may proclaim what? The praises of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. That is, that God has called us out of darkness into his marvelous light that we would proclaim his praises. On a practical level, that means no matter what is happening in our world, we are to proclaim his praises. We are to proclaim who He is and what He has done to the world. That He has brought us out of darkness and into this marvelous light. To proclaim the praises of God. But notice also, remember Romans chapter twelve, verse one? It says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a what? A living sacrifice, wholly acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Service. God saved you, and He saved me to be a living stone. What does that mean? Well, another picture here. We are ha we actually are the living sacrifice. We are to offer up sacrifices. What are we supposed to offer up ourselves? And that means all of us. Every part of my being is to be offered up to God. I am to be fully identified with Christ. Not part of me, not my a little section of my life where I've got my I've got my hobbies over here, and I've got my sports over here, and I've got my family here, and I've got my job here, and my vocation here, and I've got my religion over here. No no, that is not Christianity That is not the church, that is not being a part of the kingdom of God. God says that we are to be completely and wholly identified with Him. We are to put to offer. The word present means to yield. In fact, remember back in Romans chapter 6? It says in that passage to yield yourselves as instruments of righteousness. Do you remember that? That word yield is the exact same word as present here. That's what God wants us to do. He wants us to yield, to present our bodies fully for His use in His way, whatever that means. Well, what does that mean practically? Look at Hebrews chapter 13, verse 15. Like if you go ahead and take your Bibles and turn there. Hebrews chapter 13 and verse 15. Therefore, by him, let us continually offer the sacrifices of praise. There you see it again. Let us continue off for the sacrifices of praise to God. That is what? Well, on a very practical level. It's ourselves, but what is it practically? The fruit of our lips. Giving thanks to his name. But he says this: do not forget to do good and to share For with such sacrifices, God is well pleased. God says three things in our behavior as a living sacrifice. He says verbally we are to praise him. We are to be ready to describe who he is to others. We are ready to have the praise of God on our lips, to thank him for what he has done To praise him for what he has done among other people, to give thanks to his name, it says in the passage. But he says, don't forget to let your actions line up with your Speech. Don't forget to walk what you talk. He says, don't forget to do good. And then it says to share. Don't forget to share. Well, isn't sharing a socialist thing? I mean, isn't, you know, like we teach our kids to share and we're teaching them to be a little socialist. You ever notice that? You get your kids in a uh in a um in in a nursery together and the person that takes the toy It's always the person and now the person says, hey, you took my 20. You say, well now you need to share. We're teaching them to be communists. That's a total joke. Okay Well God actually wants us to share, doesn't He? I actually was somebody suggest in seminary, one of my seminary professors suggested that we're actually teaching our children to be communists. They use that. I'm not original with that. Anyway, but the more I think about it, I think it's a little silly. So God wants us to share with each other. Really, in the context to talk about with other brothers and sisters in Christ, primarily. But there should be this sharing and giving one to another. There is the the context in 1 Peter is that as we are this body of believers that are built together. That how is it that we we we demonstrate the glory of God? It is as we love each other, as we share with each other, as we do good to each other, as we identify with each other, as we are associated with each other. Because the reality is, folks, whoever you are most associated with, that is who you most identify with. Association becomes identification. And that's why God says in His Word. That you need to stand in the identity of Christ. And then he immediately moves over to you're in the body of Christ, and you need to stand in the body of Christ as well. So in concluding all of this, let's make three applications. Number one, do we stand in the identity of Christ, or is our allegiance to something else? Do we stand clearly in the identity of Christ, or is our allegiance to something else? I hope that for us as believers, that the thing that unifies us is not, there are so many things that we would differ on. The thing that should unify us in the body of Christ is not those things that are different. It's the thing that we all have in common, and that is Christ, who he is and what he has done for us. And we need to stand in that. Our allegiance must be to Christ and not in something else. Number two Do we close closely associate with God's people so that they may stand, so that we may stand in the identity of Christ? The degree to which you associate with God's people is the degree to which You identify with Christ. You cannot say that I identify with Christ, but I don't identify as a member of the body of Christ. That is, those do not work together. And God has established not only the universal church, but he has clearly established the local church Where there is accountability, where there is assembly, all those things that are absolutely necessary. in order for us to associate together as a body of believers so that we could identify together in Christ. And number three, are we continually offering the sacrifice of praise as he has planned? Have we, you know, the problem, somebody said once said that the problem with the living sacrifice is we get up off of off the altar too often. And uh it that's a little bit tongue in cheek, but it's kind of true, isn't it? You know, I can say, I can say, Okay Lord, I'm offering myself to you. Whatever you want, Lord, whatever you want, until it's not convenient anymore. Lord, whatever you want me to do, I'll do whatever you want me to do until until it just doesn't work in my plan plans. Well, are we a living sacrifice or not? And it's not as though we are to be compelled to, in the sense of obligated. No. In that same passage in Romans chapter 12, verse 2, it actually says this. It says it's just reasonable. Why? It's our reasonable service because of what Jesus did for us. What did Jesus do He sacrificed his life for us. He gave it all for us. And the Bible actually says that he continued. To make intercession on our behalf, He continues to give himself to us. It is really only reasonable that we would give ourselves to Him. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we ask, Lord, that you would help us if we are to stand As we look ahead to a world that is increasingly getting worse morally, whether it's our country or other countries. It's undeniable that that sin is more pronounced, more public, more accepted. Righteousness is shunned. The only thing that's tolerant, uh the where people are intolerant of intolerance Father, I pray, Lord, that you'd help us understand that we must stand in the body of Christ. And by standing in the body of Christ, we are standing in the identity of Christ. And if we want to know what in the world you're doing in this world, It's clear in your word, particularly in the New Testament. It is very clear what your program is. And your program is to build your church. Sometimes you choose times of peace to build your church, but sometimes you choose times of persecution to build your church Sometimes we're in a nation that is favorable to us, and sometimes God's people throughout history have been in nations where they have not been favorable to God's people. People. But you know what you're doing. You're building your church. And we ask, Lord, this: thy kingdom come Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Bethel Baptist Church is a family made up of people from very different Baptist Backgrounds and from every age group. But we all have one thing in common. We have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. When a person discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God, they are given a sense of purpose and meaning in life. When that The same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught. They will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows in person. purpose and meaning. Our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday mornings, through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our lives, and through our disciples Home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Additionally, there are one-on-one and coupled a couple counseling and discipleship opportunities. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually any way you possibly can. Our children's ministries are extremely important to us. We have a lot of young families with children and we believe in the importance of teaching truth. to the next generation. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and and out of their classrooms. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing loving family community. We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what But we love to meet you personally. Join us for a worship service, a small group or Bible study. Let us This be a blessing to you and your family. Bethel Baptist Church is a family made up of people from very different backgrounds and from every age group. But we all have one thing in common. We have Found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. When a person discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God They are given a sense of purpose and meaning in life. When that same person belongs to a loving community where God God's word is taught. They will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows in purpose and meaning. Focuses on making and building disciples for God's glory. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday mornings, through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our lives and through our discipleship home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Additionally, there are one-on-one and coupled a couple of counseling and discipleship opportunities. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually any way we possibly can. Our children's ministries are ex Extremely important to us. We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce the