It's not long before they begin to talk about themselves. Uh he explains to this church that, look, what you have going on right now isn't the end. uh because we get so uh caught on this one thing. And his word gives us all the power that we need to face that, we come out stronger, more dependent on him, and with a stronger faith in him than we ever had before. It's God's ideas that they've meditated on it and taught it about friendship. Um how does how does that actually bring about this change? Jason has harbored them, and these are all acting contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying, There is another king, Jesus. When they arrived, they went into the synagogue of the Jews. Uh but his house stays in the same spot. Uh even with things that we think are spiritual, maybe a uh lost family member um who we've been praying for. and shows up in in this city eventually after his fiasco at Philippi. Now Thessalonica is a big city. And it's a city that's right on a road that's very busy. So they become envious and they stir up this mob and they get Paul run out of the town. And there's also a variety of religion there as well. uh get confused about our new behavior. Um he he he had developed such a love for the people in Thessalonica that it was always something kicking around inside of them. maybe VBS or something like that, and you're praying for them, they're on your heart, but you can't see them. uh there's always that sense of suspense before you find that out. For you also suffered the same things from your own countrymen, just as they did from the Judeans, who killed both the Lord Jesus and their own prophets, and have persecuted us. Um that having received the word in much affliction with the joy of the Holy Spirit, and that's referencing back to when they first got saved, there was a lot of suffering there. And they do not please God and are contrary to all men, forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they may be saved. Um it's it's important to consider one of the commentaries mentioned that I that I read that uh if it took that fast, if it happened that quick that they could rouse a riot in s in that city, um it probably was a very dangerous place to be that no one should be shaken by these afflictions, for you yourselves know that we were appointed to this. So when these people died that they knew and loved, they thought that that was a serious loss. uh Equality Act, for example. in order to feel better about themselves. And you're going to be able to be with the Lord forever. The Philippians definitely did get that. Um she continue on to um chapter four and verse nine. It would be one thing if you said, all right, you got love down, focus on maybe, I don't know, uh gratitude. But concerning brotherly love, you have no need that I should write to you, for you yourselves are taught by God to love one another. Oh, I'm going through something really hard right now. We need to be moving faster if if we're actually going to make progress. We need to strengthen the hands that are weak and the knees that are feeble and make straight paths for our feet so that the limb which is lame So all that God is doing in our lives, even the hard things, even the suffering, is actually destined to make us more like Christ. Um well as far as how exactly we're supposed to grow in love, um the answer seems to possibly lie in some of the bold statements that Paul makes about his love um in the book. We preach to you the gospel of God. Um we've got parenting type of language here. Um he's he's making his own money and and caring for these people so that they wouldn't have to support him So we've got this sacrifice and affection that are just over and beyond what any of us probably could say is always the norm in our lives. Well sometimes when we're thinking about why we want to hang out with somebody, it might be because they really encourage us. Um I know that reading this, I know that I do. Um and and that's all you really want to see, uh with them is is God working in them like that. And may the Lord make you increase and abound in love to one another and to all. In these letters to the churches in Revelation that we're looking at, does he not remember the good? Um this is something that we can't just expect will happen, that we can't just expect to work at and and have it happen. So let's go ahead and um do you wanna you doing prayer requests? Or if you just have a need we can pray for, please call us at 410-768-4273 or email us at info at bbcofmd. Um be attentive. Uh we thank you so much for bringing us all together tonight. Where there was a synagogue of the Jews. and rise again from the dead, and saying, This Jesus whom I preach to you is the Christ. And a great multitude of the devout Greeks, and not a few of the leading women, joined Paul and Silas. But also in power, and in the Holy Spirit, and in much assurance, as you know what kind of men we were among you for your sake whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. And you became followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction with joy of the Holy Spirit, so that you became examples. so that we do not need to say anything. You know what happens to Mr. uh grieving um for just about what seems to be the rest of his life. He who once was a very joyful person has actually become very bitter. of a man from Macedonia calling him over there. And actually, he hadn't intended to go to Thessalonica at all. So all sorts of different people, very busy city, bustling crowd, and you can imagine Paul comes there and starts preaching in the synagogue. There's probably some gossip going around there about what just happened in the town over, how a demon went out of a woman and put somebody out of business. that they followed Paul to the next city. and continue to be from that point on for them. Um sorry, let's back up actually to verse two. But in addition to all the persecution, we've also got in chapter 4, verse 13, a reference to something else that's happened. and were going to be able to still spend eternity with them. Um and in that suffering, Paul comes to them with a dual message. Um later on he says, uh in justifying this, they they look to their wounds and say, uh when when you point out to them uh in our times of suffering because of the hope that we have. to help these people endure to the end and purify them and he's going to see them shine in all of their Christ's exalting glory. before him one day. 3 of chapter 1, it says that whenever he's praying for them, thanking God for them, he's remembering without ceasing their work of faith and labor of love. which we will probably eventually come to. Alright, and now I'm definitely gonna make sure that I get the right set of notes for this because I do not want to have that same thing happening in. Can you imagine the Holy Spirit saying to you, um, concerning brotherly love, I don't need to write any more scripture to you about that. Um you've got it down. a conveyor belt or treadmill, and you just start standing still, you're going to drift back. Okay? uh you're not going to actually get stronger. maybe we don't see any blind spots or any areas that that we can really point out and say that's that's where we need progress. For you remember, brethren, our labor and toil, for laboring night and day, that we might not be a burden to any of you Just as a nursing mother cherishes her own children, so affectionately longing for you, we were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God, but also our own lives, because you had become dear to us. Uh and what what we've got there is just this colorful, vibrant, detailed uh explanation of how Paul cared for these people. Chapter 3, verse 9 and 10, another example of his love. Because this one's talking about his intercessory prayer life. I mean I can just say I don't I do not always feel that when I pray for for people. And I mean you have to be careful with some of their stuff, so not blanket saying that they're perfect, but um they do have really good ideas um and meditations, I should say. sanctification so they could write this book and say these nice things and um that's that's great but really if I am honest with myself I can never get there. Right after that, he mentions content of his prayer. But I think that this book does give us some answers. And in much assurance, as you know what kind of men we were among you for your sake. which you heard from us, you welcomed it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth the word of God, watch this, which effectively works in you who believe. And he makes us like his son. Your faith toward God has gone out, so that we do not need to say anything. Okay, how do we actually get transformed through the gospel? If you look in verse 10 of chapter 1, it says, Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come, God is a righteous judge. In Psalm 7, 11 through 13, it says he's just judge. Um we come to God without any wrath left over. Paul wants them to abound more and more in pleasing God. affectionately longing for you. We don't know if we'll see people come to Christ or not. So that one when people do get saved and come in, that we can treat them this way, that we can actually pray for them this way and rejoice over the growth that we see in them. Um that these changes have come about in us. can possibly have. Although we'd love to have you visit our church, this is not our greatest concern for you. In fact, I want to let you know about a resource that will help you with this. or over a FaceTime or Zoom video call, so we can walk you through this helpful resource. May the Lord richly bless you. Go forward in strength from your word and your spirit for the rest of this week in loving and serving you. Becoming envious, took some of the evil men from the marketplace, and gathering a mob, set all the city in an uproar, and attacked the house of Jason, and sought to bring them out to the people. So when they had taken security from Jason and the rest, they let them go. So we read that passage from Acts about Paul's missionary journey to this church. Whenever somebody comes to Christ, they have relationships that were a part of their life beforehand. So all these Jews who move out of the synagogue, they've still got some people that they know that are back in that synagogue who miss them and who actually become envious of this attention that Paul is getting. from their conversion. Okay, so in in verse um let's see in chapter three and in verse three it says um not just get through or get by, but actually grow through it. They are not sensitive to the needs of others. Okay? Um well you'll just have to trust me for a moment here because the verse reference is slipping my mind. is not just for himself to appear before Jesus and see him there. Well if you look up back in verse 4 of chapter 3, or sorry, apologize, not verse 4, verse 12 of chapter 3. Um he may or may not be in this room, he might be downstairs. Every time that you say no to that and you trust God instead and you obey, you have just grown a little bit. Um for some of us you might feel that you know you've endured so long in loving others as a Christian. is to show them uh just how much he loves them and how genuine he his ministry was. night and day, praying exceedingly that we may see your face and perfect what is lacking in your faith He's saying, look, I cannot even put into words if I could put into actions and think of the most wonderful thing I could possibly do for God. For what is our joy, our hope, or joy, or crown of rejoicing? Um sometimes when we think about what it is that makes us want to be around somebody else. Um but look at this look at Paul's reason why he wanted to see these people. He wanted to see them because they themselves were his joy. What you're doing is you're seeing how God is working in them. They have gifts from the Holy Spirit. You know, he says that this is something that is is is necessary for our being established blameless in that way. Why? God loves what is good and righteous so much that he hates absolutely all things opposed to that. And we see the glory of God there, and we believe God actually transforms us. This wrath of God that Jesus saves us from is something that we all had coming from the beginning. Now we are really scared by what it is. I'm actually really bad. How does God practically love us? And that it's a reflection of who he is. That's not what he's focusing on. He's not indifferent. And he's receiving that as your worship to him. Because Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. And the more and more that we get to know what Christ's love is toward us, and that when he died for us, that was what he was feeling and thinking toward us. We will want to serve him. that this church uh became by your grace. You know, we live in a day where we have access to the preaching of God's Word with just a phone or a tablet or with a couple of clicks on our computer. Then help yourself to a cup of coffee and join us for the main service for singing, praying, and the preaching of God's Word and that these would not just be things that we hear, but that we believe and that we do. But when they did not find them, they dragged Jason and some brethren to the rulers of the city, crying out, Those who have returned the sorry, those who have turned the world upside down have come here too. in our Lord Jesus Christ, in the sight of our God and Father, knowing, beloved brethren, your election by God, for our gospel did not come to you in word only. the demon that was cast out before that. people who worshiped the Greco-Roman gods, all sorts of those, from Aphrodite to Zeus. Um I think that we've i if any of you have served at a camp or something like that before, you kind of know that experience of serving people for, you know, a week or a few weeks and you get to know them, you get to love them, and then all of a sudden it's over because time's up. But unfortunately, there's also some things that were actually very difficult going on as well. And uh i in the passage that we read earlier, we we heard that the Thessalonians were waiting for the Lord Jesus Christ to return. Because Paul has to correct that for them. their their wrong behavior, they say to you, uh, well maybe so, but you don't understand what it's like. Well, I mentioned to you earlier his explanation of the Lord's second uh coming, well not second coming, but his rapture of the church in chapter 4. That are hard can't be I can't let them define me. Every time that you say no to a temptation to do something wrong or to dwell on your sorrows and not have hope. So Paul is again reminding them of his love for them. Um we might think that we've been loving so much that it's it's already exhausting. And he has different purposes in that. I I suspect that there are some people in this room who really do who are real prayer warriors, but um this this kind of statement And how does he actually go about that? And to serve his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. And we as sinners are opposed to that. And try to answer that question. And can I ask you tonight, when you read that, do you think that that Paul's smile is hiding a frown of God? When it says, I I want you to think about, you know, could Christ say this about me? Um, is he not surely able to say about you? into something after the image of God. You know, there is just nothing that really replaces the experience of being in a loving community. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for giving us the blessing of knowing you. There is a story that probably a lot of us are familiar with about a young man who really liked blimps in airplanes. had some trouble with uh having children. You can imagine the kind of things that would be going about. over to check on them. It says, We do not want you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning those who have fallen asleep, lest you sorrow as others who have no hope. Apparently, uh during this time, some of the Christians had actually died. And uh I'm looking here at what he said about this very issue of focusing on our suffering. Hall's goal for us is that we would actually progress. And in addition to that, he mentions to them in his own explanation of his thoughts about them that they are actually his hope. It says, but concerning brotherly love, you have no need that I should write to you. If that's Paul's hope, what is the exhortation on the basis of that hope? Just as you received from us how you ought to walk and to please God. talking about when we were going through something that's hard and and we feel weaker, so that the limb which is lame may not be put out of joint so that you won't make the problem worse by your sin, by your backsliding. actually claims that in inspired by the Holy Spirit that he felt that and he also behaved that way toward these people. Not only that, but he also sacrificed for them. For what thanks can we render to God for you? endeavored more eagerly to see your face with great desire. Paint together. All of the draws is gone and they are just shining examples and glorifying God. That's when you're really being a true friend to them. We so frequently can read passages of scripture like this one, where Paul describes his love in terms like this. So that he may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints. None of us can do this. And actually if we were to do that or try to do that in our own strength, um we would not be pleasing to God. 2 verse 15, we get the explanation of those Jews who are just trying to do just that, who are trying to please God and grow just by their own strength. that would actually be proud of us. Uh there must be some of this la wrath left over that I might have to bear. Or now he just kind of tolerates us. these people had a danger of of maybe doing, thinking that because I'm suffering, God must be mad at me. Of course he could. And also I want to give us just an exhortation to be praying specifically about this. But eventually our problems come to define us if we're not careful. is is continually not coming to the Lord. But it actually has continued on, we see, eventually, now in in verse 14 of chapter 2. that even though these people have been facing such opposition from people that they knew and loved and grew up with, they are standing fast in the Lord. They are these people being presented before Christ are Paul's hope. It's almost like when you're when you're working out in the gym, if you just use the same amount of weight indefinitely forever. As you know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you, as a father does his own children, that you would walk worthy of God, who calls you into his own kingdom and glory. I would come short of being able to thank him for what? That he wanted to see them more and more. Does that define us? What you're doing is not looking at what you already like about them and just saying, all right, I'll be around them because that gives me pleasure. Over the course of this series, I hope to go and and find that out for myself in more detail Um but there are some clues we can kind of try to pick up to see how exactly we do go about growing in this love. Well, by the Holy Spirit and His Word, He works through faith in the Word of God. That the Word of God effectively works in you who believe. Our Father in heaven, we thank you so much for the opportunity that we have to grow. We all have different hard things in our lives. And we're briefly going to just read the first nine verses there, and then we'll be reading a portion of 1 Thessalonians as well. Let's go ahead and start by some prayer and then we'll read a passage and we'll get to the message. Alright. And he met a girl when he was very young. And in order to get to uh the the situation and understand uh how it gives us that counsel, we're going to give a little bit of background just to start. And we think that thinking about it and mulling it over and over and coming up with all of the ways we could have prevented it or ways that we can fix our feelings right now, we think that that will help. And he begins to reason with them about Christ, tells them the gospel, and they they come to Christ. There's all of these different references to things that are going on that are troubling, okay, for this church. Chapter 2 verse 14. is one that puts our focus on something totally different than just our suffering. More and more. Um one thing that Pastor mentioned recently, I believe last Wednesday night, was you know, if you if the spiritual walk with God, if your walk with God is like but rather be healed. Some of us might be thinking, well, I don't really know much about loving others at all. That the joy that he feels in intercessory prayer, which maybe some of us just view as work at this point, um, he can't even thank God enough for it. So, in other words, this is not the bonus content of the gospel that you can maybe do, but is just for the super saints. So just trying to get to this place in love, if we memorized these verses, said them every day, and tried to measure ourselves by it till we got there or something like that, with just exerting, we couldn't do that. If you look at chapter one, verses five to six. Verse 6, and you became followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction with joy of the Holy Spirit. When we first get saved and we believe that, and we start to go on in our Christian faith, we can kind of get to the point sometimes where we are more intimate with our sin than ever before because we are seeing it for what it is now But what does that actually look like? He's looking for any bit of growth and he's delighting in that. Could he not say, like in chapter 2, verse 17, having been taken away from you for a short time in presence, not in heart, we endeavored more eagerly to see your face with great desire. Do we not want to have this kind of heart going toward these people? These are people who worship all sorts of different things to see them come here and see the gospel and be changed. Seek you for this. letting them control us in that kind of way. discipling them and helping them establish themselves as a church. Now, as we mentioned before, when we're suffering, temptation oftentimes is to look inward and to just focus on what's going on. That we would abound, actually progress in love because of the hope that we have in our suffering. that all things work together for good to those who love God and are called according to his purpose. Um somebody I don't think that he would bother me mentioning his name, but I won't mention his name. And we can think, oh, that's for that's for the super saints. If anyone has sinned even after being saved, 1 John says, we're supposed to draw comfort from the fact that Jesus is the propitiation. Well, we could look through the Bible and try to find all these different references and prove a case from that, but let's just look at this this book for a minute. Paul learned to love from God. Now, after Paul continues to minister in other cities, he goes to Berea next, and then to Athens, then to Corinth. So Paul's worried about their affliction. But if we take that route, we're actually falling short of what God's counsel is for us in this book. Paul actually praises this church for their love. After Paul describes in that intercessory prayer, joy, love that he has for them, Well, Paul doesn't give us in this book the exact steps laid out in perfect logical form. We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers. You see, when we have a loss or when we have some kind of difficult thing happen in our lives, uh we tend to want to dwell on that. Throughout this book, we've got Paul repeatedly referencing back to the past and to that time that he spent with the Thessalonians. Now I want to kind of take a moment to address a thought here. And forgive me for another blow that I'm going to give to you right now. Just as we do. is to have that kind of love. We could go on and on and on through these passages, and it would all be true. So I want to close with just an exhortation to us. to all Macedonia and Achaia who believe. I'm sure we've all had memories of the first time we watched that and cried. In addition to what had happened then, they'd heard reports of how Paul had also suffered affliction. And that's a danger for us all. And actually suffering doesn't give us an excuse to say we can't grow in Christ. You might be thinking, okay, I see I have to abound in love. How did the Holy Spirit go about doing that? So how does the Holy Spirit do this? Well, one of the key themes in this book, at least, about the gospel has to do with God's wrath being satisfied And to want to know you more and love you more. All of this suffering isn't going to last forever. There we go. That's how much he's bubbling over with joy and prayer for these people. But if I just left us there, we could really get the sense that, oh no, I need to just go pull up by my own bootstraps and do this. But on the other side of believing in Christ, believing in his sacrifice on the cross, where he bore all the wrath of God. We just looked at how strikingly powerful Paul's description of his own love was. Paul prays, and may the may the Lord make you increase and abound in love to one another and to all. Like in verse or chapter three, verse one, we can no longer endure the things that you are suffering and being away from you. Now, when they had passed through Amphiphilus and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica. Then if you jump down to chapter 4, verse 1. Because these people didn't need that. Now, I want to kind of take just a moment to talk through some of the ways that the gospel does this. But evidently they weren't fully informed on that. And this one is is another very convicting one you'll see. Well, it says in First John that Jesus is the propitiation for our sins. Hello, my name is Jim Ganam, Senior Pastor of Bethel Baptist Church. I don't know. There were the the people that taught me this concept uh that that he's talking about here were Tim Keller and C. And so these people get angry. Paul, inspired by the Holy Spirit, expects us to be able to get this to this point in our love by God's grace. Change our interpretation about what the gospel really is. So if you wouldn't mind opening your Bibles, please, to the book of Acts and the 17th chapter. We'll want to please him. If you have a family, we can help your kids find their fun, interactive classes and your littlest ones can get settled into our safe, fun, and well-equipped nursery. What is what are you doing? So if you look with me at chapter two, verses seven through twelve. We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers, remembering without ceasing your work of faith, labor of love, and patience of hope. Okay. Excuse me here. He doesn't think it's just a little thing. That was Paul's hope, not just for himself, but also to see everyone else who he loved shining in glory as well. That's uh that's a pretty impressive uh you know praise right there. So let's look at some of those. That's not what he's cherishing. We hope to see you soon. Frederickson, you know, as his wife ends up, um, spoiler alert passing away, um, what he ends up doing is Run together. And you get excited about the change that God is doing in their life. I hope that's evident to us all. One of them is to give the Thessalonians assurance of their salvation, showing them these are things that happen in you that only the Holy Spirit could do. I ask that you'd please help the message to be clear. He's staying uh planted fixed on this one tragedy that happened in his life. Um when they when we read in uh the book of Acts about how they stirred up that riot um Uh it it can be so tempting to look forward at the future and just try to come up with all the scenarios where that could affect us or try to respond to it in advance. When Paul writes these things about his love for these people, could not Christ have said the same thing and more to you? Then Paul, as his custom was, went into them, and for three Sabbaths reasoned with them from the scriptures, explaining and demonstrating that Christ had to suffer. That's when you're really loving them. If you contact us, we'd love to give you a copy while supplies last. Why aren't you doing these old things that you used to do with us? And to Paul's delight, Timothy brings back a good report. And the Lord is very kind to us to give us more pressure sometimes. You are witnesses, and God also, how devoutly and justly and blamelessly we behaved ourselves among you who believe. For they themselves declared concerning us what manner of entry we had to you, and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God, and to wait for his Son from heaven That is uh our first message in First Thessalonians. This is the big city in Macedonia. And that is very, very important for us to hear in our times of suffering. We have the mention of how the gospel did not come to them in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit. Before when we lived in it, we didn't feel the resistance. So you can imagine the temptation to live in fear when you're facing such difficult opposition for such a long time. But if you look at other churches, it's not always consistent. Um, that these Christians actually are his hope. And that means that I can kind of coast spiritually a little bit because I'm going through something hard. Now I don't know how often everybody here feels that Um so right after that whole situation happens and he's playing that church in Philippi, he comes to Thessalonica. And I think that as we've gone through these, hopefully, uh we we can see that we probably really do have ways that we need to grow in love. Well, we've got that later on in chapter 2, verse 13. The more and the deeper that we go into this, there is possibility to be changed and to be actually just like Jesus in these ways, like Paul was. We ask it for your glory in Jesus' name. So he goes there with Silas or Sylvanus and Timothy So to them it was almost like, you know, they they were lost um and and they they couldn't be regained was possibly maybe a rumor that was going around. All right. We like to put together puzzles together. Well, it says in chapter 2, verse 13, for this reason we also thank God without ceasing, because when you receive the Word of God, This power comes from faith in Christ alone. So we see that these people were going through a lot of suffering, not just from persecution, but also just from the brokenness of this world. Help us not to grow bitter. By now you probably know what I'm talking about. He's worried about his their their reaction to his potentially, and he sent Timothy to encourage them. When we uh it says in in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 3, that we are by nature children of wrath. That's not what he's looking at to rejoice in. And it becomes to just grieve us and consume us so much that it's almost as if we can't talk or or think about anything else when we come to God. He already mentioned that. When we see that, there is a constraining power to that They fell in love and the rest is history. Um I think we all know what it's like to have somebody, uh once we've gotten saved They're so engrossed in their own pain and problems that they don't realize uh what they look like to others. They don't pick up on the cues of those who are hurting, or if they do, they only do so in a self-involved way. What does it look like when we come to God? And I want you to think about this and answer that question. I mean that's the motive. We ask now as we open your word that you would please help us to We will read verses two through ten of chapter one. It says, For you brethren became imitators of the churches of God which are in Judea in Christ Jesus. To somebody who had such a love for the Lord that they were waiting for him, that would have been such a comfort to hear. And we know, of course, from other places in Scripture like Romans 8, wonderful, really encouraging passage that somebody reminded me about this week actually again. So how how do we how do we get there? And that can be really discouraging. That should be our greatest delight and joy. So some people decide, you know, to come to this synagogue as he's speaking and are gloriously converted. Skipping down, they are actually meeting their own needs, though they deceive themselves about this. Um and those of you who are parents know the kind of just natural affection that God puts in you for your children. For what is our hope or joy or crown of rejoicing? We ask that you please uh give us the patience and the faith to You had Jews who who obviously had the synagogue that Paul preached at, but you also had Um but he mentioned to me In just the exact way that was described. How does he bring about a change in these people who were idolaters before? What are his affections toward us like? And then if you please turn your Bibles to the book of 1 Thessalonians in the first chapter. For all the joy with which we rejoice for your sake before our God. And as he waits for you to draw you to himself in the clouds, Um when Paul's talking about sending Timothy, it says, And we sent Timothy, our brother and minister of God and fellow laborer in the gospel of Christ, to establish you and encourage you concerning your faith. And what's the content of his prayer? Sometimes we can get so focused on the command that we forget that all of our obedience is a gracious gift from God. We pray that you would help us not to resign ourselves, but to press on. It wasn't in his plan. None of us can actually get to that point individually, um, in our own strength. Uh so what what do we do uh when those hard things happen? Not when it's just I want to hang out with you and that's it. But um go ahead and look at chapter 3, verse 12 again. Everybody else is doing that too. We don't know how long that will take or not, but we know that the gospel is able and that God is able. So you can imagine all the different kinds of travelers that are there, the ships that are constantly coming in, pulling out of the harbor, the variety that you would have living there. So look at verse uh seven of chapter two. And um they're up there and they really love God and there's just something special about them. Okay, not just stay in the same place, not just hold fast to what we've attained, but actually progress in love. Alright. But Paul's message to this church And actually the Lord is going to come and not just raise you up to be with him forever, but he's going to raise up those people that you know and love that have fallen asleep, he calls it He's angry with the wicked every day. We pray that your Holy Spirit would be at work in us so that we could confidently say Not every church gets that from Paul. And then if you jump all the way down to verse nine of chapter four, you've got How could we bear more um than what we're doing? So we're going to look at those. And what they describe it as is when when you care for somebody else, when your friend is a Christian to somebody else. They didn't need to know how to grow in love. All right. Help us not to backslide in any difficult things going on in our lives. For from you the word of the Lord has sounded forth, not only in Macedonia and Achaia, but also in every place. So Paul has that just kicking inside of him this entire time that he's going to these other cities. They thought that it was going to happen sometime very soon, and they thought that everybody who was saved was was probably going to live until that. I don't know where to start. Well, the book of 1 Thessalonians has some very helpful counsel on this topic. Okay. Finally then, brethren, we urge and exhort you in the Lord Jesus that you should abound more and more. We know that is what it's like when I when I fight my sin and God sees that It is called the Exchange. He said, what you need to do is look at all these things as the opportunities from God that they actually are. For the joy that I feel when I'm praying for you and when I'm longing to disciple you. Uh whatever you like to do, that person likes to do it too. Others were his joy. What Paul is talking about here when he says that these people are his hope or joy and crown of rejoicing. For they themselves declare concerning us what manner of entry we had to you, and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. When it says that that But all of a sudden, okay, what happens is And we hear about this in different places, like Hebrews twelve, it says that All right, well, certainly good to be back again with you guys. His hope in life is that God is going You're seeing Christ in them. Okay. We don't know what exactly that was from, whether it was from the persecution or whether it was from illness or just something like that, but some of them had died. It expands our viewpoint so that we can actually be able to not just Is it not even you in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming? And if I've started to play the music or show you a picture of balloons, you probably understand I'm talking about the movie up. His labor and toil, laboring night and day, he says in verse nine, that we might not be a burden to any one of you. But we brethren chapter two verses seventeen through twenty but we brethren having been taken away from you for a short time in presence, not in heart, Therefore we wanted to come to you, even I, Paul, time and again, but Satan hindered us. It's something that we all know and that we we study and we um we just tried to go out and share tonight. Jesus bore it all. A hundred thousand people. Why aren't you attending uh this assembly? Now, how does he go about explaining this? And just look at what he says. Uh he you you see pictures of his house on on the same place in the same city and the whole city is changing around him But the Lord came to him, or gave him a message, rather, through a dream. Somebody I was talking to this week about some things that I'm going through mentioned to me. And these just, in my opinion, start to get more and more convicting as you read them. So the wounds justify the behavior. It's like being on the treadmill, just letting it take you wherever it's gonna go. He does rebuke us for our sins, but it says in Hebrews that he remembers our sins no more in the new covenant. This is what Christ's love is like toward us. All right, um we'll pray real quick and Pastor will come up. Our greatest concern is that you know how to have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. Um you're not going to stay in the same spot because we have resistance. If you look back in chapter 1, verse 8. How does he think about us? Amen. I'd like to take a minute to thank you for streaming our service. Uh if you remember the Philippian jailer and all that happened there, the earthquake. They didn't know that they were going to be resurrected. I deserve this anyway, right? First of all, you've got in chapter 1, verse 6. Paul is not content to just tell them, all right, you've got your love down. And what does it say next? And for in fact we told you before when we were with you that we would suffer tribulation, now as it has happened, and you know Um it might be because we like to do certain things with them. That maybe God saved us and sent his son for us, but now he just puts up with us. Is he not interceding for us? Grow up, put your big boy pants on and get in the fight. That's God's goal for us. And if people see that, they will see the glory of God among us. And you wonder how are they doing? So if you'll notice with me here, um For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son. Alright. And we can even start like And that's exactly what happened with him. Those people who were persecuting the church were very they were not very fond of Paul, so we we can imagine they were spreading all sorts of rumors possibly. Um because we I I I kind of I when I was going through this it felt like just taking a beating. What are his thoughts toward us like? And we'll actually read the next verse as well. And don't we all face that kind of temptation when hard things happen? And then you also had people who worshiped Caesar as well. So uh he basically says to them at a certain point, uh Maybe it's not something that what we're actively thinking about at all right now. How do we actually get to that point? So the Holy Spirit is the one who did what happened at that church. Paul's focus in the book of First Thessalonians is I don't. Um That's the biggest city that they have. We are trying to go out in the community to evangelize. If you're interested in going through the Exchange Bible study with us, Um it says, when you begin to talk to wounded people And then we've got chapter 2, verses 17 through 20. This was on his second missionary journey. That's your next goal spiritually, okay? You want to see them get to the place where Chapter one, five to six. He has these kind of affections toward you, like Paul mentioned, gentle among you, like a nursing mother. Don't we want to have this kind of love? Well, Paul tells these people, because of your hope, they need to actually abound in love. Uh he says his reason is Others were his hope. Could he say this to me? In chapter 3, verse 12, again, this was something that Paul prayed for for this church. And uh And he spends probably more than three weeks that are mentioned there with them. And indeed you do so toward all the brethren, verse ten, who are in all Macedonia. And we'd also love to meet with you either in person or over the phone. Uh what else could there be to improve? He's looking for the good. We pray that your spirit would be at work in all of us. If he doesn't turn back, he will sharpen his sword. And um I don't know about you, but I know I have a long way to go, and I'm looking forward to this journey with you guys. Here at BBC, you'll be greeted by people who genuinely want to help you to have the best experience you can Grew up together, got married, and um That's kind of what we take it as a lot of times. Chapter 3, verse 12. This is something that we should be actively praying for. Okay. Is it not even you in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming? How does he delight in us? The Exchange is an easy-to-use, four-week guide that helps people to learn how they can have a relationship This group of people who were persecuting the Christians, they were actually so passionate about persecuting Christians So that when we come up against that And you're seeing those manifestations, how his love has changed them, how they have a desire for his word. I have too many papers. They are his glory and his joy and his crown before God. God's desire for us, all And some of them were persuaded. Um We ask that you would be glorified in this and that you'd help us to But the Jews, who were not persuaded But he actually doesn't stop there. So you do it together. And when that's what you're excited about, when you're looking for God's grace in these people, But this is one of the churches that Paul does actually praise for their love. Um It says And in Jesus' name we pray. Um Why are you at this one now? But we were gentle among you. They already knew that. In chapter one. Remembering without ceasing your work of faith, labor of love, and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ in the sight of our God and Father. It says in chapter um, let's see. Well, uh how do I actually go about doing that? And years and years later we find him again after his wife has been gone for a long time. Well, we don't want somebody disrupting our business here. And those relationships start to get affected. As we read God's Word God is satisfied. Who were people who were trying to please God by their works before? When we start to feel the weight of our sin, sometimes we can even let that Uh how do we avoid And it's always a blessing to hear that they're walking with the Lord later on. If you look in the book of 1 Thessalonians, if you're still open there, There's a quote that I want to read from Tim Keller in his book, The Meaning of Marriage. Paul's talking about um why he wants to see these people's faces. Just as Others were his crown of rejoicing. That can happen with Christians as well. I'm looking at the wrong one. He takes us from what we were and what we still have to put off. And they troubled the crowd and the rulers of the city when they heard these things. Then the breth brethren immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea. It's just kind of fun. And it's a port city. Actually, what that means is we we are in more desperate need to grow because that's that's more resistance. And he's delighting in that just like you do with your children if you're a parent. So And that's how we ought to be praying as well. Paul is just the reflection. S. This is something that God would want to bless us all with individually. But we really would love to meet you in person. Now We hope and pray that it was truly a blessing to you. How are they doing? I I Lewis, um their their literature. Having an eternal perspective, that's that's true biblical friendship. It's faith in the gospel of Jesus that did this change in them. And God gave gave them a special gift of Okay? They just needed to do it. But we pray that we would be the same kind of example. Go for that. His wrath is satisfied. Certainly not. Um in chapter um No, he is rejoicing in that. Why don't you do all these things we used to do for fun anymore? He was that caring, that affectionate for them. He not only expects it, but if you look next in in verse thirteen there He bends his bow and makes it ready. Again, we have the Holy Spirit as the one who's doing this. But now you're trying to resist and you realize this is really bad. Can we really approach Him with confidence? With all of the things going on with the Amen. That is, they do so with a view of helping to rescue them And I hope you'll join me in doing that. But he doesn't say that. Um Book of Acts, 17th chapter. So Um that was their first bout with suffering. And Paul For you are our glory and joy. So what he does is he ends up sending Timothy. He's telling them you've actually got to be increasing more and more. That's upheld for us in an example here. What does he say? And that would not please God. Another thing that he tries to do with that Now We like the same things, we like to They were taught how to love. Who were were in that Jewish system? And it says that they do not please God. How how am I supposed to grow in love? If you'll turn there, chapter 2, verse 13. If you look in verse org And then look at this. But Okay. Uh his hope in life. Your faith toward God has gone out. But we urge you, brethren, that you increase We also have in That was from the Holy Spirit. And And he's They have a desire for his people.