Nice airplane. Well welcome everyone. Welcome everyone. My mic is not working. There it is. Alright, I hear it. There we go. Very good. All right, welcome everyone. We are glad to that you all have joined us today live and then we are hoping that people come on and join us. We've got one person joining us so far. In fact, uh my hope is that anybody from our church that can't make it uh to our live service because they have small children we don't have the ability to be able to to uh hand uh you know w uh provide care for them. I'm hoping that they'll be able to join us. And so here's Here's the plan. This is the first time we're doing this. The content that we're going to be using is from a website blog called Rooted Thinking. That is a blog that is now being um Um t we I'm teaming up with two other guys, Micah Colbert. Some of you know him. He's in upstate Unor New York. Not Unork, New York. And uh and also Matthew Comrad, who's a major who's missionary as well. And uh so the three of us are teaming up to we've taken over this blog basically and um we are writing for it and other guests guests are writing writing for those kind of things. And what we're doing is we're choosing different articles. And there's other lots of different people write on this blog. And we're choosing different articles. And then we're going to discuss those articles. So this is basically a rooted thinking YouTube podcast Podcast eventually maybe thing. And we're doing it live as well. Now here's the here's the plan. We're gonna get through all we're gonna get through all the content in 30 minutes. Try in thirty minutes. And we'll talk back and forth. If you want to make a comment from out there during that time, you actually could go online and do it via YouTube, Facebook. or well, YouTube or Facebook. And if you wanted to make a comment or question during that 30 minutes, that's fine. After the 30 minutes, we're going to close that down And then hopefully it will be somewhat of a discussion time between uh this that'll that'll know it'll no longer be streaming. And we can ask you you guys can ask questions that are in the audience and we can discuss things more uh uh just in and interact more. So that's kind of the format uh we're we're looking at and hopefully that'll be um a blessing and uh we'll work out. We'll see how it goes. The month of September is sort of a test uh for all kinds of things including this. Alright, so uh Enrique, why don't you take over from here? Okay, sounds good. Well, um it is is good to be able to do this again. We've been away from uh having this type of format for a while. And um I'm looking forward to today's discussion um on the psalms in general and then We're using one psalm as an example basically of what we're talking about today. Uh there's no doubt that the Psalms are a um a point uh a a a portion of the Bible that they um they are really How would you say it? The they are they they are very close and they're they're a go to for many Christians because of the encouragement they provide. Um the the help that they provide, the the spiritual help that they provide. understand. Um I can remember reading Psalm forty six and Psalm sixty three and Psalm um twenty-three and and all these as when I was a teenager. And they were they were dear to my heart. And I wonder, P Pastor Jim, if there is um if there isn't a favorite psalm that you have? Uh it's hard to pick one. Okay. Uh the the the the top ones that come to mind is Psalm twenty three comes to mind just because um I mean it's a very dear psalm. There's a lot there uh it seems to be the most um requested psalm. When I go to an elderly person's house, a a dear saint, a Christian saint who's been with the Lord for many years and and uh and walking with the Lord and um they almost the the most common one is to choose Psalm twenty three. Yeah. So that one's pretty special. Psalm one is one that really um as a teenager that probably impacted uh my life more than any passage in the whole Bible actually was Psalm 1. Yeah Uh his delight is in the law of the Lord and his law does he meditate day and night and I mean that that's just a great psalm. Uh Psalm 139 is probably for me one of the most profound psalms. And deep and full and I mean that's a full meal. That's not just a fast food uh fast food kind of a thing. But anyway, so those are some of the psalms that uh uh that mean a lot to me and have have meant a lot to me over the years. How about you? Uh I have to say that um there was a song that was put out not well, I guess it was a while ago now, maybe fifteen years ago. It's called uh From Everlasting to Everlasting. It was done by um Soundforth Singers and Bob Jones. It was done by Northland, the college that I went to. And uh and so when I dug into that psalm, that psalm probably at that point became my favorite. Uh such a as far as the east is from the west, so far as he removed our transgressions. from us. Yeah, wonderful. It's uh wonderful song. Yeah it's it is it is New Testament in the Old Testament. Yeah I the reason I'm commenting uh so quick like at first It took me a while to get my bearings on that, but that was a psalm just like two weeks ago that I was reading and it really struck me. It's such a good song. Yeah. Well, enough about our favorite psalms. We could probably talk about this for a little while, yeah. But um uh in the article that that we're getting this from, um There was a there's a quote. There's a there is a um a phrase that that the the author used. And um Um he he he talked about the Psalms and not that he was saying that this is exactly what the Psalms are, but he used the phrase condensed spiritual nourish nourishment. Can can I can I stop us for just a second? Can we read the psalm? I I think it might be a good idea to go ahead and get there. Go ahead. Um Is it accurate to con I think some of them? Some of them would be that I would say yes, it's very condensed and it's you know, spiritual nourishment. It is in a sense the kind of uh scripture that you can open up, just start reading, and just almost immediately be blessed by. Mm-hmm. Um so in that's uh not all of it. Some of them it takes some study, it's like what is I'm not sure what he's talking about there. Uh so but some of them are that way that it's just they just immediately man if I If I am struggling or I need help or I need encouragement, you can go to the Psalms and immediately um receive blessing and help from them. So in that sense, yeah, I would say Yes. Um but as I think you're probably going to allude to and the and the article does. Yeah. Not only. Right. And and yeah, by your by your answer, you're you're basically leaving the window open. Spiritual nourishment. Yeah, there there would be a danger to that. If all we're viewing the Psalms as is this quick kind of quick fix, uh spiritual fix, emotional fix um to my problem kind of like a pill I take and I'll be okay uh then uh we're we're we're we're really not delving into the depth of the Psalms And the Psalms do provide uh an incredible amount of theology and rich in-depth content. Uh really help us to flesh out the character of God Uh so yeah there would be a great danger in in just saying that's all all the psalms. That's true. I don't think uh uh we don't think of them necessarily as theologically. So so you would say that they are. Yeah. Yeah. And it's very theologically rich. Okay. So we don't only have to go to Romans or Ephesians. For for theological truths that are deep. No, definitely not. I mean you think of Psalm one, uh Psalm two rather. Yeah. And Psalm two is it's Predicting the coming of Christ. It's it's it's uh talking about the nations and the kingdom. I mean there's so much theology in Psalm two. You talk go to Psalm one three nine, which we mentioned earlier and So let's let's go ahead and look at at Psalm twenty seven and If you're listening or you're you're here with us, I encourage you to go there. Um we we're going to take the Psalm twenty-seven and look at it as an example. of of that of a of a psalm that has condensed spiritual truth but also goes deeper. Uh and I think we'll be uh I think we'll be blessed by that. So um Um I'm gonna go ahead and read uh verses one through six, and then would you be able to read the rest of the Psalm? Sure. Okay. Beginning verse one, Psalm twenty-seven. The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I When the wicked came against me to eat up my flesh, my enemies and foes, they stumbled and fell. Fear, though war may rise against me, in this I will be confident. One thing I have desired of the Lord that will I seek, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. To behold the beauty of the Lord, and to inquire in his temple. For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavilion. In the secret place of his tabernacle he shall hide me. Shall set me in uh rock. And now my head shall be lifted up above my enemies all around me. Therefore I will offer sacrifices of joy and in his tabernacle. I will sing as I will sing praises to the Lord. Hear, O Lord, when I cry with my voice, have mercy also upon me and answer me. When you said, Seek my face, my heart said unto you, Your face will I seek. Um sorry. I lost my place. Thanks. Do not hide your face from me. Do not turn your servant away in anger. You have been my help. Do not leave me nor forsake me, O God of my salvation. When my father and my mother forsake me, when the Lord will take care of me, teach me your word Way, O Lord, and lead me in a smooth path path because of mine enemies. Do not deliver me to the will of my adversaries, for false witnesses have risen against me. against me, and such as breathe out violence. I would have lost heart unless I had believed that I would see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Wait on the Lord. Psalm twenty-seven we see the first six verses really display a lot of confidence and trust in God. Um we and and we and you read this and you you could read this uh you know for devotions and say, wow, yes, this is my God, this is who I serve, this is the kind of God But if you continue to go in the psalm, now it's m starting in verse six, there seems to be a a switch, uh, a change in his demeanor in his the way he's a talking. He goes from being very confident to being extremely it seems like extremely insecure and um doubtful. Um he he even says um to God, do not hide your face from me. Uh he says in verse nine, Don't don't uh leave me or forsake me. Um we we're seeing something a little bit different here. And a lot different. Uh well yeah it is true. the uh the the psalm in the second. Um you know i i i some rhetorical questions in regards to this it You know, is y when you read this and if you stop to think about it, you wonder, is he really scared that God might forsake him? Is he is this really the same psalmist? Is is Is this really the same guy writing the same thing? Um how can he be so confident in one at one point and yet so desperate in the next point? Uh everyone struggles, but not everyone necessarily struggles and rejoices at the same time, you know? It's a Almost uh like there's some schizophrenia going on here. Um, the contrast that we see in this psalm as a as our example, it really does draw you and and cause you to ask deeper questions than maybe you know the quick devotional that that you might have in the morning. Where did his security go? Is Is he just confused? I mean he's writing scripture. This is inspired, right? And so shouldn't shouldn't all of these struggles be worked out? Let me ask you It's a great question. Well, I think it's a couple of reasons, but one, it's real David's real. And David is real with God. And I think that you know sometimes we have this idea when it comes to the Lord and our communication with the Lord that it that that it has to be some sort of um high falluting thing or it has to we we can't really express our feelings. One of the thing things I noticed about as I read through the psalm is that you see this one word, this word which is also a letter O. From from that you know where the break is there in uh uh y uh uh si uh from six to seven, okay, you see this word oh. You don't see it once, you see it again. And again and again throughout the Psalm, oh God of my salvation, oh Lord, oh He keeps saying, Oh, what is that? Well when you see the Psalm saying oh over and over again like that, it's actually an expression of emotion. And that's what it is. He's expressing his emotion to God. And what's really happening here in the Psalm is that in the beginning, um I looked I looked up a little background and it's possible that David was writing this during the time where he was in battle with Adam. Absalom, his own son, and he had just experienced a victory uh within a battle, not within the overall conflict, but within the battle. battle he looks he he steps out and he's grieved by what's going on and grieved by his own son turning against But what you see, regardless of if that's the background or not, what you see here is David's feelings being expressed. Why do you have this contrast? Why do you have this sharp turn? Well, David's David's emotional. I mean, he's feeling this way. He's feeling confident before, and then whatever it is in his circumstances, whatever it is, he turns. And he's saying, Oh Lord, I don't feel like you're here. I I I turn your face toward me. I'm not feeling that you're you're with me anymore. Please don't hide your face from me. Um turn not your servant away in anger. Uh he's not he's feeling distant from God, but what he's doing is he's doing the right thing. He's turning to God as he's feeling distant. And often we turn away from God when we feel distant. From God. We don't want to think about the fact that we might be feeling distant from Him. So it's very real. So you would say and from from some Absolutely. How does that work when you know we just talked about the omniscience of God? He knows all of our emotions and thoughts already why why go that route with him? I think that part of the answer to that is that what God desires from us is a relationship with us. There is a greater experience that occurs both between me and God when God doesn't just know what I'm going through. But I'm expressing what I'm going through um to him. And to uh uh definitely to a greater for me personally to a greater degree I It's it it helps me to remind myself and be aware that God knows what I'm going through. And yeah. And um and then what you see in this psalm, one probably one of the greatest reasons to do this is that it turns your heart Back to God. This is just these are feelings. God hasn't forsaken him, even though he feels like it. So he ends up with this final thing. of hope, which we're gonna get to I soon. Yeah we'll get to but um so so how does someone go from despondency and de a Christian go from despondency and desperation to hope. It is by prayer and it's by transparent uh Um you know, unreserved, unfiltered prayer before God. So is a real study of Psalm 27 then, and this is more rhetorical. than an actual question I suppose. But is it really just a quick bite to eat? You know, a a quick um form of nourishment then we can grab on our way to work or uh before breakfast or something like that to where or or is it more than that? I guess guess the answer might be, and you can correct me if I'm wrong, but it might be it can be both, but there's Yeah. I think the thing about the Psalms is it's not just but it is a a c i it there's a sense of which it it could be a quick bite to eat But if we're meditating on it with any kind of um concentration, it's gonna draw us into wanting to know more. So we're gonna read the first part of it and then the Lord is my light and my salvation, whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life, whom shall I be afraid? We're gonna read that and it's gonna it's going to be encouraging for us to realize that God is a light to us. He is giving us direction in life and we don't need to be afraid of future and uh just immediately these are things that you can immediately grasp, immediately understand. But if we have any time to meditate on it, which is you know It's interesting in scripture that we we are never commanded to read it, but we are frequently commanded to meditate on it. Yeah. And with any meditation at all in a psalm, you're you end up with um you end up with a dis uh That's really good stuff. Um you mentioned the last time So he's he's gone from confidence to insecurity and doubtful And then he finishes the psalm with this. I need one more page over. He says, I would have lost heart unless I had believed that I would see the goodness of the Lord and the Wait on the Lord, be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart. Wait, I say, on the Lord. What what then can we take away from the last couple verses of I really like what um the writer of this, Joel um Joel Arnold said. uh the writer of this blog, he said, regardless of what you f of your view of God um as far as your feelings toward him, whether you're feeling as though he is um your rock and your stability and all that or you're feeling like he's distant from you. Whatever it is um you're feeling weight. Okay. And he says wait, uh I I believe that I should look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. So believe in the goodness of God. And then wait. Wait for the Lord. Be strong and let your heart take courage. Wait on the Lord. And so the fact the ra the reality is our emotions do go up and down. do sway back and forth. Our emotions do get to the place where we are wanting to throw in the towel. We want to give up. This isn't working. We don't want to do with it anymore. It's too much stress. It's too much pain. Yeah. But what we find in this passage is okay, wait on God. And what you're going to find when you wait on the Lord. Uh one of the things I'll say is this is when you have swings of emotion, which clearly that's what you have here, don't make major decisions. Don't say, okay, well, I just gotta change everything. No. Just wait. Wait on the Lord. And and um and as you do that, you'll begin to take courage. Let your heart take courage. And the whole process we have to remember is a prayer. So I think where uh I do not have this question here, but I was thinking about this as we're talking, is that um often I think we may fall into the the trap of going to the Psalms um a little bit too self focused. Oh that's a good point. Uh I think that's a trap that we can fall in. And we're talking about the Psalms being theologically deep. Yeah. Um what kind of focus and could you elaborate maybe on what kind of focus where our focus should be when we go to the Psalms or any part of scripture for that matter? Well let's let's address the Psalms first. Um I actually think this is my opinion, but off the top of my head, I actually think that when to come to the Psalms first, you're just feeling Uh whatever it is, d uh desperate or discouraged or frustrated, or whatever it is. And you're just coming to psalm almost almost with uh uh with the need you uh recognize your need for encouragement personally. Yeah. Um I I think that's fine actually, but it shouldn't end there. It should you could start there. So you're reading the Psalms, you're just depressed, you're just upset, or whatever it is that you're going through, and you open up to the Psalms and you start reading the Psalms. But if you end there, then you're obviously missing the point of the psalm. If you if you start there, great, because the psalms are designed with such um they're so per Many of them are so personal um that to start that way is great. But if we're reading the Psalms correctly, uh and you almost always see this as a pattern in the Psalms, it almost always ends with a focus on God and God revealing himself. So if I read the psalm and I say, um, I need something, I need help, I need encouragement. I need strength. I'm discouraged. I'm frustrated. I feel distant from God. Whatever it is. And I'm coming to the psalm and I'm reading it. That's great. But I should walk away not just saying, Boy, I feel better. There's got to be more than just Man, I feel but now you if you understand the goodness of God and you rec reflect on the strength of God, you're gonna feel better. But it shouldn't just all be about, okay, I got my pill now, I feel better now. Yeah, I feel good now. No, it's actually about reflecting on who God is, knowing more of who God is, communing with the Lord, understanding who he is. And then by the way, as a residual effect, you you'll feel better too. Yeah. So uh because the the Psalms are plentiful in their descriptions of of the character of God. Yes, absolutely. And Um we see that in this psalm and and the the psalms that you know we mentioned are our favorites. Uh they all reflect and display at the attributes of God. And and so yeah, I think it's it's uh we need we do need to be cautious in when we go to the Psalms. I like how you said it, we can't we can't just be reading the Psalms until we The truth of God's word ought to impact us to the point where, okay, now I have the right frame of mind. And the truth is Would you not say that we could read uh some some phenomenal psalms and honestly depending on our circumstances Still not feel that great. Oh, absolutely. Yet be in a state of encourag being encouraged because we know our God and we know who He is and we know that He's going to be with us we have his presence. Yeah, I think that's a good point. In fact, feelings are number one always unpredictable, and feelings are not something to be trusted. So So um you know, if we're going to God's word, any and this really does apply to any of God's word, and we're saying and we walk away and say, Well, I just don't Well, we we really have the wrong approach. You always have to think right. We've I say this over and over again in different places, but think right, do right. And the feelings come at the end. The feelings follow and some they're like the caboose on the train. Now if we make the caboose the engine, we have a real problem. And so if we come to God's word and the caboose is im is the engine So but if we're thinking right about who God is and we're doing what we should consistent with the So hopefully, you know ho hopefully one of the results of of just talking about this for those who are here and those who are who are listening um would be to reflect on your approach of the Psalms. Consider perhaps how you how you go about them, how you how you approach them, are you are you just are you only thinking of yourself or are you thinking, uh what can I learn about my God today? What or what can I what attribute of God can I cling to today to get me through this struggle and that sort of thing? Yeah. We are up against the the clock here. Uh and And at this point we can open it up for the Well let me do this first. Let me just mention to those who are viewing this that you can read this blog uh post on rooted thinking. Pat if you can make sure that you have the the actual link in our in the comments so that you can actually uh click right on that. You can actually read the blog post and it's a good blog post to read and and and go over and then Perhaps look at other blog posts as well as you're going on them. Um but uh most of what we talked about is on there. We expanded beyond that, which we'll do from time to time. Uh but I encourage you to go and read that and get more encouragement. Encouragement from Joel Arnold's Joel Arnold's article in Rooted Thinking on Psalm 27. Thank you for being with us. Are we going to But we're doing things coming on. Can you do the thing? Oh, we'll go up to the first one. Three bloody hand. Do you want to know where we want to do it in the when you do the remote? Tummyas Can't Right now it's been frustrated. And this thing is a Alright, welcome everyone. If you could go ahead and take your seats, we will get started here. A beautiful day uh out today, not a lot of heat at all. We're at seventy-eight degrees That's really outstanding and uh hopefully it'll be a nice comfortable day. The humidity's down and I couldn't resist doing it outside this morning, so hopefully it'll be a Blessing to be out in God's creation as we meet uh together on this uh Labor Day weekend. Uh don't have a lot of announcements. One announcement is that tonight we will not have an evening service. Jeff, do you have an announcement? Oh. If you do not have a uh a communion cup, then uh you can head over there to that this is a combined communion Communion cup. It has the bread in there too. And so you'll want to be ready to take communion. It'll be after the sir after the sermon actually. So feel free to grab one of those on your if you don't have one already. Also, tonight we will not have our evening service because it's Labor Day weekend. And just traditionally we've uh don't do a service in the evening on holidays, so uh just to make you aware of that. Also, um this is kind of a last-minute throw-together thing, but um Steve Steve Pettit, who is the president of um the president of Bob Jones University, he is going to be at Anchor Baptist Church this coming weekend on Friday night at seven and again on Saturday Saturday at nine. Uh Pastor Joel over there has invited us to come and uh I would encourage you to come if you have the opportunity to to see hear him speak. Uh he is a very good preacher. And uh Uh so I encourage you to head over there at seven uh uh Friday at seven or nine o'clock on Saturday. Um sorry I haven't gotten more. I just got the information right before I went on vacation. Joy did put it in the bulletin, but um I don't even know what he's speaking on actually. So uh but uh if you haven't wanted an opportunity to meet him and and uh hear him preach. Um he uh Joel did mention that basically they have the same social distancing rules there that you have here so you'll be familiar with those. And uh so I'd encourage you to to join them there uh on either or both of those uh uh opportunities either Friday at 7 uh in the evening or sun or Saturday at nine. Um I think that's most of the we we had a good first start to our s our adult Sunday school Sunday school talk show thingy that we're doing. And um somebody said, well this is a talk show. Well it's we're talking about Bible things. This is not just a talk show. Uh it's very biblical. I I believe. And anyway, uh and we had a good start. I encourage you to come out to that. If you don't have small children, uh come out to that at 9 15. You're not able to come out because you do have small children. Let me encourage you to log uh log on. How many of you all did log on? You weren't able to come but you logged on and were able to Okay, a few of you saw about like 10 online uh today. Let's try to try to work on that and uh really encourage you to log on. Also, uh let me encourage you to subscribe to that blog website uh myself as well as uh mica colbert and matthew conrad most of you know who they are uh we're all doing that together leading that together and then there's a There's other contributors as well. It's a great website, a great blog in order to just get good biblical uh advice on a various various uh topics as well as devotional thoughts and all that kind of thing. So I encourage you you to subscribe to that and um and you'll hear more about that in the future. Alright let's go ahead and uh I'll be reading it for our call to worship from Psalm seventy-eight. It says, Give ear, O my people, to my law. Incline your ears to the words of my mouth. I will open my mouth in a parable I will utter dark sayings of old which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us. We will not hide them from their children, telling to the generation to come the praises of the Lord. And his strength and his wonderful works that he has done. For he established a testimony in Jacob and appointed a law in Israel. which he commanded our fathers, and they that they should be make them known to their children. Let's go, Lord, in prayer. Father, we come to you this morning and we thank you just for the privilege Of being able to meet together. Father, we thank you because of who you are. And as we read the Old Testament, we read how you worked through your people, both in the New Testament. Testament and in the Old Testament, Lord, it is it is our privilege to just delve into how you worked, your wisdom, your power, your strength. Lord, those are things that And we confess before you in our own lives, Lord, that oftentimes we do not uh We don't really see the strength of that you have in our own lives. We we try to do things in our own strength. Instead of recognizing through your word and through prayer the great strength that you have and how you work with your own wisdom exactly what you want for your purposes. And Lord, I pray we thank you for that We thank you that we are not left uh as a deist would say, we are not left just to uh do our own thing our own way, create you, create us and spun us like a top and now we just do what we want. Lord, that you are integrally involved in our lives, that you work in our lives and to to fulfill your will. And Father, we thank you for that. And Lord, we pray that you'd help us to be Consistent with your will as we live our lives in consistency with your word. And as we look at your word today from the book of Exodus, I pray, Lord, that you would teach us What it is to be restored back to your ownership. And Lord, we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. From Exodus thirteen, verses one and two, and then eleven through sixteen Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Consecrate me all the firstborn, whatever opens the womb among the children of Israel, both of man and beast, it is mine And it shall be when the Lord brings you into the land of the Canaanites, as he swore to you and your fathers, and gives it to you, that you shall set apart to the Lord all that Open the womb, that is, every firstborn that comes from the an animal which you have, the males shall be the Lord's. But every firstborn of a donkey you shall redeem with a So it shall be when your son asks you in Time to come, saying, What is this? That you shall say to him, By strength of hand the Lord brought us out of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. About letting us go that the Lord killed all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both the firstborn of man and the firstborn of beast. Therefore I sacrificed to the Lord all males that opened the womb, but all The firstborn of my sons I redeem. It shall be as a sign on your hand and as frontlands between your eyes, for by strength of hand the Lord brought us out of Egypt. So this is the passage that we'll be and we're going to be doing this I think on a regular basis where the scripture reading will be right before the sermon. And uh this is the passage that is going to be our text this morning. Exodus chapter thirteen. Hopefully you're already there, but if not, I just encourage you to turn there. Exodus thirteen. So as Enrique's reading this passage, did you think about uh Um it it's it's kind of a confusing passage. It's sort of like what's going on here? You've got the firstborn that are he said they're mine, and you've got Goats that are having their necks broken, and what what's going on here with this passage? Well, this is a passage that's actually a very, very important passage that will Well as we as we delve into it, it will be something that'll be very helpful for us. But we're really going to have to understand the background of what's going on here. Understand this that of course we've been in Ex been away from Exodus for a couple of weeks because I was on vacation, but understand this that what's going on here in this past is that this is right around the time where they're just either just about to leave Egypt, Israel is, and and ha make their trek, their long trek into eventually The promised land, Canaan, or uh it's right afterwards, it's right in that general time frame. And God is giving them some instruction. What are you supposed to do when you come into this Promised land, what's it supposed to look like? And of course a couple of weeks ago we looked at the idea of there being a Passover and uh and uh the feast And all of that. But now we come to this passage, and he says the very first thing he says this passage is consecrate, verse 2, consecrate to be all the firstborn, whatever open The womb among the children of Israel, both of man and beast, it is mine. Now you read that, and again you read it again, and it says, Consecrate the firstborn sick. Now we need to understand all of this. What is God getting at when He's talking about ownership? But let's begin by asking this question. When you think of salvation, what are you what do you think of? What what do you think of when you think of salvation Well, when people are describing salvation, they may say something like, Well, I become a child of God, I become born again, you are freed from sin, you're freed from Uh you go to heaven when you die. And all those things would be correct. But there's a sense in which in fact I've never even heard somebody say as a response to this Well, it's actually God restoring ownership. And it's a good thing, I've got all kinds of papers here, but it's a good thing that I'm not using papers today. Hang on one second. I'm just gonna say they're good. Okay. Um sorry about that. So so God is restoring ownership. Now let's let's Just then understand this that and understand God's restoration of ownership for people. Now, all humanity, God is in the midst of restoring ownership to himself. That's what he's doing. That's what salvation is. And you say, well, I'm not sure I really understand that. We'll understand it as we go through it, but understand that that's the case. Now, in order to really understand this, there's several things that we've got to learn. One is is this idea of Redemption. Redemption means to be bought back. What is redemption? Well, let me illustrate it this way. A little boy decides that he is going to uh build a little a little boat. a ship, a little toy ship that he's going to he's going to float in the river. He builds this boat. He takes great care to build it. It's very beautiful And he floats it in the river, but when the boat when he floats it in the river, the boat gets away from him. He's distraught about this, but there's nothing he can do. And so he just goes home very upset about it, but figures there's nothing he could do until one day he comes in to this to uh to town and he sees his exact boat in in the the window of a shop. He says, that's my boat. So he goes in and examines the boat. Sure enough, that's his boat. That's his sailboat. He goes to the owner of the shop and he says, hey, that's my sailboat. Can I please have it back? And the owner says, Well, uh there's no way of mine really knowing it's yours. You're gonna have to buy it. And the and the the creator, this little boy of this boat, loves the boat so much that he decides he's actually going to pay for it even though he paid for the materials ahead of time, did all the work to create the boat, he's gonna buy it back. And so he buys this boat back from the owner, even though originally it was his boat to begin with. And that's gives us a little bit of an idea of what redemption is. Jesus, God created us Right? He created us. And then we sin sin. What is sin? Well, sin is actually a rejection of ownership. We are rejecting God's ownership over us. us when we sin and Adam and Eve did that. And then God chooses to buy us back. It's a very important thing for us to understand. So in understanding That salvation is God restoring his ownership of himself, we need to understand three things that we're going to go through. Through in the message. One, we're going to see God's plan, God's plan of restoring ownership. We're going to look at that first. Then we're going to see God's payment of restoring ownership. And then we're going to see God's provision of restoring ownership. Now I just said on Wednesday night I don't alliterate. Can I just tell you I am breaking my own rule. I've actually alliterated this this came to me so easily. Like I almost I I actually in my own pride which is also another the P I I actually um was going to change it from being alliterated but I wasn't gonna do that because I said okay I'll just humble myself myself and say, okay, sometimes alliteration is good. And so we actually have three words that quickly came to my mind. They they are very accurate. And so we have the plan, the payment, and the provision today. So first of all, we need to look at God's plan. Understand when we think of God creating man God had a very, very important purpose for creating all of humanity. In Genesis chapter 1, verses 26 through 28, it says that God created mankind or humankind in his own image. Image. The image of God he created him with a very special purpose. With to have dominion over everything. And this whole concept of dominion really has to do with ownership. And God has ownership over all of creation, including us. One man said it this way, Greg Gilbert said. He says, none of us is autonomous, and understanding that fact is key to understanding the gospel despite our constant talk of rights and liberty. We are not really as free as we would like to think. We are created, we are made, and therefore we are owned. He later on says some some understanding of this absolutely Is absolutely necessary if a person wants to understand the good news of Christianity. The gospel is God's response to the bad news of sin, and sin is a person's rejection of God's creator rights over him. Thus, the fundamental truth of human existence, the well from which all else flows, is that God created us and therefore owns us. So understand that God created you and therefore owns you. Now to illustrate this a little bit more, to help you understand this, many of us have children. We're parents and we have children. Let me ask you this question. Do you own your children? And hopefully your answer to that would be no, you don't own your children. Why? Well, who owns your children? Actually, God owns your children. Why does God own your children? Because who was the creator of your children? Who is the creator? God is. God owns your children and God owns you. So when we think of being a child of God, we think in terms of often of belonging to God, but it's a step further than our kids having our own Our kids, we having stewardship over our children, it's a step further than that. God, we not only belong to God as a child of God, he owns us There's really no way of getting around that. And what God and what sin is, sin is a rejection of God's ownership. That's very important to understand. Another thing to understand this passage that we're going to get to Another thing to understand is this. That when Adam and Eve sinned against God, they did so as our representative, as the representative of all humanity They were representatives and they represented all humanity and said, We don't want to be owned by God. That is essentially what their sin was. They were rejecting God's plan. They were rejecting themselves as being s uh completely obedient to God, they were simply say they were basically saying we don't want to be owned by God. Now remember also in Genesis chapter three, these are all things that we need to understand in God's plan, and then we're going to understand this passage. Remember in Genesis chapter 3, verse 15, we have the very first mention of the gospel. In Genesis 3:15, it says, And I will put enmity between you and the woman. And between your seed and her seed. He shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel. Now that's saying a lot of things, but one of the things it's saying is this. It's saying that there is there is enmity, there is hatred, there is uh uh uh there is a battle if you will between Humanity and Satan. And in this battle, Adam and Eve represented humanity badly. They failed in their representation of Adam and Eve. Failed in the representation of humanity. But it says that the seed of the woman, there will be another representative. The seed of the woman Will strike a fatal blow to the head of Satan someday. Now we know that to be Christ. But understand that what he's talking about here is there being a replacement of Adam as a representative. Adam failed as a representative of human of humanity to represent ownership and Christ now is going to have to come many years later. But there's a lot that happens between the coming of Christ and of course the first coming of Christ. Christmas time, we celebrate that. And the creation. So you remember then later on in Genesis, so next step here, later on in Genesis, we've got Abraham comes on. And God says to Abraham, I want you to leave your family, I want you to leave your land, I want you to leave everything behind, and I want you to go to a place that that you don't even know where you're going. I want you just to follow me. Would would that not be a description of ownership? I mean you have to do what I say, do it exactly the way I say it. And you're just going to go. So we have Genesis chapter 12, verse 1. It says, Now the Lord said unto said to Abram, Get out of your country from your family and from your father's house to a land that I will show you. I will make you a great nation, and I will bless you, and make your name great, and you shall be a blessing. And I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him who curseth you So Abram departed as the Lord had spoken, and Lot went with him. So you have Abram going and doing exactly what God wanted to do. And if in Hebrews chapter 11, you then have, it says this, verse 8 about Abraham. By faith, Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a place which he would receive as an inheritance. And then it says at the end of that passage, it says, he waited for a city who ha which has foundations whose builder and maker is God. And that is a reference to the fact that one day God will will make everything create everything anew and restore. What is he going to restore? He's going to restore ownership. Now, with all of that in mind, we come to the book of Exodus. And we come to Exodus, and I'd like you to take your Bibles for a minute. Keep your finger in Exodus 13, but would you go over to Exodus chapter 4? Or if it's your phone, you don't keep your finger there, obviously. You just Go over that. Exodus chapter 4 and look at verse 21. I want you to see this. With all of this in mind, we're now talking about the idea of ownership, and we read the passage in Exodus 13 with Which told us that ownership has to do with the firstborn. There's a connection there. Look at Exodus 4. 21. It says, And the Lord said to Moses, of course, this is before Just to recap, this is before all of the plagues and Moses telling Abe Pharaoh, let my people go, he says this. And the Lord said to Moses, When you go back to Egypt, See that you do all those wonders before Pharaoh, which I have put in your hand, but I will harden his heart so that He will not let the people go. Then you shall say to Pharaoh, Thus says the Lord, Israel is my son. Folks, what does it say then? Israel is my son what? My firstborn. So this passage actually tells us that Israel is the firstborn. Of God. They are the firstborn. Okay, so what is he talking about there? Well, we read in our passage in Exodus chapter 13, we learn that God says the firstborn are mine. We find that in Leviticus and Numbers and other places as well. He will constantly say, the firstborn are mine. The firstborn are mine. And here he's saying that Israel is the firstborn. What is this connection? Well understand this In the Old Testament, you have this idea of the firstborn being our repres being the representative of the family. Now you, you know, you secondborns and thirdborns and fourth and fifth and sixth and all those kind of things. Might not like this too much, but the reality is back in those days The firstborn received all of the inheritance. So so all the inheritance would be given to the firstborn, and then the firstborn would then divvy it out among amongst the various siblings and grandkids and all of that as as he decided to do, hopefully according to his parents' wishes. But it was all given to the firstborn. And and all the land was given to the firstborn. And and every so why? Because the firstborn was the representative of the family. Now think of it this way. The firstborn represented the family. Who was Adam? He was what? He was a he was a representative. And he represented God he represent I'm sorry, he represented humanity rather rather in a wrong way, right? He didn't represent humanity as being owned by God. He represented humanity as rebelling against God. Now you have God who says, I'm making a nation Who is mine, your firstborn, Israel's my firstborn, you're mine. And you're going to be my representative to the world. And then he comes to Exodus. We come to Exodus. chapter 13 and he says all of the firstborn in Israel they're mine they're representative of each family to continually demonstrate that Israel is mine. I own Israel. Why do how do I how do we know I own Israel? Because all of the firstborn are mine. Now Two things then, remember this. Ownership of the firstborn. God says, number one, all firstborn I own you. And number two, all firstborn, you are my representative. Now, along with this concept, you have this idea of first fruits. For example, in Exodus chapter 23, verse 19. the first of the first fruits of your land you shall bring into the house of the Lord. So God commands the first of everything, firstborn, first fruits, first vegetables, first Harvest, first, every everything, the first of everything belongs to God in the nation of Israel. And this shows, actually, it shows that everything belongs to God. the nation of Israel. Understand that that's what's going on here in this passage. Okay. So we've established God's plan of ownership. And this if God's design was that Israel actually become a representative of all humanity to represent humanity that we are all eventually under under the ownership of God, all humanity. Except you have this problem, of course, of sin. Now, keep this in mind as well. The very final plague, do you remember what the very final plague is? The very final plague was that God was going to uh He was going to send the angel of death and all of the firstborn everywhere was going to be going to be put to death. The firstborn even of the animals. The firstborn of of uh the firstborn male child was going to be put to death. All the firstborn was going to be put to death in the land of Egypt. Did you know that even that would apply to Israel except for if they unless they did one thing. What did they have to do? They had to put the blood on the doorposts. in order for the angel of death to pass over them. In other words, there was a redemption that was needed, even in that. There was a payment that was needed. Now understand this though. Realize this. God redeemed all of the original firstborn of Israel. How did he redeem them? You know how he redeemed them? By taking the life. By taking the life of all of the firstborn of Egypt. And I'm going to show that to you in just a moment. But you're going to see that in a minute. Okay. Well in chapter chapter thirteen, verse eleven, look at what it says. It says, And it shall be when the Lord brings you into the land of Cain The Canaanites, as he swore to you and your fathers, and gives it to you, that you shall set apart to the Lord all the all that opens. So again he reiterates ownership. But then notice verse thirteen. He said What's he talking about there? He's saying this that if you need a donkey to uh to do some kind of labor for you, that's usually what they They're they're they're good for carrying things and of course they're heading out of Egypt into the promised land. There's lots to carry. So so if you need a firstborn donkey to carry your stuff, you have to redeem it with a lamb. A firstborn lamb. In other words, a firstborn lamb has to be the substitute for the donkey. He says, and if you will not redeem it, then you shall break its neck. And all the firstborn of man among your sons you shall redeem. Catch what he's saying here. Then what is the payment? What is the payment? The payment is what? What? It's death. That's the payment. Okay? Now, let's back up for a minute and understand this that the payment For being under God's ownership is death. Now let's go back and think about Abraham for a minute. Do you remember what God commanded Abraham to do with Isaac in Genesis chapter? Now I know there's a lot going on here. Hopefully this will all get panned out and you'll understand this. But keep stay with me if you can. Genesis 22. You remember what God commanded Abraham to do there? He told Abraham To sacrifice, to put to death Isaac, his legitimate firstborn. Did you catch that? To put to death Isaac. And we often think, well, God didn't really mean it, because obviously, you know, he That's not at all the case. God commanded it because it was required. In order to redeem Abraham's family, the death of the firstborn was absolutely necessary. And so he commands Abraham to do this. That's why he commanded it. Because it was to demonstrate it was a payment for ownership. Now, what do we know about the story? We know that there was a pro Provision, right? That the provision, God created a provision for Isaac so that he would not have to. So we know there's this possibility of a substitute. That's important to understand as well as we go through this. Now, would you notice then verse 14? Verse 14, it says this. So it shall be when your son asks you in time to come, saying, What is this that you shall say to him? Egypt, out of the house of bondage, and it came to pass when Pharaoh was stubborn about letting us go, that the Lord killed all the firstborn of the land of Egypt, both the firstborn of the man and the firstborn of beasts. Therefore I sacrificed to the Lord all males that open the womb, but all the firstborn of my sons, that's Israel, of my sons I redeem. It shall be a sign on your hand, and as the frontlets between your eyes, for my strength of hand the Lord brought us out of Egypt. You see that? What God was doing there was in the very beginning stages of Israel becoming Becoming a nation and being owned by God, he says there has to be a substitute, and it's actually the firstborn of E Egypt that becomes the substitute for the firstborn of Israel so that they do not have to die that death. Now, the question then becomes this what about future firstborn? God actually commands that all future firstborn are going to have to be, they're going to have to that the the payment He says, they're mine. They're going to have to be the the payment is death. What do you do with all of the first future first? In other words, the firstborn of Israel, they're paid for, there's a substitute for the Egyptian firstborn. But they're going into the land, into the into the promise Promised land. And now God says all of the firstborn are mine. Well, God actually has a provision for that. And that's we come to the third point now, God's provision to restore ownership. And the provision we don't find in Exodus. God says redeem them, but he doesn't really say how. We find it in the book of Numbers. We won't take the time to turn there, but I'll just say this. In Numbers chapter 8, we actually find that the Levites, the tribe of Levi, become the replacement for the firstborn of Israel. It says in Numbers chapter 8 verse Verse 14, thus you shall separate the Levites from among the children of Israel, and the Levites shall be mine. Now, who are the Levites? Remember, you've got twelve tribes of Israel. Israel. Eleven of the twelve tribes of Israel are all going to own their own land. They're all going to function sort of normally in the same way. But the Levite tribe, the tribe of Levi, they have a different operation of different function, they're going to be serving in the pre uh they're all they're priests and fun different functions of the priesthood. They're serving in the tabernacle. And folks, what is the main thing they're doing in the tabernacle? You remember what they're doing? Where are they doing in the tabernacle? They're giving sacrifices. They're offering sacrifices to God. So God's, what is it, what's going on on here the sacrifices to God that the Levites the Levites are owned by God they're owned by him and the Levites are living sacrifices that's going to become important in a minute. The Levites are living sacrifices. And to pay for the Levite's sin, because they're sinful too, you have these blood sacrifices that are offered daily. On behalf of the Levites, and then all offered yearly, and all kinds of times they're offering various sacrifices. You see what's going on here, folks? There is there is a lot involved when it comes to the gospel. Now Something else we need to know, we need to understand. When it comes to the issue of firstborn, some of you are saying, Well, what about these firstborn? Is God showing favorites to the firstborn? How many of you are here are firstborn? I'm curious. Okay? How many of you are not firstborn? Okay? You have a lot more that are not firstborn than are firstborn. Well, I have good news for you. God on many occasions in the Old Testament actually chooses second or third or twelfth born. We'll call them the late borns. God chooses the lateborns over the firstborn. Remember Jacob and Esau. Who does he choose? Esau actually came out first. He was the firstborn. chooses Jacob. Do you remember uh uh Joseph, Joseph, uh David, you've got um Gideon, Solomon, all of these people are not firstborn, and yet God chooses them, all of these people in various ways, and many of them are deliverers. Okay. And and they're there and we'll understand more about that in the future. Now, what is all of this about? Now some of you are already tracking with me and you understand what all this is about. Understand this. Remember, Israel is God's firstborn, but we actually find that all of this is a picture. for someone who will actually replace Israel as God's firstborn. Who is that person that will replace Israel as God's firstborn? And the answer is Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is replaces God's firstborn. We find this in, for example, in Romans chapter 8, verse 25. twenty eight. It says this, for whom he did for know, he also did predestine to be conform to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. That is that Jesus is is the perfect firstborn. Jesus is the perfect representative. Jesus represent is represents humanity. And Jesus redeems all of humanity by doing what? By going to the cross. Except in Jesus' case, there's no substitute for him. All of the firstborn of Israel, there were substitutes. You had the Levites were substitute for the firstborn You've got the original Egyptian firstborn, the substitute for the original e uh Israel firstborns. All of them were substitutes, but Jesus, there's no substitute. Jesus actually goes to the cross, doesn't he? And he sheds his blood and he dies for us on the cross. But what does Jesus do so that he be What does he do three days later? He rises from the grave, victorious over sin and death, so that he is the firstborn, the Bible says, among many brethren. Well, who are the brethren? The brethren are those who accept Christ as their Savior. All the church is the brethren. They are, can I say it this way, they're the late-born. All of us who know Christ, those of us who know Christ as our Savior, we are the late born of the firstborn, that is Jesus Christ. And that's why it says in 1 Corinthians chapter 5 fifteen verse twenty but now Christ is risen from the dead and has become the first fruits of those who have s fallen asleep. For since by man came death, by man also came came the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so Christ all be made alive. But each one in his own order. Christ the first fruit Afterward, those who are Christ at his coming. I want to say one thing about all this. Do you see The great extent to which God purchases your redemption. It's incredible. When we think of the death of Christ, it is so common to us we don't realize all that went in, all that was involved. The God Jesus is the God man. Now the God the God aspect of Jesus, no preparation was needed. But the man aspect of Jesus, all of the preparation of the Old Testament that went in to Jesus being from the firstborn of Israel and replacing Israel and being the firstborn to represent all there was huge amounts of s of of preparation and we see God's wisdom and God's justice. God can't just overlook sin. God has to deal with sin. There has to be a pain Or if there's not a payment, there has to be a redemption. All of this is to demonstrate one simple thing that Jesus died to pay the punishment for our sin, and we must accept that in order to have salvation. And just like the Israel was told you've got to apply the blood of Jesus Christ, or apply the blood rather, of the Lamb to the doorpost in order to be passed over, we must apply the blood of Jesus Christ. The Bible says in John 1 12, if you will receive me, but as many as received him, to them gave you the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believed on his name. And so with all of this in mind, we have, you say, well what does all of this matter with the firstborn and the ownership and all what how what does this matter for me Well, there's there's a lot here. Number one, have you come to a place where you understand that you are owned by God? And yet have you accepted what Jesus Christ did to pay the punishment for your sin so that God could restore his ownership in your life You are estranged from God. You are born away from God. You are born at enmity against God. We know that. But Jesus Christ died so that your ownership could be restored. Christ bought you back, but you must accept that by faith alone. Have you done that? Number two. To be the child of God is to accept his ownership in our lives. Do you realize that? You are not your own, the Bible says It says this in 1 Corinthians. It says, For you are not your own, you are bought at a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. You are not your own. If you know Christ as your Savior, you are owned by God. That ownership has been restored. And folks, brothers and sisters in Christ, we've got to live like that. We've got to realize that salvation is not a get-out-of-jail free card. If you're seeing salvation that way, you may not be saved. Salvation is a restoration of God's ownership. And we are owned by God. That doesn't sit well with our 21st century Western ideas of autonomy and and independence and and self-determination and all those kinds of things. That doesn't go well with us. But that's what the Bible says. The Bible says That you are owned by God. And by the way, you will never have the joy and the fulfillment in your life until you accept God's ownership in your life. Well, how do you know you're doing that? Well, Romans chapter 12, after this extended discussion of the gospel, Romans chapter 12 says this, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you You do that you, every one of us do what the Levites did, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable God to God. Why? It's real It's just a reasonable thing to do. God says if you want to live in accordance with being owned by me, then you're going to present yourselves as being owned by me. And you're gonna let me do what I want to with you. That's what God says. Well, you know, uh you you say, well, I mean I still gotta work and I still gotta I still gotta gotta take care of my family and I gotta have some fun in there and I gotta I gotta I gotta I mean how do I know that I'm really living being owned by God? Well the answer has to do with this whole concept Of the first fruits. The first fruits. Are you giving your first fruits to God? And I'm not just talking about money. Includes money. But it's not just about money. Are you giving everything of yourself your first fruits, your time, your talents, your ability, your money Your thought life, your your everything. Is it is the first fruits going to God? See, in the New Testament, God says Jesus says that this way, but seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. The things about adding clothing and and raiment and uh all of the fine uh all of the provisions that we need, that's all these things in the past. God says, seek first my kingdom, and all these things will be added unto you. Do you know how whether or not you know what how a litmus test for us as to whether or not we are really owned by God. Well number one it's our attitude. If we're trying to create our life the way we want it and it's not going our way and we're upset because we're creating our life the way we want it, we got a problem. We're not we're owning our own lives rather than owning God's uh letting God take ownership. When we come to realizing, Lord, Lord, whatever you want in my life is fine. You own it, you do what you want to with it. That's the first step But then we begin to want, to think of God first, to give to God first to put our lives in God's hands and to seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And the Bible says when we do it, everything else is going to make sense. It's all these things will be added to you. Are you seeking first the kingdom of God? Are you owned, genuinely owned by God? Do you Do we see ourselves as being owned by God? And are we living as though we are owned by God? Let me just say this one simple thing that we've done. If you don't know whether or not you belong to God, the Bible says these things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. And later on after the service, would you come and talk with me after the service or somebody else you're comfortable with? We'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that you are, you belong to God. And that you can have eternal life. For the rest of us, we need to make sure that we are owned by God. Now, in a few moments, what we're going to do is we are going to enter into our communion time, our Lord's Supper time. And what we want to do is this, I mean I can't think of this so much, our message so much just dovetails right into our communion time. Where we're celebrating the redemption of the blood of Christ. That's what we're doing in communion. And we're in unity together doing that. We are partaking Together, and we are saying together that we belong to Jesus. We are saying together that we are owned by Jesus. By the way, if you're not owned by Jesus, then you don't want to partake of this If you are not if you don't belong to him, then this is not something that you're going to want to partake of. But if you are genuinely owned by God, if you are genuinely um if you are genuinely his child, then Then this is something that you are invited to partake of. You're saved and you're baptized scripturally, then you are invited to partake of with us. In First Corinthians chapter eleven, we'll read this in a minute, but understand that God has it says, let a man examine himself and then partake. minutes we're going to partake together. Let me just mention this as well. I hope that when we come to the Lord's Supper, we do it in appreciation for all of God's done for us. Maybe you're coming today and your feelings are telling you that you're not owned by God. Your feelings are telling you that that that there's been things in your life that you've Struggled with, and you're just not feeling that you're really a child of God, go by what the Bible says and what you know to be true. And understand this: that you there is no work that you need to do in order to trust Christ as your Savior, that all of the work is done by Christ. And that is the thing that we glory in. As we come together and partake together. Let's go ahead and pray, and then we will partake of the Lord's Supper together. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and we thank you for this passage. This somewhat difficult passage. It's a little bit hard to understand, but I I thank you for this passage that Teaches us that what you are doing in our lives and in this world is bringing everything back to your ownership. And Lord, as we look to Christ as our firstborn, as we look to Christ for what He has done for us in redeeming us Both he is our Redeemer and our firstborn. Lord, I pray that you would help us to understand and to submit ourselves under the Lordship and the ownership of Jesus Christ. And Father, as we do that, I pray that we can celebrate your ownership in our lives as we partake of the Lord's Supper together. And we partake of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Now hopefully you uh I've gotten one of these uh things. I had to put one in my pocket here. I'm gonna pull it out. And uh there it there are two parts, two elements to the Lord's Supper. The first element is uh the unleavened bread and there are two tabs on this. You can pull the first tab off and that will be able to give you access to the bread. And I will read from Christ's words from 1 Corinthians chapter 11, and then we will be able to partake together. Of course, Jesus in the first Lord's Supper time was gathered together. Of course, we know that when we do this, we're proclaiming the Lord's death till he comes, and we are remembering and celebrating what Christ has done for us. Us. And we see here this passage, it says, and when he uh had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take eat. This is my body which is broken for you. Do this. In remembrance of me. Let's partake together. Let's also partake of the cup together. You can pull that open and I'll read verse twenty five here it says in the same manner also he took the cup after the supper saying This cup is the new covenant in my blood. This do as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. Let's partake together in remembrance of Christ. Amen. And let's thank the Lord for what He has done for us. Father, we thank you that you shed, that Christ shed his blood for the reminder. That we deserved to die an eternal death because of our sin. But Jesus took upon took upon our sin on himself and died completely for a time separated from you. Suffered. And so he broke his body for you, for us rather, so that we could have a right relationship with you, so that ownership could be restored. So that we could follow you with all of our hearts. And we thank you, Father, that we you've given us this ordinance that we can celebrate together, that we all believe the same thing together. And we show unity together that Jesus died for us. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. As I think about as I think about the message that was being preached The uh the idea of ownership comes to mind and uh a lot, of course. And one of the things I think about is when somebody says, hey, I own you, nobody likes to hear that. You know? And I I actually had to ask myself the question, what is it that I don't like to hear about the fact that I am owned? You know? And uh really it boils down to pride. Are we willing to submit ourselves and lose our pride to allow God to have full reign in our hearts, full reign in our lives, so that we can actually fight So I just was thinking about that. Thank you, preacher. Appreciate that. So let's uh stand, we'll sing number twenty-seven come people of the Risen King Praise the wall and turn your heart to see what Red noise left me toys one horse one noise Church of Christ rejoice Sandholds morning sun and those we pick some clothes Never change and his mercy never cease. All our days when the search and hold of place. Reach noise, reload, letter free tomb noise, one law, one voice. Church of Christ returns of dawn and all from every man and women of prophet. People say short and short we can have all the truth that Christ through every edge of our God is all in the Rachel, let her free to free tool ourselves. One voice O Church of Christ rejoice. Thank you. We'll continue singing. Three thirty-seven. I have a song I want to sing set on a day. Says I have energy, says I have every deep, says I am every deep. I will glory in his name. I will glory my same works thing. I have a Christ that is price and I bet we put to do is well my eyes price than Said I have been redeemed, I will bore in his thing, Sandry, I will glory in my safe first day I have always bright and clear since I have been reading, dispelling everything out and Spirit says I have been redeemed Says I have been redeemed Says I have been redeemed I will glory in his thing says I I will glory my state for stay. I have all prepared for me since I have been reading where I shall fall eternally Set on a bad read, said I will glory in his name send off and redeem. I will glory in my Savior's name. Thank you, and we'll continue Continue our songs with eighty three Merciful God. Merciful God for founding in love, faithful to all who draws near you. Hearing the cries of a whole window show it The cross they may clean to self bless I come Broken insane down at the feet of your mercy Father, forgive, may my sin be remembered no more. Merciful God, oh abounding in love, faithful through times we have held you. Sofishan ah and a caring in eat Wish it were an graceful spirit of God, conquer our hearts With love that most robess cause us to yield and return to the mercy Merciful God abounding in love To keep us from calling guiding our ways with their fatherly horn Growing our faith with each hasting. God's be the struggles will end For this will gaze on your glory, then we will stand overwhelmed by the mercy. Lord, we thank you so much for your goodness in our lives. Lord, we are grateful to be called your children, and those out here who are Who may not know you personally and might not have that right relationship with you, that redemptive relationship. Lord, we pray that you just work in their hearts. Lord, we pray that they will come to know you. You draw all men to yourself, and we ask a prayer for these people who don't know you personally. We also ask, Lord, in our own lives, in our own hearts, Lord, that we would be willing to submit Commit ourselves to your leading. Lord, that we won't be so caught up in our daily activities and our daily desires that we lose focus, but that we give you, Lord, first. Of all things in our life. We thank you, Lord, for your great mercy that you give us. We are an undeserving people, and yet you just bless us, and we are grateful. Thank you, Lord. May you be with our day and may it be honoring to you. In your name. Amen. Your dismiss.