Tony is going to be expositing this text tonight. We'll begin in verse we're going to be uh looking tonight at um Verses twenty three twenty-three twenty-seven, is that right, Connie? Yeah, all right. So we'll be looking at the prophecy portion of the chapter. 20 through 27 of Daniel. So I'm going to read this. Actually, let's open with prayer, then I'll read this, and then Tony will come and preach. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and thank you for the your word, and uh we thank you for just the wide range of truth that we find in your word. Um and just it's just a treasure trove of of depth and as we learned and were and were reminded of this morning, it It is elevated above your very name. It's magnified above your very name. We are incredibly when we come to its truth and read it and study it and know it. It leaves us in awe, as though we're in your presence, because we are. And so I pray, Lord, today that as we uh look at your word again tonight, that you be with Tony, help him to be able to communicate Communicate your word clearly. Help our minds to be uh ready to hear it and uh our hearts to be ready to receive it. And um we uh thank you for it. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Daniel chapter nine. We'll pick up in verse twenty and we'll read through twenty seven. Now while I was speaking, praying and confessing my sin and the sin of my people Israel, and presenting my supplication before the Lord my God, for the holy mountain of my God, yes, while I was speaking in prayer, the man ate Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision at the beginning being caused to fly swiftly, reached me about the time of the evening's uh offering. And he informed me and Talked with me and said, O Daniel, I have now come forth to give you skill to understand. At the beginning of your supplications and command the command went out, and I have come to tell you. If you are greatly beloved, therefore, consider the matter and understand the vision. Seventy weeks are determined for your people and for your holy city. To finish the transgression, to make an end of sins, to make reconciliation of iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness to seal up vision and prophecy and to anoint the Most Holy. Know therefore and understand that from the going forth of the command to restore and build Jerusalem until Messiah the Prince, there shall be 70 weeks and 62 weeks. The street shall be built again, and the wall, even in troublesome times. And after the sixty-two weeks, Messiah shall be cut off, but not for himself. And the people of the prince whom is to come shall destroy the city in the sanctuary, and the end of it shall be with a flood until the end of the war of desolation are determined Then he shall confirm a covenant with many for one week, but in the middle of the week he shall bring an end to sacrifice and offering And on the week of abominations shall be one who makes desolate, even until the consummation which is determined is poured out on the desolate. Right. Uh so I want to start um with a l I I don't know if levity is the right word. But I want to start with an illustration that at the same time um Makes me feel very young but also very old. So I've got some pictures and I want you guys to look at them and ask me what are these? They're not video games Does anybody know what they might be? Stefan? Video game guys? They're guys, right. So these are player sides and I had my house strewn with these. My mom is looking at me. She knows exactly what I'm talking about because I would actually read these more than I would play the games What a player's guide does, for those of you who don't know, is they'll take the things in the game and they'll lay everything out for you. So I buy this game and I buy the guide to go with it because of course the GameStop guy upsells it to me. And I'm like, at this point, I've started the game. I'm over here on the left. And the end goal is over here on the right. What this guide would do is it would tell me piece by piece, step by step, exactly what I would need to do to get to the end goal. It would lay everything out. Okay, take it down, never worry. Um When after Daniel is um praying, he's making supplication to God, that's essentially what God does for Daniel through the use of the um angel Gabriel. He lays out the future to Daniel. He knows that it's gonna all work out, and that's gonna bring him and it's going to bring it what's up? Oh. And it brings all of us ultimately security. Um we um Yeah. So the first uh point that I want to bring up is that God lifts up the humble. Um as we go into the beginning of the verse, I'm gonna start reading again. Now while I was speaking, praying, and confessing my sin and the sin of my people Israel, and presenting my supplication before the Lord my God for the holy mountain of my God. Yes, while I was speaking in prayer, the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision at the beginning, being caused to fly swiftly, reached me about the time of the evening offering. And he informed me and talked with me and said, oh Daniel, I have now come forth to give you the skill to understand. This is a response to what it's an answer to Daniel's prayer. At the beginning of your supplications, the command went out. So as soon as Daniel started praying, God gave the order And Gabriel went to give Daniel this news. And why does he give Daniel this news? Why does God choose Daniel to receive this vision? For you are greatly beloved. Therefore, consider the matter and understand the vision. Now if we um consider last week, um Daniel has um Ask God for help, but as Enrique said, he came before God humbly. He acknowledged not only the people's sin, which was very obvious, but he also acknowledged his own sin, which was a little harder to point out. and lump him in with the idolatrous people necessarily. But Daniel knew better. He knew that his heart had issues still. He knew that he still had a sin nature that he had to deal with. So when I first read this, I was like, oh, this is this is very reassuring for Daniel. Um But then the more I dug into it, the more God led me to a different conclusion. It's not reassurance because reassurance would be that Gabriel would say, like, oh, it's okay, you're not as bad as you think you are. We we know that's not how God works. Um how we know that that's um not how God works is if we um look at other um prophets. So I want to turn to um Isaiah 6, and I'll give you time to um look at Isaiah 6 or to head there in your Bibles. Just like Daniel, Isaiah was a faithful prophet of God. He lived with a people that were given over to idols. And it would be very easy for him to say I'm the only faithful one and I'm good and they're bad and I don't want to be associated with these people. But that's not what he does at all Um in uh so starting in verse one, in the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting on a throne high and lifted up, and the train of his robe filled the temple. Above it stood Seraphim. Each one had six wings. With two he covered his face, with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew. And one cried to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. And the posts of the door were shaked by the voice of him who cried out, and the house was filled with smoke. Isaiah saw God. He experienced God in all of his holiness, and his first reaction was to Cry out how sinful he is. So I said, woe is me, for I am undone, because I am a man of unclean lips. And I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. You know, I I don't know how many of you when I first said Isaiah 6, probably the first thing that came to mind was the hearer my Lord send me. We've all been to enough missions conferences where God says, Who shall I send? Isaiah says, Here am I send me and we've got to be just like Isaiah. But Before Isaiah could get to hear Am I send me, he had to say, Woe is me, for I am undone first. Before Daniel could get the um the comfort from God's word, he had to acknowledge the fact that he was a sinful person. And what God was saying is not I love you because you're good enough, he's saying, I love you in spite of every wrong thing that you have done. And that's exactly how God works with us. Um he brings us to the point of ultimate humility so that he can begin the work of renewal. If we look further in Isaiah We have the sacrifice where the angel takes the coals and he touches Isaiah's lips and he says, You're clean. For us, how we're made clean is through the atoning sacrifice of Jesus Christ. Um So after uh after God lifts up Daniel in his humility, he begins to lay out his redemptive plan. These are uh Gabriel's words. Seventy weeks are determined for your people and for your holy city to finish the transgression, to make an end of sins. to make reconciliation for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal up vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most holy So first off, you may or may not know this, but as far as weeks go, when it says weeks in the New King James, in the Hebrew, the literal word is sevens. So 77s. And I um Pastor Jim was gracious enough to give me one of his um charts that lays it out a whole lot better than I could verbally. But if you look at that, we don't we wouldn't necessarily translate those as weeks as far as seven days. It would make a whole lot more sense that we would um we would uh see them as years. So 77s would most would best be um seen as a period of four hundred and ninety years. And what is the purpose of these 70 weeks? To finish the transgression, to make an end of sins, to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting righteousness. And then to seal up vision and prophecy and to anoint the Most Holy. But I want to focus on those four things because what God seems to be saying here is that He's laying out His ultimate plan to defeat sin. in all of its manifestations. Going back to last week, we have a lot of repetition of what Daniel prayed in uh those previous verses. You have Daniel talking about transgressions. He's talking about his sins and his people's sins, and he's talking about their iniquity too. Now, if we dig deep into the Hebrew, uh deeper into the Hebrew, um we see parallels for at least two of these. It's in the English, there's transgression, sins, and iniquity, and Gabriel says transgression, sins, and iniquity. Um, from what I was able to gather from the Hebrew, the sins and iniquity were two words, two Hebrew words that both Daniel said and then Gabriel said right after that. So um I'm not even going to try to um pronounce the Hebrew. Uh but when it says sin here, that Hebrew word basically means missing the mark. So it's moral imperfection. It's any sin no matter how great or small. So there's no excuse. Just like in Romans, we are without excuse. None of us can say we have never missed God's mark. or miss his standard. We all fall short of his standard. And then the other word is iniquity and it um it basically means like a rebellious heart. Um which again if we if we are honest with ourselves, yes we can say we've sinned, we've missed the mark. But if we really are if we if we really examine ourselves, we can all say at at least one point in our lives, um We um we've had a rebellious heart against God. And um we need to, just like Daniel, be humble about that and confess that to God. knowing that he if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. So we don't get all the details in one set of prophecies. Um particularly as far as the most holy goes. Some scholars say that the most holy is the Messiah. Others say that it's the most holy place in the rebuilt temple. But Gabriel does mention specifically this coming Messiah, and we know that's Jesus Christ. The plan to defeat sin has already started. In verse 26, it says the Messiah will be cut off. And if you're looking in the New King James, there's there should be a footnote or like a little number next to the um the words cut off. that relate it to the death penalty. So for us, having the benefit of hindsight, we can look back and say, yes, the Messiah was cut off. He received the death penalty. He was crucified to make atonement for our sins. Um think of uh e even without the hindsight of the New Testament. They already prophesied this in the Old Testament, Isaiah 53, 5. He was pierced for our transgressions, he was crushed for our iniquities So my question to you then is, have you trusted in Jesus Christ to defeat sin in your life? And what does that even look like? First of all We know that once we trust in Christ, the punishment of sin, God's judgment on us, saying you are guilty and you will be punished for it. That is defeated. That's the atonement. That's our justification. We're m we're seen as righteous before God. But it's so much more than that. If we look at um God's Word and its filter of our experience, we see that even though we're not perfect yet, the power of sin is being broken in our lives. And that's the sanctification process. I think of Romans six. Shall we sin so the grace may abound by no means um sorry How can we who have um died to sin live any longer therein? It is a process, but we should be able to see more and more consistent victory in God's power over the sins that we struggle with. And then one day, as this verse prophesies, once we get to the end of the seventy year or the uh seventy weeks, We will be free from the presence of sin. We're not there yet. To get a better understanding of this, we need to look at God's timeline. So now we're going to go to the last point about God assert his control over history. And this is where I want you guys to look at that chart. I wasn't sure if I made enough copies or not because my printer ran out of ink. But um I do have it up on the uh PowerPoint as well. It might be a little hard to see But um uh how this works is that there's two s two subsections of all the years except for that last or all the weeks except for that last week. There's seven sevens, and um in those seven sevens it says that Jerusalem, the temple, and the city will be rebuilt. If you look at the very beginning, it says in the 20th year of Artaxerxes, Nehemiah, month Nisan, first day, March 14th. 440 uh 5 BC. That's one of the um that's one of the suggestions that scholars make as far as like when these seven weeks started. Um there's either that or there's the decree to Ezra also by Artaxerxes to uh start reconstructing the temple. Um some people say Cyrus uh when he told the people to come back. Um I think either Ezra and Nehemiah is probably more Um it it makes more sense in light of everything else. At the end of those forty nine years the temple was and the temple and the city were most likely rebuilt. I think one of the commentaries said that they had like a new um person in charge and that really like showed that most everything, the majority of the project was already complete. After that we have a period of 62 sevens. sixty-two weeks, but we know that's in groups the seven of year sevens of years. And that is from the completion of the temple to the first coming of Christ. And that's where it says uh Messiah, the prince right there. Um Uh if you look at the bottom, under the 69 weeks is about 483 years between the call to rebuild Israel and a significant moment in Christ's life. Some there there's some speculation on whether it's his birth or if it's his baptism. Um but either way, you have an almost perfect fulfillment of this prophecy. Uh if if you um uh yeah, because it would be uh to the beginning of his ministry. But then after that sixty-two weeks, we don't go right into the last week. We don't go right into the last seven. And I one of the reasons for that, um one of the commentaries I looked at calls it the time of the Gentiles, also known as the Church Age. So all of this so far has been very Israel focused. But that when Christ comes on the scene, Israel rejects him and Christ o eventually says If you're not going to listen to me, I'm going to go to the Gentiles. And that's where we are now, because as far as I'm aware, none of us are Jewish. Um be kind of cool if I was, but um And that but that's where we're at right now. We're at a time in history where Christ is speaking primarily to the Gentiles because the Jews have rejected his message. That last seven, we're going to go back to the focus on Israel, which Gabriel says that ultimately the goal is to restore Israel. That last seven is the tribulation. It's very specific. We got the weeks. If you do all the math out, taking a look at each of the different options. There there's a little bit of uh leeway for different interpretations, but it's it's very clear to me That God did exactly what he said he was going to do. There was a seven weeks and then Israel was restored, and then there was a 62 weeks and Christ came. it it really speaks to the veracity of Scripture, the truth of Scripture. We can trust the Bible. We can trust God's Word. And if we can trust God's Word, we can even more so trust the God behind it. Even in the midst of all this um all these things, whether it was back in the past or if we look into the future, There are going to be hard things that God allowed to happen. Um in that um in those last verses, and I'm going to go back to uh Daniel It talks about the Antichrist making a covenant with Israel and then breaking that covenant halfway through the seven years. It says, in the middle of the week he shall bring an end to the sacrifice and offering, and on the wing of abomination shall be one who makes desolate. Even until the consolation which is determined is poured out on the desolate. In the midst of hardship, in the midst of persecution, whether it's this future, future tribulation that we don't know whether or not we're going to be a part of that or not. Different scholars have different interpretations on that, whether we're raptured up beforehand or if we go through it But even now, I mean we can look at we we can look at just the way the world views Christians in general. And the way that it it says men will not put up with sound doctrine in the scriptures. There is going to be some level of persecution, may hopefully not to this extent. But it's not easy to be a Christian and it's not easy to um stand up for what's right um when sometimes the entire world is telling you you're wrong Um, but we can reflect on God's faithfulness in the past, the seven and sixty-two weeks, and trust that He's going to be faithful to us in the future, even if it's just that grace for the moment. So I want to end with three concluding statements. They all start the same way, which basically says: if you are God's child, if you have trusted in Christ as your Savior, If you if your sins are forgiven and you know him as your you know him as his child, you can rest in his love for you. First off, this uh in spite of your failures. Uh Just like Daniel was very clear that he was a sinful person, God was very clear that He cared for him anyway that he was willing to work through him because he was humble enough to admit it, and he was willing to forgive his sins. Also, you can rest in his love for you as laid out in his redemptive plan. We know that in the midst of all of our sin, in the midst of all of our failures, God is working in us to defeat that sin in our lives, and ultimately there will be a time when sin will be no more And we won't even have to worry about it anymore. And we can so look forward to that day. And then lastly, you can rest in God's love for you in the midst of all circumstances. God has proven himself faithful to fulfill prophecy to the nth degree in the past I remember seeing one thing in college where it was like if y if you like did the odds of like Christ fulfilling all the prophecies the way that he has, it would be like several like exponent numbers. It was like it was a crazy big number. Um we know that God has been faithful in the past and because of that We can trust in him for the future. I am so, so thankful for that. Again, in the midst of all of the worries about the future that we all inevitably have. Um I know for myself I struggle with am I going to be strong enough to get through it? If I were to be put in the tribulation, am I going to be strong enough to not follow after the Antichrist or if certain rights get taken away, am I gonna be am I gonna be strong enough to uh not compromise? But That's that's totally focusing on the wrong end of the spectrum. I can't focus on my strength. I need to focus on God's strength through me because He has been faithful in the past and He will be faithful. For all eternity. So let's pray. Father God, I do thank you for just the encouragement that you gave me out of just studying this passage. and studying um your faithfulness and um taking away fear. I pray that um I pray that your word would be an encouragement. Not my word, but your words would be an encouragement to every single person in this audience that you would Just comfort them and remind them of your presence. Any um anybody here who does not know you, I pray that um You would just help them to see that you can be trusted and that um any sacrifice um is all worth it in the end because um because you are so good and your um your atoning death is perfect and um your eternal life is um better than we can even imagine. In Jesus' precious name we pray. people from very different backgrounds and from every age group. But we all have one thing in common. We have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. When a person discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God, they're given a sense of purpose and meaning in life. When that same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught, they will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows in purpose and meaning. Our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday morning. Through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our lives, and through our discipleship home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Additionally, there are one-on-one and couple-to-couple counseling and discipleship opportunities. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually any way we possibly can. Our children's ministries are extremely important to us. We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and out of their classrooms. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing, loving family community. We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what Bethel is like. But we'd love to meet you personally. Join us for a worship service, a small group for Bible study. Let us be a blessing to you and your family.