Father, we come to you and thank you for your word that we'll be looking at tonight from Matthew 25 We thank you and praise you that you are God and you are sovereign, that you are in control of all things. And Father, I pray, Lord, that you would um You would continue to guide our church and help our church in in in uh following you the best we know how. It's clear from the principles of your word that your work done your way will not lack your supply. And Father, I pray, Lord, that you'd help us to endeavor to do that in your church. That we would do your work your way and trust you for the results, for the supply. Lord, as we look at your word tonight from Matthew 25, I pray, Lord, that it would encourage us and challenge us in our day. to anticipate the second coming of Christ the way that you would want us to, to work to that end and to serve in a way that we can look forward to that. And we pray, Lord, all these things in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles tonight and turn to Matthew 25. And we are going to pick up here in verses 13. We're going to be looking at verses 13 through 30. Matthew twenty-five thirteen through thirty. And we'll pick up in verse 13. It says, Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour in which the Son of Man is coming. So clearly this is in reference to the coming of Christ. For the kingdom of heaven is like a man traveling to a far country, who called his own servants and delivered his goods to them. And to one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one. to each according to his own ability, and immediately he went on a journey. Then he who had received the five talents went and traded with them and made another five talents, and likewise he who had received two gained two more also. But he who had received one went and dug in the ground. and hid his lord's money. After a long time the Lord of those servants came and settled among accounts with them. So he who had received five talents came and brought five other talents saying, Lord, you delivered to me five talents. Look, I have gained five more talents besides them. His Lord said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant. You are faithful over a few things. I will make you ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of your Lord. He also, who had received two talents, came and said, Lord, you delivered to me two talents. Look, I have gained two more talents beside them. His Lord said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a few things. I will make you ruler over many things and enter into the joy of your Lord. And he who had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew you to be a hard man, reaping where you have not sown, and gathering where you have not scattered seed. I was afraid. and went and hid your talent in the ground. Look, there you have what is yours. But his Lord answered and said to him, You wicked and lazy servant, you knew that I reap where I have not sown and gather where I have not scattered seed, so you ought to have deposited my money with bankers. And at my coming, I would have received back my own with interest. So take the talent from him and give it to him who has ten talents. For to everyone who has has, more will be given, and he will have abundance. But from him who does not have, even what he has will be taken away. and cast the unprofitable servant into the outer darkness, there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. This passage Clearly from the context we find is a parable that's intended to help us to understand how we are to anticipate the kingdom. The previous verses in verses 1 through 12 have already explained that we are to be watching and to be ready for the furtherance. for the coming of Christ, we're to be ready. In fact, if you look through the book of Matthew, you see over and over and over again, and actually of the gospels in general, Jesus is constantly saying saying, When I go, be ready for my coming Watch for my coming. Be prepared for my coming. And he gives various illustrations to show how we ought to be prepared for the coming of Christ. And we find here, I think this is probably one of the best and clearest and most helpful illustrations of all of them to help us to understand what our role is when it comes to anticipating the second coming of Christ. Now, the question that I would ask is this: Do you live in anticipation of the coming of Christ. Do you look forward to it? In the book of Second Timothy, chapter four, verse Verses 5 through 8, it says this. Be you watchful in all things, endure afflictions, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry. Here's what Paul says about the coming. And about what he is going to the day, really the day that he's going to see Christ. He says this, for I am ready, I am already poured out as a drink offering, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. Finally, there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will give me at that day. And not to me only, but also to all all who love his appearing. The Bible says also in Titus chapter 2, verse 11, for the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present age, looking for the blessed hope of the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us that he might redeem us from every lawless deed and purify for himself his own special people, zealous for good works. Both of these passages, and there are many others in the New Testament, tell us that the Christian's perspective on the coming of Christ is to be ready to be waiting, that it is our hope, that we are something that we are to be looking forward to. And when the Apostle Paul says essentially, now he he he he He thinks he's coming coming near to death and he's going to see the Lord that way. But either way, the anticipation of seeing the Lord is the same. When he thinks about this, he is ready. Why is Paul ready? Well, there's two reasons Paul is ready. One is that Paul knows the Lord. I mean, that's obvious. He genuinely knows the Lord as his Savior. But the other reason is that he's fought a good fight. He's kept the faith. He says, there's a crown laid up for me. Now, there are two reasons, folks, that we may not be really looking forward to the coming of Christ. One is the possibility that we really don't know the Lord. That's possible. It's possible that we really have not applied the gospel to our lives personally, and so that's the reason that we're not able to really look forward to Christ's coming. But there's another reason possibly, and that is that when we think of the coming of Christ, there's something about it that we're thinking the wrong way about. Or perhaps we're thinking about the character of God in a wrong way. Or perhaps we're not really fulfilling our responsibilities and what God wants us to do in such a way That it causes us to really not anticipate and look forward to the coming of Christ. And that's what this passage is really going to help us with today. As stewards, faithful to the responsibilities God has given us, we will be able to anticipate and live in anticipation of Christ's coming. So how do we do that? Number one, living in anticipation of Christ's coming means living for the furtherance of God's kingdom. Look at verses 13 and 14 It says, Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour in which the Son of Man is coming. For the kingdom of heaven is like a man travelling afar a far country who called his own servants and delivered his goods to them. Now this is a story, this is a parable about a master who gives to his stewards, his servants He gives them, what he gives them in the text is are talents. It's money. This is an illustration. He gives them money, and he wants them to invest this money that will give an increase and when he comes back he will look to the increase of that the money has on its return It's really a pretty simple concept. It's similar to investing today and getting return on your investment. It's the same, it's something he wanted the disciples to understand that when he, the master, went away, That he was going to give them something, and that they were to be faithful stewards of what they give what he gives them, so that when he returns, they're ready They're anticipating it. And I don't know if you notice this in the text, but when the master comes back, they're Read it this way. They're glad that he's come because now they get to show them what they've been up to You can imagine somebody who's a financial investor for somebody else, and he's really been working hard at making the right choices and doing the right kinds of things for his client. And he's investing in a way that that's that's bringing a lot of dividends and really doing well. And in a ten in a 10-year span of time, they doubled their money or tripled it or whatever. And at the end of the at the time, there's sort of this time of reckoning where the client's going to come in, and he's just really happy he's been able to do so well for his client. He can't wait to see them. That's what these these two out of the three stewards, they can't wait to see Jesus because they they want to show him what they did for him. And there's this one Stuart that was different, wasn't he? What we need to understand is that what God wants us to be doing on this earth While the master is away, is that he's given us something, and we're going to see what that is in a minute, but he's given us something, and he wants us to be a good, we're not owners of it, we're stewards of it And he wants us to be good stewards, faithful stewards in such a way that when he returns, we're able to say, Lord, here's what I've been doing. I've been investing for you. That was the sentiment of the Apostle Paul, and it is the dis it is the desire that is the desire of God for us as his children. So we pick up here then, and we see that the stewardship, we have the stewardship And then we pick up in verses 15 through 18 and we begin to see what all of this means. Living in anticipation of Christ's coming means faithfulness of what God gives. And of course you know the story. It's not an uncommon story. This is a story where you the masters are giving these the master gives these talents 110, 15, and are I'm sorry, 15, 12, and 11. And the first two multiply it and double their money, the other one, the other one does not, and we'll see why all that is But let's ask the question, what is the nature of these talents? What are these in other words, we know what the talents is in the parable. It's money. That's what it is The word talent doesn't mean talent or giftedness than we would think of. That's not that word. That's not what it means at all. Talent is a measurement of money. It's actually a measurement of weight. And actually the measurement of weight is equal to one day's talent is equal to 6,000 denarii. And 6,000 denarii was one day's wage. One talent was equivalent to 6,000 Days wages. Just one. So understand that none of these people were given a bad deal. I mean even the one with one talent was given six thousand days wages. I was just sort of doing a calculation, just rough calculations. Do you know how many days the average person will work if he starts work at twenty? And and ends at sixty-seven. You know how many days that is? It's about twelve thousand. Okay, twelve thousand days if you count If you count holidays and things like that. Anyway, but twenty twelve and I didn't I it's not that's a those are rough figures. Okay, I did it on my calculator for a few minutes, so anyway. Don't somebody gonna gonna try to pure see it's actually not, it's thirteen thousand uh whatever, it's i it's quite That's close enough, 12,000 days. This measurement of money could be anywhere between sixty sixty thousand denari. And if it's the weight of silver, if it's a bag of silver, it's right around there. If it's a bag of gold, it's around 30,000 denari. But either way, we're talking about just for one talent, we're talking about a great deal of wealth. Now, what exactly is this? We know it's something of value, okay? Major value. But something else about this, what is it talking about? What is the equivalent? What does it mean for the disciple who's listening here? It's something that's given. Did they earn this talent? No, they didn't earn it. They didn't the the master gave it to them. As a steward, he gave it over to them. They didn't earn it. It's not un it's it's undeserved and it's not some and it's not deserved. It's not like they previously did something for this. There's nothing about that in the passage. So it's unearned and undeserved. Do you know what this talent, I think this talent is? It's grace. I think it's grace. And here's why why I think that. First of all, it's a gift that's unearned. That's what grace is. It's unearned. merited favor. But secondly, do you remember what a third person, what is the third the third steward where he's given one talent, what does he do with it? He doesn't invest it, and where is he sent? He's sent to hell where there is weeping and gnashing of teeth. He doesn't apply the talent, right? What is he not doing? He's not applying the grace. God's given him the grace. He's offered it to him. He's it there, but he's not applying the grace that he's been given. He's not really applying the gospel. And so he's not a good steward of the very first grace, if you will, which is salvation. He's not being a good steward of that, and so that is why he ends up in a place where he where there is weeping and natural I think what we're talking about here is the fact that in justification when we're declared righteous, it's because of God's grace. But in sanctification, as we grow in Christ, as we progress in sanctification, it's also of God's grace, is it not? And one day when we see Christ, that will be of God's grace too. What God does for his children is he is benevolent in giving us grace upon grace. And what God wants us to do is from the very beginning at salvation on through our lives, He wants us to be a good steward of what? His grace. He wants us to apply it in a way that pleases him. He wants us to be a good steward of the grace of God. And that's what we're speaking of here tonight. Now, what does that include? When you think the general idea of what grace is, is God's favor, right? What's included in that? Well, we know that the most important grace that God gives us is eternal life. Okay? Through Christ who paid the punishment for our sin. That's the grace that God gives us and that we need to apply. But folks, unmerited favor, what else would that include? Would it include your health? Well, let me ask you, do you deserve your health? Um you sin and I've sin. We live in a fallen world. There's all kinds of health problems. Are we guaranteed by some right of our own goodness that we're going to have good health? So is health a grace? How about our home? How about our jobs? Now the job I work for, the job I do, that's mine. Really? Is that how you see it? Hopefully not. Hopefully you see even your job as God's grace. Hopefully you see every day that you are able to get up in the morning and work and and provide a living for you and your family, you see that as God's grace. And you are a good steward of what God has given you in Bethel Baptist Church is a family made up of people from very different backgrounds and from every age group. But we all have one thing in common. We have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. When a person discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God, they are given a sense of purpose and meaning in life. When that same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught, they will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows in purpose and meaning. Our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday morning. Through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our lives, and through our discipleship home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Additionally, there are one-on-one and couple-to-couple counseling and discipleship opportunities. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually any way you possibly can. Our children's ministries are extremely important to us. We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and out of their classrooms. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing, loving family community. We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what Bethel is like. But we'd love to meet you personally. Join us for a worship service, a small group for Bible study. Let us be a blessing to you and your family.