Well, good evening. Let's stand, we're gonna sing Amazing Grace. As I look through the uh the lyrics for Amazing Grace, I see that all the action is on God and on grace. In fact, he's surprised that he's been giv granted forgiveness and grace. And as we sing this, let's really focus on the giver of grace, the provider of grace, the earner of grace, and that is God. Amazing grace. Grace Grace, how sweet I was lost, but now Uh one Was brave that caused my heart to me, and rave by years free. How prayer has been that great mamma in our clean. To embrace that rock be straight in the mascar, and praise will live all. Oh his loving me No no no, well Okay. Before we go to God's Word, let's uh go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we just come before you now in your presence. Father, we thank you that you are ever with us and always Desiring the best for us, Lord, as your children, for those who name the name of Christ. We thank you that you're always working in our lives to sanctify us, Father. Help us to cooperate with that work that you're doing, Lord. Help us to seek you To love the Lord our God with all our heart, soul, and mind, and also to love our neighbor as ourself, Father. Thank you that we can fellowship together, that we can um keep one another accountable, encourage each other. We thank you so much for your work. Word that you give to us and for prayer, Lord, and that you are uh a great God, the one True God. We just pray that you would be with Pastor and his family and continue to bless their time on vacation. Pray that it would be a refreshing time for them. Be with those who were not able to join us uh tonight or maybe on vacation or uh may not be able to to come out in and fellowship with us. We just pray for them that uh we would just bless them and work in our lives. And we thank you for your timeless word. We pray that As we go into it again tonight, that you would uh help us not to be distracted and speak to us, Lord. Help me to speak your word in truth and just step aside and may the Spirit of God work in all of our hearts, Lord. Just pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Romans uh eight twenty-eight says, and we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called called according to his purpose. Um excuse me, I messed up my Sorry, I got my pages out of order here. One second. So with that verse I just wanted to uh ask you, how is God using the events over the last five or six months in in your life, in in my life? So we've been going through things that uh we've never experienced uh in in our in our lifetime. I think I can confidently say that for for all of us. Um Um whether it's COVID nineteen with the the pandemic, um, whether it's the uh social unrest that as times has turned into lawlessness, uh in many cases um the burning and looting that we've seen on the news in many cities. Um we see how quick our our economy can be in jeopardy. Um we see how quick our our country could change as many call for things like defunding the police or even totally changing our our system of government like Pastor has talked about the Marxist ideology of some And uh Harry talked about his his message um about being distracted this morning. I so appreciated the message this morning um from the Psalms. And in our culture we live in almost in a society where we can almost be constantly entertained. And um You know, maybe the last five or six months, um, you know, that that is something that God has convicted you of is you know the distraction. I remember uh for many months the There was no like this professional sports teams had suspended. There was no professional sports, probably for again, something we had never experienced in our lifetime, right? Um and I remember uh remember one of the first uh quote unquote sports that was back on the air was um cornhole. Like they had the cornhole championships, right? And that was just So exciting. It was like, wow, you know, you gotta be pretty desperate. I mean cornhole is fun for a backyard game, but the cornhole championships, it's uh okay. So uh now we're we're getting back to you know professional sports uh three out of the four are now playing uh I guess uh abbreviated seasons and and football is set to start soon. But however, you know, again, things are unlike anything we've experienced. I want to uh sort of relate that to a circumstance uh in the book of Nehemiah, and we'll be in Nehemiah chapter 8. But uh Nehemiah was uh during the second temple period of Israel's history, and he led the third return. After the Babylonian captivity. The first return was under Zerubabel and Jeshua in 538 BC. And there was about 50,000 exiles that returned. They rebuilt the temple. They reinstituted temple worship. They celebrated the Passover The second return was led under Ezra, and that's in Sarsa in Ezra chapter 7, and that was in 458. A BC about eighty years later. That was only uh involved about maybe seven to eight thousand exiles that returned at that point. And uh there was spiritual revival, as were was uh um a scribe and priest and he'll be involved in our uh passage today as well. He was a contemporary of Nehemiah. The third return was was led by Nehemiah in four forty five BC, some thirteen years later, uh after Ezra. And uh we know that by Nehemiah chapter one, it's it says that it was in the twentieth year of the king, King Artaxerxes, um that the events of Nehemiah uh took place started. to take place. And he led the rebuilding of the temple of the wall, excuse me, around Jerusalem, which uh took a uh amazing, which they accomplished in amazing 52 days under his leadership. And more importantly, he led a spiritual revival with the assistance of Ezra. So just to give you a little bit of background, um I mean when we when we think about the book of Nehemiah, what is the amazing accomplishment that we think of it's what? The building of the rebuilding of the wall, right? This you think of Nima you think of rebuilding the wall, but but was that really the major major accomplishment. You know, um certainly it set the stage for uh spiritual revival and it was something that a major accomplishment. But I think there's a It was a greater greater work that God was doing. You had uh Sanbalat and Tobiah who were governors in the area north in Sumaria and east of the Jordan River. They could not outright oppose the rebuilding of the wall since it was sanctioned by King Artisarxes. However, they did everything that they could to prevent the rebuilding of the wall, including many uh threats and probably uh involving bribery of some of the nobles as well um of Israel. There was up there was also opposition at this time from within. Unfortunately there was many Isra Israelites, many of the nobles that had formed a line And as you read through Nehemiah, you see this coming out, you know, and the um God is using this rebuilding process project to get to the heart of the matter it's a really a spiritual matter that's going on. Um and uh some Israelites had had Taken advantage of others, their their their brethren. During the time of the of of famine, they lent them money and food, but then they ex Exacted uh high interest, what we would call usury, right? What the Bible calls usury. And even causing some to have to sell themselves and their families into slavery. So these are the events that are going on and and uh during this time of preparation and and and even when the wall is being built and all of these things are are coming out. But under Nehemiah's leadership, they were able to overcome the opposition. And Nehemiah, just a little bit about him. He was a man of prayer and dependence on God. You know, Enrique had preached on uh Nehemiah chapter 1 and 2. uh recently and you know we just we saw how when he heard about the conditions in Jerusalem that were reported to him, how he sat down, wept, mourned, and fasted and prayed. And it was a It was a time of um several months before he actually had an audience with the king. He was the cupbearer, but um I think it was maybe four or five months later before Um the setting of Nehemiah chapter two where he had an audience with the king to uh present his request. Um and when he gets that audience in chapter two, we see he he has the prayer of Nehemiah, that quick prayer to God. You know, even uh Nehemiah, it it just it just uh demonstrates that Nehemiah was a man of prayer Right, that even when he only had time for just a quick prayer, he even said that, right? Do we even do we take the time to To pray when we have a lot of time to put the distractions of life aside, you know, to really um put our hearts into it, but then also even when we're faced with quick decisions or you know We don't have a whole lot of time. Do we still quickly bring that before the Lord? You know? So and and in chapter four when he's facing opposition. Um when there they started rebuilding the wall and the the opposition was escalated and we see that he led uh prayer. Uh there's a few prayers in in chapter four of Nehemiah and there's other other prayers. So he was the man of prayer. And um so God used the rebuilding of the wall to unify the people. Israelites with a shared goal. It brought, it reminded them of their shared identity as God's chosen people. And it set the stage for an even greater work, a work of revival in their hearts. And God was certainly working during this time. So let's turn to uh that's sort of the background. Let's turn to Nehemiah chapter 8. Okay, Nehemiah chapter eight. And uh we'll start in uh verses one through eleven. Actually I'll start in um yeah. Verses one through eleven. When the seventh month came the children of Israel were in their cities. Now all the people gathered together as one man in the open square that was in And they told Ezra the scribe to bring the book of the law of Moses, which the Lord had commanded Israel. Of the seventh month. Then he read from it in the open square that was in front of the water gate, from morning until midday, before the men and women and those who could understand And the ears of all the people were attentive to the book of the law. So Ezra the scribes stood on a platform of wood which they had made for the purpose And beside him at his right hand stood Medithiah, Shema, Enah, Urijah, Hilkiah, and Maasseh, and at his left hand Padiah, Meshel, Melkijah, Hashum, Hashbedanah, Zechariah, and Meshelom. And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people. For he was standing above all the people, and when he opened it, all the people stood up, and Ezra blessed the Lord the great God. Then all the people answered, Amen, Amen, while lifting up their hands, and they bowed their heads and worshiped the Lord with their faces to the ground. Also, Jeshua, Benai, Shuriah, Jammon, Akub. Shabbatai, Hadijah, Masiah, Kelatah, Azariah, Josebad, Hanaan Palaya and the Levites helped the people to understand the law, and the people stood in their place. So they read distinctly from the book in the Law of God, and they gave the sense And help them to understand the reading. And Nehemiah, who was the governor, Ezra the priest and scribe, and the Levites, who taught the people Said to all the people, this day is holy to the Lord your God. I'm gonna stop right there. Actually, no, I'm gonna keep on going. I'm sorry. Um, do not mourn nor weep, for all the people wept when they heard the words of the law. Then he said to them, Go your way, eat the fat, drink the sweet, and send portions to those for whom nothing is. Prepared, for this day is holy to our Lord. Do not sorrow, for the joy of the Lord is your strength. So the Levites quieted all the people, saying, Be still, for the day is holy, do not be grieved. And all the people went their way to eat and drink, to send portions, and rejoice greatly, because they understood the words which were declared to them. So Ezra, a scribe and priest, in Ezra 7:10 it said that Ezra set his heart to study, practice, or obey. And to teach the people. So Ezra was prepared for this time. He was another man of God. And he was ready to lead the people. He so we see that he brings out the book of the law, uh probably the the first five books of the Bible. Bible the Pentateuch from Moses and it would have been in scrolls, right? Um it wouldn't have Been a bound Bible like we have. And they read from morning until midday. The reading of the law was required every seven years. at the Feast of Tabernacles, but as we s as we'll see here, um it looks like that this was neglected. The Feast of Tabernacles Was neglected, and the reading of the Word of God was neglected because it was a surprise to the people what the Word said So in in verse three it says that the ears of all the people were attentive to the book of the law. So the r the response to the people again God had used this rebuilding project, He was preparing their hearts for spiritual revival. They were ready to hear from the Lord. You know, He brought them together, He unified them, but He was working in their hearts. And they were, it said their ears were attentive to the book of the law. The people were actively listening, engaged. They weren't distracted by anything. And it also says in um later on in the passage in verse uh 7 and 8, it talks about how there were priests and Levites who helped the people understand the meaning. Right? So there was a great involvement from the leadership You know, from Ezra and Nehemiah, from uh there was revival going on with the priests and the Levites and all the way down to the people. Just an amazing work of God in the hearts of the people. And they were helping them understand the meaning. The people were thirsty for the Word of God. They were thirsty for Understanding what what does this mean? And uh unfortunately There was only a remnant of Levites and priests that had returned from Israel to Israel after the captivity Um there was only really a remnant of all Israelites, but including the the Levites and Priests. In fact when Ezra gathered a remnant in um Ezra chapter uh seven uh at first or excuse me it's chapter eight it talks about there was actually no Levites to be found. So he had to actually re fruit Levites to come with them back to Israel and back to Jerusalem. Become comfortable in Babylon, they had forgotten their purpose, you know, and who they were, the people of God. They had assimilated, unfortunately, so there was only a remnant. They came back. And and even among the the priests and the Levites, you know, they didn't want to come back. Um So he had to recruit and he eventually got 38 Levites to come back, which represented less than 1% of the group, you know Um in the first return under Zerubable uh comparatively there was about seven hundred and thirty-three uh Levites and this would have represented about one point five of the one point five percent of the forty nine thousand eight hundred and ninety-seven um that had Returned the exiles that had returned at that time. So it's unfortunate it was uh low representation. Um in Leviticus ten, eleven, and Deuteronomy thirty And the lack of sufficient teaching Teachers certainly contributed to the spiritual state of the people that we saw at this time, where revival was needed. They were lacking in the knowledge and understanding of God's word. So let's look at the people's response in uh verses starting in verses five and six. And it said, In as and Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people. For he was standing above all the people, and when he opened it, all the people stood up, and Ezra blessed the Lord the great God. Then all the people answered, Amen, Amen While lifting up their hands, and they bowed their heads and worship the Lord with their faces to the ground. So we see that they respond to God in praise as as you know they're reading about God uh delivering the Israelites, um parting the Red Sea, and you know from from the Egyptians. They were chasing them. And the many other times that God had just preserved the nation of Israel. He had blessed the nation of Israel. And and they would have been reading those things and and again God had been preparing their hearts and their response was praise to God, right? But then also we see another response that they had. In uh verse nine it says and Nehemiah who was the governor, and as were the priest and scribe, and the Levites who taught the people, said to all the people People, this day is holy to the Lord your God. Do not mourn nor weep. For all the people wept when they heard the words of the law. They wept when they heard the words of the law. of the law. So they were rejoicing, but then they wept. And he said, Go on your way, eat fat, drink the sweet, and send portions to those for whom nothing is prepared. For this day is holy to our Lord. Do not sorrow, for the joy of the Lord is your strength. And so they they were rejoicing in who God was and in his work and his preservation of Israel. But they also wept when they heard the words of the law, and they they were grieved because they understood their violation of the law. They understood how their ancestors had violated God's law and the result of that, how they went into captivity. And so, you know, they were they were great They were grieved, they were sorrowful. And this is what God's word, the effect God's word should have on us, right? This this should be our response to God's word. Can I ask, how are your devotions? Have you had un un a undistracted time where you're diligently seeking God in his word. Do you do you ever take time to I know some people and uh something I've tried to start doing is there's times when I'll just take a a a chunk of time and I know it's really hard in our busy schedules. But maybe like a half a day. You know, it said what did it say? It said they were reading the law and I imagine it would it would take a long time. From the morning till midday. You know? This is a significant period of time. Do you ever try to take time where maybe you can just take a cup a chunk of a couple hours, two, three, four hours? And just get before the Lord. You know, I would I would encourage you to do that. I I try to do that um on occasion and I I just the Lord bless And and are you actively listening? Am I actively listening and engaged when I'm reading God's word? Or is it has it become just a ritual? Where okay, I have my devotions, I read, I've been I'm reading through the Bible and doing my my Bible reading plan, but are we actively listening After all, it is his word. He's teaching us about him, about himself, about his character. And it should invoke a response of praise and thank God. Thanksgiving for who he is and what he has done. We have such a great God. But it should also result in grieving, sorrow, Repentance for our sin as we see we see God reflected in his word, but we also see ourselves. We see our sin. We see how we fall so short, right? And And so it should respond, it should result in grieving and sorrow, agreement, repentance, right? Agreeing with God That our sin is wrong, and we should grieve that, we should sorrow that uh for that. In uh chapter 8, verse 13, it goes on and says, Now on the second day the heads of the fathers' houses of all the people, with the priests and Levites, were gathered to Ezra. were described in order to understand the words of the law. So the importance of God's word understanding is it's reinforced with a smaller group here. Consisting of those who had teaching responsibilities. Right? So you had this the priests and the scribes, but you also had, interesting, you had the heads of the fathers' houses. So, you know, this shows this emphasis Emphasizes this reminds us, reinforces that um men, we have a responsibility to teach our families, the heads of the houses, right? So we need to be you know, actively in God's word, studying God's word, learning God's word. And um you know, I've I've learned over the years God has taught me a lot about family devotions. I used to be one that, man, I would want to have a certain sermon. for my family devotions and and you know I had to have sort of everything all together and so one of the things it's sort of like it caused me to procrastinate You know, like I can't do this because I'm just not prepared. But then when I did it, you know, I wondered why everyone just wasn't as excited as I was was, you know, because I'm preaching a sermon to my family all the time and um it didn't always have the the greatest effect. You know, now uh you know through years of experience and And um hopefully some wisdom. You know, I've learned it's just whatever I'm studying, you know, whatever God's putting on my heart, um we just read through you know um recently I was inspired by actually after uh Enrique's sermon on Nehemiah I wanted to you know read and study Nehemiah And I went back and studied Ezra and everything during the the the Second Temple period, including Esther and I haven't read the prophets during that time. Malachi and um Haggai, I think, are the two prophets during that time. But um just really a a you know a great study to do and so you know was able to lead family devotions. Now I'm not not every night, you know, I try for a couple times a week, you know, um, but and I'm far from perfect and you know I'm sure that my kids Still get bored sometimes, but I think it's it's it's much better. You know, it's something that that God has taught me. And it's just sort of I try to engage them and hey, what's what is what do you think about this passage And what is God showing you through this passage and not making it a you know full-blown production? So I just want to encourage everyone. You know, it it doesn't have to be um a full-blown production. You know, it's just what is God showing you in his word? You know? But but it really is important, you know, to to try to have family devotions. Um when you can. I know Pastor has also encouraged me with that, with th those kinds of words, you know But you know, it's important. So they were emphasizing again the reading of God's Word, the understanding of God's Word, and so that they could teach it Right? Uh let's continue in uh verses uh fourteen through fifteen, and they found written in the law And they found written in the law which the Lord had commanded by Moses that the children of Israel should dwell in boos during the feast of the seventh month, and that they should announce and proclaim in all their cities and in Jerusalem saying, Go out to the mountain, and bring olive branches, branches of oil trees, myrtle branches, palm branches, and branches of leafy trees to make booze as it is written So we see that they discover the discovery of a command, the feast of the tabernacles. Again, this this just shows you they they were not In the word. They they didn't know God's word. They they had lost you know the feast of the tabernacles. Um and but yet God's working here. Let's look at their response and and as we continue. Continue reading 816 and we'll just go all the way to 93, which is the end of our text tonight. Then the people went out and brought them and made themselves boos, each one on the roof of his house or in their courtyards or the courts of the house of God, and in the open square of the water gate, and in the open square of the gate of Ephraim. So the whole assembly of those who had returned from the captivity made booths and set under the booths. For since the days of Joshua, son of Nun, until the day of the children of Israel, had not done so And there was very great gladness. And I think what that verse is saying, just looking at it closer, is they had done it with such gladness and enthusiasm. Like it hadn't been done since the days of Joshua because when when um Zerubble had returned in uh Ezra chapter three It talks about observing this feast, you know, in as in um Ezra chapter 3. And um 2 Chronicles 7, 8, and 10. It also talks about About observing this feast. So this would have been after the time of Joshua, but with such excitement. You know, think about the the time of Joshua, you know, when they had conquered, they had come into the promised land after uh uh forty years wandering in the wilderness and then God led them uh into the to to the promised land and they had uh they had conquered the uh the Canaanites and God had given them the promised land. So, you know, what a wonderful time that was of celebration. Also day by day from the first day until the last day, he read from the book of the law of God, and they kept the feast seven days, and on the eighth day there was a sacred assembly according to the prescription. Now on the twenty-fourth day of this month the children of Israel were assembled with fasting and sackcloth and with dust on their heads. Then those of Israelite lineage separated themselves from all foreigners, and they stood and confessed their sins and the iniquities of their fathers. And they stood up in their place and read from the book of the law of the Lord. Their God for one fourth of the day, and for another fourth they confessed and worshipped the Lord their God. So we see the people's response when they found out the when they were reminded they found out about the Feast of Tabernacles, which they had probably Not observed for many decades, they responded in obedience and in joyful obedience, right? They went out and they made the booths And they observed the Feast of Tabernacles. They responded in obedience. They also responded in confession. And this would have involved Many of the nobles it had exact exacted usury, had um alliances with the the outside um uh people who were opposing Israel, you know, uh Tobiah and Sambalat. You know, just you can just just try to picture this time of just a great um repentance, you know, and seeing people just repent of their sins and and just you know respond to God working in their hearts. So just a wonderful, wonderful course of events. A proper response to God's word involves recognition of sin But it also involves true confession, repentance, and results in obedience or seeking God's to follow God's commands, right? God is the same yesterday, today, and tomorrow. Our God is the same God that Nehemiah served. You know, I'm not certain how God is using the the events of the last five or six months in your life. But I'm certain that he pl his plans are always good and he desires for all of us to seek him with our whole heart. Right? Maybe the recent events have have shaken your trust in the economy or maybe they've shaken your trust in in our country, you know. Um or or maybe they've they've caused you to realize you know how distracted you've been you know in in some senses I think for me that's uh part of what this the circumstance Have have done a lot of those all of those things, really. But again, we're reminded of Romans 8:28. And we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. And love speaks of a relationship. That's seeking to know God through his word and prayer and responding to repentance and obedience, right? Love is active. Love is not All those who love God, those who are seeking that relationship with God. So God is working through these circumstances. We don't know exactly And we also know that that that he is a great God. that um he all all that he plans is is is greatness is is are good things for our benefit um he wants to make us in the image of Christ And we're just reminded, um, you know, God can reverse all this all these things and we can he can give us an answer to the pandemic Just like God in the the events of uh in the book of Nehemiah, you have this great construction project and You know, certainly God's hand was in that. But what was the greater thing? It was this spiritual revival. I'm reminded of uh the Gospel of John when um believe I'm getting This right was uh the lame man whom Jesus healed, and he said, Um, you know, uh, your sins are forgiven. He said, Get up, you know, um and walk. And And your sins are forgiven. And Jesus said, What was the greater thing, you know, that this man was healed of his infirmity of being lame or that his sins were forgiven. It's the greater work is the spiritual work uh in all of our lives that God wants to do. God is in control of of all of the events. And he's he's causing good to those who love him. So let's seek him with all of our hearts and desire his purpose and his goal to make us into the image of Christ. Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you so much that you are in control and that you um have such good Plans for us and for those in Christ. And we just pray that we would just desire to be made in the image of Christ more than anything else That we would desire to love you with all our heart, soul, and mind. And um that would also be reflected in how we love our neighbor. Just pray that you would just be with us as we go our separate ways and help us to live in the moment now for your glory. And help us to make time to put you first and seek our relationship with you first, Lord God. Be obedient to your word. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.