I can go through the clean. I can go through the clean home with someone. For Christ every mold ever inspire, teach me to follow In selbless of fishion, be thou my joy, and my soul's one is a passion for thee. Oh Lord set a fire in my soul, and the thirst for my God Hear thou my prayer, Lord thy power impart, not just to serve, but to love thee with all love. My home. And let's sing O Church Arise. Apparently I'm not on, so I need to be on. Now I'm on. And let's sing O Church Arise together. Six sixty one sorry. Oh church, arise and put your armor on Hear the call of Christ our captain, for now the weak can say that they are strong in the strength that God has given With shield of faith and belt of truth, will stand against the devil's lies, an army bold. Whose battle cry is love, reaching out to those in darkness, a call to war, to love the captive soul. But to rage against the captor, and with the sword that makes the wounded whole We will fight with faith and valor when faced with trial on every side We know the outcome is secure, and Christ will have the price for which he died, an inheritance of nation. Come see the cross where love and mercy meet as the Son of God is stricken. Then see his foes lie clocks beneath his feet, For the conqueror has risen And as the stone is rolled away, and Christ emerges from the grave. This victory march continues till the day every eye and heart shall see him. So spirit calm, put strength in every stride, give grace for every hurdle. That we may run with faith to win the prize of a servant, good and faithful, As thinks of bold still line the way. retelling triumphs of his grace, we hear their calls and hunger for the day. When the Christ we stand in glory. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we come to you this evening, and as we look at a very important subject from your word, the subject of prayer. And particularly the subject of corporate prayer and how we as a church can have the privilege of gathering together and praying together. And um Lord, I pray that you would you would in just help us to understand the importance of this privilege, uh to understand um The value of it, and Lord, I pray that you would teach us how to do it in perhaps a more meaningful way. Lord, you want us to bear each other's burdens and so fulfill your law And I pray, Lord, today, that um that you would help us to take steps further in being able to do that. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right, you may be seated, and we're going to begin again by looking at the subject of prayer this evening. And this last week we looked at uh just what prayer is in general, and tonight we want to look specifically at corporate prayer I want to take a quick review here. If you remember uh the disciples' prayer, which we looked at last week, which is found in Matthew as well as in Luke, um the first petition is to honor God. If you think through the Lord's Prayer, you can you can We can uh think through that. Um our Father which art in heaven, that's the address, but after that everything else is a is a request. Everything else is a uh a re uh An ask. So, our Father which are in heaven, hallowed be thy name, that God would be honored, that his kingdom would come, that there would be the furtherance of God's kingdom on earth, and that his will would be done. After that, which, and we didn't get into this much, I want to reiterate this again tonight. After that, what you have are three daily needs. It says, give us this day our daily bread. And then forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us. And, number three, lead us not in temptation. But deliver us from evil. So I want to just reiterate those for a f for a few moments and then we'll understand we're going to kind of delve into corporate prayer specifically. Let me just mention this: that in the Lord's Prayer there, he says, give us this day our daily bread. And what he's talking there about is our daily provision. Now, you know, in our society, very few of us are thinking about Um like waking up in the morning and wondering if we're going to be able to eat. I don't know if anybody here is thinking about that, is saying, okay, I don't know if I'll be able to be able to eat today. Some societies that would be the case, the first century society, whom Jesus is talking to, that was more likely the case. They understood the need for daily bread. It's interesting in the book of Proverbs, chapter 30, God uh the the the person writing Proverbs there it wasn't Solomon He says in Proverbs 30 that he says, feed me enough that I basically, feed me enough, don't let me go into poverty that I deny the Lord. But also, don't let me get so rich that I forget the name of the Lord. Like he was he was understanding the need for daily provision. And I would just say this, that maybe we don't have a daily need for like we're wondering where our next meal is coming from But it is very important with these three requests to understand that God intends for them to be something that's daily. Daily. Give us this day our daily bread. He says it twice. Give us the day, this day, our daily bread. Matthew 6. 11. Give us this day our daily bread. The idea of praying this way in the morning seems like a formality. We take God's provision for granted because we think we earned it through our grit and diligence. At the same time, we begin to think we never have it, have enough. This is from the book that we've been going through, that we went through last Sunday, uh last Wednesday. This type of pride fosters a lack of gratitude. And when gratitude leaves the room, greed quickly enters and sprawls out, leaving no room for anyone else. It's very important that we understand that it is God's provision is a daily provision. Not only that, isn't it true that we need daily pardon? Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Now let's just think about this for a minute. Our debts to God, forgive us our sins, our debts to God How often do we sin? Daily. This is a prayer request that we ought to be praying at least once a day. Every day. He says, to miss a day of praying this way is to spend a day where I'm tempted to think that God and I are okay because of my performance. That's never been the case, nor will it ever be. And I I would rent guess that I mean this is something that I you know it's funny, this is something that I I don't hear preached often as much as I seemed like I did when I was a kid. This idea of confessing our sins to God and making sure that we that any sin that is in our lives, that it's a daily confession that w that we walk with God and re and it's gonna be there. You're gonna have sin. It is there And it's a matter of identifying that and making sure that you're right with the Lord. Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. By the way, as you ask God to forgive us of your own sin, as we we ask God for that. It is very hard to not forgive others. We are genuinely repentant. If we are genuinely, I am grieved over my own sin. When you begin to look at somebody's sins against you, it became because they become very minor. When you think of your sins against God. Does that make sense? So give us this day our daily bread as we forgive our debtors. And then daily protection is the third request there. Daily protection. I need daily protection. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Matthew Ephesians chapter 6, verse 12 says, For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness in high places So all three of these requests, what are the three? What's the first one? What is it? Okay, provision. What's the second one? Pardon, look, they're alliterated, they're all P's. We could do this, right? Okay, par uh provision, pardon, and what's the third one? It's right up here, protection. Okay, all three of those are daily things that we ought to be praying every single day. Okay, they're they're c and it and this is not something where I say, Lord, would you f would you give me my daily bread for the next six months? Okay. Or Lord would you would you forgive me for the things I'm gonna do like you know down the road three months from now? Um or Lord would you protect me you know forever and I don't have to pray this anymore kind of a Saying, Lord, just protect me and I don't doesn't work that way. God wants us to be dependent every day in all three of these areas. All right. What we're then going to do, that's actually going to become important as we look as we look at corporate prayer specifically and how to practice this in our lives, but I think It's just important to remind ourselves of that. By the way, I'll just say this when it comes to the whole idea of daily provision, daily protection, daily pardon, God will put you in places where you realize you need all three And and he will do that. Even though we don't usually we don't usually figure out, we don't really really wonder where our next meal comes from, all of us, God puts us in places and times where we go, ah I don't know how to handle this. I I need wisdom. I need I Lord, I need you. I need you to provide for me. I need you to help me. I need I this is this is the way we're to live. This is the way God wants us to live as beggars coming to him for bread. So let's then switch gears a little bit here and talk about all of this applies when it comes to prayer In in the corporate setting, all of it applies. Why? Because when Jesus began to pray, he said, Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, our Father which art in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. This is not give me my bread. This is give us this day our daily bread. Forgive us our trespasses as Christ's prayer before the disciples was a corporate prayer. Every single thing in Christ's prayer there was a corporate idea. This is something that is very when we think of prayer. We I think, I'm guessing, that when we think of prayer, we think of it first as individual and second as corporately. Is that right? Would you say that that generally that's the way you think of it when you think of prayer? That it's first an individual thing and then it's a corporate thing. Do you know that in the Bible that that it's reversed really? It's corporate first and then also individual. Because you find far more examples and occurrences and uses of the word prayer in a corporate setting of some kind or another than you do individual. Now I'm not saying individual prayer is not important. I'm not saying that at all. They really feed off of each other. They really go together. Person who's a church that's faithful corporately praying, they're going to be praying individually too. And those who are praying individually, they're going to be faithful corporately praying. They really go together. But just to really understand this, that that, and we don't we just don't think of it this way, but corporate prayer is something that is really very much emphasized in Scripture. You've got the plural first person pronouns, the disciples' prayer, which we looked at. Also, we'll get back to the spectator participation thing But also in the book of Acts you have it over twenty-one times and it's like almost in every chapter chapter one, chapter two, chapter four, chapter six, chapter eight, chapter twelve, chapter thirteen, fourteen 16, 16 again, 20, 21. I mean it's all the way through corporate prayers, all the way through the book of Acts. And this is how the church begins. The church is just saturated with corporate prayer. This is a major, major emphasis. It uh it is not as much of an emphasis in preaching, but probably above anything else, other than preaching and the Lord's Supper, you've got prayer. I mean it's really up there as an extremely important thing for the church. So I want to talk about two methods of corporate prayer. Tonight though specifically we're going to look at the prayer at prayer meeting. We will look at the worship service at the worship service next Wednesday night. That won't take a lot of time actually, but I want to look tonight particularly at okay practically speaking what should if we're if we're praying in a corporate way what should prayer look like what should the prayer meeting look like And let me just mention this when it comes to just a good illustration to help us understand this. How many of you all uh How many of you all do not enjoy watching baseball? How many of you all do not enjoy watching baseball? Okay, there's a few. My kids, that is not their favorite thing to watch. They didn't raise their hand because I think they were afraid I was going to do something. I don't know, but anyway, I enjoy watching baseball. I like going to games, I like watching baseball. But I will tell you this, there's a reason I enjoy watching baseball. Frankly, it's because I've played it. It is true that if you've never played the game, baseball is not always it's really not as interesting and as exciting as some of the other sports to watch on television. The illustration, this guy uh uses this illustration. He said, when I first began to watch baseball, I found it to be very boring. He said it was just I I I mean it was really hard to just watch all nine innings of of that game. He said, until I went out and played it. He said, once I went out and played it, I played the game, we played it together, and he said, it is an exciting game when you're playing it. And then when you go to watch it, it's actually exciting. So there is a massive difference between being a spectator and being a participant And when what prayer does corporately is it allows us to be a participant in all of the services, actually. Whether it's the Sunday morning service and we're praying together and we're all praying, we're participating. Did you know that the services, actually every aspect of the service, singing, even preaching, prayer, all of it, is not intended to be a spectator? You are not the audience. God is the audience. We're all participating together in the worship service and in various services that we're doing And prayer is the primary way that we are able to participate, to be active players, quote unquote, to be active participants. in our service, so that when you're actively participating, it brings it to a whole nother level. The problem sometimes is that we aren't really actively participating. On Sunday mornings, we're hearing prayers prayed. But I don't know that we're always really intently praying with those who are leading in prayer. I'm not saying you can only nobody could judge anybody else on that, but I would suspect that that there's at least a temptation And or on at a prayer meeting. You know, we have some we have a few people pray, and I did your mind ever wander when somebody when somebody is praying, you know, we pray prayer lists. Did your mind ever kind of go this way or wander as this way? I mean, maybe you are a super Christian that that that this never happens to you, but I'm just going to tell you sometimes it happens to me. And the disciples are like our prototype for this. Do you remember what happened with Jesus? Jesus is about to go to the cross and he takes his disciples. He's burdened and he wants He wants his closest disciples to come with him into the Garden of Gethsemane to what? To pray with him, to watch and to pray with him, and what happens to them. They fall asleep. Do you know how many times they fall asleep? Three times they fall asleep. They fall asleep, he prays, he wakes, Jesus prays alone, he wakes them up. He's wanting to lead them in prayer, and they're falling asleep as he leads them in prayer. Realize that they're asleep, goes and wakes them up, try again. Three times this happens. Finally, the last time he says, okay, the time has come. It's at hand. Alright, so let's ask the question: let's recover the prayer meeting. Okay? Recovering the prayer meeting. All right. So, why prayer meeting? Number one, the concept of prayer in the New Testament is overwhelmingly corporate, and we've already discussed that. It is A constant thing. Number two, we were never made to store up our concerns within ourselves. Psalm 13, 2 We were never made to store up our concerns within ourselves. We were made, we were created to live in community and to and to Bear our burden, to bear each one another's burdens, and to fulfill the law of Christ. Number three, prayer meeting reinforces our sense of responsibility for one another. What prayer meetings should be doing is helping us to understand that it is our responsibility to That we have a responsibility toward one another. This is why the prayer meeting is extremely important. Prayer meeting provides a way to evaluate how we're carrying each other's burdens So Scripture says this, Galatians chapter 6, verse 2. Bear one another's burdens. What if we do this, if we do this in an appropriate way, what does God say happens? What happens? It says, so fulfill what? The law of Christ. What is the law of Christ? Love God. Love your neighbor as yourself. If you bear one another's burdens, who is one another? Okay, when you look at all the one another's in the in the New Testament, who is that? That's the brethren, that's us. That's believers. It says, bear one another's burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ. Now let me ask you a question. Is the reverse also true? If you are not bearing one another's burdens, does that mean you are not fulfilling the law of Christ? It's absolutely true. This is a command. And it is true that if we are not bearing each other's burdens, we're also not fulfilling the law of Christ. Let's not deceive ourselves. And think that we love God and love others when we're not bearing one another's burdens. And I'll tell you this: the hard thing about it is, is that we actually have to we have to express our burdens in order for them to be bare to bear. Let me ask you this. Uh why is it that people don't bear their why why is it what what's let me broaden it? Well okay, why is it that we don't bear one another's burdens? Okay Maybe we do, but I think we could do better at this. I'm just gonna establish that as a as a a given. Okay. Why is it that we don't do that? Any ideas Why don't we bear one another's burdens? Josh? It's a lot of work. A lot of effort. Okay. Uh it's uh relationship building with trust. It takes right, good. Lisa? So it's kind of like God created us um to serve the love let's say your spouse. He created us to put that on someone. So he's created us to share our burden with someone else, but if we're busy with our own burdens, we're not going to do that because we're consumed with our own burdens. But when we put it on someone else, that other Called a yoke, actually. There you go. Yeah. Okay. So uh but uh and so you can actually more than double weight with two oxen than one You say you're are we all a bunch of ox? Basically. Okay. But but we can carry because because of the yoke between them. And so bearing one another's burdens is exactly okay, so that's a good point. We are so sometimes consumed with our own burdens We're not bearing anybody else's burdens. What else? Why do we not bear with others' burdens? Kristen? Good. We have too much pride. In other words, we're not sharing our burdens with each other because of because of our own pride. Are we occupied with what everybody else thinks of us Do we care too much sometimes about what everybody else thinks of us? Is that going to keep us from bearing our from sharing our burdens? It will. That's another another issue, another reason why it happens. And yet God says if you're gonna fulfill the law of Christ, you've got to do this. Somebody else had their Lisa? Okay. Okay? It's too much. And yet God commands all of us as a body of believers to bear one another's burdens. Any any other thoughts? I thought I saw a couple other hands up Yes, right. Okay. What I mean by that is I'm going to throw me out there. Being a former word, you're like I handle everything, I take charge I don't give it up. And then going to someone like, hey, I got a problem with this, but I don't do it because twenty-two years of training is hard Excellent point. We are raised in our twenty first century Western mentality to be individualistic to Pull us apart pull ourselves up by our own bootstraps. So we don't need anybody else, we're strong enough, and we can handle it, that kind of thing. Yeah. Yeah. Put together and perfect We are. We're a total disaster, every one of us. We like the pull, we like to think of Yeah. Wouldn't it be really great if we could all just realize we're just sinners? Okay. And we are hanging on by a thread. Even the Apostle Paul says, In my flesh dwells no good thing, and that really it I mean We're all a mess. Okay. What would happen in a case like that? Romans 12, 15 says, rejoice with what with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep. God says to do this is in the in the church, to to rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep. There might be that person legitimately may say, Well, I I really just don't have it. Yeah, well that or there's just nothing that comes in their mind that they can think of that they need prayer for I think that's also something to think about. I think in relation to are we being really honest with the Lord and where we're at spiritually, or where we're at with our growth, or where we're at with our our family life, or what does it look like? I think we try to even really I think we fool ourselves And not uh not even honestly very well wrapped personally. Because we have daily needs. If we do not realize that we have daily needs, we're deceiving ourselves. There's something wrong. If we have gotten beyond the idea of having daily needs. We're not really in the will of God if we don't have daily needs, I'll just put it that way. Sure. Yeah, which yeah Okay, um very important uh things to think about. Let's look then biblically. Let's take our Bibles and turn to Mark fourteen. Mark chapter 14, and we're going to look at Gethsemane for a minute, and we're going to use this as a A prototype, if you will, of prayer meeting. This is I the there's a sense in which this was the first prayer meeting. Jesus was burdened, he was about to go to the cross, and he comes to his disciples and he says, Hey, we need to go. Would you come with me? Okay, and can we get together as a group and can we pray together? Notice, pick up in verse 14. I'm just going to read through this passage. Mark 14, verse, I'm sorry, chapter 14, verse 32, it says Verse 32. When they came to a place which was named Gethsemane, he said to his disciples, Sit here while I pray. And what he meant by that, by the way, is don't sit here and fall asleep. Pray with me. I'm going to lead us in prayer. But please stay here with me while I pray. And he took Peter, James, and John with him, and he began to be troubled and distressed. By the way, I'll pause. Why did he take Peter, James, and John with him? Why was it Peter, James, and John? Do you know? Anybody know why? They were the closest? They were down the inner circle. They were the closest. But just previously, in fact, let's look at it. Let me let me get there for a minute. They have actually already pledged their allegiance to Christ. They said, we'll go with you through anything. We'll do anything for you, Jesus. We'll we'll do it for you. Okay? And that's basically what you have there. Peter's the ringleader and all that basically. We won't take take the time. I mean there's a lot of things I gotta say tonight, but all that and and then they fall asleep while they're praying with him. And is that not indicative of us? Lord, I love you. I'll do anything for you. I'll put God to the cross for you. I'll do anything for you. But just don't ask me to pray for five minutes Or fifteen or twenty minutes, you know, without stopping. Um verse fi uh thirty-five, uh let's see, thirty-four. Then he said to them, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful. Jesus, by the way, who is saying my soul is dis is exceedingly sorrowful? Jesus is saying that. He's troubled and deeply distressed. He's exceedingly sorrowful, even to death. Do you think that if Jesus can admit that he's exceedingly sorrowful to these disciples, that you and I can get off our high horse? And admit that we're exceedingly sorrowful and distressed when we are. And don't the rest of us just need to don't we all need to bear one another's burdens Stay here and watch. Verse 35. He went a little farther and fell on the ground and prayed that if I if it if it were possible the hour might pass from him. And he said, Abba Father, all things are possible for you. Take this cup away from me, nevertheless, not what I will, but what you will Then he came and found them sleeping and said to Peter, Simon, are you sleeping? Could you not watch one hour? Watch and pray lest you enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. By the way, what he's saying there is that the way that you energize the spirit and you and you uh starve the flesh is through prayer. Prayer that pray that uh watch and pray that you don't enter into temptation Again, he went away and prayed and spoke the same words, and when he returned, he found them sleeping again. For their eyes were heavy, and they did not know what to answer him. And he came the third time and said to them, Are you still sleeping and resting? It is enough The hour has come, behold, the Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of sinners. Rise, let us be going. See, my betrayer is at hand This is an example of a group of Jesus saw the need to bear his burdens. And to have corporate prayer together with his disciples. There was a place, there were the partners, they had committed their loyalty to him. His posture was one of great Jesus' posture was one of great humility, and he was one under great pressure. So if you if you find yourself in that situation in this situation where you are under pressure Where you're looking ahead and there's anxiety. You know what happens a lot of times? When you have anxiety and you've got pressure in your life, prayer meeting is the last place you end up. Because oh, I'm just too tired, I don't want to come, or whatever. Some of you probably may have felt like that tonight, but you came, praise the Lord. Because there is just something very important About praying together. Okay, I'm going to switch it here, get really, really practical, and we're going to talk about running a prayer. Did you have any questions or comments about that passage, by the way? Yes, Joe? Because I didn't write it. This is from that book. Why do you pray? Yeah. Why do we probably use it as why why does he say that to see that in the bottom of why? Well he says the flesh is will the spirit is willing. The next thing he says is the spirit is willing and the flesh is weak. He understood that Peter, just like us, has a we have a spirit and we have a flesh And Peter was succumbing to the flesh in falling asleep. And God said, Jesus said, look, you're going to enter into temptation here if you don't pray. We can then say that it's purposefully keeping our eyes on trust. Absolutely. We have to do it. It's participating. It's not a spectator thing. David Wall, purposely watching the prank, looking for some time, purposely drawing night and calling up at all. Yeah, I mean if you think of Ephesians chapter six, we see this reiterated that we don't wrestle against flesh and blood, but against Principalities and powers. And what you find in that passage is that the answer is prayer. Praying always with all prayer, actually, Ephesians says. When talking now about corporate prayer, we're thinking through corporate prayer a minute here, and we we want, let's let's say we want to have the most meaningful kind of corporate prayer we can And the most meaningful, helpful, biblical prayer we can in just what a prayer meeting should look like. And so he gives, this is the from this guy. He gives seven suggestions. He said, number one, schedule a prayer meeting. All right, well that's obvious, so he says schedule it. He says, number two, remove anything that would compete for people's time. And I thought to myself, I read that, I thought, good luck. I did. I immediately went went well Where does he live? Like how can you find any time at all ever that doesn't compete for people's time But I do think that there are times that are more competitive than others. I do wonder, I'll just tell you this, I do wonder if actually we should do prayer meeting on Sunday night rather than Wednesday night Because it reality is no of no fault of people's own people's sometimes on Wednesday night they get they they get delayed at work. My dad tonight got delayed at work, he can't be here Okay, or um or I can't or really had a hard time, I guess I'll put it that way. Um and so and so that happens on a Wednesday night. It shouldn't happen on Sunday night that often. I mean could, but it's unlike it's less likely, I guess. Uh I do wonder about that. Number three, begin with the word. So he's suggesting, but he's saying don't take a whole long time with the word, but begin with the word, begin with God's word Number four, populate the prayer list primarily. This is important. Populate the prior prayer list primarily with kingdom, whole body, or major life concerns. So he suggests three four or three areas that you have the prayer list where this is going to go on a prayer list and it's going to be repeated kind of thing. Kingdom whole body or major life concerns. We're going to come back to that. Include praises and petitions. Number six, include things on our prayer list that the church should never take for granted. Okay, what is he talking about there? Well, he uses the illustration of like if if the church, if God grows the church Like if there's growth in the church to recognize that that's from God's hand, not from some method. So that's something that needs to be prayed about and praised and things that we could take for granted in in in our church. Make sure we include our prayer list. And then number seven, call on people to pray but don't let them pray too long. That's literally what he said. Call on people to pray, but don't let them pray too long. Let me let me look just a minute at this more in a more deep way on populating the prayer list. Okay. When we're looking, and by the way, we're going to be redoing our prayer list. Just heads up Up. Populating our prayer list. Number one, kingdom requests. Okay. So that he said three things. The first one he said kingdom requests. These are things, which we already have some of these things on it. But these are things like salvation requests, spiritual growth, need for repentance, missions, and things like that. But let's let me just say this. It needs to be something that doesn't these requests need to be something that don't go on a prayer list and then they just sit there and nothing ever happens with them. Like they just just constant floating prayer requests. Okay, so we need to be careful about that and we're gonna work on that. Um s and I I have a idea of how to do that Kingdom requests. These are kingdom requests. These are things that you could say, look, this I believe, I believe this really would be, if this happens, it really would be for the furtherance of God's kingdom. Number two, whole body requests. These are just requests that reflect the whole body of Christ. Talk about the the the local body of Christ. Actually it could conclude include uh the universal value price as well. But these are requests that are really going to affect everyone. And then major life concerns, job change job changes, family issues. Things that really people are are burdened about. So these are the things that he suggests, and I and this is not just just him. This is uh pretty well established in on churches that really looked at how to how to have a very meaningful prayer time together. To have these kinds of things that they're very meaningful, very thoughtful in in our prayer list. when you populate the prayer list. One of the things that we're going to do in our prayer list is we're going to not keep things on there forever anymore. So it's going to go off after a month. So it'll it will all anything on the prayer request will automatically go off after a month. How do you get it back on the prayer requests? Come to prayer meeting and request it. Okay? And or you can contact me and I'll and I and and you can re-request it. That's no problem to re-request it. But you're gonna have to re-request it. That means it's still a burden to you. It's still something we need to share in your burden. It's not something you forgot about and got stuck on the prayer list. You follow does that make sense to follow follow that? Okay. And so and so just every month uh you know if you want to stay on there, that's fine. Now you say, well, you know, okay, we've got these long these are more sort of Like a couple of week-long, maybe a month-long prayer requests that we have. But what about like it says day-like I got daily needs, I got burdens. I might come in on a Wednesday night with a burden. I want you to come in on Wednesday night and share your burdens. And so in addition to this, I'm just going to suggest we have weekly requests. In other words, these things aren't going to stay on the prayer list, but one of the things we're going to have on our prayer list is just blanks, just some blanks for you to write in weekly request. Something somebody comes in and says, Look, I just have this burden and I need to share this burden. And it's not something that's going to go on a prayer list that's going to be prayed for forever uh when it's just a weekly burden. It's how do you know what's a weekly or the Bible would call daily burden? What are those? What are those daily requests? What categories are they? What is it Provision, pardon, and protection. Those are the those are the not I we're not gonna pray for a provision for three months. Or protection for three months. It's gonna be this is gonna be more, okay, I'm coming in, I need protection for this. I need provision for this. I'm struggling. I mean if somebody comes in and says, look, I have a s I'm struggling in my own heart with bitterness. There's nothing wrong with that. Do you s is there not anybody in here that struggles with bitterness? We all struggle with bitterness from time to time. That would not be a wrong prayer request. That would be a pardon kind of a prayer request. Lord, uh would you uh help me to see God's forgiveness So those kinds are weekly things that um there would be inappropriate prayer prayer requests as well that I think you know the difference. Okay, hopefully. If it if it shouldn't be said in the mixed group, then don't say in the mixed group. If you're not sure, come and talk to me and I'll and you can share anything with me you want. And then I can, you know, tell you what I think or whatever. Well I don't uh anyway, so uh provision, pardon, protection. Those are the weekly requests that we're going to do, and we I want you to come in with those And what we're going to do is, and we'll do this with the time remaining, is we did we're going to do basically the same thing we did last week. I might highlight a few prayer requests from our prayer list. The prayer list is going to look quite a bit different next week. Sorry. Yeah, you shouldn't catch that. She is dumb as mud, I'll just gotta say. Anyway, so um So you you non Apple people just smiled. That's funny. Anyway, so she is serious dumb. Um So I was talking about Siri by the way. She's a burden to me. Okay, so um So we're gonna we we'll look through some of these if there are things to pray for. But part of this, by the way, is a prayer request, is a request. I'm asking for something. It's not sort of okay, pray for the missionaries That's not a good prayer request. Pray for the missionaries. Why? Because there's no way of seeing that's not a specific request. So we need to keep that in mind as well, and praying specifically as well And what we'll do is we will we'll have we'll do the same thing we did last week is we will have a if somebody somebody would like to share a burden, a struggle uh or just a prayer quest for their family or something like that and then we'll pray for that specifically and then we'll add some of these in there as well. Anybody have a prayer quest Something that you like and break for.