And we pray, Lord, that you would be with Brad as he comes to preach your word, that you would clearly are that you help him to clearly articulate your truth. that you'd help our minds to be engaged and to put away the distractions that are easily uh in our thinking sometimes as we um our quiet. And I pray, Lord, that uh instead our minds would be very much engaged on the truth and our hearts would be receptive to it. and that we would know you more because we've been here tonight and uh and grow in you and that we would apply the things that you want us to apply that we can be we can grow in Christ's likeness We pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it is bright up here. First time I've uh spoken with the new light system here. Interesting. Well good evening. Let me ask you uh a question. Have you In your your walk with the Lord, have you ever experienced uh great victory or um great blessing from the Lord? And then knowingly or unknowingly come to expect things to to always continue that way. You know, I I think a lot of times uh we would if we were asked that question, you know, and we had time to think about it. we would say that, oh no, I don't, you know, expect for life to always go the way I plan it or for um I don't always look for life to work out the way I expect it to work out. But a lot of times we can we can have those uh unspoken expectations as we walk with the Lord and we see we get victory in our life or we get blessings. You know, we can we can have those those expectations. Sometimes it's it's after a great um victory or higher in our or high in our life. I I'm reminded of Elijah the prophet when he was on Mount Carmel and Um he was battling the prophets of Baal and he victoriously, you know, uh was used by God to demonstrate God's power, you know, uh Yahweh's power over these false gods of Baal. And it was a great, wonderful time in Elijah's life. um time of of uh service to God. A mountaintop, uh literally a mountaintop experience, you'd say. No pun intended, right? Um but he comes down off of the mountaintop and then uh you know the next um passage we see We we read that he's being chased by Jezebel, you know, uh the the wicked queen. Um I think it's Ahaz's wife, uh Jezebel, was uh wanted him dead. And you know, here's this prophet of God who was used in such a great way, and now he is uh running from Jezebel and even is just ready. You know, he he stops and he's just he it's like he's giving up. He just he wants to die. You know, and and God comes um to his rescue uh with with refreshment. I'm not going to get into to that passage. God is very gracious towards him. However, I think that that's an illustration of You know, a a man of God that we would all look up to, um Elijah who was taken to heaven, you know, by by chariots, um, certainly a mature prophet man of God. um who, you know, maybe got a little tired in his walk with the Lord and maybe um had some expectations of things to go a certain way, you know. And I think um so some of you I think Jim has a perplexed uh Pastor Jim has a perplexed look on his face, maybe like, where are you going with this? But I I I'm hoping there's a correlation uh to the passage. In Daniel chapter ten. I'll find out when I go downstairs later if if if the men if the men agree with me. However, um Maybe you can relate to this, you know, to to Elijah and to what we're going to see with in this passage uh of Daniel chapter 10. So let's uh before we get started, uh let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day. We thank you for your goodness in our lives. I just pray that you would help me now to uh have clarity of thought and to uh speak your word in truth, Lord. Just give me wisdom and knowledge from on high. And I just pray that you would speak to all of us, that your your word would be imparted to us. that we would learn from it and apply the truths learned to our lives. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen. So Daniel chapter 10, we've we've been studying Daniel for a long time now, and we know that uh Daniel had uh was given many prophecies. Um he was used by the Lord um in a mighty way and a lot of these prophecies are um most of them are end time related or you know, what we would call eschatology. Uh Daniel we come to Daniel uh chapter ten and um Daniel chapter ten through the end of the book 1213 is really what we would say we would include as one literary unit. So they're all really together. Uh and and Daniel one, I believe, gives us a high level overview of the content. of this literary unit or passage of Daniel 10 through 12, quite a lengthy passage. It's written, Daniel chapter 10, verse 1 is written in the first person. It says, in the third year of Cyrus, king of Persia, a message was revealed to Daniel, whose name was called Belteshazzar. The message was true, but the appointed time was long, and he understood the message and had understanding of the vision. So he's using the third person and he'll In verse 2, he'll transition to the first person as he starts giving the account. It's one indication that this is sort of a high-level overview here in this first verse. Um the New American commentary uh entitles uh chapter ten verse one through eleven verse one as the uh preparation for the vision. Okay, and I I think that's that's pretty good. Um you know, uh title uh for the message, uh the preparation for the vision and the actual vision beginning in uh chapter 11 verse 2. Okay, so there can be some confusion as we're reading this, talking about message, vision, and he starts to have a vision, but when is the actual message communicated to Daniel? Um the text seemed to indicate that uh Daniel chapter ten is really a preparatory time for Daniel. And and we'll we'll uh flesh that out as we go along here. And it's really Daniel chapter eleven, verse one, when he starts to receive this message. So it tells us that Daniel received a message. Uh it was revealed to Daniel. that the message was uh it's it's also the message was true and there was a the there was an appointed time that was long. And that Daniel understood the message and the vision. And this, as I indicated, this would be the last message that the beloved prophet Daniel would receive. So It's uh pretty significant. Uh besides giving us a high-level overview, verse one also gives us the historical background of this message. Okay, so it gives us that historical contact. context. It says in the third year of Cyrus, king of Persia, a message was revealed to Daniel. So this was around 536 BC. So um this is very significant um to know the the historical context here because in the first year of Cyrus You have he issues a decree to let the Jewish people return to the to their land. Okay? So um Now we have that historical context. It's a couple years later, you know, uh that that the context of that we're talking about here in our passage. And uh Daniel himself was now quite um an old man. He was about the age of eighty-five. And it's significant, we know um from the um location of the passage that we'll see later on, that he did not return with his people to Jerusalem. He did not return to Israel. to uh rebuild the temple. Okay? Um I mean certainly it's possible that he could have maybe later, but All indications are that he was not part of that re first returning exile group um to Jerusalem. to rebuild the temple. So Cyrus actually the decree was that the Jews were to return to rebuild their temple in Jerusalem. And and actually Cyrus um and the Persians uh this was not uncommon. This was not the only um group that was in exile that was allowed to return to their land and rebuild their their temple or their you know the shrines to their God. So it was uh very interesting. So here here uh Daniel is remains uh in Persia. Um his people are Uh the the Jewish people, many of them returning exiles, are back in Jerusalem. Many remained in Persia, however. Not all of them went back. So in 10. 2, we see again we see this high-level overview in one, and now we see a change to the first person as Daniel starts to communicate the details. of this historic account. And the first point of the message would be the humble prophet mourns for his people So that's uh chapter ten, verses two through three. And it says, In those days I, Daniel, was mourning three full weeks. I ate no pleasant food, no meat or wine came into my mouth. nor did I anoint myself at all till three weeks were fulfilled. So he's he states in those days I Daniel was mourning for three full weeks. And this is in contrast, so those words three full weeks, how we get that translation, it's it's actually three sevens of days. Remember in the passage that uh Tony preached last week, it was seventy-sevens, right? And but it was not seventy-sevens of days. So here it's actually three sevens a day, so that's how we know clearly that it's uh three weeks that he's talking about. So clearly a three-week period of time. And um in the Hebrew it also indicates that the morning that Daniel was um doing was was continual. It was a continual process of mourning for those three weeks. He was also um Deliberately denying himself of certain foods. Okay, so we would call this maybe like uh a partial fast. But it was a deliberate denial of certain foods while he was mourning. Um it said that he there was he would he ate no pleasant food. nor meat or wine. Okay, so there was a partial fast that was going on. It also said that he did not anoint himself. Um the New American commentary indicated that this was that he neglected the usual niceties of personal grooming, such as fragrant oil on his hair or body uh anointing the body with oil was for the purpose of soothing and refreshing the skin and protecting against the heat. So just like we would moisturize you know, our skin, um, and then also, you know, groom ourselves. Um, he was not doing these things. He was not anointing himself with oil. And it doesn't specifically mention this in the passage and and and this is uh sort of a theme. of this passage, a lot is sort of unspoken here. And we have to look at the historical context. We have to look at at other passages. and and try to get uh the proper interpretation of the context here of exactly what's going on. We see um it's not spoken here that he's praying in these verses. However, later on in verse twelve Um it comes out that in fact he is praying and and that that would not surprise us at all knowing the character of Daniel, right? If he's mourning Then he's probably projecting that morning in prayer to God. In verse 12 it says, Um Then he said to me, Do not fear, Daniel, for from the first day that you set your heart to understand And to humble yourself before your God, your words were heard, and I have come because of your words. Okay. So Daniel is clearly he's projecting the morning in communication to God, and his his words were heard because of his humble approach coming to God, right, for answers. So so we know that um throughout the book of Daniel, uh Daniel was a man of character. He prayed, it said he prayed three times a day. Um Daniel had a habit of coming to God and bringing his petitions uh to the Lord. So prayer was also a part of this three-week time when he was when he was uh mourning and fasting. Um and and praying. He was directing this uh to God in prayer The word mourning in Hebrew, I'm not gonna pronounce, I'm not gonna try to pronounce it. I didn't take Hebrew in school, but uh I think it's abal. Is used in the context in the Old Testament for mourning for the dead in Genesis 37, 34, mourning over sin in Ezra 10:6. and mourning over calamity in Ezekiel 7. 12. Interestingly, years later, Nehemiah in Chapter 1, verses 1 through 4 mourned over the condition of the Jews who had returned another exile group. who had returned years later uh to Palestine. And I wanted to to read that quickly here. In Nehemiah Chapter one verses one through four. It says the word of Nehemiah the son of Hakaliah, it came to pass in the month of Chislev in the twentieth year, as I was in Shusham, the citadel, that Hanani, one of my brethren, came with men from Judah. And I asked them concerning the Jews who had escaped, who had survived the captivity, and concerning Jerusalem. And they said to me, The survivors who are left from the captivity in the province are there in great distress And reproach the wall of Jerusalem is also broken down, and its gates are burned with fire. So it was when I heard these words, that I sat down and wept and mourned for many days. I was fasting and praying before the God of heaven. So we see another godly leader, Nehemiah, and um he's mourning You know, he's he's in distress over God's people, over his people, because he again he's you know, um in a position, you know, he's the cupbearer to the king, um, Artaxerxes, you know, uh another uh Persian king years later. And, you know, he's he's in Persia and he hears of the homeland and that, wow, the gates are burned and you know, the the um The walls have not been rebuilt. And of course he would lead an effort to uh go back and rebuild the walls. But he's mourning over the condition of the Jews who had returned to Palestine. So what was Daniel mourning about? We don't we don't know, truly. I mean um We we we can't know dogmatically. However, I think that there are some clues in the text and in the historical context. that would that can lead us to a can a uh reasonable conclusion here. Uh in the immediate text In verses 2 and 3, it doesn't say, right? But it was it's very likely that Daniel was mourning, fasting, and praying about his people, the Jews. Again, this is the third year of Cyrus, and the Jews by decree had returned to Jerusalem to rebuild the temple. But in Ezekiel chapter I'm sorry, Ezra chapter 4, it says that the Jews faced opposition to rebuilding the temple. In fact, in verses 4 and 5, it says that they the people that were opposing them um that were from the area, right? Um they Troubled them in building and hired counselors against them to frustrate their purpose all the days of Cyrus, king of Persia. So from 536, the remaining days of Cyrus, to 520, the rebuilding of the temple was really halted for 16 years. until the next king of Persia came in. So um this is the this is the context, you know, and and just like Nehemiah heard about, you know, got an update on um what was going on in Jerusalem and what was going on with his people in the Holy Land in Palestine. and the fact that the the um the gates were being burned, the walls weren't being rebuilt. Um I I believe Daniel likely got a report. I mean he was a high level official in Persia. He would have had contacts and uh he probably would have been in contact in you know with the returning exiles. I think that's a reasonable um conclusion here. And what do we know about Daniel? Daniel's focus in his prayers. Daniel Daniel's focus in his life is towards God and towards God's people. You know, likely the mourning would not have been based on the fact that he didn't return with his people. Um, Daniel was not a self-focused person. He was focused on God, God getting the glory, you know. Um Chapter 9 is a perfect example of that, you know, his intercessory prayer for Israel, and how he said, you know, uh he reminded God of the prophecy of Jeremiah. that the desolation of Israel would be for seventy years. And then, you know, so that time of um correction for Israel uh for their sin would be seven years. And then God would restore them. And he he uh related himself, he included himself in that intercessory prayer. um confessing sins before a holy God. So, you know, Daniel was was a prophet, was a humble servant of God. who was not focused on himself. He was he was focused on God and he was focused on his people. He was focused on others. So likely the mourning here, I think it's a good it's reasonable to assume that that he is mourning, that he is um in turmoil about the state of the temple. I mean, um You know, Cyrus's decree was an answer to prayer, was it not? Um, and it was a testimony to God's faithfulness. Allowing Israel to return to Jerusalem to rebuild the temple. Wasn't the temple going to be restored to its former glory where God wouldn't dwell it again, being in the presence of his people. Remember after the the temple was rebuilt. And those exiles that returned when they saw the temple, when they saw that the foundation was laid. And what did they do? Do you remember? those who were older who retur who were part of that first returning group. It said that when they saw the size of that temple, they wept. Because it it didn't compare to the glory of Solomon's temple. So maybe Daniel You know, based on obviously good assumptions, God's faithfulness, God's blessing. Isn't this what God intends? You know, that he's going to restore Israel and Israel is going to have self rule and autonomy again We know that this would never come to be, right? And it won't come to be again until their Messiah and our Messiah return. So now I'm sure that Daniel waited with anticipation for God to hear and answer his prayer. We know that he heard his prayer of the humble prophet uh as it indicates in verse 12. He heard it from the first day. Right? He was praying for 21 days, but the angel in verse 12 says that he heard it from the first day. But what would God's response or answer be? Point number two is the glorious heavenly man appears to the morning prophet. The glorious heavenly man appears to the morning prophet. And this is verses four through nine. So let's read that. Now on the twenty fourth day of the first month, as I was by the side of the great river, that is the Tigris, I lifted my eyes and looked, and behold, a certain man clothed in linen. whose waist was girded with gold of Ufas, his body was like burl, his face like the appearance of lightning, his eyes like torches of fire, his arms and feet like burnished bronze in colour and the sound of his words like the voice of a multitude. And I, Daniel, alone saw the vision, for the men who were with me did not see the vision. But a great terror fell upon them so that they fled to hide themselves. Therefore I was left alone when I saw this great vision, and no strength remained in me For my vigor was turned to frailty in me, and I retained no strength. Yet I heard the sound of his words, and while I heard the sound of his words I was in a deep sleep on my face with my face to the ground. So we see the response God's response to Daniel's prayer here probably may be unexpected to Daniel, maybe unexpected to us. We have this heavenly man here. And and who is this heavenly man? Um So I want to go through the uh character characteristics that are outlined in this passage of this heavenly man. Number one, it says that he was clothed in linen, um, maybe the garment of a priest, uh maybe you know, probably white, uh representing purity. Um his waist was girded with Gold of Is that Ufas? Is that how you pronounce that? Does anyone know? Ufas? Okay, we'll go with that. It's like those, you know, genealogies you just go with what it sounds like and as long as you keep on saying it with confidence, you you know Um it was gold of of Ufas. His body was like Burl, his face like the appearance of lightning. His eyes like torches of fire, his arms and feet like burnished bronze in color, and the sound of his words like the voice of a multitude. Who was this person? I mean you you read different commentaries and you know many commentaries, uh many biblical scholars. believe that this was an angel. Uh quite likely the angel Gabriel. Um Gabriel was was named in uh earlier on in Daniel, I think it was Daniel chapter eight. He was one who who gave Daniel a message. So it it very well could have been Gabriel. I believe Gabriel is in this chapter. Is this Gabriel? Not sure. It's definitely a heavenly man, quite possibly an angel. Uh we know that angels were awesome to behold. They the response to angels was sometimes fear and awe. you know, by by those who were in their presence. I mean, angels after all, they're heavenly creatures So they are reflecting God's glory in perfection. You know, they're not flawed like we are. So it's it, you know, it it could have been an an angel. uh a heavenly man, reflecting God's glory. Um we know that other creatures, you know, uh that are heavenly creatures sometimes are hard to describe because of how glorious they are. Ezekiel. You know, in in Ezekiel he sees this creature and it's like his description, you're just like, whoa, what you know, because it's just so hard to describe, you know, how glorious these creatures are. And Revelation, you know, you have the the four creatures around the throne, you know. Um so you have amazing heavenly creatures, uh heavenly um you know, beings that reflect God's glory. It is interesting that um if you look at the book of Revelation In chapter 1, verse 13, John, the glorified Jesus who was ascended to heaven, appeared to John And um I do want to read that quickly here. Revelation chapter one I'm going to go ahead and start in verse 9 here. It says, I, John, both your brother and companion, in the tribulation and kingdom and patience. of Jesus Christ was on the island that is called Patmos for the Word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. I was in the spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a loud voice as of a trumpet saying, I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, and what you see, write in a book and send it to the seven churches. which are in Asia, in Ephesus, to Smyrna, to Pergamos, to Cyatira, to Sardis, to Philadelphia, and to Laodicea. Then I turned to see the voice that spoke with me, and having turned, I saw seven golden lampstands, and in the midst of the seven lampstands, one like the Son of Man. So listen to this description. One like the Son of Man clothed with a garment down to his feet, and girded about the chest with a golden band His head and hair were like were white like wool, as white as snow, and his eyes like a flame of fire. His feet were like fine brass, as if refined in a furnace, and his voice as the sound of many waters So we'll stop there. Um it goes on in the passage, but I want to stop there. So just looking at this passage and comparing it to the description of the heavenly man in Daniel chapter ten, you have in Daniel ten He's clothed in linen. In Revelation 1, he's clothed with a garment. And we know in Revelation 1 that this was Jesus Christ, our Lord, right? Who's glorified in heaven. Clothed with a garment down to the feet. In Daniel 2, the waist w his waist was girded with Ufas In Revelation 1 and girded about the chest with a golden band. In Daniel 2, it says his body was like burl. And uh in Revelation one um it does not have that same description. It has a description that's not in Daniel which says his head and hair were like wool as white as snow. Okay, so that's a distinction. In Daniel uh in Daniel chapter ten it says his face like the appearance of lightning. His eyes like torches of fire. In Revelation 1, his eyes like a flame of fire. In Daniel 10, his arms and feet like burnished bronze in color. In Revelation 1, his feet were like fine brass. As if refined in a furnace. In Daniel chapter ten, and the sound of his words like the voice of a multitude. in Revelation one, his voice as the sound of many waters. So It's interesting, you know, it this could be a what we would call uh this this heavenly man uh could in fact be what we call a theophany, a appearance of God, or more specifically, what we would call a Christophany Um w w which would be a appearance of Christ, preincarnate appearance of Christ before he came to earth. Okay. So let's look also at the response. of those who who saw or heard this heavenly man. In First, let's look at the response of the companions. In chapter 7, it says that Daniel was left alone. The companions did not see the vision. But they must have heard the sound of his words, like the which was described like the voice of a multitude, because it said that they fled in terror. Okay? So they hear the voice, which is his words like the sound of a multitude, but they can't see the vision like Daniel could. So of course they, you know, like anyone. normal person would. They they fled in terror. So Daniel was left all alone. So let's look at at well, before we look at his response In Acts chapter 9, the Damascus Road experience, Paul's encounter with the glorified Jesus. It said that a great light and voice came from heaven, and the men who journeyed with him stood speechless, hearing a voice, but seeing no one. They were just speechless, right? So now let's look at Daniel's response. Daniel, we know, was left alone, and it says in verse 8. That he had no strength remained in him. He says, No strength remained in me, for my vigor was turned to frailty in me, and I retained no strength. And what was Daniel's posture or his position? His face was to the ground. So, you know, and it and it said that um And while I heard the sound of his words, I was in a deep sleep on my face, with my face to the ground. So he had fallen to the ground at some point. His face was to the ground. And in Revelation 1. When John saw the glorified Lord, it says, and when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. Okay? So a similar type reaction. So again, whether this was a theophany or even whether this was a vision of the pre-incarnate Christ Christophany. Or the heavenly being was an angel, maybe perhaps Gabriel. It's uncertain. However, this vision clearly displayed the power and glory of God. The heavenly man clearly was more powerful than any earthly power, whether those powers were opposing. the Jewish people, those powers that were opposing the Jewish people, constructing the temple in Jerusalem, that probably Daniel was was mourning over, that circumstances, those circumstances, or The ruling empire of Persia, even. Much more powerful. There's nothing that can resist the power of our awesome God. Now, we're running out of time. There's more that we're going to look at in the remainder of this chapter next time. So unfortunately, you're going to have to listen to me again. As we finish uh this chapter, uh as God continues to prepare Daniel for this vision, this last message. that he will give him about his people and and the end times. But it's clear that God wanted with the heavenly man, God wanted to redirect Daniel's thinking and his focus. From how big the problem was, the halting of the building of the temple. And he wanted to redirect it to how big God is. The message he will receive is not necessarily what Daniel is expecting, but Daniel can trust that the God who can display his power and glory through the appearance of the heavenly man is in sovereign control of the future. So what about you? Have you experienced success in your Christian life as you walk with the Lord and come to expect things maybe um consciously or unconsciously. Do you experience disappointment or anxiety as a result of your expectations that are not from the Lord? Are your expectations in God always rooted in the promises in His Word? Are you finding your greatest fulfillment in the blessings of God or the God of blessings? The God of the blessings. Um Pat, do you have that hymn that we sang this morning? Because I just wanted to close with applying that if Pat can get that up. I think um you know Daniel experienced many spiritual blessings um of the Lord and he was giving these messages and visions. And he obviously was trusting in the Lord. But just like us, we have many spiritual blessings today. And um I so appreciated uh Pastor Jim's message this morning and especially how in the book of Revelation how the spiritual blessings Will become physical in the sense that, you know, Jesus is the light of the world. Jesus is going to be the actual light. in revelation, the physical light. We will when we see him face to face, the glorified Lord our reaction to that. Everything else is gonna fade away. It's gonna be amazing. Could you go ahead and and go forward? Yeah, I'd rather have Jesus than silver or gold. I'd rather have his than have riches untold. Keep on going. I'd rather have Jesus than houses or lands. I'd rather be led by his nail-pierced hands. Than to be the king of a vast domain and be held in sin's dread sway. I'd rather have Jesus than anything this world affords today. Is that what we're Depending on in our lives? Are we trusting in the Lord? Are we finding our joy, our greatest joy and sufficiency in Him? That's our challenge as believers walking in this fallen world every day, and it will be until the day that we see him face to face. So that's uh our message tonight. Thank you. It just seems appropriate for us to um go to the Lord and ask his help in applying this and then uh and then we'll take some prayer requests. Father, we come to you and we do um We we are convicted today of the fact that we need Christ and and we can we say the way this hymn does that we would rather have Jesus than anything this world affords. And uh as we heard both this morning and as we see clearly tonight, Christ in the prominence of all uh of of of all of this in Daniel Uh Lord, we need to be centered on Christ and who He is and what He's done. And so I pray, Lord, that you would help us to um to really think about this not just today but as and but as we walk throughout our week our is our focus is our pursuit our our goals our life Is it is is our life, as Paul said, hidden in Christ? And uh I pray, Lord, that you'd help us to ask that question and to live that out. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen Bethel Baptist Church is a family made up of people from very different backgrounds and from every age group. But we all have one thing in common. We have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. When a person discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God, they are given a sense of purpose and meaning in life When that same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught, they will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows in purpose and meaning. Our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday mornings. Through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our lives, and through our discipleship home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Additionally, there are one-on-one and coupled a couple of counseling and discipleship opportunities. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually any way you possibly can. Our children's ministries are extremely important to us. We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and out of their classrooms. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing, loving family community. We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what Bethel is like. But we'd love to meet you personally. Join us for a worship service, a small group for Bible study. Let us be a blessing to you and your family