And is continued between those two points in in the book of Daniel, among other other places as well. We see this prophetic revelation and we see your sovereignty and your glory and your greatness and all of it is there to exalt Christ and we pray today that you'd help us to really actually be able to worship you in a greater way because of who Christ is and who we see him to be. And as we learned in the revelation class this morning, as well as in the morning service, and now tonight, Lord, I pray that you would be high and lifted up in our service, that you would be glorified. And we would just have a, because of the text that we are going over, we would have a high view of you And we confess before you that in our culture, so often we try to bring your image down to us. We try to adjust you to us rather than we adjusting to you. And I pray that we would not be that way, and I pray that we would, as we learn from your word, who you reveal yourself to be would have a very high view of who you are. And uh we pray for Hisham as he uh preaches tonight. I pray that um you'd ha give him clarity of of uh communication to be able to uh to preach your word. I pray that our minds and our hearts would be receptive to it. And we pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. One great advantage of speaking is to take off the mask. Well that gets me in trouble, so I will leave that alone. So when I was around tw ten years old I uh it uh you know, in the winter in Egypt, it kinda uh it is cold so we just stay home and you know, as kids who go to school and come home and study and do nothing but just, you know, hang around in the house and around our parents and so so I remember when I was about the age of ten, my mother was uh knitting And I'm not really sure, uh I don't remember exactly what she was knitting. Uh maybe uh some mittens, maybe a sweater. But anyway, so I got uh interested in that knitting thing. So I asked her to teach me So she did actually teach me uh taught me and I picked it up really quick and I started knitting with these two big needles, ladies of you do that. Um but anyway so she left me and she came back after a few minutes. I did really well. I you know, I did several rows. But I remember there may have been one or two wrong stitches. So she had to unravel and then, you know, correct the stitches. That kind of made me think that God is not like that God doesn't to do things and he goes back and corrected the stitches. God knows every stitch, he knows every thread. beforehand because he is sovereign. So the definition, our message tonight We'll have a title, God is sovereign. He will accomplish all his purpose. If you ask yourself what is the definition of sovereign? I remember Pastor Jim gave us that definition before. I'm not really sure my definition is will be identical but close. Sovereign means the chief or highest, supreme in power, superior in position, independent of and unlimited by anyone else. That's our God. So when I ask you the question tonight, what does sovereign mean to you? What does God is sovereign to you? God knows the future. as well as the present. What why does God know the future? Because he planned it. He already had it planned. God's counsel shall stand and he will achieve all his purpose. God is sovereign. Nothing can prevent him from accomplishing his purpose. His control covers all the events of nature and history. This includes the natural world, human history, individual human life. God even governs the free decisions of human beings, including our attitudes toward one another. God even foreknows people's sins And we all know we're going through Exodus, and we know that God knew that Pharaoh will harden his heart. And also God is sovereign. over who come to faith to accept the salvation as a free gift. Salvation is God's work from beginning to end. Doing for us what we could never dream of doing for ourselves. We should always remember that God's the saving grace in Christ is part of his control over creation as the Lord. So when we are speaking of God's sovereignty tonight, I remember um reading this and I found it from A. Tozer. Tozer has this quote in the book. the knowledge of the holy, he said, God knows instantly and effortlessly all matter and all matters All mind and every mind. All spirit and all spirits. All being and every being. All creaturehood and all creatures. Every plurality and all pluralities, all law and every law, all relations and all causes, all thoughts, all mysteries, all enigmas, all feeling, all desires, every unuttered secret. All thrones and dominions, all personalities, all things visible and invisible in heaven and in earth. Motion, space, time, life, death, good, evil, heaven and hell, all of it. He knows it. He planned it. All of it under his control. The book of Isaiah, chapter 46, verse 9 to 11 tell us: God says this, I am God, and there is none like me. declaring the end from the beginning. And from ancient times, things that are not yet done. Say in my council shall stand, and I will do all my I will do all my I will do all And I will do all my pleasure. Calling a bird of prey from the east, the man who executes my counsel from far a country, from a far country, indeed I have spoken it. I will also bring it to pass. I have purposed it. God is sovereign. He plans it. The future. The past, the present, and the future is. Before him. He doesn't need to figure it out in the future. He doesn't need to unravel it and go back and backspace and go back and retire. God already knows it. He is in control. So not to um you know ask the question of course you say so how does that relate to our text in Daniel? Of course it does relate We're talking about God's sovereignty, God's knowledge, God is omniscient, God is sovereign, and God is wise. So we're gonna look at a chapter here. that we will see very vividly through history and prophecies how God is orchestrating and moving even kings' hearts to do his purpose. Brad last week um uh the two last two weeks preached to us from chapter ten. So chapter ten if you remember there were the two angels First the vision of Christ, the glorified Christ, and then the two angels that showed up in a vision to Daniel to encourage him Um chapter 10 tells us that there was a conflict, a spiritual conflict. The two angels were kind of prevented from coming to Daniel, but eventually God's purpose was done. was accomplished and they were able to come. Chapter eleven tells us about another kind of a struggle. It's the struggle between the King of the North and the King of the South. Back and forth, back and forth. And we'll go over that. But the question to you is why do you think God needed why do you think God needed to show Daniel this vision? This vision is basically will go from Daniel the time all the way to eternity. I have two reasons. One Daniel in chapter 10 we know that he was fasting and praying for three weeks. He wanted, and and the subject of his prayer basically, he was praying for his people. for their deliverance, for them to return back to their glorious land, as the chapter tell us. So First he see Christ, the glorified Christ in the beginning of chapter 10, and then the two angels. One is because he had that burden in his heart. was burning in his heart for his people. And we see that Jeremiah and the Old Testament had the same burden. So God wanted to show Daniel the answer to his prayer. And two, that Daniel, remember when we preached, I preached from um um earlier chapter, I believe it was chapter four, that Daniel when he was thrown in the den of um uh the lion den lion's den he was about the nineties So by chapter 11 now, you can tell that this is at the end of Daniel's life, and Daniel is ready to die To face death. So God wanted to encourage him and assure and confirm his hope that his people will be delivered. And his hope in God is not in vain. And we will see that in a chapter twelve, verse three, where it says that those um And verse 2, maybe we can start from uh looking at verse 2. And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, some to shame and everlasting contempt Um those who are wise shall shine like the brightness of firmament, all those who turn meaning of righteousness like the stars for ever and ever. Uh uh I s maybe verse one. At the same time uh Michael shall stand up the great prince who stands. He tells him that his people will be delivered. And there shall be a time of trouble, such as never was since there was a nation, even to that time, and at that time your people shall be delivered. That's what I was looking for Everyone who is found written in the book. So the second reason why the Lord wanted to show Daniel the vision is to comfort to him that his people will be eventually delivered, that he was the subject of his prayer. And then we have if we look at chapter eleven, verse one, it starts with the the verse that uh Brad added It was uh combined with chapter ten and it tells us that the first year of Darius the meat, even I I stood up to confirm and strengthen him. That was around 538 BC. That first year of Darius the King, Darius the Mead. um when the angel showed up to um comfort Daniel. The vision in chapter eleven goes two years after that. So it's about five hundred thirty-six BC And the chapter 11 can be divided into three main components, three main sections. Verse 2 to 20 is basically from Daniel the time to the introduction of the wicked king. That wicked king, the hater of the Jews, and um he is a very vile, very wicked king. And that wicked king will be described in verses twenty-one to thirty-five. And then the last section of chapter 11 will be a description of the Antichrist, which is future for us. So the two sections two to twenty and twenty-one to thirty-five are basically for us their history. But none of it was history to Daniel. Both all of the prophecies were future. Daniel also understood that the vision will be fulfilled not in his time. So he knew that is all future for him. Another idea to pay attention to is contemporary books to this vision of Daniel and the book of Daniel in general is basically The book of Nehemiah, Azra Nehemiah, and the Book of Esther. Those are the three books that kind of contemporary to the time frame of Daniel. So let's look together at our section tonight from verses 2 to 20, starting by the first three verses 2 to 4. And the verses 2 to 4 basically it's from Daniel's time to the end of Alexander's great time. Let's um if you could follow. Um follow with me please. Verse 2, and now I will tell you the truth. Behold, three more kings will arise in Persia. And as a fourth he shall be far richer than them all. By his strength, through his riches, he shall stir up all against the realm of Greece Verse 3. Then a mighty king shall arise, who shall rule with great dominion, and do according to his will. And when his when he has arisen, his kingdom shall be broken up and divided toward the four winds of heaven. but not among his posterity, nor according to his dominion, with which he ruled, for his kingdom shall be uprooted even for other even for others beside these. So tell us that from that time Cyrus was king, verse one, right? After Cyrus there will be three kings, and then there will be a fourth one, and that fourth one was identified with his riches. If you s look at verse two, um that king number four is very rich. And most scholars agree that the richest one of those four was King um Xerxes and Xerxes is the one who married do you remember Esther? So he was the one that had the most riches of all of them The three kings that happened between Cyrus to Xerxes are basically mentioned in Ezra chapter four. Verse 6, 7, and 24. They are Ahashorash. He reigned between 530 to 522, also known as Kim Kimpuses. And then Arthaseraxes, also known as Sirmedits, that that king only reigned for one year, 522 BC. And then the last one of the three is Darius the First. He reigned from 522 to 486. All four kings covered an area of about 65 years. From 5, 36, where the vision was, and 65 years later. But there were kings in that after that, but they're not mentioned in the prophecy. The reason that some kings are mentioned, some kings are not mentioned, is because they're not significant. To the vision. Verse 3 tells us that there is a mighty king shall arise. And all scholars agree that the mighty king that was arisen was Alexander the Great. And he was from Greece. So basically he came, a lot of successes, he was able to invade, take Syria. All the way to India East, down south to Egypt, Ethiopia, in very short periods of time We learned about Alexander the Great in chapter eight. He is the goat. Remember that male goat with the little horn? That was Alexander the Great. But it tells us also that his kingdom shall be divided toward four winds. So Alexander the Great, skip about 144 years, Alexander the Great was three thirty six B C to three twenty-three about thirteen years of of governor governance He died at the um in uh year 331 and you will be surprised a great ruler like that, a commander Invaded the the whole old world. How did he die? He died in the city of Babylon with fever Brothers and sisters, God is in control. Even Alexander the Great, a fever can put him to death. But our God is the same. So his kingdom after he died he had two sons, he had four generals, and those four generals were uh you know uh commanders in his army, they fought together And they murdered his two sons. And they divided his kingdom into four divisions. One was Greece. One was uh an area called Srais and then Syria and then Egypt Most of our discussion tonight will be about the king of the north, Syria, and the king of the south, Egypt. So if we continue verses five to twenty, we will see the tag, the uh word of tag or What do you call it? The tug war between the n King of the North and the King of the South. And you will see how much wickedness and evil between these two kings and killings and war and and uh dominion and power, feeding their pride. As Enrique and I we were talking this morning, and he said they were acting as if there is no God. And that's what the the world is. Act like there is no God. But you think God is sovereign. He still has the control. Verse 5 to 20, so if we go them like, you know, one or two verses at a time, for the sake of time, Also the king of the south shall uh when it says south and north that in that is in relation to Israel. North, north of Israel, south-south of Israel. And also a few inform uh pieces of information that may help us to go through it first. The king of the south uh the north is a dynasty called the Solicid Solicids Solicids Excuse me for na pronouncing it right, maybe. But anyway, the king of the south was the the Butl Butlamese. The Butlamis. So the um north and the south and basically we will see that um um over a period of a hundred and fifty years one of the one king dies, his son raises up fight with the south. The king king of the south dies, the sun rises up, fights with the north, and we'll see. We'll see what happens. But anyway, so verse five it says, also the king of the south shall become strong, as well as one of his princes. And he shall gain power over him and have dominion. His dominion shall be great, a great dominion. So um the conflict between the two in divisions basically uh the two divisions of what's left of from Alexander's a great kingdom is Syria in the north and Egypt as I said in the south. The king of the south, the potlaming f the First Sutar, S-O-T-E-R He was a capable general under Alexander the Great, but the king in the north basically was Seleucus the first Nectar And he was a lesser general under Alexander the Great. He was appointed over Babylon, not Syria yet. But another general came from also the remaining generals um under Alexander. His name was Antigonus. He captured Babylon. So Lucas fled from Babylon to Egypt and he served under Ptolemy, Suter, Ptolemy the Pharisee. But after a while Antigonus was defeated by and Seleucus returned back to Babylon And he gained more territory than Potlami. So the Seleicid era started and their kingdom included Babylon and Syria. And media. So Babylon is basically Iraq, media is um uh uh Iran, and then you got Syria. So that huge area was under the king of the north. It became the largest division of the Greek Empire. Verse 6. And at the end of some years they shall join forces for the daughter of the king of the south. Shall go to the king of the north to make an agreement. But she shall not retain the power of her authority, and neither he nor his authority shall stand. But he shall be given up, but she shall be given up with those those who brought her up, brought her uh brought her, and with him who begot her, and with him who strengthened her in those times. What does this all mean? So basically there was a struggle between the North and the South. And um the Potlami one, Botlamy I, died in the year of 285. His son uh Ptolemy II, Philadelphos, initiated the translation of the Bible from Greek uh from uh uh Hebrew to Greek, and that is uh known as the Septuagint. He also made a treaty with Seleucid. So the king of the south wanted to make a peace treaty with the north, so he gave his daughter Her name was Bernice, to go marry the king of the north. So this way they can have, you know, like a peace treaty, they join efforts, they would be strong together. Well, that's what they planned, right? Under the agreement that his daughter would go to marry him. But you know what? The king of the north at that time his name was Antiochos. And Tiachus was married, and his wife was an influential woman, very powerful woman, and her name was Laud Laudis. And I think that's where we get the church of Laudith. Pastor Jin mentioned two of the people, two of the uh churches this morning in the book of Revelation study. Laudith and Sumirna, we're gonna see those names here tonight. So anyway, that woman who was a strong Antiochus wife killed Antiochus, killed his new wife, and killed her newborn son. And she had a child. She overruled or um she ruled herself as a queen during the minority of her son. His name was Seleucus II Clinicus. So basically the king of the south her died now got murdered in that whole process. Okay, well let's see verse seven. But from a branch of her roots One shall brands off her roots to start speaking of Bernice, the queen that was killed. One shall arise in his place, in his father's place. Who shall come with an army, enter the forces of the king of the north, and deal with them and prevail? And he shall also carry their gods captive to Egypt with their princes and their precious articles of silver and gold. He shall continue more years than the king of the north. Also the king of the north shall come to the kingdom of the king of the south, but shall return to his own land. So now Bernice's brother, his name was Potleme the Third Eugratus. That king in Egypt, he's the king of the south. He ruled between 246 BC to 221. He came after his father, Philadelphus. So Patl Potlem III attacked Assyria for his sister's murder. The war lasted five years, from 246 to 241. In this war, Potlamy III captured and looted Antioch, the capital of Syria, the north at that time. And he killed Laudis, this wicked queen. He seized their gods and took them to Egypt. He didn't even do that only, but he did bring back The treasures of Egypt that were confiscated by uh King Ahsuweras in 534. That king attacked Egypt and took their gold and silver and and and gods and he took it to Babylon. King Potlamid the third brought them back to Egypt. Verse 10. However, his son shall stir up strife and assemble a multitude of great forces, and one shall certainly come and overwhelm him pass through Then he shall return to his fortress and stir up strife. So Seleucus II, Calinicus, who is the king of the north, died in two twenty-six BC, but his sons, he had two sons Seleucus the third and Antioch the third. Antiochus III. The first one did not reign for very long. Seleucus III. He only reigned for three years. But Antiachus III, he was called the Great because of his military successes between 218 to 219. He uh And Tiachus III came from the north and attacked the Phoenicia, Lebanon, and the Palestine, and both Phoenicia and the Palestine were under the king of the south at that time. under the rule of the King of the South. He campaigned, his campaign reached as far as the fortress of the King of the South. So he dashed all the way through from north to south south and he went all the way to the fortress of the king of the south Verse 11 and 12. It tell us that and is a king of the south. It shall be moved. Remember this is who's saying all this? The angel to Daniel. He is telling him what is going to happen. Daniel, all this is gonna happen. So Remember that was 536 when the angel sh uh was speaking to Daniel? We're at the 200 BC now, so we're like we're 300 down the road in history Verse 11, and the king of the south shall be moved with rage and go out and fight with him. Of course, after you know the king of the north came and dashed to Phoenicia and Palestine came even to his fortress, of course the king of the south will respond So um and go out and fight with him with the king of the north who shall muster a great multitude But the multitude shall be given into the hand of his enemy. When he has taken away a multi the multitude, his heart will be lifted up. And he will cast down tens of thousands. So at that time the king of Egypt from the south, his name was Potlami 4 Philabater. That guy had an army of 70,000 infantry, 5,000 cavalry, 73 elephants And he went and fought against the king of the north. The king of the north army was 62,000, 6,000 cavalry and 102 elephants. The King of the South wound the battle in Rafia in Palestine. Now, that's very important. Why Because you can see that God is answering Daniel about his people. So you can see the pressure from the north and you can see the pressure from the south against God's people in the middle. And that is what was concerning Daniel and concerning the Lord. And that's actually what the Lord is gonna explain to Daniel, what's gonna happen to his people all through Verse thirteen. For the king of the north shall return and muster multitude greater than the former. So now the king of the north got defeated. We'll see what he will do. And shall certainly come at the end of some years with great army and much equipment. From verse 3 We're gonna stop tonight after uh at first Winnie, but from thirteen all the way to thirty-five, there will be shift in power. The north will be in control all to set the stage for the the wicked king, the hater of the Jews, who comes and defiled the temple and defiled the vessels, and he will mistreat all the Jewish people. But let's see what happened. So in verse 13, um Ptlamy the Fourth in Egypt died, and he left his son Ptolemy the fifth. That king was four to six years old. So the king of the north, um Antiochus III, took advantage of that. He went and invaded Egypt with huge army in two in two hundred and two BC um and um invaded uh with a huge army In uh in Phoenicia and Palestine and the fortress of Gaza filled to the Syrian at that time. Gaza is in Palestine. So you can see that he went down from Syria all the way to Palestine, which is border with Egypt. So it seems like he's coming down to take more control. Verse 14, and I will have to go a little faster in that section. Now in those times many shall rise up against the king of the south. The king of the south got defeated for a few reasons. One, it tells us here that violent men of your people shall exalt themselves in fulfillment of the vision, but they shall fall. The king of Egypt, that young king, he had turmoil in his own country, and there was insurrection in his own country. So that was one reason why he got defeated. And the second reason is some Jews The Bible describes them as the robbers and the murderers. They revolted against the King of the South because Palestine, Israel, was still under his control. So they aided the King of the North. And because they the king of the south to be defeated. But Egypt at that time was receiving aid from Rome. Rome at this point is not really a power on the history or in you know in play. But it was growing power. Greece came to be a powerful country before Rome So um Rome came and helped the king of Egypt at this time and uh although they lost Egypt and and that help from Rome lost with they were defeated yet That general, the Roman general, his name is Scopus, he really punished the leaders of Jerusalem and the leaders of Judah and against the rebellion for their rebellion against Egypt. Verse 15 and 16 together, so the king of the north shall come and build the siege mound and take a fortified city. And the forces of the South shall not withstand him, even his choice troops shall have no strength to resist. He shall stand sorry but he who comes against him shall do according to his own will. Again it's telling us that the king of the north will come and do what he wants He goes up and down against the king of Egypt with no resistance. Even the king of the South choice troops will not be able to stand in. No one shall stand against him. He shall stand in the glorious land with destruction in his power. We're still talking about the king of the north. And the glorious land is according to Ezekiel twenty and a chapter eight of Daniel is ref reference to Israel. So basically the king of the north will come down and he will try to invade Egypt again and take control And he will destroy. It says he will have destruction power to Israel. But funny thing is, he goes back to Syria And he wants to have a treaty with Egypt. Let's see verse uh verse seventeen. He shall also set his face to enter with the strength of his whole kingdom, whole his whole kingdom, he wants to enter Egypt and take control. And upright ones with him, thus shall he do. And he shall give him a daughter, the daughter of women, to destroy it. But he shall not stand with him. She shall not stand with him or be for him. So he goes to his country and give his daughter to the king of Egypt. Remember that young king that his father died? He probably is Like a you know, just young age now. So the king of the north they gave him his daughter and her name was Cleopatra. It's not Cleopatra that we know in history. Because that Cleopatra is a famous one with um Julius Caesar and all that that was at uh later in history of the Roman kingdom But anyway, he gave him his daughter to marry for what reason? Because he wanted to control Egypt through that marriage. But guess what? Verse 17 tells us that she shall not stand with him. She did not honor her father's wish. And she did not really support his his desire. So his plan didn't succeed because Kiliupatra loved her husband and supported the Potlayamic cause over her father's ambition. Verses 18 and 19, after this he shall turn his face to the cost coastlands Speaking of the king of the north. Okay, so Egypt did not work. I don't have control over Egypt completely. I'm gonna turn around and go to Greece and to the Mediterranean and take some of those islands, you know, Cyprus. And by the way, Pastor Jim was uh speaking this morning about um Revelation and John was in Patmos. At some point in the past I wanted to know where Patmos is. It's very interesting. You can go. It's still there. um very close to Turkey, between Turkey and Greece. So so he went and started to invade those islands, the coastlands, and he started taking some of those islands into his territory. It says he shall take many, but a ruler shall bring the reproach against them to an end, and with the reproach moved removed, he shall turn back on him Then he shall turn his face toward the fortress of his own land, but he shall stumble and fall and not be found. That guy, Antiochus III, he went to invade those territories and those islands. He took some, but then Greece and with aid from Rome start attacking him back and they kinda routed him back to his own country Roman pursued Antiochus to Asia, so they defeated him, they send him back, even with his seventy thousand uh soldiers and his army in a battle called Magnesia near Smyrna And Semyrna is one of the uh churches in Revelation. And that is also in Turkey. So he has now fled to um to Asia Minor, to Turkey. The Roman forces Antiochus uh to sign a treaty. It's called the Treaty of Ampia. Antiochus was ordered to surrender much of his territory, much of his forces, pay a huge tribute to Rome. And after his return to his country, he was murdered by an angry mob in 187 BC. Kings get filled with pride, they want to do more, they want to own more, and then they get murdered. It's all in God's plan. God is still sovereign, God knows about it. Anyway, so um his successor could not really pay that much attribute to Rome. Then he goes back and wanted to have tax, collect taxes. And uh and um he even confiscated the temple of Zeus. And uh even his successor get killed as well. Verse 20. There shall arise in his place one who imposes taxes on the glorious kingdom. Now glorious kingdom, that is Israel. But within a few days he shall be destroyed. He but not in anger or in battle. Now the son of Antiochus III was called the Seleucus the Fourth He sent a tax collector to collect the money to pay the thousands of talents to Rome, but they couldn't have the money, so started collecting taxes. According to the historical reference of Maccabi 3, Silukes sent as a tax collector by the name of Helud Hildor, yes, to plunder the temple in Jerusalem and take all the vessels and all the gold. But when he got there The angels showed in a vision, frightened him. He went back and did not plunder the temple. The tax collector poisoned that king of the north at that time because he wanted to take the throne himself, but that also failed Eventually, that all opens as a door to his younger brother. His name was Antiochus IV Ebiphany. And this is the wicked king that we will start talking about from verses twenty-one to thirty-five next time. Yes, it does feel like a history listen, right? But isn't God in control of history? He is in control of the nature. He is in control of our own life. All the minor details. I will um just uh ask you the question, say did God know all these things, these all these events beforehand? The answer is yes. And he will use all of these events to serve his purpose. All these threats serve God's purpose and his counsel shall stand. I leave you with two points. One, God is sovereign. No man or nation will sway his will. So trust in him. Daniel 4 tells us all the inhabitants of the earth are rebuted as nothing. He does according to his will in the army of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth. No one can re uh no one can restrain his hand or say to him, What have you done? And the fair very uh well known Uh scripture from Isaiah 40, 15 to 17 says, Behold the nations are as a drop of a bucket. Drop in a bucket. All nations, all those countries that fight and war and and up and down and and now we know about more about the world, all those nations are like one drop in a bucket. And are counted as a small dust of the scale. Do you know what that means? I uh I heard a preacher explaining that and of course it did sound right to me because I'm familiar with it. You know, like in the Middle East they have vendors and people have the scale, the two things that you know So basically he has the weight on one side and you put the fruit to produce on the other side. And because they are in the open in the streets are so you know, dust from the air They don't count that, right? They don't say oh the the um equal to fifty grams or they don't even count them All the nations to God are like the dust of the scale. Look, he lifts up the isles as a very little thing. All the islands, God lifts them as a little thing. And Lebanon is not sufficient to burn, nor its beast sufficient for burnt offering. All nations before him are as nothing. And they are counted by him less than nothing and worthless. God is sovereign and we need to trust in him. him and trust his plan. Personally, on the smallest scale, your life, your job, your health, God is in control. He knows about it. And I leave you with the last point. God is omnisci is an God is omniscient. No man or nation will have his knowledge. So fear Him. God knows about you. God knows about your heart. God knows about your attitudes and behavior and thoughts. He knows about it. He knows all the details to fear him. I will read one verse with you and we'll close with praying. Daniel 2. 21 said, and he changes the times and the seasons. He removes the kings and raises up kings. He gives the wisdom to the wise and knowledge to those who have understanding. We'll continue the next section next time we will have a chance, Lord dwelling. Let's pray Father, we thank you so much because you are sovereign. You know all about it. History in your hand and before you, like one dot, like one drop. Thank you for your wisdom and thank you for your knowledge. We can rest assured that you have the best plan and the best purpose for us. Thank you for your thoughts about us. And thank you that history can only authenticate one thing, that your word is true. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Bethel Baptist Church is a family made up of people from very different backgrounds and from every age group. But we all have one thing in common. We have found a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. When a person discovers how to have a genuine relationship with God, they are given a sense of purpose and meaning in life. When that same person belongs to a loving community where God's word is taught, they will grow in their relationship with the Lord, and their life grows in purpose and meaning. Our focus is on making and building disciples for God's glory. We accomplish this through corporate worship on Sunday mornings. Through adult Bible studies where we learn God's Word and how to effectively apply it to our lives, and through our discipleship home groups that meet in various locations throughout the region. Additionally, there are one-on-one and couple-to-couple counseling and discipleship opportunities. We genuinely desire to help you grow spiritually any way we possibly can. Our children's ministries are extremely important to us. We have a lot of young families with children, and we believe in the importance of teaching truth to the next generation. Teachers and nursery workers will be available to introduce themselves and assist you in signing your children in and out of their classrooms. Bethel Baptist Church is a growing, loving family community. We hope that we've been able to show you a small glimpse of what Bethel is like. But we'd love to meet you personally. Join us for a worship service, a small group for Bible study. Let us be a blessing to you and your family.