And then we will pray. Be strong, Lord. Let's all stand together. Be strong in the Lord and be unconcurrent, your mighty defender. Is always the same mount up with wings and we go siding Victory is sure when you call on his name. Be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord, and be a victory. Courage for he is your guide. Be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord, and rejoice for the victory is yours. Be strong in the Lord and be of courage. Your mighty commander will vanquish the foam. Fear not the battle for the victory, dance, oasis He will protect you wherever you go. Be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord and be of good. courage for he is your guide be strong be strong be strong in the Lord and rejoice that you're victory Entry is yours then. All right, let's open Let's open with prayer. Father, we thank you just for the time we can come together tonight. We thank you that it really is uh the reliance that we have, the strength that we have is entirely on your strength. And when you tell us over and over and over again in Ephesians chapter 6 to stand, to stand strong, to stand, it is not based upon our strength, it's based upon your strength given through your grace. And I pray, Lord, tonight as we look again at 1 Peter, that you would teach us and encourage us, really, you know, I just ho, I pray that this would be an encouragement uh to us that in the midst of a world that we're living in Babylon, we're living in a a heathen world, a pagan world. I pray, Lord, that you'd help us to learn how to live in a way that pleases you. And really, firstly, you're going to help us to do that. And as Peter desired to give encouragement to the first century Christians, I pray that we would also be encouraged. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right, you may be seated. And let's go ahead and pick up right here with 1 Peter again. Let me encourage you to pull your Bibles out and There's going to be we're going to kind of go through 1 Peter and I'm going to highlight not a lot of verses, but a few verses through 1 Peter. So you'll want to make sure you have your Bibles out. I'm going to have you look at certain things there We noted last week what we're going to do is this is the second part of our introduction. I I uh we went through the first part last week, and now we're gonna look at the second part. But I do want to review a couple of things. Luke Martin Luther described First Peter as one of the noblest books in the New Testament and a paragon of excellence on par with even Romans and the Gospel. And he said that Luther believed that it contained all that is necessary for a Christian to know. And it really does cover a huge amount of a wide range of material if you just read through First Peter. It arguably could be like a manual for discipleship. And I think it's going to be very helpful for us. We noted we we talked at length about how to discover the purpose of the book and the importance of ha of coming up with a purpose for the book and Understanding what the original intent of the author of 1 Peter, what his intent was, and of course what God's intent is. You know, we we we figured all this out and uh we were thinking through all of this and we came up with this statement. And I really encourage you to sort of have this indelible in your mind. As we go through First Peter, the purpose of First Peter is to encourage and instruct believers to stand in God's grace amid the distress of this present evil age. I'm going to have us recite this together. Can we do that? Alright, we're going to do it together. What is the purpose statement? Let's say it together to encourage and instruct believers to stand in God's grace amid the distress of this present evil age. This every word of this purpose statement is important, every part of it to encourage. So Peter, you'll see this as you go through the book of 1 Peter. you'll see that he really desires to encourage his readers. And also he gives significant instruction. Why? So that these believers can stand, can stand strong. Standing as opposed to what? What is the, we looked at it last week, as opposed to what? What is the opposite of standing in the New Testament? Falling. It's not sitting. Standing is the opposite of standing, is falling. So he does not want us to fall. He wants us to stand, and he's going to encourage us, and he's also going to instruct us To stand in what? To stand in the grace. We must stand in the grace. Uh and we log we we talked about that sign uh um uh a lot last week and it's like if you're drilling down and w you know you've got a um you know, a building or a flagpole or anything that's going to withstand winds, you've got to drill down real deep and you've got to have a very firm foundation. And a firm foundation for the Christian is going to be drilled down deep into grace. Not drilled into other things. Not in the law, not in my methods Not in all there's all kinds of things you could replace that with and you're not going to be able to stand. But you but to really stand in grace And if you do, you're going to be able to withstand what? The distress. And you see that throughout 1 Peter, you're going to see suffering. There's lots of discussion about suffering in 1 Peter And distress of this present evil age. And it was a present evil age back then, and it continues to be 2,000 years later, a present evil age now. And so we're in, we we all, you know, I think in 2020, we understand this word distress. How many of us at one time or another have experienced distress in 2020? Every single one of us, I'm sure. And God wants us to know how to stand in the grace of God amid the distress. So we noted also last week what does it mean to stand? And I just want to review this very quickly before we get into this week. And when you look at the biblical concept of standing, you find, first of all, that standing is in contrast with falling, which we have already mentioned, and we see two references there. Second, I'm just going to move through these very quickly because this is all review. Standing means to firmly establish with confidence. When you think of standing, it's the idea of firmly establishing with confidence. Number three, we stand in grace We stand in the gospel. And Romans 5, chapter 5, verse 2 says, through whom also we have access by grace into this, by faith, into this grace in which we what? We stand and the rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. First Corinthians chapter 15 says, Moreover, brethren, I declare uh I declare to you the gospel which I preach to you, which also you received and in which you stand, to stand in the grace. to stand in the gospel. That is what we must stand in if we're going to be able to work, we're going to be able to uh with withstand the trials and difficulties and distress of this life. How do we do that? Well, it's by faith. We actually read that in the previous verse, but Romans 11:20 says the same thing. 2 Corinthians 1, verse 24. So we're depending on the grace of God And then finally, we're standing against the devil. In Ephesians chapter 6, we see three times in Ephesians this term stand is used. Ephesians 6 11, 613, 614, all of these times he says that you put on the whole armor of God, that you're able to stand against the wiles of the devil, that you would withstand in the evil day, that you uh stand therefore having your having girded your waist with truth. So God desires that we stand. And First Peter is going to teach us exactly how to do that. And we noted in 1 Peter chapter 5 it actually uses that term stand And it commands us to stand in God's grace. Now, with all of that in mind, we now are going to look at the flow of thought of the book. We're going to look at the outline of the book and see how this all how this all flows together. Does somebody have a question? Did I see a yes, Josh? What if the entire reference I would hear the right? I think uh person talked about E left and stand fall that kept that verse and so you're saying stand, stand on the grace and stand on the phase and football, but where's that data just so-called standing version standing at the top of the football. I'm not sure I understand your question. What is the verse then? How can I understand the verse? Yeah, so in the context of Corinthian well the the point there is I'm simply saying that I'm showing the contrast between So so when you think of the term stand to help help us understand what this word means, this word stand, it's not stand in relation to Sitting, it's stand what does stand mean? Well it means you're not falling. So I was just I was just using that verse to demonstrate a contrast. Does that make sense? it could thing into the the looking fall. So stand otherwise fall with one or the other. So you and yeah, you are doing one or the other. Yeah. Okay. Um so now when we're thinking through the outline of this, let's let's go work through this and um You may want to write these down. I don't have a problem sending you the email an email like I did last week with the outline so that you don't feel like you have to fiercely write, but it may help you to write this down as well And I'm and we're going to this is where we're going to begin to reference some verses and things like that. So please have your Bibles out and be ready to look at those verses. We're to begin in chapter one. And we'll note then that in chapter one verse chapter one, verse two through two ten, believers are encouraged and instructed to stand in God's grace. By rejoicing in our identity in Christ. He's going to really begin with this. We need to learn how to rejoice in our identity in Christ. This is so relevant for a day. What is all of the discussion about when it comes to gender and um and race and all of this. Well for the Christian, it's not about gender or race. It's about our identity in Christ. It's a totally we're on a totally different wavelength when it comes to this. That is where we find our identity. And we need to rejoice in our identity in Christ. And there are four ways that God wants us to do this, and we're just gonna di we're not gonna de delve in deep here. I want you to get the whole forest, and then we're getting to the we're gonna hit the You know, we're going to hit the details later, but um first of all, we are encouraged by focusing on our future inheritance God saved us, and when he saved us, he gave us the Spirit of God, which is the down payment of a future inheritance. In 1 Peter 1, verse 6, notice what it says here. In this you greatly rejoice. Though now for a little while, he's saying you're going through suffering, you're anticipating great persecution as we looked at last week, there's great distress, but he says in this, in this you greatly rejoice Though now for a little while I uh if need be you have been grieved by various trials, but the genuineness of your faith being much more precious than gold that perishes though it is tested by fire, may be found to praise, honor, and glory at the revelation of Jesus Christ. whom having not seen you love, though now you have you do not see him, yet believing you rejoice with joy inexpressible and full of glory End of your faith, the salvation of your souls. Caitlin, can you please shut that door for me, please? I can actually hear myself out there. Um It's a little bit unsettling. Um just shut the door and that that should be sufficient. All right, so so it tells us there That we want we are to rejoice in the midst of trials, that God wants to teach us how to rejoice in our inheritance, in our future inheritance, and that God is preparing us for this inheritance. In other words, there is there he we're not ready for heaven. It's not like we come to Christ and now we're ready. No, he is preparing us to be ready for the inheritance he wants to give us. And he is going to use the distress of this life to get us ready. And that that's why we can have joy. He begins there, but then let's move to 21. And we are encouraged by applying holiness. He says that in order to stand in this, in the way that he wants us to stand, notice what it says in verse 13. Now this might surprise you, but this is so important. It says this, therefore gird up the loins of your mind. Be sober and rest your hope fully upon the grace that is in that is to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. And then He's going to say, Be holy as I am holy. Do you notice how he prefaces, be holy as I am holy? He first says, you've got to gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and rest your hope. What is he talking about there? Well, we we talked about this a little bit on Sunday at various times, but when we're going through trials, it's very easy for us to be swept one way or another. Very easy for us to you know, sort of just allow our thinking and allow our feelings to to and our circumstances to control our thinking and our feelings and to sway us one way and sway us another And what God is saying here is that we need to learn to gird up the loins of our mind. Now what does that mean? It doesn't sound as weird as it really It's not as weird as it sounds. Okay. Basically back then they didn't have pants, they wore tunics, but when they were going to go into battle, they would they would bring them up in a way with their belt so that you could run Okay? And the idea was everything was nice and tight against you. It wasn't loose flowing and everywhere where it could all be just kind of blown by the wind. It was tight up against you. And that way you're able to run and able to uh battle effectively and those kinds of things. And what he's saying is he's saying you need to do this with your mind. In other words, you can't just be flow with your mind. You can't just be this way and that way, and this circumstance comes in, and now I'm going to think this way, and then this circumstance comes in, now I'm going to think that way. No. Gird the loins of your mind. And how do you do it? Well, you're going to rest. Actually, that word rest is an active verb that means you need to place your rest. in the hope fully upon the grace that is brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. And when you do that, then you're now you're ready to be able to be holy as I am holy. It first requires us to to be sober and to and to think biblically and to and to have a a uh uh control, a tightness in our mind rather than just being swayed by our our circumstances. So that's number two. Number three, encouraged by or letters C encouraged by loving So it's really interesting the connection that it makes, and you could see this in 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 22. It says, Since you have purified your souls in obeying the truth Through the spirit and sincere love of the brethren, love one another fervently with a pure heart. It's going to go on to say that, or uh it's going to uh It's going to talk about, along with this, the idea of the word of God being stable, that we need to find ourselves in the stability of the Word of God. And it's surprising that you would that they would that you would actually apply it would that you would think it would be love that causes you to be able to do this And we're going to begin to see those connections when we go through this. That actually, the way that you stabilize yourself in the Word of God is by loving. correctly is by loving God and loving others. Well why is that? Do you remember the two commandments that God that Christ said fulfill all the other commandments? Love God and love others. Love your neighbors yourself. And if you do that, you are fulfilling the whole law, Scripture says. Okay, well that's why then Peter is going to say, look, in the midst of all of this, if you're going to stand firm in the Word of God, you're going to do it as you love God and love others And you are not going to stand firm in the Word of God if you're not doing those things. They're absolutely primary to being able to do that. Letter D, encouraging by living as chosen people Encouraged by living as chosen people. The passage tells us this in uh first Peter chapter two, verse seven. Therefore to you who believe he is precious, but to you who who are disobedient The stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone, a stone stumbling, a rock of offense, they stumbled being disobedient to the word. to which they all they also were appointed. It actually now makes the connection. It says those who are disobedient to the word are going to stumble by it And and so his point is that you are chosen people, you've got to be following the word, and that which you follow is going to be uh it's going to be a joy for you Or it can be stumbling for you. It can be a rock for you. It can be a precious thing for you. Or it can be something that's going to be offensive to you. He's calling them to make a choice. So that's number one. That's the first major point of the book. Believers are encouraged and instructed to stand in God's grace by rejoicing in their identity in Christ. And this has to be fully established before you can go on to the next thing. Number two, then, so we're working our way through the book and the next major section of the book Is that believers are instructed to stand in God's grace by living out our God our Godman roles and responsibilities. So he first says, this is who you are. You've got to understand who you are. And now he's going to say, because of who you are, this is what you need live how you need to live. He doesn't get it reversed, and we we get it reversed in our society. We say Well, I want to be a certain thing, so I'm going to live a certain way. No, actually, God's economy is you are who you are, and now you need to live out what you are Uh let me see if I can illustrate it this way. When uh when young people go to college and they're that age. Okay I remember um I I think I got this advice from somebody in when I was from an older person when I was in college and uh it really makes sense In order to really be able to find a good uh a good help for you or uh be able to find a good marriage partner, you've got to know who you are to some degree You can't know who you are. You can't know who's going to compliment you if you don't first know who you are. And there's a lot of people that need to figure out who they are before they can really decide, okay, well, what's going to be a complimentary thing? And there's nothing more frustrating for a young lady to um to ha be stuck in limbo. And I have any lady friends in that at that time where they were sort of stuck in limbo with a m a young man who couldn't make up his mind Okay. And sort of just really didn't know how to how to handle the situation, didn't know what to do and and uh it would go on several years and she It's really an uncomfortable thing. A lot of times the reason that this occurs is because the guy doesn't know who he is. And she can't figure out whether she's going to really be able to to to to compliment him because he didn't know who he is. Sometimes she didn't know who she is. It can go the other way too where she can't make up her mind either. It goes the both ways. But you've got to know who you are. And and Peter is saying if you're going to stand stable, you gotta know who you are. You've got to know that you are in Christ, that you are your identity is in Christ, and rejoice in that and all of that. And so that's how he starts off So now believers are instructed to stand in God's grace by living out our God-given responsibilities. And we see, first of all, that there's this goal of living before the world Look at 1 Peter 2, verse 11. It says, Beloved, I beg you. How does he say we're supposed to interact in the world? He says, I beg you as sojourners and pilgrims Abstain from fleshly lusts which war against the soul, having your conduct honorable among the Gentiles. That when they speak against you as evildoers, they may, by your good works which they observe, glorify God in the day of visitation. Now there's a that's a that's a mouthful, but here's what he's basically saying. He's saying in our world, as Christians, we're not to live as citizens, we're to live as sojourners, we're to live as pilgrims. We have dual citizenship, we'll put it that way. We are to live as sojourners and pilgrims in this world. We're not to find our identity in this world. We're to find our we are just passing through You've heard the song, This World Is Not My Home. I'm just passing through. And that's the way we are to live. That's the way God wants us to live. And he says, as you're passing through, your conduct should be honorable among the Gentiles. And this is what he says. He doesn't say, so that they never talk bad about you. He doesn't say that. He says so that when they do, they'll actually see your good works and observe and gl uh and they'll observe them and glorify God in the day of the visitation. I want to use an illustration, I hope it will not be too controversial. And it is, it's it's intended to be an illustration. I just think it's a very profound one. So we have had the last two days, we've had uh this uh these court these uh confirmation hearings. Okay. And I have found it in t sh uh Amy Comy Comey Barrett handles herself extremely well. Has how many of you watch any parts of that? Okay. Now there are there are the questioning is Hard to listen to. Um the answers are much easier to listen to from her. But the thing that is questioning is that do you know that her rating her the public opinion has actually gone up when it comes to her, even the even among even among the left that she should go ahead and be conver confirmed as they've watched this. I saw I saw a poll today. Not that I believe every poll, but anyway. Um I d this one I do. Um and why is that You know why? Because you know why what they're having to attack her on? They're not attacking her on her morals They're not attacking her even on her manner. She is she has been very respectful the entire time. She has been kind, she's been respectful, she's been firm, she has had a level of humility about her I mean if you watch her, it it is she like that's kids watch how she responded to this Her to these questions. She was firm, she was not going to answer a question that she didn't need to answer, but she was not going to be rude about it either. That is the kind of deportment, the kind of example that you want to have And so and so when we when when we think of you that's what you want to think of. Somebody who says, okay, yeah, so they're having to criticize if they criticize her, they're criticizing her on her philosophy Her judicial philosophy. And she's like, fine. I mean that's what I want people to criticize me on. She actually said that. I if you disagree with me philosophically, okay, that's fine. Vote no. That's okay We we disagree. But they can't find anything else besides besides their philosophy. And that that's the point that that we would that he's sort of the point that he's making here. That That we would live in such a way before the world that then they're gonna find bad things about us, and they will But it's actually going to be that when they see our behavior toward them, it is so exemplary that it actually causes them to glorify God in the day of visitation. And we're going to learn more about that. But this is what he's talking about. Well, how do you do that? How are you to be a light to this world A sojourner that makes a positive effect on people around you. How are you to do that? Well, he gives the means in the next parts of this. In chapter 2, verse 13, he's going to go all the way through chapter 3, verse 12, and he's going to do it three ways. He says, number one, you need to be submissive to the government. And he's really, really going to hit hard on this. And so we're going to see that. He's going to say, every ordinance of man is ordained by God. Let me just say this, no matter who gets elected and I'm not talking about who I'm voting for, don't ask me. I'm not telling you. I'm not telling my my kids don't know. Nobody knows. And nobody is gonna know So but um but I will say this that whoever is elected will be ordained by God, whoever it is. And we have to accept whoever it is And we had to submit to whoever it is. When Barack Obama got elected, everybody went, Oh, it's terrible. We still need to submit to him as as a as our president And when George Bush did, and when Donald Trump did, all of them we need to submit to them as our pres as our government that God has ordained. And that's what we're what God is going to teach. And ain't nobody as bad as Nero When this was written. Okay. Number two, submission to masters as slaves. Submission to masters as slaves. We're going to go over that. Really the correlation for us would be employer-employee relationships. and then submission to family roles. It's interesting that the way the way that we are to have the kind of life that God wants us to live and stand strong in the grace of God and also be the kind of sojourner that God wants us to be is to have a submissive spirit. Can you have a submissive spirit and also be firm? You can. Can you have a submissive spirit and also be uncompromising? You can. And we're going to learn how to do that. But or see the result, living in blessing and peace. Living in blessing and peace. Um and and that is that's if that's not needed, right? Like if there's anything but if it if if there's been a lack of anything in 2020, it's been Peace. Alright, number three, we need to get through this. Number three, believers are encouraged and instructed to stand in God's grace by responding to distress and suffering appropriately. Now we get into the section where he really wants to encourage them about the distress and suffering that they're about to go through, that there are some they are going through, and he's anticipating the fact that they're going to have to go through more And he says believers are encouraged and instructed to stand in God's grace by responding to distress and suffering appropriately. Number letter A, standing and suffering for right living rather than wrongdoing. And he and he and he emphasizes that. 1 Peter 3, verse 13. He says, And who is he who will harm you if you become followers of that of what is good? But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you are blessed. And do not be afraid of their threats, nor nor be troubled, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts and always be ready to give an answer defense to everyone who asks you a reason for the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. And then standing in suffering to partake in Christ's suffering. For Christ also suffered for once for uh for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but made alive by the Spirit. These are the things that God wants us to stand in. And letter C, standing with the mind of Christ in suffering. Um ver uh 1 Peter 4 1, look at 4 1, it says, Therefore, since Christ suffered for us the f in the flesh, arm yourselves also in the same mind, for he who has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. The he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh for the lusts of men, but for the will of God And then letter D, standing by serving in the midst of suffering. We need to learn to stand by serving in the midst of suffering. And then finally, standing by experiencing the glory of God In the midst of suffering as well. Alright, finally, number four, and these are just two points here, and I will be glad to email all this to you so you get it, but standing in God's grace by relating to others correctly He explains first of all that in verses 1 through 5 of chapter 5 we need to relate to others correctly in the body of Christ. Talks a little bit about that. And then resisting the devil through humility, that actually the way you resist the devil. The way you stand is actually through humility. Do you remember what it says in it says it here in 1 Peter? It also says it in Rome and in James. It says that God resists the proud. but gives grace to the humble. So we're to stand in the grace of God. How do you stand in the grace of God? The answer Resist the devil actually through humility. And if some of that sound to you sounds like, man, I that sounds hard or I'm not sure how that works, or boy I really need to do that, or man I need some encouragement there. If any of that went through your mind, and I hope it did as we went through this then I want to encourage you to make sure that you are here for these uh messages. I think that they'll be very helpful helpful for you. Any questions, thoughts, comments on 1 Peter? Of course that was a uh fly through quick survey uh of the book but I I did want you to see how all this is going to work together and then we're gonna delve into the depths of it. But any any Okay. Definitely we will let's pray now and ask the Lord just to bless this study as we go through it in the future. And then we will take prayer requests together. Father, we come to you and we ask, Lord, that you would help us to really be able to flesh this study out uh that we would learn it and teach it and live it and understand it and that it would it would be as exactly as Peter and you intended That it would encourage and instruct us to be able to stand in your grace Amid the difficulties and trials and distress of this present evil age. And Lord, we need this. This has been a year that's been hard to stand And we have we we need to learn these things, Lord, and I pray that you'd help us in the coming weeks. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Okay. Let's go ahead then and um can I um just do this?