I am breaking from the curriculum today in order to set us up for what is coming up next. Thanks coming. Yes, but not in a that's okay. Um we have um We're going to be putting the things that we've learned into practice more coming up. We're going to be taking specific passages of Scripture and then actually And then um and that's gonna there's gonna be many of them that we're going to do over the last uh handful of weeks that we're gonna be together. So in order to get ready for that, today we're going to do basically a biblical timeline, uh the chronology of the Bible, and where things fit into where For some of you, this will be a review. I have no doubt that many, you know, possibly the majority in here will know this already Uh some of this will be reminders and you'll be like, oh yeah, I knew that, I forgot that, but no, I I remember that. Um For some of it, maybe this will be brand new. Maybe you'll be surprised today to find out. We did in very brief, like super brief, multiple weeks ago, just sort of off the top of my head went through uh went through a timeline um categorizing the the the books and where they fall So today this is a good chance to also, if there's any confusion that anybody has uh regarding when a certain character in the Bible existed or um that sort of thing, it's a good chance for that to be cleared up. It's a good chance for any other confusion that you might have to uh be cleared up We have um um an opportunity then to see the Bible. Um uh in the chronology that it takes place. And and there are going to be some books and some things that you're going to look at today probably and you're going to say, oh well that's why I never understood what was going on in that passage or that book of the Bible or that chapter of the Bible because geesh, I have no idea it was then. So this is much more today, this is much more academic, but as I again, as I said before, this is going to prepare us, I think, the final stage of preparing us for the remaining few weeks that we have together. Just so you know that we're a little ways out, but there will be one Sunday in December that uh I'm gone or on vacation So uh at that that day you'll be with the um the rest of the group. And um other than that I think we're full scheme ahead. So uh if you're there's gonna be a lot of writing if you're one to write. Um Um I'll try and keep us slow as slow as possible for you. There are some things that It's just gonna be we're not gonna spend too much time on certain things because we've we've been over it enough already. But we will slow down in some of the new material here. Okay, so biblical timeline You have creation to flood. Creation to flood is Genesis chapter one through ten. In there you have a couple of genealogies. We've got a bunch of stuff going on. So inheritives focus on Adam and Eve. On Cain and Abel, on Noah and his family. Here we go. Ah, I forgot. I knew it. I knew I was gonna forget that part. Oh well. That's a terrible thing. You probably saw it already. Did you see what I put up there? Who you did. Okay, you can't answer. You're right. Okay. Thanks, Dave. Thanks for playing along with me. I appreciate it. I try not to spoil anybody's hand. I didn't ask I didn't ask the question because I forgot to put a note where uh at that slide So in the biblical timeline, yes, chapter eleven comes next, right? Cleverly dangerous. Yes, but chronologically that is n likely not exactly the thing that happens next biblically Is it guaranteed this is the case? No, there's definitely some leniency on this. But there is another book of the Bible that likely turns up. So we have We've got the Tower of Babel coming next, right? And we've got the focus turns to Abraham. Do you know what book of the Bible likely takes place in? Yeah. Joe? Yeah. Very good. Joe. Job suffering it because it's about to be the oldest book. Um or yeah, I think that's right. Well, there there are a number of factors. Um part of the factors actually has to do with the the fact that You have certain things that are mentioned in Job that aren't mentioned at other times. So one of the things, and this actually has a this goes in line a lot with the answers in Genesis curriculum that that the children do, which I've done with the teens as well, is after the flood you have I mean that was a cataclysmic event, correct? Global flood. And up until that point, we know from Genesis chapter 2 that there was no rain on the earth yet. It had not rained yet. Likely what took place after the flood was actual, like superior, crazy climate change. You go from the can you know the canopy that surrounded the earth keeping an even temperature all over the globe to not the same anymore. Now you have storms. So it's Noah's fault. He's the one responsible for Yes. Noah's fault or all all the people's fault around him, maybe. He didn't want to build the ark on that train. I understand that reference. I don't want to go to that reference. Anyway. So many many creation scientists believe the fact that then after the after the global flood and the climate change that takes place after that, you have the genuine ice age. In fact, that's how God received the flood, effectively. Part of it. Part of it. Part of it. So um so do you do you know when the first um instance of the word snow ever occurs in the Bible Guessing Joe. No. You mean yeah, this is uh we're talking about at least the way the Bible was ordered for us today. Do you know It's actually not a reference to the snow falling. It's when um it's when Moses is with God on the mountain. And he he he's looking for a sign and the sign he put his hand in in his cloak, it came out lepros like snow. White as snow. And then he put it back in and back out, and then it was whole again. Um actually leprosy It it's done it's said again um in Numbers twelve ten when it talks about Miriam being leprous like snow. Snow falling down doesn't occur until 2 Samuel 2320 And that's uh that's talking about a uh in the reign of uh a time of Benaih, one of the kings. And um But snow and leprosy definitely goes together. And then in Job, not only do you have snow referenced there, but you have ice referenced in Job. Uh Job six sixteen um talks about that. Let me try one thing real fast here. Make sure I didn't miss anything. Yeah. Job has three instances of when IC is talked about. Job six, sixteen, Job thirty-seven, ten, and job thirty-eight, twenty-nine. And then frost is mentioned there, frozen is mentioned there, so you have you have wording there. So some would say that Job actually took place before the flood. This would indicate that it's after After the flood. And so that gives us a reference there. Now is it the the the you know Noah no Noah's the the Ark lands on on Air at then you have this uh This period of when the waters are still receding. Climate change is legitimately happening all across the globe. And that's why we have glaciers. Now that just as a quick reference There was one Ice Age. There weren't multiple. the evidence for the glaciers and and so forth and they see multiple ice ages over hundreds of thousands of years, but there is no need to believe that. There was just one. It was post flood And so anyway, there's that. So Job Job comes next in our timeline. I just gotta find here we go How our babel takes place. Abram to Joseph. Abraham to Joseph, Genesis twelve through fifty. Are you gonna put any ties? You want to put we can do times. I have that re I have that available, yeah. So to the flood is uh close to a thousand years. Um it's two. It's two. It's estimated two. And these are all estimates. So yeah, if you want to put some dates along this, that's cool. Um So I won't get into all the nuances of it, but we can say that creation took place somewhere in the neighborhood of 4,000 BC, 4,000 years before Christ. Could it be longer than that? It could be a little longer than that. Uh if if you want to there's a lot of evidence to back that up Mm-hmm. If if the genealogies are a little bit longer or if there's some skipping going on, which is possible in the Hebrew, then it could be longer than that. Some would say six thousand years, some would say eight It doesn't really matter. Definitely not millions. Not even close to millions. No. The flood then yeah takes place uh About twenty five hundred B C And by the time you get to Abraham, you can say about two thousand B C Alright, and that completes Genesis. So Joseph something up on the screen I don't think you want up there Oh, thank you. You're welcome. Waiting for it to get filled in. I don't know. I did a I did a thing that I forgot we'd do because these are connected technologies. Okay. So Israel's children or Jacob's children in Egypt. Remember Jacob gets renamed Israel, which means contends with God or fights with God. with God. He was given that name when he wrestled with God. Remember that? And it was sort of a picture of how Israel would be, right? They were a people that continually contended or fought with God, spiritually, not physically. So Israel's children in Egypt, you really see that from Exodus chapter 1 through 15. You have the book of Moses in there, you have God's commission to Moses to deliver Israel, chapters 3 through 6 You have reason why it's so long in chapters 3 through 6 is because Moses argues, says, has all these reasons why he shouldn't be the one, and then finally he says, can you just send somebody else? I don't want to do it. No, g he he was the man God chose. Ten plagues, you find chapters seven through twelve. Israel begins to leave, and you have Egypt's ruin, what's what's left of Egypt. His armies are destroyed, chapters thirteen through fifteen. Um and this is all, you know, at this point, we w it gets pretty simple. It's this isn't difficult. This isn't where it gets difficult. for sure. We are we are very chronological in the Pentateuch. Okay Anyone else need a little more time? Got it? Okay. The Exodus and giving the law, preparations for the tabernacle you have in Exodus 16 through 40. A lot of time devoted to that. A lot of time. A lot of space, written space given to when they depart from their giving of the law. In Leviticus 1 through 23 you have the laws for sacrifices, for purity, and for feasts and festivals. In numbers, the people are numbered. People are numbered in Numbers. Chapters 1 through 12. There's the tabernacle dedication. And the people complain. But just as you're writing there too, remember that a while back we talked about the the the f the uh the timing and how important it is in Israel's history for when the people rebelled against God and created the golden calf and made that their God. Now that is a that is something that's referenced over and over again in Scripture. It was such a turning point For the nation's history. The next one is also a significant portion. It's when the twelve spies go into the land of Canaan. And ten give a bad report. Trying to look for something. Okay. Uh ten give a bad report. And two though, they they're all about it and they want to go for it Uh who were the two good spies? Remember? Caleb Joshua Joshua and Joshua. Very good, yeah. Are can we back up to um The second one where the people are numbered. Okay. Um Go ahead. We we're we've been reading um in the Old Testament in Chronicles and and David um Okay. And God, okay, says um He God is what's the word I'm looking for? Anyway he decides that uh that what he didn't want the people numbered uh David did that on his own. Why in when in one case if you don't hear anything repercussions on the people then so he sent the plague to the people when David decides to have the numbers. Just for the reason. Yeah. Yeah, like one was like more of a seeing how many people were in the land and then when David did it it was like a lack of trust in God. when he was going out to battle. He was like numbering his army and his troops for the purpose of let me see if we can you know like like totally so that's why God was judging his lack of faith not just his like Speaking of census, I didn't put that together with the fact that the numbering uh you know people think they would advise not to not Um did Saul want to? I don't remember if he did all the first king, so he got told all in Okay. Okay. Yeah, I mean for for the census that takes place in numbers, it's more of a organization because it's done by tribe. And at that point the tribes were very clear who belonged to what tribe, and um it was more of a taking stock of And organizing. Hey everyone beep with your peaks. We're all the nation of Israel, we're all Jacob's children, but you know, stick stick with everyone and have some structure and order for ruling. Because you remember there were times where Moses was overwhelmed by the amount of problems that all these people had And so he appointed elders over each tribe and elder uh and elders under those elders and delegated it because of um of Jethro's uh advice that that he gave. Um yeah. When they finally do go into the land as well, the amount of land they're trying to get is based on a number. Okay. That's true, that's right. Yeah, the the end isn't the land is not divided equally. That's true. Okay, so um good good point though, good question. Um so the twelve spies, the two were good, but because the majority of the people refused to go God was ready. God was ready to bring them in. Said, let's do this. Let's go. And the people didn't want to, and they complained, and God, in his judgment, said, okay. These people are not going. They're not going to go. And because because of their fear and lack of trust in God and lack of trust in God's timing, God did not allow them to go into the land Funnily enough, though Caleb and Joseph were able to live long enough that they would be able to see it. So you have the wilderness wanderings Uh and people refuse to go numbers 13 through 36. There's other there's definitely a lot of other stories that go on in there too that I'm skipping over And you have Deuteronomy. Much of the Deuteronomy is retelling of the law. being spoken over again. And you have the heart of the law, the heart that that God expected his people to have. It wasn't just God wasn't looking for just an outward show But he wanted their hearts, Deuteronomy 1 through 34. And then with Joshua you have the actual conquest of the land with Caleb as his right-hand man. And many of you are familiar with the stories that go on in there Then you have the book of Judges. So everyone's in the land, but the people do not allow God to really be their leader. And you have this cycle that goes on. The inhabitants are not fully driven out like they were told to do. And the cycle is there. People would do right in their own eyes God would then judge them and allow them to be dominated by another people group. And if it ended with an it, they probably had the were were over them at some point. Amorites, Moabites, so forth. The people then would cry out for deliverance. Oh, this is so bad. God would raise up a deliverer or a judge. And the judge would deliver them, and the people would be obedient to God as long as that judge lived. Once the judge died, guess what? Cycle starts over again Who was the last judge? Good job. Yeah, the last judge isn't actually in judges. It's in Samuel. Samuel sort of has a a dual role. Um he he has the role of a judge but also the role of a prophet as well. So Israel's finals judge. You have Samuel's birth in 1 Samuel 1 through 2. Israel's first king, Saul. Remember the people cry out for a king. They want to be like the other nations, so God gives them what they want. And and God gives him salt. You know, this is one of those, for me, this is one of those more perplexing parts. And if you read through the Bible and you keep some certain things in mind that you've had in mind, this seems like an odd thing for God to do. Why? Well because God has said in Genesis three, you're gonna have the you're gonna have from the seed of a woman someone to come and crush the serpent's head, right? We find later in Genesis fifty that the kingly line is going to be in Judah. What tribe is is Saul from? Benjamin. Yeah, he's from Benjamin. Pretty nice tribe of Saul. They had some they they were almost totally uh genocide, yeah. Yeah. Because of the evil things. Yes. And yet this was God's choice And to be honest, I I've not ever really figured that one out. Um why why even bother? I mean it's all started out really well, right? I mean he seemed reluctant to even take the position. He he hid. I mean he it wasn't something that he was really looking for and then he gets it and then he just starts to go off track from what God would have him to do. what what what God was doing. He's saying uh that uh the people need to wait. They were gonna have a king, but it was gonna be on God's terms. Okay. Yeah. But they keep on kept on insisting on a king. I said, all right, let me give you a king. Okay. Yeah, right. So they get a full dose of salt. Okay. And so um and and then you know they you know so the whole the whole um the whole episode is To me it it just appears that God said, Okay, we'll give you what you want, but this is what's gonna happen. Yeah. Okay, and it did. You know, and Samuel warned them because you know you're you're you're your lands, your properties, your foot your your daughters, your your your sons are all belong to the king at that point. You know your life is not yours Taxes, things like that will go up, so on. Yeah. And so he warned them, and uh but under God's economy, it was gonna uh he had got that person already chosen, which would be David. Yeah. Okay Right. And uh and then but people jumped one of the now. God gave them what they asked for. Yeah, it did seem it does seem like the timing wasn't what God had intended. Yeah. And add to the timing and I it doesn't line up exactly, but David doesn't become king until after Samuel dies when that last judge was finally gone. Then they were Yeah, and and David doesn't assume the throne until both him and Saul Dion. Yeah. Yeah, and and uh not only that, uh uh they would have deal with with a a pretty bad civil war. You know to get the uh the c to unite the kings. Yep. So or uh or the tribes Alright. We've pressed a lot of uh stuff here, but David becomes king in 2 Samuel chapters 1 and 2. David, Solomon, and all other kings of Israel overlap from 2 Samuel 1 and 2. Through 1 and 2 Chronicles and 1 and 2 Kings, which I didn't put up there, but as far as biblical order. So if you've ever been in 1 and 2 Samuel, or 2 Samuel, 1 and 2 Kings, 1 and 2 Chronicles. And you're in Kings and then you get into Chronicles and you start to say, Didn't this happen already? Because it may might have. You might be reading the same account over again. The other thing here then oh yeah that's what I did. So the the time period here is one thousand BC to five eighty six BC In this time, in this span of time, almost all the prophets are alive. All the prophets that we read about, almost all of them. And during this time, the Psalms, Proverbs, Song of Solomon, Ecclesiastes are written. Some of the psalms would have been before that. Um you do have one psalm of Moses that makes it in there. Uh there might be a couple other things too that I'm forgetting, but you know, Proverbs and Song of Solomon written by Solomon, Ecclesiastes is written by Solomon. And I want to note one thing here. I don't have it written uh on the on the screen, but in Second Kings chapter twenty-five Second Kings chapter twenty-five. From what I saw I had to refresh myself, but I believe that's the only um historical book and chapter that depicts the siege of Jerusalem and its fall of when the temple gets destroyed. Second, so it's not you won't find that in Chronicles, you won't find that in 2 Samuel. You'll find it only in 2 Kings 25 Let me ask you something before we uh get to the next thing here. We just talked about the prophets. Why were the prophets sent? Okay. Warn them how. Warn them why. They need to repent. Yeah. For repentance, right? Think about, okay, we see that most the majority of the prophets are in that time span. In that time span you have several good kings that God raises up. There are a whole bunch of kings that are not great either. And so you have times where the people of Israel follow the leadership of uh in general, the majority, follow the leadership of Israel. And so if there was a good king, the people overall were repentant and lived according to what God wanted. But if there was a bad king, what's gonna happen. And so yes, the prophets were sent by God to to do that. Bible later. Elijah and Elisha would be an example of that. So what we're going to do here now is we're going to sort of place the prophets uh in in this. So these are the prophets within the time of Israel's kings, when their messages were given. Just just in that time, okay? You have a lot. Got Obadiah, Joel, Amos, Jonah, Hosea, Nahum Yeah, Habakkuk. Yeah. When it says Israel's kings, is it specifically meaning the northern chunk of it that was actually named Israel and not Judah or in the channel? Okay. Yeah, sorry So note that those those are uh for the most part those are the smaller uh the my some the minor profits. They come after some of those bigger ones, but these their time frame it was it was earlier, it was first. Okay So uh and and as you're continuing to write those down, I wanted to just make one comment, and that is we should not as as as we study the Bible The prophets can can sort of be intimidating, but we need not be intimidated by them. Now is there a message, is their message One that's directly addressed to us. No. No. It's not. You can't you can't do that. Don't do that. You can't do it. Okay? Not addressed to us. It was but it was addressed to a people. Some of those, they actually have um they have messages for others. Obadiah? Obadiah's message is to Nineveh. That was Jonah's. Jonah had a message to Nineveh too. Obadiah is the one that's after I think. Or I might be getting Ob Naham and Obadiah mixed up. But for the most part they're they're speaking to to Israel. And they have a message and and there's a context that goes there. Can we learn from the prophets? Yes, absolutely. W is it gonna be as easy as reading the New Testament? No, it's not. But that's okay And so we should not be intimidated. There's a wealth of understanding and insight that can be gained from them. Now I want to say at this point as well, okay? That when we approach this book Now we've learned we've learned so far already that when we approach it we can we can look at it and we can say, okay, what does God have for me to learn about myself today? That's a good question to ask. But sometimes that can be the only question we ask. Another valid question to ask is, and what we've looked at already in our together, is where does this fall in the biblical storyline? Where does it fall in the story of the Bible? Another good question to ask is, how does this passage or chapter or whatever I'm reading relate to Christ? But even with those that we've covered so far, there's one that we haven't mentioned so far that I'd like to mention now, and it's this. Okay What can I learn about my God from this passage? Learn about God? Yeah. Yeah, you can learn about God in any part of Scripture. Because it's him interacting with his people. And so you're going to see, you're going to see the faithfulness of God. You're going to see the wrath of God. You're going to see his mercy. You're going to see his grace. Grace in the Old Testament? Absolutely. You're going to see grace in the Old Testament. Okay? There are so there's so much understanding and insight. And so when we come to Scripture, don't just stop with, okay, what does God have for me today? He probably has something for you, but that's not the only thing that God wants us to approach his word with. Alright, now we have, at least as far as their writings go, prophets and their writings that span both the times of the kings and captivity. What I mean by captivity when Babylon came and and actually overthrew Israel. There's only three What do you think? Which ones are they? I would just yeah, I would just agree with Daniel. I mean that it is it is like right after from what I I can think of. So we'll we'll we'll get back to Daniel in a second. Isaiah, yep. This is tough because you you have to you gotta know the content of the of the prophet and what they're what they're talking about. And while prophets have while prophets have a lot of um Words to say there are historical events that take place in their writings as well. And yes, Jeremiah is another one. And I put there with that Lamentations, Jeremiah wrote Lamentations. Yeah, one more Ezekiel? Yeah. Yeah, you're big three, I like to call them. Because they're literally big. Isaiah, Jeremiah, and Ezekiel both they prophesied during the time before the and during the kings and when Israel was overthrown. Alright, then you have post exilic prophets. After the exile, these prophets are seven years of captivity. So then th those who came to were in existence after the exile. Yes. So um really Daniel with Daniel you have um during It was during the exile, but during the span of Daniel you actually have one power taking over the other. Remember? Right. Remember that? So remember, remember the event? Always an incredible event in Daniel. Yeah. Yeah. Remember who who was who was all fool of himself and throwing himself a party? Uh Nebuchadnezzar's uh Belschear, yeah. Yeah, Belschezzar, he's got a whole big party. Yeah. Oh it's party. He's got the cups out of the um the the the temple, right? Not a good look. Not a good look. And I mean it uh it it brings me It makes me feel chills just thinking about the the the thing and and the handwriting on the wall, his knees are literally knocking together with fear. And it just like that, it was done. Babylon was no more So yeah, Daniel accounts for the Babylonian and the Persian reign. Daniel 5 is the handwriting on the wall. And then you have four others that are all post-exilic prophets. Uh Nehemiah. Well Nehemiah wasn't a prophet, but his his book would be post exilic. Me Miles actually just a guy. Well he was the the king's uh cupbearer Yes, he was an important guy. And he had the he was able because of his relationship with King was able to uh You know, Nehemiah I think is one of those really interesting characters in the Bible because he Actually, there's one thing significant that's missing in his whole book. God never tells him what to do And I've heard um some commentaries and some preachers say, you know, Nehemiah was commissioned by God to go do this type of thing. Well Where is that? He he really wasn't. So what was he doing? Well I mean and I could talk a lot about Neumaiok because it was it was one of the neatest studies that I ever did. And but he he had a desire to see something done about his people. He was he was heartbroken over the fact that people were li back in Jerusalem and they were unprotected And but God he he went and he was able to get the the the resources together and the people together to rebuild the walls, which led to a spiritual A physical thing that he did helped pave the way for the next guy, which was Ezra, to do the spiritual side of things And God used them that way. So Ezra is uh a lot of history in there, not a lot of message in Ezra in the book of Ezra, but he was a Um that time. Then you have Haggai and then the last book of the Bible Malachi. Oh, I forgot Zechariah and Zechariah and Malachi. My fault. And then we have not spoken about all of the uh I there is one book of the Bible I have not mentioned yet. Micah Micah. Oh, Miss Micah. No, I just missed that one. I'm sorry. I'll have to go back and fix that one How did I forget like it? Did that one go in the kings or let me find that answer for you. Take me a sec. Sorry about that. He goes with kings. That's what my Bible opening said. Okay. I'll have to admit I'll have to admit I'm not seeing it here, but I'll go with the E as V uh study part of that Bible. Okay. Um no there's one other one besides my pet I just totally missed while putting this together. Is that a prophetized? Nope, it's not a prophet. Ruth and Esther. I miss Ruth. R Esther is what I was thinking of. Yeah, Esther. I'll have to go fix that. Um yeah, books of Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther are contemporaneous works Um Ruth uh takes place, just as a quick side note, Ruth takes place before um the Kings Before 1 Samuel. Before 1 Samuel, yes. I was working it out. Okay, yeah. Ezra Nia Esther contemporaneous works during the reign of the Medes and the Persians Um that is pretty much I don't want to go any further. We've got the New Testament to cover. So I'm gonna stop there. But any um any other uh questions or Comments. Good. Okay. Well, I hope that um at least as far as we've gone so far, we uh The Old Testament it's it is there's so much in there. It's huge. I mean I can't imagine what all of that would look like in scroll form. You know? Maybe it wouldn't be one scroll, but still I mean how much How in in writing much bigger than this, how much space would that take? It's a lot. And um it's really helpful for us to For anyone, for anyone to really not approach the Old Testament in a lazy way, but to really be diligent about it and and get uh you know get our mental our brains a little dirty as far as putting some effort into it And it's beneficial. It's beneficial for us. And um we'll see how far we get next time. But at least having this much so far When we start to delve into specific passages to put into practice what we've been learning so far, um I think that we'll be uh It'll be very helpful. And um hopefully, Lord willing, you know, this will help unlock some of those um abilities that when we approach scripture we we can we can say yeah not that we're perfect and not that we're gonna get everything right but essentially you can approach it boldly and and saying, okay, I mean I don't know I might not have everything together, but I've got enough to where I can really delve into this and and for when those teaching opportunities come as well in the future Now anybody in this room could could end up teaching a class, whether it's for children or for adults. that you can say, okay, where are we? You know you sort of get a curriculum and you jump in the middle and you say, okay, what's going on? And you have a better idea now of uh where where things fall and how it all works together. Alright, let's pray and then we dismiss. Father, we thank you for your plan of preserving your word for us. And Thank you that we we have what we do have from you is the the messages and the words and the truth that you intended for us to have. And uh I pray that we would be diligent students of it and help us in the uh weeks to come as um we have opportunity to look at the New Testament And see how all that works together. And uh pray that you would um help us out as we endeavor to be Better handlers of your word. And better students, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.