Alright, well let's go ahead and uh jump into it this morning. Uh I gotta say that preparing for this class This particular uh one for today has been uh a blessing to me. This this this theme that we're looking at today uh is probably things that I've heard bits and pieces of but never um never uh seeing the whole picture and the whole thing together and so I was really blessed and um I'm hoping that it will be the same for you all today as well. We uh last last two classes we we covered Looking at the theme of God's covenant, covenants that He makes, has made with His people, starting with Adam and Eve and tracking all the way through until the new covenant. Um and today the theme that we're looking at is the the theme that we're looking at is The dwelling place of God. And we're tracking from the Garden of Eden to New Jerusalem. And I'd like to begin this morning by talking about Plans. You and I we all make plans, do we not? Short term plans, long term plans, right? Sometimes people say that as we go through this life, we we're supposed to have a like a one-year plan, a five-year plan, a ten-year plan, and so forth, like for finances or for other things, investments And um we all have plans for the future. I have we have plans for tomorrow and so forth. Um Makes you wonder though sometimes how many of our plans involve what God is planning for us. And that also leads me to the question of, well does God have plans? Does God make plans? And if so, does He have a plan for the future? And what does that entail? In our class today, we're going to see God's original plan, how we then wrecked that plan And what God has been doing throughout all the ages up to this day to be with his people in some fashion, which is And that and that is his ul uh what his ultimate plan for this restoration is. My my hope ultimately through this class This particular one here is that we would come out of this even more eternally minded than than we were when we first came in. So um we're gonna start now and we're gonna start in the beginning. You're gonna see this a lot It might get a little old it might seem a little old, but we're tracking this thing through the Bible and we pretty much have to start in the beginning once again. The garden. Not something unfamiliar to us, right? We understand the Garden of Eden. We understand that God made the earth, made the garden, had Adam and Eve lived there. But sometimes what we f uh an element that we might forget is the fact that while he created all things He also created this special area known as the Garden of Eden, not only for Adam and Eve, but also for God himself. Before the fall, God was able to be in the garden with Adam and Eve, with his creation. unencumbered by anything that would call it cause God to have to remove himself, such as sin. It was a place for God to dwell. It was a place for mankind to dwell, and it was a place for him to dwell. In Genesis 3. 8, it describes God walking uh and talking in the garden. Genesis 2. 15 talks about how God placed Adam in the garden. to cultivate um cultivate uh and cultivate it and keep it And he was charged to protect it, have exercise dominion over it. Adam had jobs in all of that, right? But the point that we want to, there's a lot going on there, but the point that we want to recognize is that it was man's dwelling place. It was also God's dwelling place. You ever wonder how long it took before Adam and Eve sinned? I do. Yeah. You'd hope, right? Yeah, they they hadn't conceived children yet, so they hadn't, and you would have thought that So it probably was pretty girl now. You'd think. Unless unless there was a a heart of rebellion there already where they were going to disobey God's command. To be fruitful and multiply. But all of this was ruined by By Adam and Eve's fall, by their fall falling into sin. Because Adam failed This home, this garden that God had created was now defiled. And God could no longer stay there. And thus began the separation. That's that part of the death that that God promised would happen if they should uh eat of that tree, is that they would surely die. And the in the most general sense, death means separation. It's a separation of soul and body And in a spiritual sense, it's a separation of communion with God, that relationship between mankind and God. Adam and Eve failed in this area. They were then expelled from the Garden of Eden, right? Which is i i it's telling that God had reserved that area, that spot for a particular purpose. And when mankind failed, when when Adam and Eve fell into sin, they It's not like the whole area changed and they could just now they were they were just going around. No, God expelled them, took them out of that that spot because that was a particular place designed for Adam and Eve and presumably the rest of mankind to be in with God. And then what happens? God also places a guard, right, in front of the Garden of Eden. And they uh they're not allowed, it's made sure that they're not allowed back in So we see very right at the outset, God had a plan to have to dwell with his people. To dwell with his creation, his special creation, humankind, and that aspect was broken. We know uh skipping ahead a little bit in the in the time period, we know that sin rains terribly so. Uh eventually Adam has to uh excuse me, eventually God has to destroy the world with a flood. Um after the flood. Hello. After the flood, anyone is murder buying you? Okay. Oh, she's not coming in there. So um after the flood you had that incident with the Tower of Babel, right? And Uh God gives specific commands to his peop the people that that that came out of the ark. Those people multiply. They They do basically exactly the opposite. God wanted them to fill the earth. Yeah, disperse through the earth. They do exactly what the opposite of what God intends. They stay in the same area. They have their own project that they want to do. And it's a stark Babel is a stark reminder of how far humanity had fallen and how perverted human nature had become Um after that we have we have uh a period of time where Starting with uh with Noah, a little bit with Noah and starting with Abraham. God does not dwell with his people in any way. But God intently, purposefully, interrupts certain individuals' lives, right? He does speak audibly to Abraham, to Isaac, to Jacob. Um and that as we saw the last couple of times that has a lot to do with the covenant that he had made with them, these patriarchs. Um and then you have You have Moses comes on the scene. Um Moses and the people are in Egypt and they grow abundantly. They they become they from a multi from a minority they end up a multitude, a feared multitude. They're enslaved. And while they're in Egypt, though, parts of the Abrahamic covenant are actually fulfilled. They become a a an almost innumerable amount of people, especially compared to how they started. And once they uh get out of Egypt, now they're in the wilderness, right? And it's at that point, after the Ten Commandments are given in Exodus 20, that you start to hear about the instructions to build this tent. And what is the purpose of the tent, or as it's also called in Scripture, the tabernacle. It is. It's a place for God to dwell with his people. And there's a lot of specific instructions, right? I mean the The entire second half almost of Exodus is devoted to how this tent is supposed to be constructed. how it's supposed to be transported, and so forth, and what you're supposed to do within this tent. Here we have uh an artist's rendition of the tabernacle. Just so we can get an idea of how it looked, if you haven't seen something like this before, you have three main areas. You have the courtyard. You have uh two sections are divided. Um I shouldn't point there. point up here. You have the the outer section here of the courtyard. You have the uh the area here and then the holy of holies uh behind the veil And um th those those that veil sh talk uh it indicates that separation that was there and and only one priest one time a year was allowed into the Holy of Holies. And that that Holy of Holies or the is the inner sanctum, that's where the Ark of the Covenant was placed. You can kind of see See it there at the top. And that box, that arc, kind of served as a double function. It was the footstool of a throne and a chest. It was understood as a footstool. Ark of the Covenant extends the heavenly throne to earth. And this is where the divine the divine king's t feet touch the earth And it kind of links heaven and earth. Oh we have uh snacky snacks here today. Cool. So yes, this is the idea here is so that God would dwell with his people. The Levitical priests in this case were supposed to serve within the tabernacle and to guard the tabernacle, similar to Adam and the garden. This was to be God's dwelling place. And when you go ahead and turn to uh Exodus forty. Exodus forty, so we can see this here. And verses thirty-four and thirty-five Starting 33. And he raised up the court all around the tabernacle and the altar and hung up the screen of the court gate. So minut Moses finished the work. So the tabernacle is complete, is what that's saying there. Verse 34, then the clouds covered the tabernacle of the meeting, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. And Moses was not able to enter the tabernacle meeting because the cloud rested above it, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. And then you can see this cloud, uh it represents the presence of God in uh in in this And you can see in verse 36, whenever the cloud was taken up from the tabernacle, the children of Israel would go onward in all their journeys. But if the cloud was not taken up, Then they did not journey till till the day that it was taken up. So in other words, if if the cloud moved, they moved. But if the cloud stayed, they stayed put. They stayed where they where they were And we see in verse 38 that at night it was a pillar of fire, and in the daytime it was a cloud. That represented God's presence. And we see there that the glory of God, His glory, filled this tabernacle. But let me ask you something. While this was sort of a fix to the problem that Adam and Eve created, is this ultimately how God wants to dwell with his people? No. It it's rather incomplete, isn't it? And it sure does take a lot of work on on a human on a human side. Um from a particular particular book, uh Eat in the Temple and the Church's Mission. A quote here says, the tabernacle was a small-scale model and a symbolic reminder to Israel that God's glory, his presence, would eventually fill the whole cosmos. And the cosmos would be the container for God's glory, not just a mere small architectural container. Referring to the tabernacle. And and so no, this isn't ultimately how God wanted to dwell with his people So uh you you go for a while and uh through the script through the pages of scripture. And they use the tabernacle in the wilderness. They use the tabernacle once they have, for the most part, conquered the land. And the tabernacle is still in use by the time the king King Saul comes around And um I skipped some of the uh yeah, we just read that. Okay. Um you you see You see the tabernacle being in use all the way up until the the reign of David. You see in let's go ahead and turn to 2 Samuel chapter 7. So you can see this as well. And verse um let's look at verse one Now it came to pass when the king was dwelling in his house, and the Lord had given him rest from all his enemies all around, that the king said to Nathan the prophet, See now I dwell in a house of Cedar. But the Ark of God dwells inside tent curtains. So what's going on there? Well, David recognizes the fact that his abode, his dwelling place is actually much more magnificent than the tent that God dwells in. And um He recognizes that his his residence shouldn't be more grant than the house that's built for the Lord. So he uh explains He explains that he has to the prophet Nathan he has a desire to build God a house or the temple, a temple for him to dwell in, a permanent structure rather than one that was supposed to be moved around. And um but the fact is, and many of you may remember that even though David desires to build God a grand house God says that in a twist he says that he will actually build a house for David. And that's the that's the Davidic covenant. And ultimately he tells him that David's son, a son of David, would build a house for God. And we know that to be whom? Solomon. Solomon, yes. So it is David's son that um that ends up building the temple. Where is that? Sorry, I don't have a look down, you're in chapter seven, look down in verse twelve of chapter seven. When your days are fulfilled and you rest with your fathers, I will set up for your seed After you, who will come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. So we see then um Skip ahead now to uh uh 1 Kings chapter 8. 1 Kings chapter 8, we're we're cruising through the Bible here. So uh chapter eight verse ten says and it came to pass when the priest came out of the holy place that the cloud filled the house of the Lord. So that the priests could not continue ministering because of the cloud, for the glory of the Lord filled the house of the Lord. So this we see this the construction of the temple is finished. And what happens? The same thing that took place when the tabernacle was finished. God's glory, God's presence resides within the temple. It's the same language used there that it was. And so we we we have then a very clear picture here that the temple it it replaces the tabernacle For God and for his people. It supersedes it. But even with this, this is a permanent structure, we we hear, we hear from other portions of scripture that this was a very Beautiful structure, a beautiful building. And uh while it's an improvement from the tabernacle in many, many ways Is this ultimately how God wants to dwell with his people? No, it's not. It's not Well, for about 400 years or so, through good kings, through evil kings, the Jerusalem temple survived, but eventually the accumulated failure of all the kings leads to the destruction of the temple By the Babylonians in five eighty six B City. And um we see so much of this talked about in the prophets. Um Solomon's temple is destroyed. And if you were to look at uh Isaiah chapter one, we won't take time to look at this one, but Uh it highlights the discrepancy between what the people of God were to be as a holy righteous city and a temple and what they actually looked like. They they were so far from What God wanted them to be. But the prophecies of Isaiah, they move from the historical city of Jerusalem and talk about a new Jerusalem. In Isaiah 2, this future transformation is anticipated. And in Isaiah 65, we see visions of a future transformed city. Other prophets as well, like Ezekiel. In chapters 40 through 48, it talks about how God is committed to making the whole earth his dwelling place, not just a temple, not just a tabernacle. And he spends in in those chapters significant time describing this idolized temple, idealized temple of the future. And the most striking to the earlier parts of the book, God renames the city. I want you to take a look at this. Look at verse forty uh chapter forty-eight of Ezekiel. So it's talking about this city. Chapter 48 is talking about this city, the city that isn't around yet. It's a future city. And it's talking about the dimensions and what it's going to look like, about the gates and and so forth. And look at verse thirty-five. This is how Ezekiel ends. All the way around shall be eighteen thousand cubits, and the name of the city from that day shall be what? The Lord is there. The Lord is there. Yeah. The board is there. That's pretty telling. You know, we understand and believe that God is omnipresent, right? God is everywhere. There isn't and bec and along with that comes omniscience and omnipresent and and omnipotence. But there is a difference between the omnipresence of God And the specific presence of God. And so that's what's being highlighted here at the end of Ezekiel. The specific presence of God is there. You can also look at the book of Zechariah, looks forward to a transformed city in which God would dwell. Take your Bibles and turn to Zechariah chapter 8. And look at verse three. Thus says the Lord, I will return to Zion. And dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. Jerusalem shall be called the city of truth, the mountain of the Lord of hosts, the holy mountain. Skip down and look at verse 7. Thus says the Lord of hosts, Behold, I will save my people from the land of the east and from the land of the west. I will bring them back. And they shall dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. They shall be my people, and I will be their God in truth and righteousness. So we talked at the beginning of our class about God's plans, our plans and God's plans. And what do we see in the pages of the Old Testament? God's plans. God is planning something. And it's for us. It's for God's people. So yes, ultimately the temple is destroyed, and when these pages were written, these prophets were writing, the temple's gone. God's presence isn't there And for any Hebrew who was devoted to God, this would have been a tragedy. This would have been tragic. But to hear the words of the prophets and what God was saying through them, there was hope being delivered. That one day God's presence would return and they could return to Him. Now it's true that the temple was rebuilt in the time of Malachi. Ezra, Nehemiah. And but even there they lament the fact that what they rebuilt was nothing compared to what um what the there had originally been there. So uh Malachi ends Book of Malachi, and then from Malachi to Matthew, you have and whatever whatever many pages that is in your Bible, that's 400 years, 400 years of silence, which God predicted would happen. happen. There would there would be a famine in the land, but not a famine of of food and water, but a famine of the words of the Lord. And um so not only is God's presence gone, God's words are gone for a while. And God's words don't return until His Son comes. Jesus. And I'd like to take a look at how the coming of Jesus is depicted. Let's let's look uh let's look at the Gospel of John in chapter one John 1 1 is quite familiar to us, right? It says in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God and the Word was God. He was In the beginning with God. All things were made through Him, and without Him nothing was made that was made. It's pretty all-encompassing. Jesus is creator. But then skip down to verse 14. We've heard about the word and what he did back at the foundation of the world and the universe, really. But then verse 14 kind of switches gears a little bit and says, and the word then became flesh and dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. You know that word dwelt? If you could verb a tabernacle, that's what it would be. Jesus tabernacled with us. Jesus templed with us. He dwelt among us. That's the idea of that word. It's an encamping. And it's pretty amazing the fact that Jesus came and it says here that he dwelt among us, he tabernacled among us. And while Jesus was here, Jesus claimed that now forgiveness of sins now comes through Him. That He was the only one that could forgive sins. What does that do? That replaces the sacrificial system that would have taken place in the tabernacle and the temple. This suggests that he was completely taking over everything that the temple and the tabernacle had been used for Look at um two. Well, yeah, you'll you'll we'll need to be in John two in a second. John two, remember, um it's in there that he ends up going to the temple. Remember? And it wasn't the best situation for those that were there because he saw what had happened and what had the temple become. Yeah, it was it was a place where m m mar money was moved around. It was a market place They had made God's house a place for finances, a place for trade, something that they had never intended to do. And Of course it was corrupt too. And yes, and so the and nobody was treating uh people were not truly treating others fairly. And um And he's talking about the temple here, and we see after that in verse 16 says, Take these things away. Do not make my father's house a house of merchandise or a den of thieves. And then uh it says in verse eighteen, so the Jews answered and said to him, What sign do you show uh since you do these things? Jesus overthrew the money changers, right? He he he just He cleaned it out. And um what does he say in verse 19? He says, destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. Then the Jews said, it has taken forty-six years to build this temple, and you will raise it up in three days? But was he really talking about that physical temple? He was talking about himself, and John the author makes a note in twenty-one to clarify for the rest of us. But he was speaking of the temple of his body. He's talking about himself there. Jesus also refers to himself as the cornerstone of the temple. You could look at Mark 12, 10. Matthew 21, 42. Jesus, and then we just read also, Jesus even tells the Jewish leaders that he himself was the temple. And as great and as wonderful as Jesus dwelling with us, dwelling with mankind on earth was. He didn't stay here, did he? And ultimately, God's permanent intention wasn't for Jesus to stay with us While that must have been an amazing time to be alive, especially if you were a follower of Christ, his dwelling with us on this earth was a temporary thing. And we all know How in Acts chapter one he was lifted up into heaven while the while the followers of Jesus were watching him. I uh I'm really I'm got a new system going on here and so I'm I'm I'm forgetting all my uh all my uh advancements here. But there there it is, dwelling among us, tent tabernacle. Okay, maybe Yeah, go ahead. I I I'll make one point. You said that um God did not s speak after that four hundred your silence until Jesus. Well yeah, I would agree with that, but technically he broke silence with uh in the temple when uh John the Baptist's father went in there to serve. Oh, okay. Okay, and the angel Lord spoke to him and told him about his son. That's a good point, yeah. So that that would be we'd be reaction. Okay. Good correction. Alright, so Jesus, uh like we said in chat in Acts chapter one, Jesus leaves And thus inaugurates the church. Now we in our culture and and even in our own language, when we say church Often we mean the building, right? And it it it bugs me. Not gonna lie, it bugs me. I wish we could come up with a different word. Um But the church, the word church doesn't mean building. It doesn't mean any it doesn't have any idea of a structure within it at all. It's the word uh it's the Greek word eklesia, which simply means an assembly of people. Right. Assembly of people. Uh and and actually when when Jesus uses the word for the first time It's kind of a climactic event, do you remember? When Jesus confesses who Christ really is, that he is the Messiah, the one that we should be following, he has the words of life. And Jesus says, Blessed are you, Simon Peter. For flesh and blood hasn't revealed this to you, but my Father in heaven. You, Peter, thou art the rock, and upon this rock, thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my And everyone's probably listening, what's he gonna say? What's he gonna say? I'm gonna build my bunch of people. What does that mean? Build build an assembly of people. Well, little did they know what God had in his mind. When it comes to this. So we see then in the New Testament that the people of God, followers of Christ, true followers of Christ, are called the church We have local representations of the church, like this one here in Bethel, but we also have the universal church, everyone who is a follower of Christ throughout the world. We are all a part of Christ's church, and he is actively building his church, so we are all a part of Christ's building project, you might say. You know the it just excuse me, uh if people would keep that focus, that the church is the assembly of the believers, okay, and not the building, you wouldn't have have vices splits over church over curtains in the church or this or that. Believe me, I've been in a church that did that. Over the physical building. Okay. Yeah. And um But when when people get the focus wrong, I think the churches the I I've had people tell me today the church is a the the auditorum is a sanctuary. It's not a Use it for wherever you want. So the there there's a you know it's when people get this this mystical idea that this building has spiritual significance and trans upon it. Yeah. If this building was gone, the church remained So, and what you're saying is perfect because when that happens, what are we viewing the church as? We're kind of viewing it as a temple, right, right? Mm-hmm. And in our day and age, where we are now in redemptive history, where is the temple? It's us. It's us. The people of God are the temple of God. That should actually read First Corinthians six, I believe. Yes. First Corinthians six. Uh go ahead and look at that. First Corinthians six verse fourteen. Yes, yes, I that as I was saying it should read first first Corinthians. Yep, it should read first. You're gonna find a different passage in Second Corinthians there, talking about something else. It says and God both raised up the Lord and will also raise us up by his power. Do you not know that you are bot that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them members of a harlot? Certainly not. Or do you not know that who is he who is joined to a harlot is one body with her? And the two, he says, shall become one flesh. But he who is joined to the Lord is one spirit. Please sexual immorality, every sin that a man does is outside the body. But he who commits sexual immorality sins again. Verse 19, or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and you are not your own? So we are the temple, and according to the verse nineteen, who resides in this temple? Yes, the Holy Spirit, who is God, the third person of the Trinity. The Holy Spirit resides in the temple or resides in all believers. This is a glorious truth. I mean think think of what we've seen so far, tracking through biblical history God's intention has been to what? Dwell with his people. What's the problem? Sin doesn't allow us to dwell together with him. In a real way. And so there, but there are still these ways that God has made possible for us to dwell with Him, to receive His presence. And in our age today, this is the way it happens. We are the temple. How does that work? Well if that if that if that's how it works, then who are the priests? We are the priests There is one high priest, and that's the man Jesus Christ. He is the mediator between God and mankind. And we are all priests under him. Before, in the Old Testament, you had to go to a Levitical priest to gain access to God. They were the mediator. Today, Jesus is the mediator, and we are all priests under him. We are called priests in Hebrews But even with this glorious truth, I mean this is an amazing thing to think about, even with this glorious truth, this is still not the ultimate way that God wants to dwell with his people, is it? No, it's not. It's not. And even in the New Testament we see a foreshadowing. of what God wants to do. We saw foreshadowing in Ezekiel and Zechariah a little bit ago, right? But there's even more, even more in the New Testament. Go ahead and turn to Hebrews. Hebrews. We'll start in in verse uh chapter eleven. We're not going to read all of eleven and twelve, but this is where you see uh these both of these chapters, you see this And um let's start in verse 8 of chapter 11. By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out of the place which he would receive as an inheritance. And he went out, not knowing where he was going. By faith he dwelt in the land of promise, as in a foreign country, dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with the same of uh of hi with him of the same promise. But look at what it says in verse 10, for he waited for the city, which has foundations, whose builder and maker is God. We see here that while he was uh dwelling in a land that wasn't his own as a foreigner He had an anticipation for a future city that God was going to make. And the author of Hebrews highlights that for us. In verse thirteen, it says, These all died in faith, not having received the promises. But having seen them afar off, were assured of them, embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. Sorry, I got a little lost a little track of where I was So Abraham was waiting for a city. The author of Hebrews is convinced that the future experience of all believers involves a city. Look at chapter 12, verse 22. Says, but you have come to Mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, to an innumerable innumerable company of angels. What do we see here in Hebrews? Well, we see a couple things. Number one, who is Hebrews written to? Jews. The Hebrews. Yeah. That's leverally named. So we right? Yeah. Really really specific. I realized that was an obvious answer, but I want us to think for a second Why the author of Hebrews would be talking about these things, about a city, a future city. They would be much more familiar with the promises of the prophets of the Old Testament. than say a Greek Christian. And so he brings out the these Old Testament promises. And reminds the author of the listeners of Hebrews. By the way, Hebrews very well could have been a sermon, actually. It's labeled as a word of exhortation. at the end of Hebrews, um in chapter uh thirteen. And um we see that used elsewhere in in the book of Acts. It's called a word of exhortation And that's where uh it was definitely a sermon. But um the fact that and these Hebrews we know also the occasion was that these individuals We're flirting with the idea of going back to Judaism. Because if you were a Jew, there was no persecution, but if you were a Christian, there was. And the author of Hebrews, or the speaker of Hebrews, is exhorting them to stay with the faith. Don't go away from Christ. Don't go back to Judaism. Stick with Christ. Christ is better. Jesus is better than the Old Testament and the Old Ways. And so he is exhorting them to do that, and part of the hope that he gives is that you are waiting for another city. Don't miss out on that. God still has plans. God still has plans that are not yet fulfilled. for us to dwell with him again like he originally intended. Like he did with Adam and Eve before the fall. I have one more slide. And this is the most important slide Because it talks about officially when that happens. Have we experienced the New Jerusalem even yet? No, we haven't You're going to need to be, you don't need to turn there, actually. I'm going to have it on the screen. But here is the picture in Revelation chapter 21 that God gives to us, his people. So that we can see what he has intended for us. It says here in the beginning of chapter 21, and I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea. And I John saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard with a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. And he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them and be their God. Do you see that? It says The tabernacle or the dwelling place of God is now where? With men. And He will tabernacle or He will dwell with them And they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, and be their God. And it may be the more familiar portion of this, and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there shall be no more death. Neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall be there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. Now there's not a whole lot that I need to add to that. But What we see here is that God seeks to correct this aspect of the fall. Adam and Eve, through their sin, broke that fellowship, broke the presence that they could have with God. And God ever since has been seeking to correct that. And in his time Once the end of redemptive history has come, he plans to do that. And we see that in Revelation 21. God wants us with him. God wants us with him. In John 17, Jesus' high priestly prayer, he even prays there to his Father, Heavenly Father. That his followers would one day be with him where he will be. Jesus wants us with him. What we see in this chapter is the culmination of us following him. You know, when we see this theme in its entirety in the Bible, Do you not just want to experience chapter 21 right now? I know I do. I want it right now. It sounds amazing. Sounds amazing to experience God correcting this wrong that took place so long ago. It'll finally be fulfilled. And God will dwell with mankind once again. And we will be with him. And he will be our God. And and I love verse 4 because it it shows it shows all the things that we do experience now, right? And I love that last phrase. There's not going to be any of that anymore because the former things They're passed away. This right now is the former things. They're going to be passed away and it's going to be so much better. Ultimately, because God will be able to be with us completely. Let's go ahead and pray. Father, we thank you for the fact that even though we rebelled against you, And you had to separate yourself from us. You did not leave us in that state. Nor did you even abandon us, but instead you already had in your mind the plan for redemption. And that redemption for us would also include correcting the issue, the problem of the lack of presence between you and us. And now we see that your plan ultimately is for us to be with you again, like you originally intended. And we thank you for that, Father. I pray that you would help us focus on these things as we As we go through our day, that they would be an encouragement to us, that we would be able to see the The problems of each day, the frustrations, the disappointments, that we would see them really in light of eternity. We get such a good glimpse of what eternity is, Father, from We pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.