Uh starting in verses verse twenty-two and and and kind of working our way through this that passage. We noted last week that in order for there to be a good job. church or a healthy church, it's got to have if when there are marriages, they need to be healthy. Doesn't mean that everybody has to be married to be to be uh contributing to a healthy church. But those marriages that are there ought to be healthy. And let me just begin by asking you a question. So we're talking about marriage here and and I um would just ask you this question. If you could only use one word to describe your marriage now I'm I'm not asking you to say this out loud. That really might not be a safe thing to do. But in your mind, what would how would you characterize your marriage in one word? Maybe you would look at past marriages and you'd have very visceral kinds of words to use for um for that for to characterize that marriage. Are you thinking of heaven as the as the word, or bliss, or happiness? Or maybe disappointment or frustration? Maybe it depends on the amount of time you've been married, whether that's the case in some of the ways that we're talking thinking about our marriages. You know, the reality is every marriage, if everybody well, I say every marriage, if you've been married for any length of time, you're going to find that there are parts of your marriage that can be at times a bit frustrating. I mean really, if you really think about it, most of the time opposites opposites attract. And um and so if you marry somebody that's opposite of you, it the the same things that attract you can also frustrate you from time to time. It's sort of understood that there's going to be a little some frustrations in marriage. It's sort of. understood that there's going to be some disappointment. A lot of times we have all c very high expectations going into marriage and nobody can ever fulfill all the expectations that we are planning Um and so we find sometimes that there is disappointment in the marriage as well. And then when you get into the Christian marriage, it's it's it's even more um Um it can be even more like I I don't know what to do. Because what happens is that you realize you've got to do it you you're wanting to do it God's way. You're wanting to And so you're thinking about how to do this, and the Bible uses this word that's difficult in our culture for a woman to ex to uh kind of hang on to to and that's the word submit. Let me just say this um about that. You you're gonna have to take everything I say in totality and context for there to not be you know tomatoes thrown at me or something. You so you really have to to think in terms of uh of the whole picture and we already had the first part of the picture last week Um so you might have to, you know, just please reserve judgment until you hear the whole the whole the whole thing here. I just would ask you to do that if you would. I'm sure I'm sure that you will. But there are oftentimes the frustration in marriage kind of m and it particularly in a Christian marriage boils down to sort of these kinds of of thoughts. He doesn't, I don't see that he really loves me. Or I don't really see that she respects me. I feel as though I'm being disrespected. Or a woman may feel that way. I wife may f I don't feel that he really respects me Um for a husband if a wife if there's a the way men are normally wired, if there is a a a good kind of respect given usually They feel loved as well. But there are sometimes conflicts in the marriage, and the boil it boils down to these kinds of things. Women often might say something like, he doesn't really listen to me. That's why I know he doesn't really love me. Or I feel as though maybe he doesn't love me. Or you might say, well I know he loves me, but I don't feel like he loves me because he doesn't really listen. And And sometimes the husband may feel the same way. In other words, folks, there are conflicts in marriage sometimes, and there are frustrations in marriage that you have to sort of work through Let me just ask this question of husbands. And again, I didn't choose this topic. The Bible chose this topic for me. I'm going through the Bible here. Book of Ephesians. But let me just ask husbands the question. And I guess I'll just preface this. Last week I asked the wives, what do you do? When a husband is not cooperative. And we turned to 1 Peter 3 and we looked at how to how to handle that situation And I'm going to turn the tables here and ask the husband, what do you do when the wife does not seem to be cooperative? Do you realize, folks, husbands and wives, do you realize that you cannot fulfill your role as contingent upon their role being fulfilled. In other words, you can't look at it and say, okay, well I'm going to fulfill my role But I can't fulfill my role because he's not keeping up his end of the bargain. How often do we hear that from our culture? Or we might hear things like, this is a 50-50 proposition. Well, what we find in Ephesians chapter five is that the role of the wife Should not, and her role should not be contingent upon the husband's role. And a husband shouldn't role should not be contingent upon the wife's role. In other words, they've both both got, you've both got to give 100% What we find here as we work through this, and here is the key, men for us, here is the key, and very candidly, our responsibility is daunting. Paul first did talk to the wives, but when he comes to the husbands, the discussion is lengthened considerably by several verses. And the comparison is very significant. He says that we've got to love our wives as Christ loves his church. You see that in the passage? If you pick up here in verse 25, it says, Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. That is a tall order. Because Jesus Christ loves us unconditionally. He loves us sacrificially. And what we need to do as we work through this is we do need to at least spend a couple of moments here on what love really is. Because folks, in our culture Isn't it true that we we have so many mixed understandings, mixed signals about really what love is? We hear things like love is a very special thing. a smile, a tear, a soft summer rain that has no beginning and has no end, and I love it best when it's shared with a friend. What in the world? I mean what does that even mean? How is it a soft summer rain? I mean I really have never figured that song out. Folks, the reality is you hear things like this about what love is from every d every various perspective that you could think of What we've got to really do is ask ourselves the question, what kind of love is God talking about? And Paul talking down this passage. And what will be helpful for us is if we will begin by going through the four different kinds of love that we find in the first century. Now they are not all in the New Testament, in the Bible. But if we go through these and we won't spend a lot of time on each one, but I just want to go through them very quickly because If we'll do this, it will help us just to see the weight of the kind of love that's being really commanded of us in this passage. The first love is physical love. It comes from the Greek word eros. We get our word erotic from it. It is the idea that when When you see someone, you are attracted physically to them, and that there is a, as a result of that, there is a kind of physical love. It is, if we're putting these in terms of steps, we're putting this one in the basement. Physical love is not necessarily wrong. Certainly in marriage, it ought to be there And it isn't wrong all the time, even outside of marriage, but it can be turned wrongly quicker than probably any one of these other other concepts in love. It can it can go the wrong direction quickly. That's the physical kind of love. Um I could go into a lot more about that, but let's Let's go ahead and move on to the next one. The next one is friendship love. This is the kind of love that we see in Scripture, and it is, and we do see this in Scripture. Now the other one is talked about outside of Scripture a lot, but very rarely, in fact never, in the New Testament. We find it a couple of times in the Old Testament in the the Greek translation of the Old Testament. But we don't find this in the new that physical love in the New Testament at all. We do find this philet o word, which is friendship love. It is the it's the it's the kind of love that we all ought to have for one another That is to some degree a bit natural for us. When you get to know somebody and you if you have a good attitude about them and you and you s and you um you're you're not you're not you know there's some people they're just you know it's like they can't love anybody. They're just I don't know what the word is you know kind of cynical or something. But if you don't have that yet, then you would naturally kind of have this kind of love that gives consideration to the other person. It's a friendship kind of love. We all have friends, we know what that is. Most of us as friends Maybe a few of you don't. I don't know. Most do. The next kind of love we find twice in the New Testament, it is the it is familial love. It is a love of a family member. And this is something that is natural. It's something that you do not have to be a Christian to have. You don't even have to know God to have this. God gives it to you naturally in creation. It is something that is, it is a natural kind of thing. We find this twice, but it's kind of put negatively because there are some times where people get far so far away from God and so far into sin John, uh, for instance, Romans 131 says, without understanding covenant breakers, without natural natural affection. Second Timothy three three without natural affection, truth breakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good. sometimes where we get so far into sin, into uh corruption and and uh um deceitfulness and lying and those kinds of things that we lose our natural affection For family members. This is something that would cause a man to want to provide for his wife. This would cause a wife to want to provide for her family. This is the kind of natural affection that you would find in a good solid family and very candidly you wait you will come across occasionally and it's coming Becoming more and more rare, but you'll come across good families even that those who don't know Christ. Now they're not God glorifying families in the sense that we would think of Christian family, but they still are, they have this natural kind of affection one for another, and you can find this. But folks, none of these is what this book is taught, what this passage is talking about There is another kind of love that is rarely used outside of the New Testament in the first century in the Greek It's used very as sort of like didn't have much meaning at all in the first century. It was sort of this, you know, like nobody really knew what it meant. And God chose to take this word. and use it more often in the New Testament than any other word. And so what he did was he took a word that didn't mean much outside in the culture and put all of this massive amount of meeting into this word and use it throughout the New Testament. And that is the word that we know of as agape. Agape love. Now, this this is a this is a there's a lot of confusion about this between this and Phileo. One person has suggested that agape is God kind of love and Phileo is man-kind of love. Well that's not the case And the reason I say that is you find for in 1 John 2 verse 15 it says, love not the world. And it uses the word agape. It says, love not the world, neither things are in the world. If a man loves the world, love the father is not in him. And the world, by the way, is not talking about you can't love good things that are in the world, it's talking about the world system and the evil within the world. But when it's talking about that, it uses the word agape. So we're not talking now about God love versus man love. What we're talking about is a very pure kind of love When we're thinking about a husband's love for his wife or Christ's love for his church, for his people, what kind of love are we talking about? Folks, what we are talking about is agape love. And this is a love, folks, that we'll find the key to this is in this text. It says, Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church, and what? And gave them himself. This is a lot, this is the kind of love where you give yourself to someone. And you're going to give yourself to them Sacrificially, and you're going to give yourself to them unconditionally. Just as Jesus Christ died for the sins of the world, He gave Himself to us That's the kind of love we're talking about in this passage. We're talking about a kind of love where you are going to choose to give of yourself. Now I just want to mention here, like I said last week, the Bible never tells us to eat three mo three meals a day because we'll do it naturally. And the Bible doesn't often tell us to do things that we do naturally, but folks, this is true of a man he does not naturally give of himself to others. Not in the way that we're talking about in this passage anyway. He may give some of himself. But a man, and by the way, this is not necessarily the case of a woman. And I just want to say very clearly, I've said last week, and I'll just mention it again this week. Men and women are equal in value before God. But they're different. Okay? Different doesn't mean less or more. It just means they're different. And we talked about that last week and you have different roles, but they're equal in value, and I just want to point out when I'm talking about the differences here But the difference bet but a woman a wi a woman isn't this true, Dad men you'll you'll you'll you'll attest to this. Isn't it true that you will w you will find that your wife will sacrifice evert e in her own health for the kids or for you. There are times sometimes where a husband may actually have to step in and say, look, you, you are, you are Going, you are, you are sacr, you are loving, you're giving of yourself to the detriment of your own self to where you're going to wear yourself out. A mother may do that A husband, a man does not generally do that. He may, but I'm not saying but just generally speaking, you have those two kind of extremes there. And so why this is one of the reasons why God says you've got to love husbands, you've got to love your wife as Christ loves the church Now, what we've got to do then, folks, is we've got to really look at how Christ truly loves his children. Isn't that the case? Husbands, if we're going to love our wives the way that God desires for us to, then we're going to have to have to ask ourselves, how does Christ love people? How does he love his church? And we know, practically speaking, that he died for it. That is the ultimate kind of love that he would give of his own life for us. But on a practical level, I want you to see some things as we look at verse 26. It says he has a plan here. He says that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of the water by the word, that he might present it to himself, a glorious church. not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish. Now, let me just Consider this for a minute. This word sanctify. The old immediately when when a Jewish person would have seen this word, a picture would have gone in their mind. They would have had a picture probably of the old of the Old Testament sacrificial system. They probably may have had a picture of the Ten Commandments. They would have had a picture of the Old Testament law. Because what God intended in the Old Testament is for the law to do something for them. And for these sacrificial systems that they were involved in, God wanted to create a pure or a separate, a distinct nation. But not so that he just not so that they would just be distinct and the rest of the world would be on its own, but that it would create a light to the rest of the world. And so the way that God did this in the Old Testament is he imposed these laws and he imposed these mandates and he imposed 611 sacrificial sacrifices. I mean m massive amounts of laws and the Mosaic law. And he did it for this reason. He actually did it for a couple of reasons, but primarily in the in the human heart, that you would realize, you'd look at all that and say, I can't do it. There is no way I can meet up to God's standard. God wanted us to see that. He wanted us to see that there was no way we would ever get there. And so he gave us these laws that reflected his character so that we would see our own sin. We'd say, Oh, I can't do that. I'm not able to It also was so that if you think of the Old Testament tabernacle and the temple, there was something called defilement, that they had to make sure that everything was clean. in order for there to be a a place where God's Shekinah glory could dwell. It was so that God's presence would could be with this nation. So that they could be a unique people, so that they could reach the entire world. In other words, folks, God wanted to reach the world through the nation of Israel. But largely, folks, even though God's not done with the nation of Israel yet, it largely failed. It isn't as though God's law was bad, but it's what man did with God's law. And what man did, or the nation of Israel, did with God's law primarily is they began to say that they can impose uh external mandates to create internal purity If we will just obey these laws, it will create in us internal purity. And by the time you get in the New Testament, Christ comes on the scene. And who is he always dealing with? He's dealing with the Pharisees. And this next word that you see where it says cleanse here, that is the same, that word is used when he's talking to the Pharisees over in Matthew 23, where he says. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for ye make clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, but within within you you're you're full of exhortation and excess I'm sorry, extortion in excess. Thou blind Pharisee, cleanse first that which is within the cup and the platter, that the outside of them may be clean also. He says in another passage, he says, you are as white as sepulchres with dead men's bones. Very rarely did you see Christ having this kind of manner with people. But when it came to this kind of hypocrisy where you're relying on external imposing of law in order to create internal purity Christ got very upset. He used, he employed righteous anger in these kinds of cases. Because, folks, you and I, folks, couldn't couldn't we all in this room all admit that external mandates will never impose internal purity. It'll never create internal purity. That's why Christ came. He came, the Bible says, to be the fulfillment of the law. He did what we couldn't do in living a perfect life. And Christ came to love. He came to love you and to love me. He real he caught in if you look over in Matthew 5 through 7, you don't have to do that now, but if you look over the Sermon on the Mount, what you're going to find is that Christ's expectation is not external purity, but internal purity. Internal holiness. But the way that Christ goes about getting this, or or not getting it, but but um instilling it and fostering it in people is to love them. He says that if, and that's what you see in this passage, it says that why is it that he's loving? He says that he might sanctify and cleanse it God's desire is for his church that we would know the love of Christ so much that it would compel us, according to 1 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians chapter 5. And that when we know this love as God wants us to know it, through Christ and all that He's done for us, it will cleanse us from the inside out. And folks, that is the only way we will ever be internally cleansed. And we make a grave mistake when we focus on the externals to the exclusion of the internals. In fact, we will alienate people. When we are trying to impose internal kinds of demand or I'm sorry, external kinds of demands on them. Because what that will cause, is this true folks, what that will cause is frustration All of us have it have experienced that. Even if you've not experienced it when it comes to these kinds of things, you may have experienced on a job where you are impos where you have mandates that are imposed on you, and certainly they have a they have the right to do that But when they are when they are unreasonable, you feel the pressure and the weight of them. You feel sometimes as though you just can't do this. Christ loves so that he can create and sanctify and cleanse his people And we see how he does this. Would you notice in verse 26 that you might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of the water by what? By the word of God. God says, so it starts this way: how does this internal washing happen? Well, we actually find this word washing In another place in the New Testament. We find it in Titus chapter two, where he says who gave himself for us that he might redeem us from all iniquity and purify unto himself a peculiar people. Well, that's actually the word sanctify. And then when we find in Titus 3:5, it says, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us by the washing of regeneration and the renewing of the Holy Spirit. Now follow this. How is it that God what's Christ's economy for internal purity? It is, first of all, that we would know the love of God. That we would see Christ's love, that we would recognize Christ's love for us. And it would secondarily be this, that the Word of God, God's word, this is God's word, that we would read this word and know this word and meditate on this word. and it would purify us from the inside out. And do you realize, folks, that these are two things are linked? Here's how they're linked. If you come to this book and you see God as a God who you who Let me put it this way. Who you, if you're going to follow, it's going to be to your harm and God's good. That's the way some people look at it. That if I follow Christ, it will be to my harm and to God's good. That's the kind of God in their mind they've got. They've got a God who says, I'm going to follow him And it's going to be to my but I'm going to have to do it to my detriment. And they come to God's word and they see all of this As something that they're yeah, I gotta follow that, yeah I gotta follow that, yeah I gotta follow that, I gotta follow this and I gotta follow that, I gotta follow this, Instead of saying God loves me. Christ loves me. He loves me. And he wrote a book so that I can get to know him. And he wrote a book so I can get to love him better. And when I follow what's in this book, it's not just for God's good, it's for my good too. So it's not, I've got to do this, but I get to do it. It's an entirely different approach, folks. If you are finding yourself struggling with sin that you cannot seem to get rid of, it's because, folks, you're not approaching this book from the point from the point perspective of seeing things seeing it as as something that is good for you, that is beneficial to you. Because would you notice what it says here in the passage as we move through this? It says that he might present to himself a what? A glorious church. His plan is that he is creating these people for himself. Not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that he should be but that it should be, the church, should be holy and without blemish. Now Let me just ask you this question at this point. And I think I've really already alluded to this. And you can go ahead and put those other two points up there because I've kind of worked through them. Um let me just ask you a question at this point. Is Christ is following Christ For God's benefit? For Christ's benefit? Or for your benefit? And the answer is yes. It's both. You've got to see it that way. You've got to see that God's way is the best way. Now, here's what often trips us up. What often trips us up is that it may cost us in the short term to gain long-term results. If you've lived any length of time, you realize that that's often the case. When you just in investments or whatever, a lot of times you've got to sacrifice the short term to gain a long-term result God in his a in the way he set the world up is really a lot that way in a lot of ways. And it is really no exception when it comes to this kind of thing. Yes, you may have to give up some things. But you've got to believe that in order to do what God says, that it's going to be ultimately for your best and God's best. It works, they're not mutually exclusive. But that takes, what does that take, folks? It takes faith. The Bible says without faith, it is impossible to please God. For he that comes to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Now, with all of that in mind, we now have to we have to look at this and we have to say, okay Okay, how do we apply all of this to the husband? Because you'll see the next verse, it says, so ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. Men, God never intended for us through force To make our wives follow us. God never intended that. And sometimes in our Christian culture We have gone wrong. Folks, we have gone wrong in thinking that it's through spiritual immaturity that a husband is sort of like this grand poopa. You guys like that? I like that anyway. And the wife is this subservient woman. And she better listen, because the Bible says submit. Folks, do you know what it doesn't say in the Bible? It never says that we are to impose through that kind of means a husband is put through supposed to impose the mandate of the following. And do you know what will happen in marriage if a husband does this? What will happen to folks, what will happen in a marriage if a husband tries to do this? Well, in some cases, there's a lot of things that can happen. Okay. But actually, what will happen in a marriage? If nothing else, it will create frustration In no difference than you trying to obey the external mandates of Scripture without understanding the internal, the internal reality of what Christ is trying to do And what he is doing through his love for us. You follow that? And that is why it says in this passage, would you notice here, it says, so ought men to love their wives as their own body Because, folks, it says, He that loveth his wife loveth himself. For no man ever yet hateth his own flesh, but nourisheth it and cherisheth it. Even as the Lord, the church, do you realize that what it's hanging here in this passage? It's saying that husbands, if you want for your benefit, you need to love your wife In other words, your benefit and her benefit are not mutually exclusive, no more than my benefit and God's benefit is mutually exclusive when I follow him. So that if I des I ought to want my wife to want to follow me. And I don't mean by the way that I'm all she's always I don't mean by that that there is frankly I I'll tell you the more you you grow together in marriage and I've uh and there's a lot of people here that can talk about growing together in marriage better than I can 'Cause they've grown a long time together. Um and I have some, but not to the extent they have. But you know, you begin to agree on a lot of stuff if you do it right. And so you begin to agree on things so much that it's not as though you're always, I'm you gotta I gotta lead and you gotta follow, or you gotta lead and I gotta follow. No, it's really a lot of it is there's just general agreement on things. And you kind of move together. And that's what God says here in this passage. He says that the two ought to be, they are one flesh You see that in the passage? For we it says, For no man ever yet hated his own flesh, but nourisheth it and cherisheth, even as the Lord the church, for we are members of his flesh body, and of his flesh, and of his bones. For this cause shall man leave his father and mother, and shall be joined unto his wife, and they too shall be one flesh. Now, with all of this in mind I think we've got to understand a couple of things. It says here, for example, that it says that a man ought to love his wife as his own body. What does Christ, in another passage in Ephesians that we looked at, what does Christ call the church? His body? Let's just follow this with me for a minute. Does Christ have a physical body? Yes. Without question, he has a physical body. He is up in heaven now with a physical body. Does Christ have, we're going to call it this, because the Bible calls it this, a mysterious body. It calls it a mystery here. The answer is yes. It is the church. Folks, what did Christ do to his physical body for the sake of his mysterious body? He died for us. Husbands, what ought you be willing to do with your physical body? for the sake of your, we'll call it this way, mysterious body or wife. You ought to be really willing to give up your life for them. Now, there are some chivalrous folks in this room, I'm sure, that are saying to themselves, I would take a bullet for my wife. I man, I would just take I would take a bullet for my wife. I just give me the opportunity and the bullet would come. I I would take a bullet And the wife is saying, you know, while you're waiting on for an opportunity for the bullet, would you just do the dishes? I mean all the wives laughed really hard at that one. Because the Bible tells us now how we are supposed to love our wives. It says we are to nourish th them and cherish them. It doesn't tell a woman to nourish her husband, and it doesn't even tell a woman to nourish her child because that's natural. But it tells a man, husband, you've got to nourish your wife. And it's going to take later on it's going to say you're going to you're going to nourish your children. You've got to bring them up and the nurture, same word, and admonition of the Lord. It says it twice for us husbands. You know why? Because God doesn't tell us to eat three meals a day because we do it naturally. That means, folks, we don't, men do not do this naturally. This second word here, this word cherish, is also found in another place in the Bible In fact, I'd like you men to turn to this passage. 1 Thessalonians. 1 Thessalonians 2, verse 6. Would you notice what it says here in this passage? 1 Thessalonians 2, 6 Nor of men sought we glory, neither we you, nor yet of others, when we might have been burdensome of the as of the apostles of Christ. But we were do you see that? What's that word, folks? But we were gentle among you. Even as a nurse, there's our word, cherisher her children. So being affectionately desirous of you, we were willing to have imparted unto you not the gospel of God only, but also of our own souls, because you are Ye were dear unto us. Folks, this gives us a great instruction for how we ought to nurture our wives. We ought to cherish them. There's got to be a gentleness with our wives. It's exactly the opposite of what we think we ought to do when they're not following our lead. We ought to be gentle. We ought to love them. We ought to cherish them. You see your wife cherishing her children You see her cuddling your children. You see her being gentle with your children. Folks, you need to be gentle with your wife. That is what God is saying here. He's saying you've got to nourish and cherish her. Now the reality is this is not easy for a man. Once he does it, the more he does it, the easier it becomes. But it isn't natural. And particularly in some of our cultural settings, it's not how it's it's it's It's we're actually it's it's better than it used to be. But uh sometimes you know you have the old John Wayne kind of um mentality. Um some of you remember John Wayne. you're going, pfft, Caitlyn's gonna ask me later, who is John Wayne? And you got through this fierce kind of pull yourself up by your own bootstraps kind of mentality. Folks, you've got to do something with this passage. Message men. You've got to not be a John Wayne with your wife. You've got to be gentle. I can hear Now let me just point this out. Would you men would you take your Bible, ladies to take your Bible and turn to Colossians chapter three? I mentioned last week that there are reasons that women find it hard to follow their husbands. And today I want to look I want us to look at a reason uh one primary reason, and there's some secondary reasons why we find that a man finds it's hard to love his wife. Chapter 3, verse 19, I want you to see this. It says, Colossians chapter 3, 19. Husbands, love your wives. And would you know that's the only thing after that that's said in this entire passage about how what a warning to the husband. Husband, love your wives and be not what? Be not bitter against them. This then infers, folks that a husband may struggle with bitterness toward his wife, and may cause that may cause her, cause him to not love the love his wife. I don't think usually people think of men having problems with bitterness. But I will tell you, I think men have probably perhaps more problems with bitterness than women do. I don't know, it's probably fifty-fifty. That is fifty-fifty. But we do have, if you are bitter toward your wife, you will never love her like Christ loved the church. If there is bitterness and wrath and indignation and those kinds of things, folks, in your heart, or an unforgiving spirit, or you're holding things against your spouse, your wife, you you will never be able to love her the way that God wants her to be loved. But I would imagine that there are wives in this room that are asking this, how in the world? What would cause a man to be bitter toward their husband, to be bitter toward their wife? Wise. Why what would cause a man to to to have that? Wise, wouldn't you want to know this? I think I think a godly woman, I'm sure the Godly women in this room would want to know what would ha what would cause a wife to feel uh a husband to feel to to be tempted to feel this way. Now he's never absolved of this. God's he's accountable to God for this, but and we'll see this in a minute But I want to just point out for if you are going, I'm going to let ladies, I'm going to bring you behind closed doors. And I'm going to give you some things, not that I've heard specifically from husband though I have heard I've heard all four of these and more. Okay. But um if you read would read counseling books or other or other things you find somebody Things too. I'm going to give you four things that make it hard for a husband to love his wife and they are tempted to be bitter. Number one: if his wife fails to follow him, And what this does, folks, in leadership, when a leader will not, when someone will not follow, it causes paralysis. Now I I want to essentially I want to say this again. Leadership does not equal value. Just because you're a leader doesn't mean you're greater in value. I need them I need to I hope you're I hope you're gat grasping this. But you know in any relationship there's got to be a leader. If you're going a direction and making a decision, there's got to be some kind of leader going on Leadership. It doesn't have to be a sharp, steep pitch. It could be like this, but you've got to have some leadership Folks, there are some times where a man is constrained to feel like he's got to keep a certain lifestyle. a certain job, a certain location, there are issues with the kids. The mother or the wife wants more than the husband wants or The wife wants fewer than the husband wants. These are the kinds of things, and so the wife is unwilling to follow her husband. And it causes a husband to be tempted to be bitter. Now I need everyone to listen to all of this. Because you're probably the women are probably at this point, wait a minute, wait a minute and the late and the men are going, Yeah, yeah, yeah. No just hold on. Maybe not probably I'm not I'm not really thinking you're doing that. I'm just um thinking that you could that is a potential of someone here. Um put it that way. Number two, if his wife fails to respect him There is an innate need for a man to need to feel respected. If a wife fails to respect him Then there is a temptation toward bitterness. Number three, if a wife is contentious. Proverbs 27, 15 through 16 says, A contentious wife is a continual dropping in a very rainy day. Whosoever hideth her, hideth the wind. Now, uh another version says, hideth the wind. Whosoever hideeth hiddeth or hitteth the wind or tries to r suppress that hits the wind. Have you ever tried to hit the wind? It's not effective. Folks, do you realize that what we're saying here is that when a m when a man comes up against a contentious woman, he doesn't know what to do. He he he it's like he's got his hands tied behind his back and he just doesn't know what to do. And that's why Proverbs says what it says. Number four, if his wife is unresponsive to him in intimate needs. 1 Corinthians chapter 7 explains that. I don't know if I go into any more detail there. Folks, then what we've got to do now is answer the question. The question that then begs for our attention here is for husbands. How do we love our wives who are not cooperative? And we're going to turn to the exact same passage that we did in last week that dealt with the wives on how they're supposed to handle things if there's an uncooperative situation. Would you take your Bibles and turn back to 1 Peter chapter 3? Because what we find here by this word likewise in verse 7, what we find here is that more than likely This is teaching both the wife how to handle things in a situation where the husband is being um being less than cooperative. And the wife also, how is the husband supposed to be do things when the wife is uncooperative? But now before you look out of the passage, let me just ask you a question. Men, let me just uh you'll know the answer to this. I don't know that women some women will, some won't The temptation, if you are beginning to get bitter in your heart toward your wife, do you know what the temptation is going to be? Your temptation is going to be to check out. Is that not right? To say, fine, you don't want to fine, go ahead, just do what you want. I'm going to check out of this relationship. I'm going to check out of this thing. I'm just going to check out. You fine, you don't you want to go that way? I think it's better. Fine. I'm just gonna check out. You can't make me do it. You can't force me to do it. You can't force me to see it your way. I'm gonna just check out Wouldn't that be men wouldn't I I'm just gonna say this very honestly, I know that would be the case with me. Men, would that not be our natural reaction? I would almost say that's universal It's at least categorical because we find an exact opposite of God telling us to do something very different here. Would you see here 1 Peter 3 verse 7? Likewise, ye husbands, dwell with them according to what? To knowledge. giving honor unto the wife as unto the weaker vessel, and as being heirs together of the grace of God life, that your prayers be not hindered God says, husbands, what you've got to do when your wife is not cooperative, you've got to do the exact opposite of what is natural. Instead of checking out, you've got to know them. You've got to listen to them. The responsibility ultimately is going to lie with you. If you're bitter, very candidly, it's your fault. Because you have checked out. Now, I'm not saying that there's not two people that you've got to both work together. What I'm saying is, folks, is that we never have an excuse for bitterness. Men, we never have an excuse for bitterness. But what we've got to do is we've got to communicate with our wives. The Bible says it. And if you've lived any length of time in marriage, you know that that's the truth. That you cannot break your communication down and think you're going to have a healthy marriage. That's not possible. And the Bible actually says it. Isn't it amazing how the Bible lines up with reality? Number one, we need to give honor to our wives. The Bible says, for the folks, we need to give we need to honor our wives We've talked about wives respecting their husbands. We need to honor them. We need to set the example in showing respect. We need to honor our wives. Give honor to your wife because she is the weaker vessel. Folks, that does not mean less intelligent Physically speaking, they are weaker, right? It does mean that they, let me just tell you an application of this, it does mean that they may wear themselves down. And you're watching them ragged, wearing themselves down, trying to get everything done, and you are relaxing because I'll tell you the way a man works. I'm just going to tell you, you ready? Men are you going to hate me for this, but that's okay A man lives with an open hand, and a wife lives by grabbing everything. In other words, a wife will, a woman will take responsibility. She'll just Hold on to responsibility. She will just if it if the man's not gonna do it, she'll do it. And she'll just keep doing it and keep doing it and keep doing it. She'll grab hold of it. And the man will go, fine, I'll leave I'll let you can take it, you can take it, you can take it But the problem, folks, with that is that the wife physically is the weaker vessel. Not intellectually, not spiritually, but physically they are. And it is a debt it is to our poor leadership men if we aren't able to step in and say, you know what, honey, you can't you you can't take that responsibility. Let me handle that. That's too much for you. Let me handle that. If we are just checking out and we're not knowing our wives according to knowledge, we have a problem with our leadership. We ought not just be letting it all go and letting our wives handle all of it. And it is a temptation for all of us, including myself. Because my wife does everything better than me. Number two, give honor to your wife because she teams up with you for the sake of the kingdom. He said it says being heirs together with the grace of God. My wife asked me this a few weeks ago. She said, 'cause she does a lot for me. You all know that. I I this is a very busy ministry, more more than maybe people realize some people realize, but there's a lot that uh that has to be done. And she will work occasionally 30 hours a week for me. Just for me, just doing church stuff. In addition to family stuff. And now she hasn't been doing that lately as much, but you uh she has been doing that in the past. And and she will do it faithfully. One time she was she said to me, and I hope she doesn't mind me saying this, but she turned to me and she said Jim, you think I'm going to get as many rewards as you are up in heaven? You know, I when I look at this passage, I think to myself that most of the time, I think the merit, the couple, is probably going to receive the exact same amount of rewards Possibly. Because it says your heirs together are the grace of God. Is that possible? Is that possible that when you not are not helping your wife and your wife isn't helping you and there's there's conflict and there's things going on that you're having going to have a reduction in your rewards. I think it's very possible. It's quite possible my wife will get more rewards sitting in heaven. Give honor to your wife so that your prayers are not hindered. Men, do you realize that even if she's not f not cooperating, when you are not dwelling with your wife according to knowledge, your prayers are hindered That's great motivation. Number four, give honor to your wife by dwelling with her according to knowledge. You've got to know your wife. You honor her. When you listen to her, when you stop and listen to what she's saying, it you you honor her when you do that. When you take due consideration to what she's telling you, you know, we ought to, boy, I tell you what, we get out of a lot of trouble if we listen to our wives. We will avoid a lot of problems if we listen to our wives. We need to do exactly the opposite, men, of what is natural. We've got to love our wives sacrificially And we need to love our wives unconditionally, and we honor them when we dwell with them according to knowledge. It is wrong And this is very common. You get men yucking up together and they'll say, you never understand a woman. Right? Men, how many have a time have you heard that? I'm not asking you if you said it. I'm just asking if you heard it before. Okay. That's not biblical. God says you need to know your wife according to knowledge. There is a such a great truth in this passage that I want to bring up. bring out to you very quickly as well. And that is that Christ loves you. And that God has not imposed a list of rules and regulations on you so that you can feel frustrated and defeated. God shows you his character to demonstrate that you can't match up to it. And that your sin and my sin is an offense against God. But that Jesus Christ died to make provision for all of that. He loves you so much that he gave his own life. You see, here's how it works: God is holy and perfect. He can't look on sin, he can't be around sin, he can't be in the presence of sin. Because if he could, he'd be less than God. And we have sinned. Started with Adam and Eve all the way down. All of us have sinned. And all of us have come short of God's identity, of God's glory. We're not connected to God at birth because of this. But Jesus Christ died and shed his blood on the cross for us because the Bible says sin brings death or physical or separation is the word. Sin brings spiritual separation from God. But Jesus Christ died in our place as our substitute so that Jesus died for us, so that we could have be connected with God. And the only thing we've got to do is say, yes, Jesus, you did it for me. I believe that Jesus died to pay the punishment for my sin, and that when God, when we trust in him, and trust in the finished work of Christ on the cross for us, and he rose from the grave, bodily from the grave three days later, when that happens, do you realize? That you can have eternal life. And that you can have your sins removed. And that God will give you a desire, an internal desire to follow Him, that we would not otherwise have. In other words, folks, until we place our dependence on what Christ did for us, we are just, we're never going to be able to follow Christ. We won't even have a desire to do it. But once we accept what Christ did for us, he gives within us a desire to follow him so it works from the inside out. And you know why you want to follow him? Because he loves you more than anybody else ever could And it's easy to follow somebody that you know loves you. And the Bible says Follow me, for my yoke is easy and my burden is light, and you'll find rest for your souls. Christ can say that. Why? Because he loves you. And if you're listening today and you say to yourself, you know what, I don't know if I've ever really placed my my my life in God's hands because I know he loves me, And I na and I and I don't know if I really trusted Jesus as my Savior. I don't know if I'm really in uh uh I I'm really a child of God. I'm really a um I have eternal life. Would you Please talk to me afterwards. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that Jesus died for you and that you can have eternal life and that you can really know God, that you can really be connected to God. I would be thrilled to be able to do that. Or if you're not comfortable, maybe there's somebody else in the room that you'd be comfortable with, and they have a relationship with God, and it seems to you that they do, and so they could explain it to you. I'd be gl- they'd be glad to do that as well. Let's pray together. Father, we do come to you this morning and we're thankful just for Your many blessings to us. We thank you for your love for us. We admit as husbands that there is absolutely no way That we can ever love our wives as Christ loved the church without your strength and without your ability. That level of love is just not possible outside of the Spirit of God working through us. And we admit that before you. Father, I thank you, Lord, that Christ does love us with a perfect kind of love that made every provision for us to be rightly related to you. By giving of himself and dying on the cross for us. I pray that if there's anybody here today that does not know you, I pray today would be a day that they would be able to see your love. From your word. And that you would cause them to see the provision that Christ made in dying for them so that they could have their sin forgiven and that they could have eternal life eternal life. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen