Alright, so we'll need to be back in 1 Samuel seventeen. And um Remind ourselves of what we've done so far. So I have up there the questions that we are looking at. Um and the ones that really when we are studying the Bible we want to incorporate these questions into our When we're doing our personal study or when we are planning to teach uh a text of scripture or preach a text of scripture Scripture. We want to know what is the point of the text. We want to know, we want to ask the question, where does the text fall in the overall storyline of the Bible? We want to ask, what biblical themes do we come across in this text? We want to ask, what does this text teach us about God? To ask, how does this text relate to Jesus? And sort of a sub-question to that is when we're thinking about that and then we want to think, well, are there any types of Christ That we see in this text. And then we want to ask also finally, after all that, how does this text apply to us today? And so we were in the middle of 1 Samuel 17 And we had gotten through uh three of those questions, I believe. What is the point of this text? And um we we want to try and sum things up when we ask that. And so we we came up with a couple of options there, but um Essentially, we see that Israel is in need of rescue. God raises up an individual. and that being David, to be the man that would trust God enough to um to get go into a situation where he himself really can't defeat meet this this challenge but uh through God's help he does. And that's the that's kind of the overall point. And there are certain certainly subcategories to all that, and I think we discussed all that already. Now the second question is where does the text fall in the overall storyline of the Bible? And so we looked at that and understand that it is uh Israel is a uh nation, they have the land, although not everybody is wiped out of the land like they were supposed to and that's why they're in the Philistines right now. Right? There are geographical uh boundaries that Israel has And they are under the first king that they've ever ever had, and that is Saul. And a key part to understanding 1 Samuel 17 is understanding 1 Samuel 16. Where we see a conversation between Samuel and God. And God makes it very clear that that he has rejected Saul and that Samuel is to go and anoint one of Jesse's sons. And um Uh we find out that that son is the youngest and it's David. So before we even under s know all that, we understand that God's Spirit is upon David in a special way since he's been anointed. And And that's important as we um do that. And then the third the third question is what biblical themes do we come across in this text? And this Uh this is where we left off last time and um we we c we rattled off uh several of the uh themes that that we see here. We see uh the theme of trusting God We see the theme of um of God rescuing his people or salvation. Yep, deliverance, yep And then we also looked at the um the uh the theme of idolatry and and how that showed up here was that it's it's not just David versus Goliath, it's God versus the false idols of the Philistines as well. And that that comes up a lot. There's such disdain in Goliath's speech towards the Hebrews and their God. He even says in one point that he curses the Israelites by his own gods And um we see also in there that the name of God is is uh a theme in here as well, where David is very concerned about the name of God being basically slandered, blasphemed, and nothing's being done about it, right? So we we went through those three questions and we we tried to focus on the stuff that is most important. rather than getting lost in some of the details. And some of the details are important, but often they get majored upon rather than and becoming the priority. than um the other thing. Now those the things about Goliath they're very interesting, I will admit, you know, they they're tremendously interesting to consider what this um this giant was like And certainly there's value to it, but when this gets taught as a children's story, it seems like the emphasis gets put in the wrong place. Alright, so the remainder of our time, we're going to deal with the last questions here. And the uh The next question then is what does this text teach us about God? He's faithful to those who love him and believe in him. He's faithful to those who love him and believe in him. Yeah, good. Yeah. How how would you explain that you that w what what do we learn about the sovereignty of God in this text? Well you s God's in control. And so it's uh so the matter of the the giant that's before Israel and scaring everybody, including the king Is to David because of his faith in God, God's uh his sovereign, he's in control, um is is is a uh It it's just a you know, David just uh quandary, why are you what's your problem here? And um and so um God um orchestrates and controls and he has every uh you know through his through his his his uh people like David, you know, and uh so you you got you know the odds are stacked against us. They got this huge giant guide and all these weapons, this armor, right? State of the art armor that the type of And the and you have um David this little ruddy teenager, sixteen year old, with a sling and five smooth stones. Yeah And it's and and and so, you know, i in in on from a man's point of view, there's no way. David's completely outmatched, yeah. Right. And uh but from God's point of view, because God Yeah, I I I I like that you put brought that out because Um just uh the the the concept of Of God enjoys using the the weak things of the world. Um We see that in other places in scripture and is very prevalent in here. What was what Spurgeon didn't Spurgeon have a a speech act, a speech impediment of some kind? One of the famous preachers did. I mean you wouldn't Yeah, it wasn't Spurgeon. Spurgeon was quite articulate. Um I can't remember I can't remember who it was, but he was he had a speech problem and you wouldn't have thought he would nobody would have put him and made a public speaker out of him just listening to him speak. So I can't think of who it was but yeah I can't I can't uh figure that out either I don't remember. I'm sure I've heard it, but yeah, so um and so you know we'll we'll we'll kinda touch on this a little bit later, I think, when we start to apply to ourselves but um sometimes sometimes we say no to things Because we're only looking at our abilities rather than what God could do through us. And I think that's an important factor. And um, but yes, so the sovereignty of God displayed in here. He he really does show how in control of the situation he is. And um And so David is willing to take this step, this very risky step, in all in all honesty. Like we said last time David does not get a command from God to go do this, okay? David gets no promises from God directly that he's gonna have a victory But David understood his God enough to know that one way or the other, somehow, the Lord is going to deliver this giant into my hands. And he says as much in verse 46. And that sort of brings me to um another thing regarding what this teaches us about God. And I mentioned it last time as well. See, it's a week ago, so test your memories a little bit. But it came from verses 26 and 36. Where God u or Deep David uses the this phrase, two-word phrase two times. And both it's at the end of the verse, verse each of those verses. Yes, it's that that phrase the living God. You know, I don't see that as much in other places in in the Bible, really. Um interestingly enough, not that he isn't living, but it it comes out in this passage I think because because of that theme that we just talked about a little bit ago, the theme of the one true God versus the the dead gods of of the Philistines. And um And so we have then this concept of God is alive. God is alive. He's not some dead idol that does nothing. He in fact is a living God who which is really implied here is the concept of he will act. Okay, so a dead God a and a false god doesn't do anything, right? The the idol the idolatrous person rem remember the um Uh remember the the face off between Elijah and the prophets of Baal. Remember that? And and those guys do everything in imaginable to try and make their God do something for them in that situation, right? And you have you have actually some pretty significant Old Testament trash talk from Elijah in that in that hey, where are your gods? Maybe maybe they took a trip. Maybe they're asleep. You know? Um and uh And so and and and that in that case, God acts, right? He does, he does, he sends fire from heaven. And um and makes no there there is no question as to whose God is alive in that situation. Right. And so this theme of what this teaches us about God is that God is alive and when He deems it right, when the time is right, when it goes along with His purposes He will act. And that is a kind of a subcategory of the sovereignty of God. which Jim just talked about, is that he is sovereign, he's in control, and he will exercise control visibly. in in some cases. So excuse me. So we then see here that um That we are serving the living God. God is alive. God is at work. And David, in his interactions with people, in there, you really see how he he is he's proclaiming that truth to his fellow Israelites He's trying to get them to believe it too. He's trying to to to show them, hey, that w who is this Philistine? He's a nobody. I don't care how tall he is. I don't care that he was a warrior from his youth. He he's he's defied the armies of the living God. Something needs to be done about it. Anything else that you can think of that this teaches us about God All right. Let's go to the next question. How does this text relate to Jesus? They would be cast as a saint. Okay, so you are kind of going to that next point. Are there any types of Christ in this text? But yeah. Um there there is uh certainly a dynamic there that we could we could say safely that Ultimately, God is the one that rescues, right? Right. But but he does use David in that way. through his own strength. Right. Yes. I'd probably personally be kind of careful about calling a type, actually. Yeah. Um uh a picture's probably fine. But type needs a I don't recall any type of the New Testament that can we have discussed that at length already. Yes. A true type of Christ needs a a New Testament link to to So you do uh you do have a picture of David being that, but not a direct uh New Testament reference there I I think uh how does the does the text relate to Jesus? I think in a there is a historical uh link like here, okay, certainly. Go ahead and do that. Okay, so because David will be the uh his his throne will be the throne of Jesus, so to speak. So there's a historical link. Mm-hmm not the people, you know, Jesus was uh his his chosen uh you know the well the word of God became made up that it became flesh. So I mean that the that link is because who David is and and it and a relationship. Yeah. So I think that's about as far as we take Certainly, yeah, historically it definitely relates to Jesus that way. Yeah. And that's an important and that's that's also um I mean that's that's also kind of answered in the second question where does the text fall in the overline well storyline of the Bible. But yeah it uh the the that definitely goes Let me let me try and lead you a little bit here as well though, that we talked about uh the themes that we find in this text. And some of the themes that we've talked about are the faithfulness of God, but also David's trust in God. And uh so when you think of trusting God uh for in this case deliverance, are we not also Trusting God for deliverance of sorts as well. You with me? No. So obviously there is um there's a lot of a lot of information going on here. But I believe that there is um there's uh there's sometimes a lot of disservice when approaching this text when all all all it is done is focused on the giant And focused on David and boom, he's a hero, and and then we move on. Yeah. Or even misunder misinterpretations like uh the this text of teaching. to to slay all the giants in your life and things of that nature. You get a lot of that kind of thing that uh beyond with it's it's it's not what the text is actually talking about. And that and that is how we started when we wently sorry. Yeah, that's okay. I'm messing you up. That's all right. Yes. I mean one of the main points that the reason I chose this text is is because of often what gets left out. Yeah. So I chose a familiar one to to actually try and cause us to put in that what we're doing, just so you know, we're we're putting into practice what we've been learning the this entire So we're taking texts of scripture and and and applying what we've learned. And so, you know, one of the main things that strikes me about this passage is the fact that Is that David essentially puts his life in God's hands? He he goes and makes this decision that he's going to do something about this. And he doesn't, like I said before, he doesn't get a command from God to do this. He is just, he he he he is purposed in his heart that God's name is not going to be defamed like this By this guy, and he's going to take a stand, and he's confident that God's going to deliver him in some way In some way. That that that and that's all he that's all he's got. But he is confident that God's going to do that. And so there is a a tr complete trust. God I put my entire life in your hands. Well he as you pointed out, he had no guarantee he was going to survive this which really is I mean countries like Shadrach, Meshach and Abednik. They had no they they did what they did, no one you know or or Esther, whether I live or die. So it's yeah it's quite a bit of faith. That's a huge step to take 'cause you can't it's easy now to look back on it and say, well he slew Goliath, he slew Goliath's brothers. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, right. But in and the text um they even says that God um uh uh protected them against the bear and the lion. Yep. And he delivered he he God delivered him from those two this this giant, God will deliver me too. Exactly. Yeah. So he had faith based upon how God worked in his life. In the past, yeah. There was a track record there. Yes. And so but how does this text relate to Jesus then? Well He puts David puts his life in in God's hands. We put our eternal lives in God's hands, right? Right. And and so uh I I that's how I think that this this relates really well. And you know, as part of a part of an application, which we'll we'll get there in a second for for sure, but um we you know we trust God. We place our faith when we when we're converted, we we are placing our faith in Jesus And we um we we we basically say, God, you have my soul. I I I entrust it in your hands. Because we like we've talked about before, we can't do anything to save our own souls. That's not going to happen. So when We we do that and we and we as Christians we begin our Christian walk like that. But then what happens Does faith and trust just stop at that point? And I mean I I'm sure you've met some I I've met some people where they they have a a profession of faith, they make a profession of faith, they say they're converted And yet their post-conversion life is one of a lot of fear, a lot of trepidation, a lot of um they that there's no inward peace. And it's as if they've trusted once and that's it, and they never trust again. And so I think a a really Big element to this is the fact that we place our eternal souls in God's hands when we put our faith in Jesus Christ. Why shouldn't we trust him in our day-to-day struggles and our internal battles? Sometimes for people that ends up being a difficult Disconnect. But it is connected. It's significantly connected. I think that's harder in this country than anywhere else. You don't think about those issues. It's very true. It's you know, it's that's why in talks they talk all the time about being thankful. Yeah. And that's something I've learned over the last few years to be thankful. Just yeah. You know, dream you when you pray it and you remind yourself of it, you're being thankful. But it's so difficult to do that because none of us will Wants for what we have to eat. We all have a roof over our head, we all clothes in our back. And so we don't think about trusting God for those things because we own. Yes, no it's an incredibly relevant point. I was just uh um glad you mentioned that I was just thinking about that maybe a week or two ago in my own meditations and the fact that how would my life be different? How would my view of God be different? If if at all. Hope m maybe not. But how would it be different if every day I was really just fighting for survival? I've thought about that too. Right? Well people who do feel do run that way. You just Yeah. And and how what level of gratitude would I have at that point you know and um you're right we don't face those kind of struggles every day we we we're not fighting for survival we have more than we need Um and that's that's by God's grace. And so how do you do it? Well you a big part of it I think is the fact that everything that you have quote unquote worked for, everything that you have quote unquote um you know put your maximum effort to get where you are today, recognize that That all of that is still a gift from God. God has given you the strength. Back to the sovereignty of God. God has placed you in a country where that's possible. All of it still comes back to God It's harder. It's not as explicit of a connection as if you were surviving for your life every day. But Yeah, there's no guarantee you're gonna keep it. And honestly that's very true. And so and then what what kind of person would you be if it was gone tomorrow? That's an interesting thought as well So how does this text relate to Jesus? There's a lot of ways it does. But certainly that's what strikes me. Does every text Uh I mentioned this last night, last time. Does every text relate to Jesus? No. Not directly. Not directly. I mean there So I I bring this up because I I've seen a lot of interesting connections made. And and I and I go and I read stuff and I say, I don't think I'm comfortable I see what they did there. It's maybe but it it seems like it's just a little more creative than You should need to be here to make it happen. And the same thing with are there any types of price in this text? Is there a type of price in every text? No. No. Some some would say yes. Some would very creatively try and You know, go from First Samuel seventeen to back to Genesis to Exodus and then go here, here and see here we go, Jesus Tight. Got it. You know? And and th that's not gonna happen every time. When it is there, great. When it does really relate to Jesus, wonderful. Isn't that the non-existent word of insigesis instead of exegesis? Yeah, sure. Yes. Yeah, I think um I think we can say that every text somehow relates to the the redemptive narrative. Yeah, sure. But uh but to say you're you're absolutely right, people um are reading into the text too much often when they're trying to to make the I think that the reason that this is so important that people say, well, why can't Christ be in every text? I mean what's the big deal? The the big deal is that it really actually points to the character of God and his word, the completeness of his word. I mean if God We're sort of appealing to God's character and saying, Okay, God's God is going to be clear where he needs to be clear. Yeah. And we're going to take what he says and be clear about that. And but when we have to come up with things from our own imagination, we're actually kind of almost drawing our own revelation from God in order to in order to see what the text says. Say that again, drawing our own revelation from God? Is that what you said? No. Yeah. paper on this actually in some areas concerned about it. So we wanted to make it a private interpretation It would, yes. added text, but we should never feel like we gotta force it. And and so that that's that's really true. So alright, so we've been through what is the point of this text? What is God trying to say through this passage. We've we've seen where it falls in the overall storyline of the Bible. Remember, thinking about the Bible as one story and and we want to know where it falls so that we can What biblical themes do we come across? We've seen, you know, God's rescuing his people. We've we've seen um uh God's faithfulness, we've seen that that battle between uh the false god's idolatry and the one true living God. We've seen now what uh it teaches us about God. We've seen how it relates to Jesus. Now now we're ready to go ahead and apply it to us today. And and remember this is this is a great tool to use when we are doing our personal study or when we are preparing the message or preparing to teach others. How does this apply to us today? Let's let's talk about it. Well there's always Goliaths in our life. Just uh I just had to do that. I guess you know I I I I I think the thing about it is there's challenges. Yeah. I like that we're and there's faith challenges in our lives. Okay, life but God wants us to uh to uh trust him through those challenges, okay? Mm-hmm. And so I think that's I think that's what's set here. I mean it's not I mean to say you gotta slay the Goliath and all that. Yeah It really is. Especially when you actually read the text as we have and seen that David makes no uh makes it very clear he's not the one defeating the lion. Right. So uh the Lord is gonna deliver into my hands. But I think some things can be can be be clean from it. David was prepared. God prepared him but uh but by uh the isolation he had and the the communion he had with with God uh while tending sheep and taking care of the sheep and learning how to use a sling and you know things like that it's gonna be very accurate with it. I mean Dr. David the first time he ever picked up a swing and put a stone in it. And it's like it could have just, you know. But the the fact of the matter is God prepared them. So we need to be prepared by starting the Word of God and being prepared So when we come up to those challenges in life, we're we have we have have been you know, under the tutelage of God's word and and and and prayer so that we can handle them. Okay? A lot of times when people come up against adversity when what happens. If they're not prepared for it, they fall apart. Yeah. So um and that's I think the the the the thing that has to that we can clean from this in my opinion. You know, so that God's preparing and and we and God's in control. Yeah. Okay. So even though he prepares us for God's control, God prepared Jim for the ministry you know, uh to all the things he went through. Yeah. Providence of God, yeah. Right. And uh and then placed him in this church and we could in this uh in this high So and uh can I take it one step further? Will God put us in a position at any point in our life lives to do something that we are unable to do. No. Yes. I say I say yes. And the reason I say that is was David able to defeat Goliath humanly? No, no Was Gideon able to defeat the hundreds of thousands of people that were out there? No, but God actually said you go save Israel. Yeah, go ahead. gonna go really well with my message of this morning and I cool. But God uses the weak things of the world would have found otherwise. That's how we started today, yeah. And and uh he so you see that with David, you see that with the situation. All of these people that I mean, could they have taken could somebody there had taken Goliath. Goliath was a big guy, but he actually wasn't I mean if you do the measurements it wasn't like nobody could Saul himself was head and shoulders ab above above everyone. So i it wasn't that nobody could could could fight him. But the the the least expected to fight a Goliath was David. Yes. Uh more than I mean when you think of the narrative works out in in the sense of um him being the last to be uh uh even I identified as the son of of Jesse and all that kind of thing. And so I think yeah, a major a major thing is is that God God when he wants to show himself, you often use the the weak things right. And so yeah that and that's what we're trying that's what I was trying to say here was that you know a a we we talked about that a second ago and the fact is that yeah God is going to put us in positions, maybe not every day, maybe not all the time, but and and I've heard that I've heard it a lot. God will never give you more than you can handle. I don't know about that. I I really struggle with that concept because experientially I feel like I've been in positions like that. side of it. That's why I said no. Okay, yeah. Biblically I see peop God using people who by themselves couldn't have done what they did And and we have an example of that here. looking for. Remember last week I I mentioned the fact that we were praying about this building and and we one of the prayers that that kept coming up over and over again was that if God if you give us this property That it would be done in such a way that we could none of us personally could take the credit for it. All the credit would go to you. And God answered that prayer. God is in the business of working that way with his people. that he he he he uses impossible situations, people who are f you know mentally, physically can't do exactly really what needs to be done, but God works through it. anyway. We're gonna say something earlier. That's okay. Okay. So um that's a huge a huge thing that we can apply from this text as well. So, you know, to kind of sum this up a little bit, do I believe that God is alive? I think that's a really important application. that we can make. Is he alive and working, or do we have this view of God that he's just up there looking down at everything and going, wow, that's a big mess and and not really doing anything about it. That's two very different views of God. And you see that really in this text between the whole Israelite camp and David. It's a stark contrast. When you look at it personally, if God is alive and at work, what would God want to do through me and around me? What could I or should I accomplish for God based on His ability and power and not my own? What am I really depending on for my day-to-day activities? Am I depending on my strength, my wisdom, my experience, my logic? That's what Saul was doing. You you remember when Saul finally gave in and said, okay, David You go ahead. I don't think you can do it. Here's all my armor and weaponry. And and David said, I I haven't proven this. I'm not used to it. to this. I can't wear this. It's not gonna work. But Saul was Saul was applying human logic to a situation where God was going to work supernaturally. He looked at David and said, you can't fight this guy You are puny. You are a shepherd. And he couldn't see the big God that that David was serving. Well we tend to we tend to do that in everyday life because that's what we we do in everyday life when the really big lives show up is when we start talking to God. But that's not the point. The point being that we ought to be doing that on every situation, the next phone call, the next yeah, whatever you get. And we don't tend to do that, right? So um are we capable of doing stuff on our own? Yeah, I mean we get Wisdom and guidance, we don't even think about it. Sure. But uh we tend to we tend to only use what we consider the Goliath in our in our lives to to really look at that and not think about everything. Every day is a challenge. Yeah. In in in reality. Yeah. Every day is a challenge. You know, one of the things that I thought of was Am I relying solely on my strength, my wisdom, my experience, my logic? If I am, all of those things are going to fail me eventually. Right? All of those, but in God, I get all of those things perfectly from Him. And to me, that's a remarkable thing that I need to remember. And also, as mentioned earlier, if I lean on God, I have trusted God with my eternal destiny when I place my faith in God. Christ for salvation. Why should I not trust and depend on him for today? And all the rest of the today's to come. And I think that's Those are some of the things that we can apply. And there are other things that we've already applied as well, and more that could be said now, but our time has run out. Next time we're going to take another test Lord William, we're gonna be able to get through it. It's gonna be my plan to get through it. Um I'm not sure what text we're gonna do yet. So I wish I could tell you it, but I'm not gonna be able to because I haven't decided There's obviously a lot of options in this book. So let's go ahead and close in prayer and we'll be dismissed. Father, we thank you for uh All the ability that you have given us to study your word. You've given us the Holy Spirit, which is truly one of the biggest things that we need need in in understanding your truth. And uh that that your spirit really illumines the truth, makes it relevant to us. And um I pray, Lord, as we continue to go through these and exercise the things that we've learned, I pray that um that we would become better students of your word so that ultimately we could be better Become better followers of you. We pray in Jesus' name, Amen