The important part about biblical theology is that it it helps us rightly interpret the Bible. If we don't understand the big idea behind what the Bible is trying to tell us, then we can fall into wrong interpretations. Biblical theology also protects us from uh false Christianities. In other words, uh stuff like easy believism, uh stuff like the prosperity gospel, those sorts of things. It helps us with gospel-centered exposition, preaching and teaching that that interprets and applies rightly. It helps us with counseling people. It can help us with how we are to engage our culture around us. And so we defined, um, this is still all review We define biblical theology as this. Biblical theology is the discipline of learning how to read the Bible as one story by one divine author that culminates in the person and work of Christ. In other words, to sum it down even more than that, it's the way you read the Bible. It's the way you read it. Now some of these you you you may have more questions in your mind you're still trying to put it all together. That's okay. We're still in the introductory stages to all this. So if you don't have a complete handle on what we're talking about at this point, that's okay. We're gonna get there. Okay. Um let's see, anything else Uh real quick, this was helpful, just remember some of the um the wrong ways that people approach the Bible. By way of review, we talked about how people view the Bible as simply containing truth instead of being truth itself. And they feel it's okay to allegorize the Bible Make it mean what they want it to mean. Approaching the Bible as a good lux charm. Approaching the Bible simply as a way to find comfort. Or maybe people view the Bible as a giant self-help book. Or maybe they see it as a way to gather knowledge and they they love learning about the The truths, the facts that are here, but it never reaches the point where it impacts them personally in the core thereof of who they are. So with that We'll go ahead and jump into. We will jump into, there we go, technology. Yeah. All right. Biblical Theology, and this is class two. We're going to start this morning by um looking at a uh a me a portion of a memoir from someone who was brought up with a particular biblical theology and um it was definitely erroneous And as as we as I read through this, I think you'll start to catch on what uh what this is talking about. The uh the memoir is called A Gospel That Almost Killed Me. And this is what he says in there. I'm in a bathtub. I can't get out. I feel like I'm about to die. It's mercury poisoning. The water in the tub has grown cold. I'm floating in and out of consciousness. And whenever I can concentrate, I begin to pray. Jesus, please save me. Please heal me. I repent. I put my whole heart into prayer right now. And I cast out any doubt or fear. I know you can heal me. Please heal me. My mom's keys are rattling in the doorknob now and I hear the door thud shut in the distance. I hear her purse sliding across the counter and her keys landing next to it I barely recognize her figure as she tries with all her wiry might to pull me out of the tub. I spend the next two days in the hospital. My mom wants to know why I didn't let her know, why I didn't want to go to the hospital, why I didn't w do something. Mom, Jesus is my doctor. I'm blessed and I know that he would have healed me. This is me trying to live out what I think is true Christianity, he says here. I had just gotten saved two months prior. I'm fresh out of jail and I'm walking around the projects where I used to stomp like a tiny teenage giant. I've got a bare back, a few tattoos, and a Bible in my hand. I'm just praying for the opportunity to share the cr the Christ with someone I meet a man named Roger who invites me into his home. He buys me lunch and we spend all day talking about the Bible. This guy knows way more than me. I've never heard anyone spout off so many scriptures in such rapid fire succession. This guy is legit, I say under my breath. Over the course of the next six months, this man indoctrinates me with the prosperity gospel. Just a few months earlier I've never even opened the Bible. I have no idea that I'm being given arsenic in my Kool-Aid. I take it all. I believe it all. I know it's true. It has to be It's right here in Scripture. Look, she touched the hem of his garment and she was healed. Look, Jesus couldn't heal them because they didn't have enough faith. Look, all throughout the Old Testament, you see curses for sins and blessings for righteousness. Prosperity for the good, pain for the bad. It's so obvious, it's so plain. But some stuff isn't making sense I'm still without a job. I can't pay my rent. My mom isn't getting saved. I keep getting cold sores. None of these things should be happening. There must be sin hidden somewhere in my heart Now I have the flu and I don't have any money to buy groceries. I just need to claim it. I just need to rebuke Satan and his lies. And believe that what I have proclaimed in the name of Jesus will surely come to pass. Maybe I'm not tithing enough. Time to double up. I'll get back one hundredfold. Maybe more. I just need to sow in faith Last week we talked about the idea of biblical theology. It's the discipline of learning how to read the Bible as one story by one divine author that centers on the person and work of Christ. It's a way to read the Bible. It's hermeneutic to use the more official wording. But we see in this story an individual using the scripture. to uh apply things to their life in a certain way and they're they're you using the same book that you and I use, right? But they're coming at the Bible from a different approach entirely. And in this case a very dangerous uh approach, one that is dangerous to this individual's health in a serious way. You know, when you look across Christendom, uh when you look at it in this country, when you look at Christendom in um Across the world, you see lots of different flavors of Christianity, do you not? And in many cases the differences are subtle, um but And sometimes we think, oh, it's it's different, but that's no big deal. Sometimes we think it's different. And something seems a little off about that, but I can't quite put my finger on it You know, if you've ever had a chance, or maybe you grew up outside of a Bible-based church, or perhaps you were saved out of a different denomination How many were of you were saying at a different denomination? Anyone? Okay. So then that can't be a few. No, no. Methodists, okay. Can I uh can I pick your brain a little bit? What uh what are some subtle differences and that you would notice from what you can remember from I was what six or seven when I got stays up. Okay. Anything different with uh communion? I'll narrow it down for you. I don't remember. Okay. I don't remember. It was like it was Okay, but I understand about the method is it's you know it's more about something. So my dad was raised enough. Okay. And he said that he likes the method to the the the batum of assurance acceleration uh yeah because they there's not a whole lot of assurance Okay. They baptize babies? Um Methodists? They sprinkle them. Okay, well. They call it baptism. Sure. Why they do it I don't quite remember. Uh the the one I went to is right after the kid was sprinkled. Welcome to the welcome to the family of Christ. Could be could be some baptismal ri regeneration there. Yeah. Most of most of the uh many other Protestant denominations and the uh Catholic uh organizations like Eastern Orthodox and Catholics baptized babies into the family died. Yeah. And um so you know, they they already the pre uh the the priests consider uh in the in the cavitur thought religions like the East North, A Two other way, is that they uh they um I believe they have the power to do so Mm-hmm. In Catholicism, like I was just reminded last week, talking with uh someone who brought up Catholicism, um baptismal bat baptism baptizing babies um wipes away the original sin. is the idea. So you now you have a a clean slate if you do that and you got a better chance of receiving the gospel. A lot of these different denominations And and so on, yeah, we have to understand that for those came out of atmosphere. You know, things like, you know sprinkling the baby blue discount. Yeah. And uh so you can see they have these different conditions. But let me let me make this Well I'll say this as food for thought. How do they get to those beliefs and why do they do it? And it can pretty much be brought back to a really bad biblical theology. It can it can sum up to their reading something in Scripture, whether Old Testament or New Testament and not seeing the big picture as to what's going on, applying it to today when they probably really shouldn't, and uh and then making uh a doctrine out of it I had um in my college days we did a lot of funny things. Um and uh so it's a Bible college, so you're not gonna be rebellious in some ways. I don't know if this is rebellion, but this is definitely out of the norm. One time we uh me and a couple other guys we We invaded uh a Kingdom Hall and um and uh on a Thursday, which is their um It's their practice day, by the way. Thursday is their practice day when they get people up on the stage and they they interact and and practice how to dialogue with people who don't believe like things. Um so that was one thing we did. There was some heated dialogue at the end after uh afterwards. I won't go into all the details of that. I can talk to you another time about that one. But there was another time where on a Thursday also, a midweek service, we went to the Lutheran church. And um so I'm sitting there, I'm in the back. Uh I have no idea what the guy was talking about. Um I don't know if he knew what he was talking about. Um There was just a handful of people there, mostly older, and uh me and the other guy were probably definitely the youngest in the in the whole bunch. And um And I'm just noticing little things. I'm noticing the pulpits off to the side instead of center. The uh uh there there are these other strange things. There's a There's a I don't I don't even know what you call it, but it's for burning incense. It's hanging from we had there was one here. Yeah, when uh we first got this. Um there was uh And then of course the there's a lot of pomp and circumstance regarding the the preacher for that night. He's dressed up very Regally. Not as not as much as I'm sure what what a a Catholic priest would be dressed up as, but there is definitely some some pomp there. And um And it's Thursday, and at the end of our uh teaching time, it was communion time. Thursday. And we found out later that they do that every time they meet. Every time they meet. Now they don't believe in transubstantiation, the body and the blood doesn't become um Jesus. taking that um they're receiving help. But okay, so we we we sit down and it gets passed around, right? The in the there the um the preacher actually held the there was a cup of wine and there was the the The cracker reddish type things. He was holding it and everyone was expecting to go up to receive it. But yeah. And he stood in between this it's very subtle, but if you know now we have the um the this Jew Jew is in remembrance of me uh Uh then he we our pastor stands behind it, he was in front of it. Because he's your access to the he's gaining gaining you access to that And um we didn't we didn't participate but yeah that's how everyone got up in a line got down and then got down that they all partaked good together And it was over. And um You know there there all these differences. Why why are there differences? Was it necessarily wrong what they were doing Are they you know, some things it seems like they're just preferences. Other things though there seems to be different reasons bet behind all the subtleties that can be seen Let's let's do a couple of uh examples here of some things. So here's Deuteronomy 28, 1 through 5. I'll go ahead and read it as you have it there And it shall come to pass if thou shalt hearken diligently unto the voice of the Lord thy God to observe and do and to do all his commandments which I command thee this day. And all these blessings shall come on thee and overtake thee. Pleasure shall be the fruit of thy body, and the fruit of thy ground, and the fruit of thy cattle. The increase of thy kind and the flocks of thy sheep, blessed shall be thy basket and thy store. So essentially, if you look at it, it's If you obey these commandments, if you do these things, you will be blessed. Right? There's another uh passage as well. And there are so many other ones too, but I just picked these out And Proverbs 11, 24, there is that scattereth and yet increaseth, and there is that withholdeth more than is meat or reasonable, but attendeth to poverty. The liberal or generous soul shall be made fat or made to prosper, and he that waters shall be watered also himself. How might these two passages be misinterpreted? The prosperity gospel churches use verses like these to say that you should give generously to your preacher, to your teacher And if you give to that teacher so that I can live the lifestyle that I want, although he probably doesn't say that, you will also be blessed. You will like the like the guy said in the beginning story, you will receive one hundredfold, maybe even more. God will reward you Because of your obedience, you will be blessed. Your crops will grow. Your cow will give milk. Your children will prosper. Your marriage will thrive. The point is that imbalanced or false gospels and imbalanced or false churches are either built on, listen to this, proof texts That pay no attention to the whole storyline of scripture or on whole stories just gone awry, gone completely off. Notice that that term proof texts It's an important per important term, proof text. You ask you a you ask someone why they believe that babies should be uh baptized. They might have a few reasons, but you know one of the reasons could be that they say, well, in the Old Testament, babies were circumcised. What's that? On the eighth day. On the eighth day, yeah. So because of that we should you know this is the continuation of that. It just looks differently. Even though the same dedication. Yeah. Yeah. So, um and there's so many other proof texts as you interact with with people that they may throw throw at you, and you might be thought, whoa off guard or I've never heard that before. But just take a moment and look at the context in which it's found, look at who it's written to And you'll see, um this is written to Israel, not to us. Do you believe we're Israel? And they'll probably say something to the effect of, well, we're not Israel itself, but we're the continuation of Israel. We're the offspring of Israel, so it still applies to us. So people in these cases they wrongly connect the Bible's major covenants or they have Too much, uh they have too much continuity or maybe not enough continuity between the Old Testament and the New Testament. In Deuteronomy 28, if you faithfully obey, all these blessings shall come upon you and overtake you. You know, if we read that knowing that that promise is given explicitly to the people of Israel and not to us Then we read that in a totally different light. We read that with a totally different uh application. Plus they didn't read the rest of it. They didn't talk about it Sure, yeah, right. Um you know, really in all of that, in all those um Obedience and blessing passages. God was really trying to show them about their inability to be righteous to his standard and their inability to do it in their own strength. So we see that all that was under that that biblical theology is a guard for the church It keeps God's church, God's true church, safe and on the right path when it comes to how we're supposed to preach this, teach this book. But it also acts as a guide for the church. It's not just a guard, it is also a guide. It's a guide to good preaching, it's a guide to good counseling. It's a guide to good outreach and cultural engagement. It's a guide for how we worship. It's a guide for church structures. And we're going to now really look at each of these areas. And that's how we'll uh we'll we'll probably just get through all of that. So uh a guide for the church is a guide to good preaching and teaching. Someone tell me, why do you think how would you word it? How would good biblical theology provide uh good preaching insight? teaching for a teacher teacher. Yeah. So right when we buy the word God in the way that it's true the fire glasses scripture term scripture allowing the uh the text and the context to to uh to uh be the opposite and not what a person or a reasoning uh organization says it should show what it says. Mm-hmm. So it's it's it's it's actually quite liberating if you descriptor the way because dot has to has one one score one book. Yeah. So the uh know that sometimes it could be a fronting uh even though we we espouse to this this uh this um this principle because you know the things that we we have It's not like church at eleven o'clock in the morning, things like that. Uh-huh. You know, and uh Sunday school uh was paper. Um if you if you didn't have church at eleven o'clock Wow. You know, so you know but scripturally speaking you had perfect time, you wanted to pay. Very true. Yep. Um Yeah when you uh anyone else? Anyone else want to add to that? Yeah. Similar to that, it's just in key the creature from just focusing on illustrations and storytelling experience. I would really try to relies a lot on finding her own experiences. Things she comes across as being from to like just to scripture. So I think having that salvation that this is our guide, it keeps us from being stranded from Things that are external. Yeah. Yeah, it definitely keeps us from being distracted from external things that could get put into the text. You're right. You're right. I've heard a lot over time, especially during Bible college and chapel every day and so forth. But You know, sometimes I would hear messages and they would be very captivating and filled with personal experiences and filled with um uh current events and things like that. But when when push comes to shove Whatever passage he was reading, it none of that fit the message. None of that fit the text that he was supposedly preaching from. And you know, a lot of times teachers, preachers come at a text with something already in their minds of what they want to talk about. And and that's look, that's not necessarily bad as long as as the preacher understands that this is different. You know, there was one time when uh a chapel speaker that was scheduled to to preach He wasn't able to make it, didn't make the flight, didn't make it in. And so hey, um what are we gonna do? And no one was really ready, but a guy by the name of Ken Keltner, he was I'd never heard him speak before. All he did then for that time was just share what he called scenarios of life. And he just went over all these different interesting situations in ministry that he ended up in And how God worked through it and got it. Well, I could that was supposed to be different. It wasn't a message. It was really just a an encouraging speech, you might say. And um But uh sometimes it seems like some preachers that's all they want to do is give encouraging preaches speeches and call it a sermon. Um Proper biblical theology keeps us from telling stories that aren't necessarily from the text that we're preaching or teaching us. It keeps us from proof texting, texting. It keeps us from um keeping an unbalanced story of redemption. There's a uh there's a uh a concept here that that was uh in the in the notes. It says one individual compared a proper biblical theology to having a court sense in basketball. You're you're not when you're when you have the ball yourself, you're not just focusing on dribbling the ball to the hoop you are aware of the location of your teammates and the defenders and where they're moving and what's going on and the flow of play. And it's kind of an interesting illustration of, you know, when we're going through a text, a verse in scripture We ought to be aware of what's going on before and after and where does it fall in the historical timeline of the Bible and so forth. So, you know, when we do this rightly, it places each text that we come across in the right context The right place in the canon. It helps us to see what our text even has to do with the person and work of Christ. And it wards off duty-driven moralism. And so that one can actually preach true Christian sermons and teach true Christian lessons. It can rightly relate faith and works and how that all goes together. You know, uh uh there's so much teaching that goes on in our church, right? Every time we meet together. Right now we're doing this, but there's all kinds with the kids, it's all going on. And you know So many things even in in in our um in our vein of Christianity so much damage has been done I believe With teaching children duty-driven moralistic teachings that don't affect the heart Really it just focuses on the externals and the heart is never touched. And Unfortunately, when such a child is grown up and able to make their own decisions, they stop following. They stop going to church. They stop following after God. So we see here that it is a guide to good preaching and teaching, and we see the importance of that. It's also a guide to good counseling. You know, when people will ask us questions all the time, and it might not be a formal counseling situation, but If we're relating with the body on a regular basis, things are going to come up, right? And people are going to have issues that they're dealing with. And they might not go to a professional. It might come to you. And so when we hear what someone is talking about, what they're dealing with, certainly our experiences will play a part in that. But that definitely shouldn't be the only thing that we're leaning on as we attempt to help that person with it. You know, a married friend will need encouragement in the difficulties in the person's marriage. That can happen, right? Maybe a church member confesses that he's struggling with some type of addictive behavior. Maybe a teenage daughter or son is concerned about acceptance and has personality conflicts. All of us to some level engage in counseling, whether we call it that or not. And how we think of the Bible and our approach to it will greatly affect how we interact with those people. And what we're going to say to those people. A lot of those situations we end up diagnosing situations wrong we diagnose problems wrong because we're simply relying on our own uh experience. And maybe and our experience could be helpful, but if we're relying on that full only, then it's not going to be enough We need to turn to the word, the true answer book in this situation, to show us someone how to think and how to act rightly in their situation that they find themselves in. Just think about how we think of um our sin nature and how that affects how we talk with someone. when they're dealing with a problem. You know if you if you have an incorrect thinking about people's sin And that we are all fundamentally sinful instead of fundamentally good, that greatly affects how you think of a person and what they're dealing with and how what they're going through. At least it should, right? If we know that to be true, then a quick fix or a quick uh five steps to help might not be enough They're going to need the transforming power of the Spirit of God to impact their life, and they're going to need to be on their knees praying for that kind of help. The gospel is the power unto salvation, and it is the power unto sanctification as well. Biblical true biblical counseling refuses to hold out false and temporary goals because it's not enough. It's it's not there is no quick fix to an easier, more pleasant life now. There aren't really any trips or t tricks or tips for a better marriage The goal really is sanctification, ultimately glorification, right? So that we are being transformed into the very image of Christ. So that's how it can affect uh our counseling methods, our our the way we give advice. Now I gotta by personal testimony, you know, I've I've seen multiple times, we can think of two times, where I've been a part of a conversation One person is asking someone else for some counsel or advice, and the person giving the answer is a Christian. And their answer, quite honestly, is a bunch of junk. It's a bunch of junk. It's a bunch of nonsense. Because it doesn't incorporate any biblical truth. And and so anybody, anybody can fall into that trap So we have to we have to monitor that. This is is also incredibly important. It's a guide for the church because it's a guide to good outreach. engagement and that has to do with our culture and how we relate to those who don't believe. We talked last time about uh how there's a a big movement now to um to engage the culture and and embark in cultural transformation, trying to impact the like that's the actual gospel is going out, doing good works impacting the world around us that way and kind of moving on. And and there's no There's no gospel in it. There's no sharing the message of the truth. And so, you know, the mission of the church is not to retake America to to a bunch of back to uh biblical moral principles. That's not the mission of the church. How many people think that way? A lot You're never going to get America to go back to Christian principles, to live back to that, without the power of the gospel. These people need Jesus. He's the answer, he's the cure to all this. Right biblical theology helps us to balance our expectations of the culture around us. It balances those things like perfectionism, expecting too much or demanding too little, expecting too little, like a cheap grace or easy-believism. Um it it it uh it helps us with that balance When it talks when we talk about engaging the culture around us, it helps us by not promising people their best life now with health and wealth and and good uh uh abundant life Um it doesn't shy but good biblical theology doesn't shy away from engaging the culture and seeking the good of our neighbors indeed or ministry for the sake of love and justice. It it's it's too far both ways, you know. Um now there are some there are some under this uh good outreach and engagement there are some really good um sub-points that I think would be good for us to look at. And one of them is missions and how we consider missions. Going and when we're talking about this, we are go talking about going to a foreign land. And uh the way we would see it would be to impact A foreign culture with the gospel and church planking. Starting a church from scratch, most likely, from somewhere over there. There's a lot there's a lot of thinking today, and it's becoming more and more popular that being missionally minded isn't uh isn't necessarily going elsewhere, but rather the church is the mission of God into the world. And there to some point In some respects that yeah, we would we would okay, yeah, that sounds good. But what they mean is that they're getting into the world around us And impacting them, like I said earlier, really just to heal the world, to help people with their problems and never engaging them with the gospel. So while it sounds really good on the front, the gospel is is secondary or tertiary or maybe not even not even on the on the field of play. And there are there are churches in this area that are flirting with this or even had uh already there. And and for these in for these churches, for these belief systems, they go to passages like They grab Jeremiah 29 and and talk about how the Jewish exiles were to take were to care for the city of Babylon or grab verses about Sultan Light or and Um or grab passages regarding Jesus feeding the and healing the people. I mean yeah, these are things that that happen, but how does it apply to us and is that really our mission? Do those things necessarily sound right? Well yeah, we're supposed to be solid and light. There's no doubt. But what does that really mean? Does salt and light mean that we simply only help people with their physical needs? No. Yeah, go ahead. Mm-hmm. Okay. But their intent was not to to just meet the physical needs of those those individuals because in those cultures they're going to you couldn't go up to and strike up a conversation. Most of the cloud countries Yeah. So one of the ways to get in uh to to get in and in so that you can talk to them is to help them in this physical way you know providing some medical care and then and then you're they're more open uh to for uh for a missionary to that uh zap in the way that is uh uh uh more effective. I read several missionary stories. So it never was a uh it never never was a the end. It was just Yes, exactly. That's the difference, yeah. needs but that doesn't work. Right. Right. It's but it it can and it can be and should be a tool. We're using the in in that case the the medical uh you know um helping people with their physical needs and physical ailments as a tool to reach them with the gospel, present the gospel to them. I give one example where It's it was that it was the design as a tool, but it just it did not work out that way. Okay, uh uh this one organization uh that I know they go into certain And then the little buttons in the draft sprinkle area and then little well wells. different views, right? Yeah. And when they do it really well, all of a sudden church pops up that same view. Mm-hmm. Okay. So the but in reality with the uh the in that particular African culture, okay that candy culture is if somebody does something for you and that they say that well they want to do this, they're gonna allow it. Okay So is it uh so the churches spring up, but in reality they're just it's because of what they were getting to. turned into something else down the road possibly with not really a church without believers. The church is the church This is the bill of things. Yeah, no, that's very good point. That's good. Yeah, and that that's sort of uh counting your chickens before they hatch, you're gonna do it that way. Yeah, and and and I think it I think it the person who started this program never intended it to go that direction. Oh okay. Okay, it just it just ended up being that. Yeah. He can you know he gets money for people to do these wells and the insurance go up real quick, but there doesn't mean it's a neighborhood in that. Gotcha. Um so there are uh there are a few more points under um Guide to Good Outreach and Engagement. We're not gonna get to them today But what I do want to leave you with is what I thought was really a good quote in regards to this subject, was that the most important when and this is in the context of out in our community or across the world. The most important thing the church can do for the world is not anything the church can do for the world. Yeah, that's true. That sums it up perfectly, I thought. I'll read it one more time if you're trying to write it down. The most important thing the church can do for the world is not anything the church can do for the world. And under that, after that it says here, the church cannot die for the sins of the world. The church cannot heal the nations. The church cannot even usher in the kingdom of God. Some people think that. The most important thing the church can do is point to the one who did everything and is doing all things. He can do all of that. He can do all of that, not us. And so when you look when you think about it that way, people who have that missional mindset Are they flirting with the concept of actually trying to take the place of Jesus Himself? It it feels like it a little bit. Feels like it a little bit and that's dangerous ground to be treading on. So and it you know it all comes down to how they are approaching the Lord. Seems like a simple thing. But boy can it it can it turn someone on a path that God never intended with this church Let's go ahead and close in prayer and we'll pick this up right here next time when we meet together. Father, we thank you for the uh The truth that is found in your word. And I thank you, Lord, that you've given us the tools and the capacity to just understand your word. and to know it and to know what it means and to know what it says and to know how uh we should respond to it. And I pray, Lord, that uh you would help us in our minds as individuals to have balanced, proper thinking in regards to these things. Help us to grow in our abilities to spot falsehoods and false gospels and uh false teaching. And Lord, I pray that you would help us to remember our place as a body, a local body of believers here, and never try to supplant you. in in any capacity for that. We pray all these things. We pray that uh you would help us um in the time to come, that we would uh be eager to hear from your word and eager to worship you With truth we pray this in Jesus name, men.