Alright. So we uh last time we stopped, we ended up stopping in the middle. Um and so for everybody's uh for everybody's sake I'll give just a quick recap Uh we started last time doing a biblical timeline. We wanted to see um how where things fell and so forth. And the most I'll just go to the most tricky part. I'll bring it up on the screen here in a moment. The most tricky part is the after you get past the judges. And this will give me an opportunity too to correct a couple of mistakes and a couple of things I left out last time Which were so graciously pointed out to me. Let me start from here. Cool. Okay, so um after the uh after the book of judges you have the story of Ruth, and that is chronologically correct. You have Israel's final judge with Samuel, and his birth and story, the beginning is found in 1 Samuel 1 through 2. Israel's first king is Saul. Uh we talked a little bit about that and the curiosity behind that and why that took place. David becomes second king of Israel and that officially takes place in 2nd Samuel 1 through 2. He's actually anointed uh back in 1 Samuel. Sixteen. And then we have um now this is where it gets tricky. From 2 Samuel to through 1 Kings, 2 Kings, 1 Chronicles, 2nd Chronicles, you have David's reign, Solomon's reign, and all of the other kingdoms, uh kings reigning during that time. They overlap. We also noted that in the Kings and Chronicles are not chronologically in order You have retelling of stories in in in Chronicles that things you've already read uh in in 1st and 2nd Kings. Also in here you have um during this time all the prophets almost all the prophets are alive during this time span. So Whether it's Elijah and Elisha or whether it's Hosea, Abakuch, all of them are alive during this period as well And in this time period, mostly around David, David's life and Solomon's life, but others as well, the Psalms are written, Proverbs is written, Song of Solomon is written, Ecclesiastes is written. Okay. And continuing to recap here. So we looked at what prophets were alive during the time of Israel's kings. This is or another word for this would be pre-exilic prophets or prior to the exile, prior to um Israel being exiled out of their land. You have Obadiah, Joel, Amos, Jonah, Hosea, Nahum, Habakkuk, and Micah. My guy left out last time, so I I was able to put him in there as a correction. Yes, he is pre-exile. We haven't exiled him from the church. Sorry, Mike is a good friend, I can say craft at him, whether he's if he's here or not. Alright, we talked a little bit about, well, why why were the prophets sent? Well, the majority of the reason was the fact that they had a message to bring to Israel from God. That's what they had to do You did have a couple, like Obadiah, I recalled a couple things. Obadiah actually had a message specifically for Edom, the Edomites, the descendants of Esau. Nahum had one message specifically given to the people of Nineveh. As an aside, Nahum is a prophet after Jonah Jonah, you remember, goes to Nineveh rather reluctantly, gives his eight-word eight-word message, right, and the whole city repents. And Jonah's like, this is what I said was going to happen. I told you, God, that I didn't want to go here because these people are awful, and now they've gone and repented, and I'm going to go out here and pout. That's how it ends. And you know and well, you know, Jonah, I'm pretty sure I'm right with this, is the only book of the Bible that ends with a question. Wow And the question that God is asking in a nutshell is, can I not have mercy on whom I could have mercy choose to have mercy? And I mean the rhetorical question or the implied question is to Jonah, haven't I showed you mercy? Yes, even through the New Testament Yes. And um that God had could have mercy on the Gentiles. Yes, because they felt that they were treating, you know. Right. Okay, so um so that's them. These are the these are the prophets, and you you'll notice some that are not uh not around. You we don't have Isaiah, we don't have Jeremiah Okay, and then you have prophets, Where their their lifespan and their writings uh include the the pre-exile time and uh the captivity time when babylon comes. So you have Isaiah, Jeremiah, which all he also writes Lamentations. And Ezekiel. And then you have uh some of the prophets which uh are really only post exilic prophets. They they are only around during the time of the Babylonian reign and the Med and the Persian Daniel is one of those. Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi. Now uh one thing that I needed to correct from last time too, I I think I misspoke and said Ezra was a prophet. Ezra was not a prophet, he was a priest. And you will recall that after um the books of Chronicles, you have Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther, Job sounds properly. Right? Well Ezra and Nehemiah did, that is chronologically correct as far as uh chronicles goes But um what as far as where they fall in in relationship to the rest of the prophets, that's where it gets confusing a little bit. if if you don't know that those prophets have already most of them have already been alive. Really, only Haggai, Zechariah, Malachi, and maybe the tail end of Daniel's life Would they have been alive during Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther's time? Okay? Any questions about that? I know I've gone over a little bit of what we did last time, but uh I wanted to make sure everyone was together on the same page. Okay. Now we get to go to the New Testament. So we're continuing with our Bible biblical timeline. And what does the New Testament start with? Matthew, yes. Very good. Hey, I I no it wasn't a trick question, just you know, trying to get involved. So thank you. Thank you for being involved. All right, so no more involvement, please. Cap. No more. All right. Very good. So Um well and and just as a reminder too, you know, the reason we're doing this biblical timeline is because after today, maybe eh I probably won't get into it today because That would be very optimistic. I'm an optimistic person, but I also know time is a very consistent thing, and we often run out of it in this class. So um But nevertheless, the reason we're doing this biblical timeline and sort of more of an in-depth study of it is so that we are gonna have we're gonna put what we've learned into practice with uh our remaining classes. And we're going to look at some familiar passages and likely some very unfamiliar passages as well. And we're going to put the things we've been learning into practice. So, in any case. So, yes. Yes. the uh genealogy of Jesus Christ. Yeah, excellent. No, it does. And that that is very critical, and we've we've talked a little bit about that, the fact that Matthew is uh Matthew does that. Luke does that, although not right away. And then John doesn't have a genealogy. Mark doesn't have a genealogy. But this does bring up the question that I think is important at this juncture. You've had, remember you've had 400 years of silence, no revelation from God, for about 400 years. From the since the time of Malachi. Malachi was the last prophet of the Old Testament. And um until John the Baptist comes on the scene, you don't Don't have any new revelation from God, and then Jesus obviously comes right after that. But you have a um You have a kind of a different thing going on here when you first start the New Testament, and that is you you read the book of Matthew And you go from his birth to his ministry to his death on the cross to his resurrection to his commission of his people and the end, and then you start with Mark and then Oh, it's Jesus again. And he's on earth and his ministry and he dies and he goes on the cross and he pays for our the penalty of our sins and then he rises from the grave and he commissions his people and then you go to Luke. And it's John the Baptist and it's Jesus again. And we do it over and over again. Why do you think that we have four individuals that wrote about the same person. Why did why did God have that happen? Yes. All different perspectives. Yep. Okay. The ways of looking at it. Okay. Matthew lean a of a Jewish orientation. You know, and it's um uh talking about his Jewish heritage and so on, and then um Luke says uh you know written by a Gentile from a different point of view um with with some uh different details involved. Yeah. A little bit more about uh Beast's early life, which uh Okay. Okay, like corroboration, like it's like the more people you have telling the same thing that all agrees It's I don't have to word that, but you know like if we're separate like eyewitnesses, two like different witnesses, yeah, all saying the same thing And you have some different details in each one. Yeah. You know, there's some things one touches on the other doesn't, but Gospel John probably is the most strikingly different mind opinion because it has uh it was written to uh uh way late in the uh in the first century and the uh it was written to uh put down Gnosticism, you know, the false teachings and stuff that were coming out about Jesus. About Jesus, you know, so had a cement in his deity. Right. Yeah, you do have uh along with what you said, uh you you have a different emphasis. with each of those writers. They're they they each are trying to get a point across. And it's sometimes it's a little subtle, sometimes it's not. I think John is not subtle. You have a lot of passages in John that show uh the authentic deity of Christ and from his own words and from what other people said and and so forth. So Matthew I I think is uh big especially with the genealogy you're seeing that That he um he's showing his audience that Jesus is the Messiah, he is the King, he he is the author And it's interesting that for Matthew's um genealogy it only goes as far as Abraham It doesn't go any farther. So it's just the name essentially the nation of Israel. Um and no farther. Whereas with Luke goes all the way back to Adam. And so there there's there's definitely different purposes there. And it's not that you know it's not that well he made one so I'm gonna make one too. I mean no this was God inspired these inspired individuals to do it. Matthew walked with Jesus. Um John, which is probably the closest disciple of all of them, walked and lived with Jesus with Jesus. Luke did not, but Luke um likely had a very important and this isn't one hundred percent, but he Luke also wrote at the book of Acts And he wrote those kind of as a as a single unit. And his purpose, at least one of the purposes, is to show the authenticity of Christianity. Um to show that this is this is how it began with Jesus and this is what Jesus did and this is how we the the disciples followed him and this is what they did afterwards after he ascended into heaven. heaven. And and so you see a documentation and many of you remember that what was Luke's profession? He was a doctor, yeah. And I will say that uh a as a as a Greek student Reading Luke and reading the book of Luke and reading his his his work Acts, it's the the language is so much higher. than say a a Paul or or or even a John. John is probably the most simplified Greek that you have. Luke is is like doctorate level kind of stuff. He uses words that only come up once in the New Testament a lot of times, you know. So it but and so that's interesting. But Yeah, so definitely. Let's uh let's go through this a little bit. Those are the gospels. All four recount the same story of Jesus' ministry while on earth, but each death has different empathy. And different goals that what they're trying to do. And acts as the account of Christ's church at the beginning and what took place after that. That's that's what that's what they're going for. You know, it's really important. Acts, while in some cases isn't like it's not obviously it's not like the New Testament letters uh which we'll get into in a second. But it is uh it is a very important accounting of what did God do with this transitionary period. to do exactly what he intended his people to do. When you have, I mean when you look at Matthew, let's go ahead and look at Matthew, and this is This is said in a couple different places. The most uh familiar is Matthew So in in Matthew twenty-eight you have the Great Commission, right? We looked at this uh a few weeks back Starting in verse eighteen it says, And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Now let's just stop there for a second Jesus, who has died and has risen from the grave, and now has spent a number of days with his disciples, showing himself to them. Showing that it is really him in the flesh, he's not just a spirit, he bodily rose from the grave, and he makes this statement: all authority has been given to me in heaven. and on earth. Not just some authority. Not just, you know, this quadrant over here. And when let's let's let's say this for what this actually means, okay? On earth we understand this planet, right? When the Bible talks about the heavens What is it referring to? Can you a few different things? Okay. Can you mean heaven heaven like where God resides? Can you mean the atmosphere? Can you It can also mean the entire universe. Yeah, but the whole expanse. It can mean everything. And I mean it depends on the context to know what you like you said, it could mean a few But this is one of those instances. Obviously he is Lord of Heaven where God dwells. Right? a common sense statement. So I think that it's very clear here that all authority has been given to him on this planet and in the entire universe. He owns it. He owns it all So then he can say the next thing that he says, which is and in i i in in the Greek language Word order doesn't matter as much, but sometimes there is one for emphasis placed in front of the other. And in in the original, therefore starts first So he he's building upon that what Jesus is saying. He's saying, Because I have all their authority in the heavens and on earth, I'm telling you this, go. And make disciples of all nations baptize them. them in the name of the Father and of the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the age. And this is what's commonly known as the Great Commission, right? And it applied to his disciples then that he was speaking to, and it applies to us today. This is what we as believers This is why we do what we do, ultimately. No matter what it is that we do as a profession, or no matter what we do as as as an occupation or a hobby or ministry, it all comes down to ultimately this is what I'm seeking to do. I'm seeking to make disciples, and I've been given authority by the ruler of the universe to do it. So that means when some some dude tells me I can't do that, I can. I can. I obey God before men. Now, doesn't mean you're you can be silly about it and just, you know. Go to uh the middle of Afghanistan and just start preaching the word. No, you can be smart about it. We supposed to be wise as serpents but harmless as doves. Right? Alright, so we have that. We have that there. Now let's transition then to the first chapter of Acts. You might ask, okay, what happens after that? It's Matthew, it's the end uh of the book. Well we we get to see what happens right after that All right, and look at uh we'll start in verse four of ch of Acts And being assembled together with them, he, that is Jesus, commanded them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, which he said, You have heard from me For John truly baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. Alright, pause. So Jesus is saying, I want all of you to stay in Jerusalem. There might be You know you may you may have desire to go other places, but for now, for a time, stay here. You're going to uh be baptized, not like John the Baptist baptized But you're going to be baptized by the Holy Spirit. And what he's doing is he's he's telling them something that he already told them, which was it's actually better for me to depart from you eventually. Because when I do, the Holy Spirit is going to come. He's the comforter, he's the paraclete. He's going to come and actually reside in you, and it's going to be A permanent indwelling, which, as we've discussed before, in times past, was a new thing. The Spirit came upon people in the Old Testament, but it was a temporary thing It was uh uh for a task or for a responsibility that God had given them and God would enable them that person through his spirit. Saul had God's spirit for a while. David did, even someone like Samson, the judges, they they all had that. But we also see that at times the spirit would depart from that individual for a very variety of reasons. But that's not the case anymore. So in this new covenant That Christ is ushering in. He's telling them that this is gonna happen. And look at verse 6 then. Therefore when they had come together, they asked him Saying, Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? So typical disciple fashion, they're still concerned about kingdom, kingdom, government. We want to see your reign on earth right now. And Jesus' answer is he answers them. He doesn't have to answer. But he does, and he says, it is not, in verse seven, it is not for you to know times or seasons which Father has put in his own authority. He's saying it's it's not for you to know. It's not for you to know when it's gonna happen. What's the term? What's the phrase? Uh you're on a need to know basis and you don't need to know Right. Okay? Jesus kindly says that to them. But he says this in verse eight But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you shall be witnesses to me in Jerusalem And in all Judea and Samaria and to the end of the earth. Now that's actually a key verse for the whole book of Acts. Because what you see here, you shall be witnesses to me in Jerusalem. That's where they are right now, right Which for God told them to stay. Right? So that's where they are now. And in all Judea, that's the area surrounding Jerusalem. And Samaria, that's the land to the north of Jerusalem and Israel and Judea and then ultimately to the end of the earth. And that's actually what we see play out in the book of Acts. The gospel starts in Jerusalem Then it spreads to Judea, then to Samaria, and then to the ends of the earth. Alright, so let's look at verse nine. Now, when he had spoken these things while they watched, he was taken up, and a cloud received him out of their sight. And while they took looked steadfastly upward toward heaven, as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel, who also said, Men of Galilee, why do you stand gazing up into heaven? The same Jesus who is taken up from you into heaven will so come in like manner as you saw him go into heaven. Then they returned to Jerusalem from the Mount Call Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath Sabbath days journey. Okay, and just like that, Jesus is gone. Jesus gives the hymn Excuse me, Jesus gives them their commission. Jesus gives them the information that they need to know, and nothing that they're not supposed to know yet. But he gives them the most important part. The Holy Spirit is coming. Wait patiently and watch what happens after that When you get to chapter 2 on the day of Pentecost, we're not going to read it, but you see that bunches of people come from all across the area as will as was typical for the day of Pentecost and it's no accident that God would wait for a day like that when you have people from all around coming, right? And Peter, who was very notably right, was was noted for putting his foot in his mouth so often. He was a very bold man, but he was also sometimes reckless. Boldness and reckless sometimes can go together, right? But here you have you have a man who not only was that, but he was also reckless in how how confident he was in himself that he would not deny Jesus that he would stay with Jesus to the end. And in the end the fear of man took over, right? And to be honest, I think it's really hard for us to be judgmental of Peter But you have a man who is broken, beat down by his own sin and his own mistakes. And you have in the end of chapter of John, you have Jesus restoring that man to a place of a right mindset and usability once again Here in chapter 2, you have him being used for the first time, not the only time, but for the first time in this time. And he tells them after the Holy Spirit comes upon all of them People are looking around and they think that just everyone they actually think everyone's drunk because it's such a bunch of mumbo jumbo going on In their ears. But the truth is that that was a sign that God was doing what he was doing with the Jews. And Peter in verse 14 Notes and says, Man of Judea that dwell in Jerusalem, let my words be known to you and heed my words. These are not drunk, as you suppose. Since it's only the third hour of the day. But this is what was spoken of the prophet Joel saying. And then he quotes a portion of of Joel. Look at ver the middle of verse seventeen there, that I will pour out of my spirit on all flesh. Your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and young men shall see visions. And he's saying that this is this is real time right now. Part of this prophecy is being fulfilled right in front of your eyes. That's an intention getter, right? And so in this sermon, I can't flip this page, in this sermon that Paul Peter ends up preaching He um he tells them all of those things. And when he speaks, it says in there that each person heard the message in their own tongue, in their own language. God was supernaturally translating to everybody. And and so there wasn't God's message at this time, he was making sure that it would be heard And the result is multitudes get saved. Thousands of people come to Christ at that time. And that's the beginning of the church The church proper. Right? Not not a building. And we you know we use that term like that, right? We we refer I I'm guilty of it too. We refer to the church as the building. I'm going to church. Or hey did you see that church as we went by? We were talking about the building. But the church is the people Church means assembly. That's all it means. There's nothing fancy about it. It means an assembly of people. And so we are the church collectively. We're a local representation of Christ's church that he began. way back here. You remember what what um what happened back in Matthew I think sixteen where Where Jesus raises the question to his followers. He says to them, excuse me, but who do people say that I am? And and his disciples say, well, some people say you're a prophet. Some people you say, and some this isn't an exact quote, but say you're like Elijah, reincarnated. And that sort of thing. And then Jesus says, okay, well, who do you say I am? And Peter says, You are the Christ. And that might seem insignificant at first glance, but that word, that title, Christ, it's not Jesus' last name like some little kids sometimes think and it's a title and it's a title that means Messiah. And when when Peter says you are the Messiah In that simple three-word sentence, he's saying, you are the fulfillment of all the prophecies about that person in the Old Testament. You're here with us now. And Jesus says to him, ah no, sorry, you got me wrong. Oh no, wrong guy. No, he says, blessed are you, Simon Barjona. For flesh and blood hasn't revealed this to you, but my Father which is in heaven has done that. And he says He says, Upon this rock I will build my church. And what he's saying is it's the it's the confession of the confession of faith that Peter has made is saying that upon this Upon the f on pa upon me. Upon me. Upon the truth about me, I will build my church. And you know, I I've always said this, it's it's it had to have been one of those things where All the disciples' ears perked up that were in the vicinity. He's gonna build what? I'm gonna build my assembly. Well that's how do you build people? That doesn't make any sense. But what was he talking about? Well he's talking about building a group of people That we're going to be followers of him to the end of the age. That's when he promised, that's how how long he promised he'd be with us, right? So would you use those two words interchangeably? Church and assembly? Yeah. I would. There is some violence, in my opinion, that people do to the original word, ekklesia They attempt to make it a compound word, which would mean called out, caleo to mean call, ek to mean out of. I I don't see it. I think it's a uh it to me it's it's the same thing that that if I give you this example uh a word in English Understand. I understand what you're saying. Can you imagine if someone from I don't know in the future who doesn't speak English looked at the word understand and said, oh, it's a compound word Stand and under. So what it meant was it was someone like a student like standing under the teacher. And he it was it was a position of reverence and it was and y you and me, we look at that and that's not what that means. It just means comprehension. It means you understand something Right? So yeah we gotta sometimes we have to be careful uh with with those things. It's called an exegetical fallacy for the the the for the brainiacs out there. Alright. So all right. Any any other questions or comments about what we've done so far? Alright, so Jesus, before the church was even beginning in Acts, he says this was his plan. And he was going to start it upon himself, upon the truth upon himself about himself, and he was going to use his followers to do that. And that's what we see happening in Acts. It's the fulfillment of that Christ begins building his church in Acts chapter 2, and he's been building his church ever since. There is a universal church. And what do I mean by that? I don't mean what I don't mean by that is that well everyone eventually is just getting saved and uh it's you know No. All religions just sort of uh are headed the same direction. No. Father, except through me. That's a very exclusive path. And it's one path. So we have to we can't say that. Well what do I mean by universal church? Well, it means that It means that everywhere on this planet there are believers, right? And so whether there are believers in China or Australia or um Uzbekistan or or Spain or America, we we are all belong to Jesus' church that he is building. Right. But you also have the local church, which is a group of believers in a geographical area that meet together on a regular basis, like this one, like others all across the world. So Christ is in the business of building his church universally and locally And the way I love to look at it is that we get to be a part of Christ's building project. That's what we're doing. We get to be a part of his building. He's the um the GC, he's the general contractor, right? And we're all the workers And we get to be where it's a privilege to be a part of his building project. All right. And certainly a lot of interesting things take place in Acts. And you have the focus starts with Peter, and you have the first martyr. Uh and then you were introduced to the individual named Paul, Saul at the time. Um and um from there Saul is converted, becomes Paul, and then the focus focuses more on Paul and his journeys. And he he takes, he goes and takes um He takes the gospel and ensures that it gets outside of Jerusalem and it goes to the Gentiles and it goes out, out, and out further. And then um Acts sort of just sort of ends in um it just sort of ends. Um we do have some hope there that we know that he was at the time he was in chains. But he was able to preach the gospel unhindered. And we also get to see that in some of the letters. And that basically brings us then to the epistles. Now, why were the epistles written? And when I say epistle, we're talking it's just a fancier term for letters That's what these are. They are letters from one person to another person or to a group of people. And um so why were these letters written? And there's multiple answers really, not just one Yeah. To guide the new church. Yeah. Okay. What else do you want to do? To guide the future church. That's a really good point because while they were originally addressed to people alive at that time God inspired them and they are for our benefit as well today, right? Two thousand and some years later. Okay? What else? Yeah. Part of the reason that the writers would write to churches was to be an encouragement. What else? Yeah. Sometimes they were pointing out sin in the church to try to cleanse it keep it pure. Mm-hmm. Exactly right. Yeah. Sometimes rebuke was necessary. Right? Sometimes uh the writer would get wind of some trouble or some error in the people's way and uh he would write to to uh to do that. Okay? Anything else? Good, those are all reasons why the epistles were written There's usually a reason, and it's usually pretty evident within it. Now, what we're going to do here is a timeline as well. So we you know if you're going reading through your Bible uh just you know cover to cover and you read Acts and then you read Romans you kind of think well Romans comes after Acts. But it doesn't. So those are it does in it does in our our Bible, yes, but we have events that take place uh different times. So here is a little bit of help. First and second Thessalonians were likely the first books written. You have uh Paul in Ephesus in Acts 19. So here you have a little bit of a window. Then 1 Corinthians is written, Galatians is written, and Paul is in Macedonian Greece Uh, at Acts 20, and then Romans is written, and then 2 Corinthians is written. Paul returns to Jerusalem in Acts 21 through 23, and Paul gets imprisoned in Acts 24. Anybody else need a picture or uh writing? Okay. Okay. So our next one then A lot of things happen in uh in Acts for a while. Because Paul is being taken all over the place. No time for writing at this point. He's getting going before Festus, he's going before Agrippa, he's getting going to Rome, he gets shipwrecked, he gets uh he's on he's at Malta, the island of Malta, and then he preaches at Rome And that's when we see that you know he's he's in bonds, but he does have a measure of freedom. He can talk, he can speak to people. And that's where we get the prison epistles, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, Philemon. You remember in Philippians he talks about how he's yes he's you know he's got this this guard with him all the time but because of what's you know the rotation of guards he's able to tell the gospel to the whole Praetorian Guard. They thought he was captive, but he thought, nope, you're captive to me, Bob. I gotcha. Whatever however long the shift is, you're mine, buddy. Okay, and those are all the those are all the um the letters that Paul wrote Okay. You know, never thought about it, but you know, I would think a lot of like our didn't want to hear what Paul had to say. I they couldn't do anything about it because he was a Roman citizen. Yeah. They couldn't beat him up. It's true. Just them. Yeah. That's very true. So those are all of those are known as the Pauline epistles. That's that's a typical term for them. You do have other writers of letters though Not just them you um oh you do have first Timothy as well. Sorry about that. I wasn't done with uh the Pauline epistles yet. First Timothy is written And Titus and 2 Timothy. You have them. That's also while he's in prison. And in 2 Timothy, you do have a much sober Paul. And he he he's really coming to terms with that this might be the end. Um so he's writing to his pastors, his his children in the faith as he called them, Timothy in Titus. And then you have Peter who writes two letters. Then you have Hebrews, which is authored by someone. Don't know for sure. Who I mentioned before though that Hebrews it it very well could be could have been a sermon. Could have been an audible sermon that was written down. You have Jude, and then you have John's epistles. He writes three letters. um which really do couple well with um with the gospel of John. There's a lot of um back and forth that you can do And then you have the book of Revelation, which is also written by John, right? All of John's works were all written late. Yeah. the gospel of John do it for you. Right. So Revelation, just real quick about that. It's a fascinating book, right? It kind of can captivate our our attention. But sometimes we can go into it and end up feeling a little bit confused. And uh wonder what in the world we're we're we're looking at. And I just want to say, just like I said last time, we ought not be intimidated by the prophetic writings We should not be intimidated by the book of Revelation either. The Revelation is meant for us to have have to give us hope as an encouragement to know how all this is supposed to end. It's a it's supposed to be a comfort. That that eschatology or the study of last things is meant to be an encouragement and a hopeful thing for us. So I just want to give us, as we finish up today, just um a few tips about about reading Revelation. In Revelation one nineteen, you have the the key um the keyverse for the whole book. Um and I as I uh before I get into all of that, I just want to say too that you know so much allegory has been poured into the book of of Revelation. And I understand to a degree why. But if we're if we're going to approach all of Scripture With a literal interpretation when it makes sense, except when it's obvious that there is metaphor or simile going on. Like when Jesus says, I am the door He who op knocks and o you know, it's he's not saying he's physically a door, right? Just we should read it naturally When we say a literal interpretation, it means a natural reading. When it's obviously literal, we take it literal. When it's obviously metaphor or something like that, we take it as a metaphor. Revelation, the book of Revelation needs to be approached the same way. It just does. And and so many have really come to revelation with a lot of creative ideas, let's say. You can be very creative with it. You know, imagination it can run wild. But so what I want to say, let's let's turn to Revelation chapter one and verse nineteen and look at this verse. And hopefully, you know If there's ever been some hesitancy about studying this book, that hesitancy can be removed because There is actually a blessing that goes along with this this book. Look at verse 3 of chapter 1. It says, Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written in it, for the time is near. There's a blessing. There's a blessing attached to this writing. Well, gee, I want to get a blessing. How about you? You know? So we need that we do need to and now there's also a warning at the end of this book. And while it it's uh it's goes along with this book, it really can be in principle applied to all of Scripture To not add or take away anything from this book. So while there's a blessing, there's also a warning. But let's look at verse 19. It says this Write the things which you have seen, the things which are, the things which which will take place after this. Okay. So let's look at the board up here on the screen. The things you have seen. Those are the things that are passed. We have an outline for the book in this one verse. You have the things that you have seen. Write the things you have seen. Those are the things that he's already seen in the vision. Those are the things that are past. And that can be found in Revelation 1, 1 through 18. He says, then write the things which are. Those are the present. There's things that are present in Revelation. Yes, it's not all future. It's not all prophecy. He has specific messages specifically to the churches uh in in Asia Minor. So that can be found in Revelation 119 through chapter 322. And then you have, and the things which are to come, what it says there in verse 19. That's the feature. And so from chap Revelation 4 through 22, that's all future from that point on. Okay? Alright, and that's our biblical timeline. Next week we will have an opportunity to put these things into practice. Hopefully we can remember the things that we've gathered so far and um we'll put it we'll put it all together and actually actually begin to do this as a as a group. Alright let's pray. Father we thank you for the um the help that you've given us and in studying your word and looking at it as an overview and um Lord, your your word is true. We can see that. And we see how you've used multiple authors over many thousands of years to a couple thousand years to And I just pray that you would help us to see your word for what it is and not be confused by it and anything that it's not Not, we pray these things in Jesus' name, amen