Alright. So we uh we had to end in the middle a little bit last time. Uh let's go ahead and bring ourselves up to speed a little bit, remind ourselves of where we've been. So we talked about the uh that proper biblical theology being number one a guard for the church And number two, a guide for the church. Say again? What piece is in the biblical theology? That's this class. We're we're in biblical theology. So prop prop? Yes, sorry, thank you. Yes, proper use, proper biblical theology will act as a guard for the church and a guide for the church. If you don't have proper biblical theology, then you're going to ultimately stray in one way or another. So um it acts as a guard. It keeps us from false doctrine, from false teaching. Um we talked about the fact that if you look at the many, many stripes of denominations that are out there that fall under the um domain of Christianity of uh subtle differences that are on the outside maybe look innocent or uh inconsequential, but in reality they they stem from um bad biblical theology and there are meanings by and we talked just as an example we talked about communion and how the Lord's Supper is uh distributed and um uh and displayed and talked about the fact that time that I went into a Lutheran church on a Thursday, mid mid-uh week service and Got to see all that for um for myself with my own eyes. And um uh it and it protects us from Uh good biblical theology protects us from the uh those false gospels, uh the prosperity gospel, uh, and so forth. Let's see here. And as far as being a guide, a good guide, we saw that the proper biblical theology can be A good guide for the church in in preaching and teaching, a guide to good counseling a guide to good outreach and engagement, and that's exactly where we left off, was how how does proper biblical theology Give be a guide to us for good outreach and engagement and we'll go ahead and bring it up. Okay, very good. And the first one was missions. We talked about missions, a guide to good outreach and engagement and how that applies to missions. abroad and you could possibly say two missions in our own community. And we talked about the the um the fact that It seems like in in multiple areas of Christendom. There's a a a desire for the church to impact culture and cultural reform and cultural transformation. And while we want to be salt and light and we want to be a good influence as a church, what is the church's primary responsibility? And the you I I know I know Dave likes the quote a lot. Remember the quote that I mentioned about uh last time? The most important thing the church can do is uh Something could be done for it. Okay, yeah. Our responsibility is to point to the one who can transform lives, who actually has that ability. Bad biblical theology Can cause us to can cause people to misunderstand the church's role and what we're supposed to be doing. So, you know, if you interact with somebody who um comes from a different stripe of Christianity or even a a false Christianity and they they talk to you about well what are you doing in in your community and and what are you what what are you active in we're active in all these different areas and doing all these different things and but the gospel isn't even a part of it and perhaps even Jesus isn't even a part of what they're doing moralism. It can be, yeah. And you know, and that's a that's a great point, because the other thing too is well what does that do to a person who is moralistic back Well it makes them feel very good about themselves. And all most of the time if someone feels very good about themselves and what they're doing, then they're satisfied And they don't feel like they don't feel like they're doing anything wrong or missing anything. Okay. So that's that's the crux there, that the most important thing the church can do for the world is not anything The church can do for the world. The church cannot die for the sins of the world. The church can't heal the nations. The church can't usher in the kingdom of God. The most important thing that the church can do is point to the one Who can do all those things and is doing all those things. So we we should be like road signs pointing to Christ. Salvation this way. You know, that that sort of thing. U U-turns are allowed. Yeah. So, to guide the good outreach and engagement as regard in regards to missions, but also you could also say in relationship between church and state. And don't need to delve into that too much. Do have a lot to cover today, but it also is uh a good guide to how we worship You know, going back to other stripes of that fall under the the uh denomination of Protestantism or or even Catholicism You know, there's a lot of worship that goes on just in the Old Testament, right? And there are forms of worship that go on in the Old Testament There was incense use in the Old Testament. There is the use of instruments in the Old Testament. There is the use uh well not the use but there is uh making there's a lot of sacrificial systems going on. There's a lot of feasts going on, there's a variety of holidays How do we approach those things? You know, a lot of those elements of Israel's worship have made it into today's worship For such as Catholicism, Lutheranism, Methodism, and so forth. And if uh if You know, how are we supposed to approach those things? What does that look like? What bearing does the sacrificial system have on today's church? No, right biblical theology helps us to answer what to bring into this new covenant era that we find ourselves in now, and what was really meant for the old covenant or the old testament. Okay. Church structures. What do I mean by that? It's a good guide to outreach and engagement as far as church structures. Well, you might call it um You some might call it rituals, uh some might call it uh different things, but Things that fall under this category are something we talked about a little bit ago of baptizing babies You know, really, that question, should we baptize babies, really how you answer that depends on how much continuity you see between the Old Testament and the New Testament What about pastors? What is their job description like? Is it similar to any of the Old Testament leadership? such as priests or prophets or kings. Is there any con how how is there continuity or discontinuity there You think about multiple denominations that are around today, and a lot of people bring that prophet into the church leadership or the priest into today's church leadership. Really, um Practices in churches all across the land of various denominations relate to leadership in the church more to those le than those leaders in the Old Testament. People would who would defend, well, you know, the pastor is is like a preacher, the pastor is like a prophet. Well, they would go to the Old Testament and have, well, we remember what we called last time proof texts They say, well look at what it says here. And we would say, well look at what it says before that and after that. Because if you look at what it says before that and after that, what you just said doesn't mean what it says. Doesn't mean what you say it means. So as we get to the end here of this uh of this particular portion Biblical theology as a reminder for us, biblical theology is a discipline of we have to understand biblical theology as a discipline And a way of reading the Bible, a strategy that refuses, listen to this, that refuses to turn God's story into life's little answer book. Okay? It refuses to turn God's story into life's little answer book. Rather, it recognizes this book, the Bible, as the grand story that gives really our stories meaning. And that story that we find in the in the scriptures increasingly defines who we are, where we've come from, and where we're going. And because of that, it it guards, it acts as a guard and a guide for the church today. So you have both the individual level and the corporate level as well. And that completes class two. We we uh were able to finish that up. Is there any comments or questions Not, we will go ahead and start three Okay. So beginning in here, talking about defining the tools. Defining the tools for what? The tools for proper biblical theology. We've talked a lot about How people have erred. We've talked a lot about how how people stray from the one story that God is trying to teach us in His Word. And so what are the tools then that we ought to use as individuals and as a church to keep us on the path where we will correctly interpret Scripture? and not misapply things, not twist scripture to say something that it doesn't say. And so we're going to talk about the different tools and even the toolboxes where we get these from, so to speak. I like tools. Anybody else here have a problem with buying tools? Jim Senior flat out says no. Only trace. Hey you know what though? I don't just mean, you know, handyman tools or that sort of thing. Yeah, there's a lot of different kind of tools out there too, so they certainly can hammer it Yeah, okay. You know whatever um you're whether you're cooking or whether you're constructing something or whether you're like me in my shop and welding something and fabricating something You have to have the right tools to complete the task. If you're cooking something, you're probably not going to use a screwdriver because that's not the proper tool for what you Your handle comes off your high, then you need to cover it and put it back on. Yeah, it's all a fixed fifty. Alright, so to begin talking about the tools that we need then for approaching scripture properly. A lot of these you'll you'll understand and and you'll you're very familiar with and maybe for some it will be a reminder, but I hope that What we'll see today, as far as we can get today, is that there are the exegetical or the grammatical tools And we're often very familiar with those, but we're maybe not as familiar with the what we would call storyline tools. And so really the goal for today, or as much of today as we can, we need to be aware that we need to combine those two if we're really going to approach scripture properly. Alright, so let me ask you a question. If I were to ask one of you to define the word shop, S-H-O-T, how would you define it? There's a whole lot of differences there. I I I'm so sorry for certain people who are trying to learn our language. Right. It's a it's a measure. Okay, that's where Ed goes in his mind. I was thinking of hyper shot. That's another one, right? Yeah, give it a shot. Right? Or of them or a shop from it. Yeah. Stay with the shop from it. Just in five minutes yesterday, and so there could be more. I I came up with three three different sentences. The doctor gave me a shot. I wasn't sure, but I figured I'd give it a shot While playing basketball, John shot three times. John had three shots just in the last hour. Since Ed's uh definition, John shot himself in the foot three times It can be a it can be a uh a verb, a noun And in each of these cases, what gives the word meaning is based on how it's used in the context that it's in Here's another one. I didn't come up with this one. This was in the uh in the study Giving us the uh the nuance of just one word and and how it can change really bad. And this is really terrible, but I thought it was kind of funny. So the the sentence is I got a new pepperoni pizza for my wife. Now, if that's all you read You would think that got a new pizza for my wife, right? Giving it to but what if the sentence right after that said I got a new pizza for my wife. It was the best trade I ever made. For, then the word for completely changes, right? Completely alters the meaning of that one little preposition. Context really is king. You can't uh you can't ignore it Meaning is not just a property of words, it's a property of sentences. And it's not just a property of sentences, it's a property of paragraphs In the context of an author's intended meaning. And really, as we approach any type of um reading, we have to pay attention to those things, right? Whether we're reading an article or uh a fictional story or reading a biography or or the or the scriptures, we're paying attention to the words, the sentences, the paragraphs, the context, what is the author trying to convey to us? And it bears repeating here that if the reader does not see the Bible as truth itself If the reader just views the Bible as containing truth, then what does that mean? That means that the context really doesn't matter as much. You can do whatever you want with any passage of scripture if if you don't believe that the Bible is truly the inspired Word of God. If you've ever had a conversation with someone like this, you know what I mean. I mean you you point them with you know maybe you're talking about a particular passage and you point them to the context. And you point them to what the author is saying, and sometimes they they would ignore it, claiming that it's only your way of interpreting it. I had this conversation with um a very actually it's becoming more rare now, but someone that was really in entrenched in the Catholic faith. And the thing that he would say over and over and over against me if I pointed something out like that was, well that's just your fallible interpretation. What would it be saying there? The church, capital C church, has the only true interpretation. You're just Joe Schmoe you know, making up your own interpretation. Regardless, and it didn't matter if I made good grammatical sense, that my interpretation was completely fallible So let's go ahead then and we'll dive into now the uh the different um tools and tool boxes. So tool number one in the toolbox one is the grammatical historical method. What does this say? Well it it basically the grammatical part of it is the fact that we want to answer this question. What does this text, whether it's a sentence or a paragraph or more or less than that, what does it mean? You start with a grammatical and structural analysis of the text. Now that sounds like really up there, like wow, you need to like get all this different information and like get and get a decimal. No, it it's it's not that in depth, although sometimes passages that are more difficult might mm cause you to go and and write things down and so forth. But ultimately most of the time, if it just makes sense Then you just asking what does this mean? What is the author saying? Not what I think it's saying, but what is he saying And so these are some questions or some thoughts that we want to use when we go to a particular passage of Scripture. First question here is how does the larger text break up into units? In other words, what we're asking here is where do new paragraphs or new thoughts begin? Where do new paragraphs or new thoughts begin? And with that as well, where do um those thoughts or those paragraphs end? It's important to know when a new thought is coming up, or a new idea, or in a narrative, a new part in the story, or something like that. This is pretty standard stuff, but what's the subject, the verb, and the object? How do they relate? This is just normal sentence diagramming. It's nothing uh nothing too profound here, but it's coming at a at a passage asking these questions And then sort of um sort of in contrast to number one, number three here How are the sentences connected? So we don't only want to know where new thoughts begin and other thoughts end, we also want to know where thoughts are continuing and even building upon And you see this a lot, right? I mentioned uh in first class my my rainbow study bible, remember that? And how It was helpful for some things, but this was one of the things that it was not helpful for, because it really segmented Scripture so that when I first began studying the Bible, I did not see flow of thought. I saw Prophecy, I saw teaching, I saw uh discipleship and and these different categories that didn't come up for me, you know Well, we want to know how sentences are connected. The author, especially taking an epistle for an example, there is a thought that is building. and continuing and there is structure that the tip that the author will typically have. We want to know how that all is connected. Then you can ask also what is the general flow of argument. And that's really uh that's part of the sentences being connected as well. Okay, tool number two in toolbox one is literary form. There are so many different kinds of literary forms that we find in Scripture. And in those forms, we have to ask these certain questions. Is it still under the exegetical tools or the interpretation tools? Does the historical context The author, the date, the audience, and the origin, if known, do those things throw light on our understanding of words or arguments And this is the kind of thing that a teacher or a preacher will do often for us, right? As they've studied our passage and they put things together, they will Often say, well, Paul was imprisoned at the time of this writing. Well, gee, that that can help color for us. The things that he's saying, right? Or John, he was uh exiled to the Isle of Patmos when he wrote all of these things, right? Um You know, some i if someone does not consider scripture to be truth itself, this is one of those things that doesn't matter. They don't care about it because they just want little fix me passages that they can find, right? So Um often, often, understanding, if possible, understanding the author, the date, the audience, where it came from That will throw light on our understanding in a passage or a whole book in in fact Is there a cultural context that we need to be aware of? So, for instance, what are Pharisees? I mean if you read through the gospels and didn't know what Pharisees were, you'd you'd be lost in a for a lot of things. Why does Jesus not like these people so much? You know? What rights did women have in the Roman world? You know, uh recently in Colossians, uh Pastor Jim's been talking about the Gnostics, right? It's important to know who they were and what they believed, what they taught And we can see why Paul combats that so much, right? And then are there issues of geography, politics, or history that throw light on meeting Geography, I mean that's an incredible, incredible thing, right? To to understand where things are now. Do we always know? No. We we don't always know where certain cities were, cities that are long gone now But something like, I mean in in the story of Jonah, God tells him to go to Nineveh, and Jonah says No way. And he gets on a boat to go where? Tarship. Where was Tarship? Spain, probably modern day Spain. Are those two close? No. He was trying to get away. I mean when he was trying to get away, he was trying to get away from everything that God wanted him to do. And obviously we know the story, God had other plans. Well, if you think Darcius is just a hop, skip, and a jump away, well maybe that gives you a different impression of what Jonah was. But knowing how far that is, well that that that gives you a whole other impression. Geography, my it it makes so such a um It can make such a difference. It's also helpful when you think about all the traveling that's done. You know, just in Genesis, people are traveling all the time. In Exodus, people are traveling all the time in these places that are talked about. And where is Ur? And where is Canaan? And where And where in Egypt are they? Where's Goshen? You know, all these things, all these places come up. And when we can get an idea, maybe not a complete idea, but maybe at least get some idea of where these things are It adds detail and context to the things that we're reading in these stories. Even though, even in the New Testament, geography can play a huge part, right? Think about Paul's missionary journeys and where he went and where he was, even in What someone have a question? Oh, okay. I'm hearing weird then. That happens every now and then. Um, maybe, maybe. We'll try that later. Even um uh one of the most fascinating things that um that I experienced w in r relation to geography was uh the first time I heard someone preach through the seven churches In Revelation. Um the preacher, pastor actually had the opportunity uh prior to that to go to each of those places that were still at least that were still around. Some are gone. But many some are in ruins, some are still a place today. So um it it was really interesting. He had, you know, recent pictures of these places. And um so it you know that adds an element. And let me tell you, that that's one of those those studies, that's a huge one to understand. And in fact Knowing where Laodicea is is incredibly important. Now I could I probably shouldn't get into that, but I mean one to so the many people teach on laodicea and they they Maybe don't willfully ignore the context of there, but my goodness, it is one of those classic examples, I think, of not taking in all the information that's there. How how have you typically heard the Church of Laodicea preached? They're the lukewarm church, right? And often Jesus says that I would wish that you are hot or cold, but you are lukewarm and I will screw you out of your mouth. Often, and it's becoming a more of a rare thing, but I've heard it so many times, maybe you have too, that hot, what does that mean? Cold, what does that mean Well they often will say well hot is on fire for God and cold is cold to the things of God. Stay away from that And while that sounds good and makes your good preaching, is that really what Jesus is saying? That he'd rather you be turned away or not? on fire for God? Would he would he rather you just turn the other direction and and not even be is that really what Jesus is saying? I always heard that and thought, well I guess that makes sense, but it seems kind of weird If you know the geography and what's going on in that area and why Jesus says that, does anyone remember why Could be their water supply. Yeah. And they wanted it holds in the springs right. Yeah. At the higher Did Legosia have its own uh water supply? No. No, it did not. There was a city called Hieropolis where there are natural hot springs. And there was oh what's the other city? I can't remember it now. I I apologize, but I didn't plan to talk about this. So um there's another there's another one that had um water coming from the mountain And it was cold. So you had hot water on one end and cold water on the other. Now, cold water is useful, right? Hot water is useful. They built channels to get that water to Laodicea, but by the time the water reached Laodicea, what was it? Luke Warm. Exactly. Which Jesus' point is Useful for nothing. I would rather you be useful this way or useful that way, but instead you're useless Because of how you turned away from me, you are useless. That's Jesus' point. Wow. I mean a simple thing like geography and understanding the context of what's going on there, it can throw light. Such light on our interpretation and meaning when we approach the scriptures. So important to consider these things So these are all the exegetical tools that we've just thought. It's literary form, it's the grammatical and historical method. All of those things that we should consider. And this is this is typical. This is the normal stuff. This is the stuff I think that we typically see. But there is another aspect to it And it's this. Toolbox number two is storyline tools. Alright, so let me ask you this. This is totally not true, you'll you'll see in a minute, but let's say you got online and whether you went to Yahoo or you went to somewhere else, and there was a major article And the headline of it read Orioles Win World Series. Not happening, right? Not not at least for a while. But let's let's let's talk about yeah, miracles and let's talk about just let's say hypothetically that that's what you see And let's say you my wife has this terrible thing that she does that I want to share with you right now. Being recorded. Yes, I know. She knows she does this. But the terrible thing that she does is she'll take a book and she'll just open it in the middle And start reading in the middle. It's terrible. Why would you do such a thing? Now it's not as bad, not as bad, as going to the end. That would that's just an abomination. But No, no, we're talking about like actual, like fictional stories, biographies, you know, all that kind of stuff. She just goes to the middle. I make fun of her all the time for it Oh let's say how often do you see her going back to figure out what issue? Oh I mean she's actually like reading the book. Right. Or she's reading over my shoulder or something like that, you know, and I'm like, what are you doing? She don't know what's going on. It's not it's not right. But let's say you you had a Miranda moment, right? And you saw this headline, Orioles Win World Series, and you said, I'm just gonna skip down a little bit, and you got the paragraph, I don't know, number twelve, right? And that's and paragraph 12 was all you read. Paragraph 12 talked about in the seventh innings a relief pitcher uh came in and and struck out the side, you know, three three in a row. He struck them all out. It was great. Part of this victory. Now you might do everything with paragraph twelve correctly. You might exegete it just perfectly the whole way, right? And get get true understanding from it. But If that's all you read, would you really understand how the Orioles won the World Series? You wouldn't. Nineteen eighty three. That is when it happened. When is the last Last time we had a good year? About twenty fourteen. We made the playoffs. And twenty twelve I think we made the playoffs, something like that. It's been a longer drought for you than it has It was between you and the Cubs, right? So someone was gonna win that hadn't won in a really long time. Okay. We we uh digress a little bit there, but Not only that, not only would you not understand how the Orioles really won the World Series, but you would really not understand the significance of paragraph twelve in light of the whole big picture of the overall story. So I want to ask you this question. This is not an article, right? This is this is the Bible. It's got a lot of information in it, a whole lot of paragraphs. Let's say. If we were to break the Bible down to a headline, what would it be? Something about Christ? Okay, Jesus saves. I like it. What else? Any other ideas? Yeah, Jesus wins, Christ conquers. I like it. That's good. What else? Anything? There aren't many I mean there probably are a lot of wrong answers, but you know but you guys are going doing this so far. Any of these would work. Oh sure. World history. It is a it is a historical book, but that's not all it is. That's not all we're not uh uh chronologically. True. So you have to understand that when you look at the history of the historicity of of especially the Old Testament phrenology is not necessarily there on purpose. Yeah. Designed for that. Yeah. Right. Chronicles, that's phonology. Yeah, I like uh I like Jesus wins. I like uh one that I came up with was God Restores His people. Doesn't mean you you you you have relationship fractured in Genesis three, right? It's over. And kind of hopeless But everything from that point on is God's objective is to restore that fractured relationship, and he does it through his son Jesus Christ ultimately. God's plan. Jesus story the Bible um talks about Jesus rescuing, you know, how um in I realize you know that's going to be my point ahead toward um crash wrestling and the nice way to give kids it is. You know, you guys are familiar with the big um big story Yeah. Yeah. It's pretty deep. I think not. Yeah. Sure. This one makes a concerted effort to connect all the you know the typical Bible stories that kids um here. But the connect the big the key story book title. Oh there's a couple then because I I know about the the the Just said it a second a day. The big the big storybook Bibles, yeah. There's a few of them. But it does. As the Bible has one big story. And um So, you know, we could put any of those headlines in there that we mentioned. The headline of the whole Bible, and if you want to put it in one word, gospel. Gospel, I think. One word. But if we chose Jesus wins, Jesus saves, God restores his people. The goal of opening up this second toolbox that we're opening here is to figure out how any given text in Scripture relates to that headline. Does that m make sense? You're tracking with me there. You know, if if you find yourself in Nehemiah 6, where does that fall in the Overall headline of the Bible. What is God doing at that time with his people? What is he doing? Um you know, and and that sort of thing. If you find yourself in Exodus chapter twenty, find yourself in Genesis thirty two Find yourself in Amos 1. What is God doing at that time? How do those portions of scripture relate to the ultimate, the overall headline Jesus wins or God restores his people or whatever. And so this is this is one of those things that sometimes we maybe forget to implement in our own personal study and people who teach, those of us who teach children Those of us who teach adults or preach or anything, we have to remember when we're going to a passage, you may not necessarily mention the overall headline, although maybe you will. It might very might very well fit into what you're doing. But ultimately, if you're going to rightly interpret and apply that passage, you need to have the big picture in mind. Do you think as dispensational we tend to and shy away from inside of it. In my mind I think covenant theologists like covenant theologists might have a better tendency toward this Because they can see how all of the Bible connects. But as a disputation was growing up, like it was always very I was very cautioned against pulling all of it together so that um I could interpret it correctly. God's not doing this now. You did that before, but not doing that now. Yeah. So I think there's there needs to be a balance with it. Um and perhaps we need to not swing as far for that. Extremely sensational and remember that it is an entire Yeah. I mean dispensationalism is in in in general I think gives out a good layout for how God progressively revealed his plan. Um and and to that end I think it's very helpful. But to Tracy's point it makes a lot of sense that an a an extreme version of that or what's typically termed as hyper dispensationalism. try to segment things so much that they there's they they take out all the continuity. it will it's allowed to use it to take scissors to the Bible. Take scissors to the Bible cut out stuff. But you know that that the they don't believe belongs to this dispensation. And and and uh they would even throw out the great confusion Okay, that that's not bad. Yeah. But uh yeah, okay, so see um Yeah, it's it's it's um any any extreme is is is an issue. Problem. Absolutely. Because because uh the Bible does not say that it's it's very clear that this was saying it's great. Everybody argues what the dispensations are. Well it's a tool, yeah. So we didn't go by the covenants that were where they've got uh main with with Israel, with Danny, with Israel, and so on and so on. With Abraham, which is with any covenant and so on. Okay. We can see these things. So these are these are the places Martin Sure. But to to just throw out, you know, uh things because that happened then to those people and they don't want to apply to us all over there isn't incorrect Right. So I think we'll trace the same. You can get very people can get very hyper dispensationists, which is very easy to do. It's very focused. It's all one revelation. I mean God is progressively uh revealed himself with Genesis through Christ. Yeah. Okay. And uh the and the apostles. That's how and he's he's a progressive remote. And uh all the way through it's and it's no more revelation needed. It's right there is all we need. So But it's it's all the use. Yep. Yeah, so there there is a um a balance that does need to be struck. I I don't personally don't mind if you more attention to the covenants or you pay more attention to um revelation my my what would bother me or be my concern is well what kind continuity and what what what do you think is as continuity, what do you think has discontinuity? And so for a typical covenant theologian the church is the extension of Israel. Right. And that would also so and I mean they have their they have their proof texts. They'll go to uh Ephesians chapter two uh in the second half They'll do their things to prove their point. Um so that's again the context in the chat what what is the author actually saying. I remember having a guy uh point that out to me who uh he had his um interesting points of view. Um Um but and he uh I remember going to that past with him and I said, Well I I'm reading this, I wouldn't be comfortable if I was teaching this or preaching this, I wouldn't be comfortable saying what you're saying It it goes too far. And so uh and so yeah, I mean there there is a balance there that we God progressively reveals But there are and and there is a flow to that revelation that that he has given. But there are definitely things that have ended. There are definitely things that are over. The sacrificial system is done away with. this point uh and as an example. So um and Hebrews eight, nine, and ten make that abundantly clear, right? So um And I like what what what Jim said there too of w we need to be careful of extremes. Anytime you get to an extreme one way or the other, you've probably landed yourself in a pool of heresy or uh false doctrine or something of that nature. So um any uh any we'll we'll wrap it up here. Any final thoughts or questions The one thing that I I noticed is the uh uh these tools are absolutely necessary in in understanding scripture. Yeah. Um but unfortunately there's some packs that are a little more difficult. Okay. You can try to bring as much context, but everything else is real. And you can probably get close but it's still sometimes just gonna have to ask you. Yeah. That's true. Exactly. I'm just talking about as far as you're able to come, you know how does this apply to us sometimes? So but sometimes it can be they can be uh difficult yeah even the car. Absolutely. No you're right. It it isn't always cut and dry. Um sometimes that means when need to work harder at studying the passage. Sometimes even after we worked harder we still go, ah, I'm left with maybe one, two or three options here and I'm not sure. And So Pastor, you know, to talk about Pastor Jim for a second, sometime a couple times I can think of, he said, I'm not sure And he just preaches and then he teaches the options. Here are is what in front of us and what could be. I feel like that is such a more honest approach. Than than falsely being convinced of something that you're really not that convinced of, you know And I I I appreciate that and and we should all be willing to be whether we're teaching kids kids will sometimes questions that you've just never really thought of in such a simplified way. And what are you gonna do? Well are we gonna make something up Or are we going to say, you know what, I need to look at that. I need to think about that and study it more and see what Bobble actually says about that. It's always those times where, you know what, sometimes we need to dig in deeper. Sometimes we'll hit the wall. Sometimes we'll get to below the surface, right? Pastor Jim said recently in another message. So um we need to we need to end there, but we'll uh we'll pick up here And we'll talk about the storyline tools and how they help us to properly interpret and apply scripture, whether we're studying for ourselves or we're teaching someone else. So I look forward to doing that with you next time. Let's go ahead and close in prayer we dismiss. Father, we we thank you and we we love you. We we want to take time just to Praise your name for delivering your word to us and preserving it for us. And we do not have to live this life in the dark. uh uh and not knowing what you have said. We we know what you've said. We have it with us and can read it and study it freely and we thank you for We pray Lord that um you continue to work on us uh and through us during this uh class. Um help us Lord to see the Bible, your word, more for what it really is and not for what maybe we want it to be. And I ask that um you would continue to Grow us uh closer to you and uh grow us closer to your truth as we uh consider these things and study these things. I pray now for the service to come that You would help us to put out other distractions and be able to worship you holy in spirit and in truth. And be ready to listen to your word, preach to us once again. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.