All right, by way of review, uh let's uh recap a little bit what we've done the last two Sundays together. Uh we've been talking about those uh exegetical, those, those toolboxes that we were referred to the exegetical tools and the storyline tools. And we talked about how when we want to approach a text, we want to consider just the some of the things that we're very familiar with, but the uh the grammatical aspect. How does this text break into units? What is, you know basic sign sent sentence diagramming uh subject verb and object and how do they relate? How are sentences connected What's the general flow of argument? Um and then also literary form. And um Does the historical context otherwise known, you know, talking about the author, the date, the audience, the origin, if you know those things, how does knowing that throw light on the understanding of your of the words and the arguments in the text? Are there cultural contexts that we need to be aware of? And we gave some examples of that. If you don't know who Pharisees are When you're reading through the Gospels, you're gonna be wondering why in the world is Jesus so mad at them all the time. And uh also uh issues of geography and um the political scene of the time, history. We talked about that as well. And then we talked about the storyline tools, and maybe some of those are a little less familiar to us, but we're talking about looking back and looking forward. Considering the plot and how a particular narrative perhaps is unfolding. Theme, promise fulfillment, typology. And we summed it all up last week by saying biblical theology teaches us to start with the tool of exegesis, and then we move to the storyline tools of themes, covenants, promise, fulfillment, and typology. And today we actually have the opportunity to oops, that's not what I want to do. Cancel that. We have the opportunity to uh put all all the things that we have talked about the last four weeks together. And I'm excited about that because a lot of it has been good, but we haven't been able to apply it yet. And so we get an opportunity now to put these things that we've been learning into practice. If you wanted to summarize the Bible Or if you wanted to maybe uh put put a make it a could be statement, how you would want to, you're taking all the themes and everything that happens in the scriptures How would we summarize what takes place in the Bible? Any ideas? Sure. Yep. Very good. How else? Kind of a lot, right? I mean when you think about it. The Bible is chopped full of so many things, but go ahead. the the term rescue. They use rescuer and rescue a lot. But that that's not it's not enough. That's too specific almost. Yeah. Because that's only one facet of what's going on. Because yes, God is rescuing us, but his whole planet of salvation is glory. So there's got to be something else we have to Yeah and that that goes more towards what we were talking about last time And if I remember the illustration, if we if uh the the baseball illustration, Orioles win the World Series is the headline, and then you um You glance through the article and you you see you know what the story is about. But the headline is Oriol's Wind World Series. Um what and we were talking last time about the headline of the Bible. What would the headline of the Bible be? And we had some ideas, right, about Jesus wins or God restores his people or or or things like that. And um and so it this is a little bit different what I'm asking than that. So let me uh let me put put it to you how how this guy puts it here. Graham Goldsworthy says this He summarizes it this way. Eight words is what he does. God's people, in God's place, under God's rule. Now is it perfect? Is it complete? I don't know. But he does give some good examples here of how you see this summer sum uh summarization kind of play out over and over and over again. We can look at some examples here. In Genesis 1 through 3, God is ruling who Just sure as far as people go, just just two people, right? Yeah, Adam and Eve. And where is he doing it? In yeah, his place at that time being the garden In Genesis 6, he's doing it again. God rules his people, Noah, and his family, and the place would be the Ark. And those are his parameters. God wanted them in the ark at that time. Okay. Genesis twelve. All the way to well You could you kinda go the rest of the way just about. But uh it God intends to rule his people, Israel, in his place, the land of Canaan, the promised land, by means of his law. And of course we we see that they rebel and and egg exile and so forth. When we get into um the gospels We discover now a man who perfectly lives according to God's rule. And those who are united to this man by faith look forward to a new heaven and a new earth. That's God's place. where we will live together forever under his rule. And then he says basically that's the story of the whole Bible in eight words. Okay. God's people, in God's place, under God's rule. Is there anything as you as we thought about that, is there anything that you think might be missing or something something that could we could add? I mean eight words is cool, but it doesn't have to be I almost want to put God in front. So uh we're going to be able to do that. Yeah. Um have a have a verb in there, that helps. Yeah, yeah, yeah Um because the the ultimate goal of of scripture is to reveal God is um it it would be secondarily to reveal God's plan for his people. They go together obviously. I mean if you wanted to be as succinct as possible, it could be assumed that That he is revealing all of these things to his people and where it's going to happen and it's going to be under his rule. So i in a sense, sure. Sure. Alright. So we're going to today, we're willing, hopefully we get through everything today, it's my plan, is to be able to um Trace the story through the scriptures. And it might seem a little ambitious, but hopefully you have had your coffee or are having your coffee and we can do this together. Uh I want to begin because of uh something that was brought up a few class classes ago regarding what many of us have um been taught as far as going through the Bible, seeing it as a whole, and how how things progress. And there are two Bigger um forms of this, and one would be covenant theology, and the other would be dispensationalism. And for any of you who that may be uh unfamiliar with those terms, um Covenant theologians They've often been placed sort of outside of our circles. They do things differently than their approach definitely is different. A couple of examples would be they they will make connections between Israel and the church that that we don't. Um they are commonly omillenal so they don't see a um a literal thousand-year reign of Christ. They will often also have very different views concerning the timing of the rapture. and and when and when that would take place. Um but that is a that is a a s a typical standard approach to uh the Bible and they basically break up the Bible into two parts old covenant new covenant which In reality is really just what what testament means. Old Testament, New Testament, we could easily interchange that word to covenant and it would work fine. So it kind of seems natural to do that. And and I just want to say that, you know, if if a if someone who adopt has adopted covenant theology um ascribes to the true gospel and and and preaches Jesus and you know doesn't fall into any other types of heresies We can have fellowship with that person. And so while it's a different approach, it isn't necessarily a a heathen, a wrong approach of any sort. And then we have dispensationalism, which whether you've heard that word or not before, that is commonly in our circles what uh what is taught. And um Does anybody here want to venture to to talk about what dispensationalism is? We've mentioned it a little bit, I think, but yeah. Maybe they kind of works in different ways. He's the same guy yesterday and today breakfast, but he works differently in different things. Yeah, sure. That's good. How many dispensations are there? That's a trick question. Yeah, you're gonna get you're gonna get different answers. Um you know there there has been uh I haven't I I haven't heard a lot of it recently, but um back when I was younger It was definitely uh something that was talked about a lot. And and as I was telling um I think Tracy uh a while ago that for me when I learned about it and it was broken up for me, it helped me a lot. Uh just to see the unfolding of God's revelation through his his scriptures. And and um I also saw that there there's definitely some flaws in it. It's it it it's not it's not inspired Covenant covenant theology teaching is not inspired, dispensational teaching is not inspired. And either one can lead to incorrect thinking as well. Yeah. That's why in the last probably In decade and a half or so, you you have covenant field field agents recognizing that there are dispensations, they usually call them Epics. And they're epochs. Oh okay. So so they'll they'll they'll want those Uh and they'll say so they sort of don't disagree with that. Yeah. And then you have dispensationalists who are saying, they've got some points over there. Yeah. So so there's the you know sort of a progressive dispensation. Yeah. Um which does put Christ on the front or does put uh David on the front of the Christi or uh price on data is for an now and then you have an idea of what is between progressive dispensationalism and and uh And and classical literation you have this idea basically where um uh it includes um the idea of of uh there being two kingdoms you have a mediate kingdom and a spiritual kingdom. A class of dispensational approach would say no there's not The problem with that is that you sort of run into issues like what you do with sermon on the mouth, which is talking about the thing that probably is in the hands So the the approach that basically says sort of the John MacArthur approach is that there's two changing the spiritual kingdom that's happening now So so it's interesting to sort of watch this uh the the real class with hardly anybody now is the real class with business agents. There's some. Yeah. Um but they're And then there's you have I shouldn't say hardly, but there's some but but then you have the covenant the elements that are common. So it it's interesting. Yeah, I did uh meet a teacher, it wasn't my teacher, but I did meet a teacher who who believed um that the Sermon on the Mount didn't apply to Christianos today. robot. And and and that is a so that that's that's the danger of a tool. And that's that's what dispensationalism is. It's only a tool And you can't um you can't let a a a system dictate how you're going to interpret the Bible. It's letting the tool do the work for you instead of you. So uh uh one of the best illustrations, and I don't know if it'll it'll connect with you but it connects with me is I uh I I weld and mid weld. And mid welding steel is just fine. The steel does what you want. If you make weld aluminum because of how supple a metal it is, it wants to go everywhere And the only way to properly mid-weld aluminum is, if this is where this is what the bead that you want to run, you need to be between 0 and 10 degrees on your gun And you've got to push it, don't don't drag it. You have to push the weld to to make it stay where you want. If not, the tool is going to go erratic. It's going to it's going to make a poor weld's not going to work at all, really. And and that really is the case with with these types of things where we let the tool dictate how we're going to interpret scripture. And we can't do that. We have to let scripture interpret and and let it do it. So we have to let the Bible speak for it itself. We never want to allow a system to derail proper interpretation. So, yeah, so um real quick, I have the classical dispensational book here by Ryrie. He breaks up dispensational dispensations into seven Uh innocency, which is that the basically in the garden before the fall, conscience after the fall to uh the flood Civil government after the flood, um and then you have patriarchal rule and Abraham uh comes on the scene The law, Mosaic Law, Grace, the one we're in now, and then the millennium after that. Some would put the eternal state as another one There's another one here, more of a progressive approach. That's only five. We have Adam to Sinai, Sinai to Ascension. Uh ecclesial is the next one, ascension, the second coming, and then he ha then there's the Zionic part one, millennium, part two, eternal state. So um These are helpful, but again, not not inspired. And so what we're going to do today is um it's not a It's not an abandoning of of this, but I believe it is just a more simplified This is what the Bible is showing us, kind of deal. And maybe it doesn't have the really big terms and it doesn't have all those things, but uh it's it's enough. It's enough and I think uh think we'll benefit from it. So let's talk about then covenants. Covenants is something that we find in Scripture all throughout. And it's a prevalent, like we said a while ago, theme. It's a prevalent theme in Scripture. This word covenant, what What does it mean? What what do you think of when you hear the word covenant? A promise. Promise? Okay, good. Definitely. Contract in a lot of cases. A contract, okay. A contract kind of implies two parties, right? Are involved. Yeah What else? Anything? Good Um man by the name of Paul Williamson defines a covenant this way. A solemn commitment Guaranteeing promises or obligations undertaken by one or both covenanting parties. And it's sealed with an oath. So you do find two types of covenants in Scripture, one being a an unconditional covenant, one being a conditional covenant. And we're going to see both of those kinds through here. I'd like you to turn now to Genesis chapter 2. Genesis chapter two Fifteen through sixteen says And the Lord took Lord God took the man and put him into the Garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil thou shalt not eat it, for in the day thou eatest it thou shalt surely die. God here provides Adam with a list of duties and commitments. He promises blessing for obedience and curse for disobedience And he binds them by a verbal commitment, an oath. Creation and the Adamic covenant. Very simple. Nothing big going on. It's not nations aren't involved. It's just really between one man and God. But nevertheless, it is covenantal in nature. It's very simple, but here's the thing is that as we trace through this you're going to see a building upon You're going to see similarities to previous covenants, to ones that we're going to look at from here on. And I think you'll find it really interesting. Um go ahead and turn now to Genesis nine. I didn't read it, but part of the covenant for Adam and Eve was also to be fruitful and multiply. Um I need to get Genesis nine now. And multiply and replenish the earth. So you have an element where it's restating the Adamic Covenant. And let's think about it for a second in context What what you have for Adam and Eve is the beginning, right? This is this is God's creation and it just starts. In a very real sense With Noah and his family, you have a new beginning, right? There's uh judgment has just come upon the whole earth, they are now allowed out of the ark And God now deals with them in a very similar way to the way he dealt with Adam and Eve so long before then. But here we have oops here we have a couple of adjustments, you might say, or or changes, or contrasts to the previous covenant that God had with Adam. Look at what it says in verse two. And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth, and upon every fowl of the air, upon all that moveth upon the earth, and upon all the fishes of the sea, into your hand. Are they delivered? And verse let's uh skip down to verse six. Whoso sheddeth a man's blood by man shall his blood be shed, for in the image of God made he man So we have two what you might call adjustments. There is going to be a fear that the animal kingdom now has towards men, towards people And as well, there is a a charter for human government and capital punishment. What was the problem? What was one of the main problems of the pre-Noaic Slod era. Um They certainly that was part of it. Uh that's more judges. Um but w what was the what was the thing that people were doing to others Sitting, yes. There was there's a particular the whole uh uh the whole the whole world was filled with people. Evil, wicked. And violence. Yeah, sorry, that was the word. Violence. People were violent. People were killing each other and maybe not that's not the only thing that that violence would include, but people were were full of evil, yes, and full of violence And so God makes an adjustment, giving authority to people to take the life of someone if they have chosen to take the life of someone else. Um It says in verse uh five, the second half of verse five, and at the hand of man, the hand of every man's brother will I require the life of man. Whoso shed shed man's blood, by man shall his blood also be shed. For in the image of God made he man. And this is the this is the basis that God gives is that human life is valuable. because the fact that he is made in the image of God. And so the the the the terrible violence and murder that is going on can't can't happen anymore. Now look at verse seven. It says restate something we already saw again, and you be ye fruitful and multipl multiply. Multiply, bring forth abundantly in the earth, and multiply therein. Now it now God turns his attention to Noah. And God spake unto Noah and to his sons with him, saying, And I, behold, I establish my covenant with you, and with your seed after you. So here we have the word, right, that we're looking for, covenant. There's no doubt here. And with every living creature that is with you, of the fowl, of the cattle, and every beast in the earth that with you from all that go uh out of the ark, and every beast uh the earth. And I will establish my covenant with you, neither shall all flesh be cut off any more by the waters of a flood, neither shall there be any uh there any more be a flood to destroy the earth And God said, this is the token of the covenant which I made between me and you and every living creature that is with you for perpetual generations. Perpetual generations, that includes us. I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth. So here we see additional elements to this covenant. That it it talks about God's judgment, God's future judgment. God's future judgment we know it At that point, if if God chooses to judge in any way in the future, it's not going to be with a worldwide flood. That's not going to happen and people will not be uh destroyed in that way Covenants will often have a sign, and this one is God's rainbow in the clouds. as a reminder of how he will withhold his judgment. And it does honestly um introduce the idea of the doctrine of last things, the doctrine of eschatology here. It it gets people thinking future in that way. I'm not advancing the slides properly here. No Noe Covenant. Now we get to the Abrahamic covenant. This one gets a lot more detailed. Sure. So after God essentially God decided to preserve the human race, we will, um, he says one of the reasons that he he zeroes in on the image of God and saying, okay, you need to preserve this this is something that is still intact, it's Mars, it's still intact. And So you can't take another flight. There's sort of a a an affirming of of a human li of life in in Which is then sort of leaves you with this sort of question, okay, yeah, okay so you're gonna preserve humanity and you're going to con He's made the image of God. So what now? I mean, it it leads us to the next kind of stuff. Sure, yes. Very true. Alright, so you need to be in Genesis twelve. Now God's covenant with Abraham spans over a couple of chapters, a few several chapters. Where God reiterates it. But this is the first um portion of the covenant with Abraham. And it says in verse one Now the Lord had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred and from thy father's house, unto a man that I will show thee. And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing, and I will I will bless them that bless thee, and curse them that curse thee And in thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed. So Abram departed, as the Lord had spoken unto him, and Lot went with him, and Abram was seventy-and-five years old when he departed out of Haran. Now go ahead and um skip ahead to chapter fifteen, verse one. And after these things the word of the Lord came unto Abram in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abram, I am thy shield, and thy exceeding great reward. And Abram said, Lord God, what wilt thou give me, seeing I go childless, and the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus. So let's stop just for a second. So we saw in Genesis twelve a six-fold promise by God. I will make your name great. I will bless you. I will curse them that curse uh curse them that curse you and bless those that bless you in all the earth Uh and all in in you all the families of the earth will be blessed, and to your offspring I will give you a land. And all that sounds great, but there is this one little hiccup, right? Abram doesn't have any offspring. And so that's why here he says, How how will you give this to me seeing that I go childless? And Abraham's plan is to give everything he has and his his inheritance to his uh chief steward, um Eliezer. And verse four it says, And behold the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, This shall not be thine heir, but he that shall come forth out of thine own bowels shall be thine heir And he brought him forth abroad and said, Look toward the heaven, and tell the stars, count the stars, if thou art able to number them. And he said unto him, So shall thy seed be And then we have what I would consider the second most important verse in uh in Genesis, Genesis 15, 6. And he believed in the Lord, and he counted it to him for righteousness. Remember what the first and most important verse in Genesis is? Talked about it last time. Uh that I'm just yeah, if you weren't here last time then maybe that that wouldn't Okay. No, really? Who was here last week? Thank you. It was Genesis three fifteen. Genesis. Obviously it's my opinion. It is my opinion, so it's not I'm not cross-referencing scripture here saying this is the most important verse in Tenes. Um yes, because that that that verse provides uh the the future hope of of someone that's going to come and crush the serpent's head. And here we have what we see here is salvation, righteousness given to Abraham. And this is we can cross-reference this uh to to Romans chapter 4. That this is how Abraham received righteousness, was justified And so we see all of this and and uh summarizing some of the rest of it, Abraham says, How how do I know that I'm going to inherit this land That you're telling me about. And then God, in his graciousness, answers that question and he basically tells him what's gonna happen From Genesis fifteen to about Exodus twenty or so. About uh how His people are going to go into a land that's not their own, that they're going to be enslaved, they're going to serve another, and that God is going to bring them out of that land, and that they're going to come out very prosperous. And we know all that to be true. And God told Abraham that even before Isaac was born. That's pretty amazing. That's we see a lot more here in this covenant, right? It is a building. building of promises of of all of these things going on and we see some some correlation Now we have before it was be fruitful and multiply. And now we have someone who is not able to be fruitful and multiply, and yet God's going to provide a way. Yes. Would we consider this the first unilateral covenant that's one way from God to people? Or was or was Abraham's duty in this covenant to believe and he did? Question. Yeah. It's considered a a uh unconditional covenant. Mm-hmm. So you've got the mosaic covenant. Condition. The Abraham Covenant is an unconditional covenant. This does require for application of the covenant you have to believe. Sure. But guys, he chose Abraham And I mean we see Abraham through this, he fails on a few occasions with he's got a problem about his wife and other guys. And he decides to lie about it a couple of times. More than once, yeah. Um when I was teaching the elementary children last year we worked through this facet. Yeah. And one thing that the curriculum brought out was that this was God gave the sign of the covenant and How you know passing through the animals that were split on either side that it signified that God was the the the one that could fulfill this that it wasn't dependent upon um Abraham's obedience, but that God was a he's the one that we said. It adds to the un additional side of it. Yeah. But it was interesting to to point that out to the kids. This was not you do this and then I'll do you know, I'll fulfill the promise. No, this was not something that was gonna happen. Right And it was pictured by I think that verse six really is just a for for the reader, for for the or the listener to know Abraham bought into this wholeheartedly. He he he heard what God said and he took God at his word. And the result of that from Moses the author, as we see, is It was counted to him as righteousness. He was justified because of his faith and belief and what God had said. Because and it's it's interesting to note that You know, talking about what wasn't conditional conditioned upon Abraham in any way. Just like our salvation, just like our salvation, we have nothing to do To uh earn that right standing before God and and gain salvation and gain that righteousness. We we have nothing to offer when it comes to that. Abraham wasn't going to be able to have a son on his own And the Bible makes it very clear they were both past the age of childbearing. So we see that Abraham had no had nothing to offer in this covenant, really. He was unable to provide anything. So let's make some uh correlations here We see that there is a sign that goes along with this. I won't uh read it, but we see that the sign here really is circumcision that we we see in this passage. Abraham too was very much like a new Adam. God's covenant with Adam and Noah, we can't we can call common covenants because they were covenants with all humanity. But beginning with Abraham, we get a line of which maybe you call s special covenants, covenants that are exclusively given to God's people. A a group of people that God is going to work primarily with Let's go ahead now Come on you here we go. Let's go ahead and go to the Mosaic and Davidic covenants Uh you'll need to be in Exodus nineteen for this one. Sure, go ahead. This is whole dispensation of the covenant reality thing. This is where it starts to get interesting because the Abrahamic Covenant is a covenant that is unconditional, that continues to be the s the spiritual aspects of the Abrahamic Covenant. We we partake of. But but some of the physical aspects of the a ramp account we don't partake of. And so Um s so but the covenant theologian would say, no, you do, and that's why we don't have circumcision today, but we have a baptism. You have that's where you begin to get all all sort of the the the differences as far as the fancy. Yeah. Okay. This is nineteen ver Five. Okay, here we go. Now therefore, if ye will obey my voice indeed and keep my covenant Then you shall be a peculiar treasure unto me, above all people, for all the earth is mine. You shall be unto me kingdom of priests and an holy nation. These are the words without which thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel So we see here that this whole this one begins with an if, if you will obey my voice indeed and keep my covenant. This isn't uh A a warning that they would not be his people someday. This is God would always be choosing Israel. But there were certain promises of blessing and prosperity that were attached to their obedience. So this element of this covenant then would be conditional. Can you tell me where what scripture you're in again? Sorry, that was nineteen um Exodus nineteen verses five through six. Sorry. Look at now twenty four. Chapter twenty four And look at verse seven. I'll start with verse six. And um And Moses took half of the blood and put it in the basins, half of the blood he sprinkled on the altar, and he took the book of the covenant and read in the audience of the people and said, All that the Lord has said we will do and be obedient. So this is the people side of it. um saying that they will be keeping this covenant. So it's it's It's s uh solemnized or it's it's confirmed by the people. We will do this. And you saw this back in chapter twenty as well after God wa had given them the Ten Commandments Or um sorry, right before right before that. That they they pledged that they would be obedient to them. It says there in verse uh that before that they would be a kingdom of priests. They would show the world what true human dominion would look like through keeping the Mosaic Covenant. Israel's dominion was supposed to redefine righteousness and justice for a world that had perverted it, such as, for example, Pharaoh and Egypt had. They would do this not as holy individuals, but as a nation Then we see, like to point this out too, go to Deuteronomy chapter seventeen. And go down to eighteen. Talking about future kings, there was a plan that Israel would one day have kings Let's look at verse 17 to start. Neither shall he multiply wives to himself, that his heart turn not away, neither shall he greatly multiply him s to himself silver and gold. Fortunately Solomon didn't follow that one, did he? And it shall be, when he sitteth upon the throne of his kingdom, that he shall write him a copy of this law in a book, out of that which is before the priests, the Levites. And shall be with him, and he shall read therein all the days of his life, that he may learn to fear the Lord his God, to keep all the words of his law this law and these statutes to do them. That his heart be not lifted up above his brethren, and that he turn not aside from the commandment to the right hand or to the left to the end that he may prolong his days in his kingdom, he and his children in the midst of Israel. So there was going to be someone who would occupy the throne, and he was expected to embody the values of the Mosaic law and reflect the kingship of God. You see that in that text there. When he takes the throne of his kingdom, he is to write himself a copy of the law. And you're supposed to keep it all the days of his life and read it all the days of his life. That was the job of Israel's king. Um we're gonna have to stop there. I am out of time. So we didn't quite make it through, but we'll wrap this up and and really what you can probably guess this is leading to is that we have the Davidic element of the covenant coming up next year. And then we have the fulfillment of Genesis 3. 2 the one who comes in in the person of Jesus, who also there is covenants wrapped around him as well. So really next time we'll put all that together And we'll see, we'll be able to trace this story through the scriptures. And um let's go ahead and close in prayer and be dismissed. Father, we thank you for uh your goodness to us in sharing your truth with us and for us to have it readily available. at our fingertips. And thank you, Lord, that we no longer need a mediator, but we have Jesus As the one mediator between you and us, and that we have complete access to you. I pray, Lord, that um You would work through us as we consider, continue to consider these elements of your truth, that we would deepen our walk with you as a result And we pray all these things in Jesus name, immens