Well it's good to be back with everybody today. Um fortunately had to miss last week. Still recovering, trying to recover from this uh cold that turned into other things. Um But um it's good to be back and I got my cough dropped. I've had my coffee. Should be ready. Should be ready to go. But um I'll probably need your help a little bit so that my voice will last We do have um multiple sections of scripture to read today, so I'll probably have uh have you guys help me out with how that section. That's part of the the deal today. So um up to up at this point we have learned everything we're going to learn, essentially in this class. Now it's time to take what we've learned and to put it into practice. We uh that's in my way We have gone through um multiple classes now. We've talked about The um way back when we've talked about the grammatical tools that's required for us to rightly interpret and then apply scripture We've talked about our storyline tools and understanding the Bible as one large story, all connected for a purpose that God has. And being able to read whatever passage we're in in light of that overall big picture that God has presented for us. Now, no one just feasibly can just read the Bible in one sitting, right? This isn't a short little pamphlet. We take chapters and and paragraphs and sections at a time when we study And so rather than just learning everything and then going on our merry way, we're going to take today and the next two classes that we have together And take a passage of Scripture and then put into practice what we've been learning. So, um What we're going to do then is we're going to go back to some key questions, taking everything that we've learned and Look at these key questions. If you are writing these down, I'd encourage you to go ahead and put some space in between. each of these questions because then we're going to use those same questions for our workshop in the passage that we'll be in today. Make sense? So go ahead and write these questions down if you'd like, but then if you're writing them with an actual pencil and paper or whatever, go ahead and leave some space because we'll be ad we'll be filling things in underneath Okay? So the first key question that we want to ask when we approach a passage And I would encourage, you know, if you wanted to implement these things into your own personal study, I think that would be great. If you want to implement these questions when you are uh have an opportunity to teach. um either other adults or other children. I think these will be very helpful. So the first question is we want to know what is the point of the text. What is the point? What we're trying to get at with that is that What is the driving force that's going on in um the passage that I'm reading? Is there a is there a reason that that it's that it's there? But also, you could also put in there, well, if I were to sum this text down to one sentence What would it be? Or maybe two sentences or three sentences. Okay. There might be more there depending on what text you're looking at. passage we're looking at it might be best but that's the idea. Okay? Second question, where does the text fall in the overall storyline of the Bible? Alright, so we want to know Here I am in this particular book of the Bible. Where does this fit in the big picture? What's Israel doing? Is Israel around? You know, any of that. Where am I? In my Old Testament, New Testament. And we'll that question is best explained when we actually put it into practice in a little bit, I think. Okay? What biblical themes do we come across in this text? Just by way of reminder, some of those themes that we talked about are Um themes like covenant or promise promises. Um A predominant theme in in the Bible is that of rescue or salvation, right? Those types of things. So it's a theme that you see that occurs over and over again in the Bible. It's something that's not just a one-time thing. And but In reality, there are probably hundreds of themes that you can trace through the Bible. We've looked at some, some of the more predominant ones perhaps But themes like mercy, themes like God's faithfulness, those types of things. You're going to see those a lot, right? So what do we come across when we're reading a particular text? Now what does this text teach us about God? We mentioned that last time. We don't want to just come to a text and say, only say, alright, what does this mean for me? Well, the Bible isn't about you. Right? The Bible is about God and what He's been doing and what He's been planning And we see that plan unfold and we see it culminate in the work, person and work of Jesus Christ. So we want to know what God is doing, what we learn about God from a particular text. Okay? Then how does this text relate to Jesus? We want to keep that in mind. We want to know Where does it fall? Where does a text fall in relationship to Jesus? What does it implicate? What is implied? What is explicit? Um and then also related to that is are there any types of Christ in the text? Now, remember about that? We we don't want to force an interpretation into the text. We don't want to just be creative and say, oh, this is kind of like Jesus. We want a direct relationship to the Old Testament and the New Testament. A type is verified by the New Testament, quoting the Old Testament. That's what we mean by that. So is there always going to be a type of Christ? No. No, that there isn't. And I I I'm uncomfortable with those who do that like every message that they preach. It's I'm I I'm not comfortable with that Unless it's clear from the New Testament that yes, this is a type of text. Will every text relate to Jesus? Some uh at least a little bit, I think. At least a little bit. Maybe may it might mean we think a little differently sometimes. Not thinking from a different angle, a different perspective. But um ultimately, yeah, it is going to sometimes a whole lot more than others, okay? Sometimes a whole lot more than others And then after we've done all that, we can finally ask, how does this text apply to us or to me today? Okay, we can we can get to that point after that. We've done all that legwork. And so you know, it would be a really neat thing, maybe not all in one sitting, depending on the passage that you're in But if you were to take a text, maybe one of your favorites, or maybe one that you're not as familiar with and you want to dig into, and take these questions. and really think about it and write it out and and get to that point then when you can say, okay, how do I apply it to me today? That'd be a really neat exercise. Okay, so now we're gonna put this into practice. You've written those down and you've left some space if you needed to in physical, if you're writing physically. Our passage today is 1 Samuel 17. Does anybody know what takes place in 1 Samuel 17? David and Goliath. Yeah, you got it. Yeah, David and Goliath. Okay, this is where I'm gonna need your help. We're gonna read the passage. We're not gonna read the entire chapter. I've I've pre-selected some sections. So there's gonna be a little bit of skipping, but not too much. And I still think we'll get the main point. We'll still see the the overall emphasis of the the passage and the stories. And before we before we do that, as you're getting there, 1 Samuel 17, one of the reasons I picked this is because this is a familiar story. Um this is a story that's real popular with the kids, right? And um and so I I chose it because sometimes The emphasis in this story can be kind of out of whack. And so we're and and I'm not saying that we all have an out-of-whack emphasis when it comes to this. But I find that often we do. I remember the first time I heard a message out of 1 Samuel 17 as an adult And I said, wow, that was actually for me and not just for a kid. It was by Kevin Brownfield at Bible College. He preached it on a Wednesday night. And that was a really awesome message Um and so we're gonna go ahead now and begin reading. And then so this is where I'll need your help. If you don't mind, I'm going to call out to you and give you the passage to read. Once you finish that passage, I'm going to call on someone else and give you your section to read, okay? Uh since you're all the way on my left, Carrie, would you be able to start and read verses four through eleven? Sure. Hmm. And then went out of the champion of the campaign Of the Philistines, named Goliath of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span, and he had a helmet of brass upon his head, and he was armed with a coat of mail, and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels of brass, and he had greaves of And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron, and one bearing a shield went before him, and he stood and caught Cried into the armies of Israel and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set your battle in array? Am I not a Philistine and ye servant to Saul? Choose you a man and let him come down to me Okay. Um Ed, would you be able to read verses 17 through 20? And Jesse said unto David, his son, take now for thy brethren Epha. of this parched corn and these ten loaves and run to the camp to thy brethren and carry these ten cheeses unto the captain of their thousand And look how thy brethren fare, and take their pledge. Now Saul and they and all the men of Israel were in the valley of Elah, fighting with Philistines And David rose up early in the morning and left the keeper, and took and went as Jesse had commanded, and he came to the trench as the host was going through the forward to the fight and shouted for the battle. Okay. Umsa, could you read 23 through 29? Yeah. And as he talked with them, behold, there came up a champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goloth by name, out of the army of the Philistines and spake according to the same words, and David heard them. And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him and were sore afraid. And the men of Israel said, Have you seen this man that has come up? Surely to defy Israel he come up and it shall be That the man who killeth him, the king, will enrich him with great riches and will give him his daughter and make his father's house free in peace. Israel. And David spake to the man that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that killeth this Philistine and taketh away the re from Israel. From who for who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the army of the living God? And the People answered after him in this manner, saying, So shall it be done to the man that killeth him. And Eliad, his oldest brother, heard when he spake unto The men and Eliad's anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why comest thou down hither? And wind whom thou hast left Those few sheep in the wilderness. I know thy pride and thy naughtiness of thine heart, but thou art come down that thou mightest be the battle. Am I reading 29? Uh yes please. That that's your last one. And David says, what have I done now? Is there not a cause? Okay. Uh Jim, could you read thirty-two through thirty-seven Then David said to Saul, Let no man uh man's heart fail because of him. Your servant will go and fight with the Philistine. this Philistine. And Saul said to David, You are not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him, for you are a youth, and he is a man of war from his youth. But David said to Saul, your servant used to uh keep his father's sheep, and when a lion or a bear came and took the lamb out of the flock, I went a uh out after it and struck it and and delivered the lamb from the its mouth. And went When it uh rose against me, I caught it by its beard and struck it and killed it. Your servant has killed both lion and bear And uh this uncircumcised Philistine will be like one of them, seeing he had defied the armies of the living God. Moreover, David said The Lord who delivered me from the paw of the lion and from the bear uh uh uh and paw of the bear, he will deliver me from the hand of the Philistine How far am I home? Uh thirty-seven. Okay. And Saul uh Saul said to David Go, the Lord be with you. Okay. At that point, Saul then um Tries to clothe David in his own armor, remember that? And um it doesn't work, it doesn't fit him, it doesn't feel right. So David takes it off and he goes and finds uh some stones from a brook, puts it in his pouch, gets his sling, goes out, and then David, if you could um David, if you could um read 42 through 51 please. And when the Philistines looked about and saw David, he disdained him, for he was only a youth, ruddy and good looking. Philistine cursed David by his gods. And the Philistine said to David, Come to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of the air and the beasts of the field. Then David said to the Philistine, You come with a sword and with a spear and with a javelin, but I come to you in the name of the Lord Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have defied. This day the Lord will deliver you into my hand. I will strike you and take your take your head from you, and this day I will give the carcass of the camp of Philistines to the birds of the air and the wild beasts of the earth that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel. So it was when the Philistines arose and came and threw near to meet David. Philistine. Then David put his hand in his bag, took out a stone, and slung it, and struck the Philistine in his forehead, so that the stone sank into his forehead and he fell onto the face of the earth. So David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling of the stone And struck the Philistine and killed him. There was no sword in the hand of David. Therefore David ran and stood over the Philistine, took his sword, and drew it out of its sheath, and killed him and cut off his That's the part that's not in the kids' story. When the Philistines saw that their champion was dead, they fled. As far as the entrance to the valley and up to the gates of Ekron. And the wounded of the Philistine fell on along the road to Sheriam even as far as Gath and Ekron. Okay. Very good. Okay, there it is. Story of David. First question. What is the point of this text? That God is in control. spear that that will that's it's it's that God's good call. And then so you know um you know a lot of speculation has always been about the five s smooth stones David picked up off from the brook and put in his back. What was that representing? Oh does he mean it do you think he might miss with the first shot? I don't think so. I don't think that was a problem. Mm-hmm. You know, um uh kids in the Middle East to this day are very, very good for the slang. Yeah. You know, and uh my dad talked about it when he was a kid, you know you know just like his stones. So um he I I couldn't yeah, I think he just added extra stones because he was going to the battle. I don't know. I wouldn't be any any s symbology to that. No, I don't think there is either. David was convinced that he was going to win. Right. He was not sure how he was going to win. There was no there was no presumptuousness on on David's part. He but he went in a certain way. Okay, good. Definitely a major point of the text is is God's in control, not Goliath, not Israel, not David. Anything any other points that you see? Faith. Okay, faith on the part of David, right? Yeah, there is there is a significant amount of trust that um that David displays In contrast to everybody knows. We didn't exactly read that part, but the rest of Israel, though the whole armies, they're scared out of their pants. They're just they are terrified. from Paul. The truth is, Saul should have been out there He was God's choice at that point. But as we already know, and this is important to the point of this text, what's already happened in the previous chapter? David's been anointed. Yes. David has been chosen by God already. It's not the appointed time for him to assume the uh the position of king But God has made it clear that David has been chosen for to be the next king. Saul seems perfectly happy to let that happen that way. Here, take my armor, take my sword. Yeah. Yeah, I mean I don't I don't put um a whole lot of fault on everybody else. I don't I don't think I'd handle it any differently than anyone else. else at that point. But so so there's there's criticism on the part of of Saul and and the rest of Israel, but it's within the context of understanding hey we're we're human and we can make those kind of we can have those kind of failures when it comes to whether I trust in God or not. So yeah, trust and faith, that's a huge point of this text. What else? Anything else that you can think of? The um I I got some interesting things about Goliath himself. I mean there's a Goliath was a had brothers, okay, and he was from what From Gad. And so and he uh was a Philistine city. Okay, and his archaeologically speaking and then oh one other strange thing, you see this I think it's First Kings. They're uh they had six fingers. Yeah, the sons of the Sons of Anak, yeah. Yes, and the Sons of Anak. And so guess what the arguments are Archaeologists uh archaeologists just found in Gad a skeleton was big fingers. Six fingers. Six fingers. Right. And that that happens a lot, um, but it's usually not a full uh a useful digit. Right. Yeah. It's usually uh just sort of some an aberration. But no, these guess you can call it a mutation essentially, but it's a functional extra digit. So wasn't any good being a mutation. And very large, you know, very tall, so he would have been probably, you know, one of the tallest men probably ever. Perhaps, yeah. Now, again, though, in in discovering the point of this text, when we talk about this being taught to children There is a heavy emphasis on the giants, right? And on David being the hero instead of God being the hero. Yeah That's ex that's that's a key element to this. David, while he gets a lot of accolades, that wasn't what he was looking for, number one, and we saw in the text himself. When he's talking directly to Goliath. Verse 46. Always in in to me in this passage, the most important verses are 26, 36, and 46. Really and really easy to remember. In verse 46 it says, this day the Lord will deliver you into my hand. He says the Lord's going to give him the victory. Not me. And and Goliath is looking at it like this is a joke. You're you're a pretty boy. You there's not an ounce of war on you anywhere. You're you're good looking. You You haven't seen battle, you haven't seen any of that. This is a giant joke. And um so yeah, he's confident from what we see in verse 46 that God is going to be the one to give the the victory It seems like his confidence comes from um the fact that it's God's name that's at stake. And it seems like David is taking a up an offense that you know, how dare you defy like God's name These are God's people. It wasn't like, oh, I'm gonna be this great war hero and let me go in in battle. It was like righteous anger that made him go in. And so he it wasn't himself at all. So I mean that's kinda how boys look at it. It's just like he was taking up that anger for God's name. And then God will always His name will always be honored. Yeah. Very much so the uh there is an element in that's very very much Yes, you're right. When when he hears Goliath give his daily speech, which everybody else has heard so far and done nothing And he sees his his God is being slandered and blasphemed. He's not he doesn't he can't stand for it. He can't allow that. And that really does propel him to um to to act in such a way. Because he recognizes that God's name and his God's position is important to him. Not to David, it's important to God. That was one of the main themes uh in in the Old Testament, and we're sort of getting ahead a little bit here, but of God making his name great among the nations through Israel. And so at this point, Israel is failing at this at this juncture. in that because this champion has come out defying the armies of God and nobody is doing anything to defend God's name No one is giving God an opportunity to do anything. David provides that opportunity to show that there is a God in Israel who the Philistines should fear and serve and worship. So excellent. So it's a lot. Could we sum that up any? Is there any way, maybe in two, three sentences or so To to bring that all together. And see God will not allow his name to be slandered. He will um protect his reputation and use anybody. I think that's that like Saul from what we know earlier was very tall and broad and strong. God could have used Saul and gone in, but maybe God wouldn't have gotten the same glory as using a little shepherd void. So it's like, you know, God makes him it it's kind of like showing that only God could have done this. This wasn't David. This was God. Because you can't He could not in his own strength have won this victory. So God will protect his name and show his power. And whatever means he chooses to use Mm-hmm. And he often does choose the weaker things of the world. To to confound the mighty. We've got to keep that in mind for later when we apply this. Yeah, and any conventional world warfare also would have failed uh huge and plus he had advanced armor mm-hmm you know that was the state of the art of the day. Yeah. And so to go up against uh even Saul who was ten shoulders above every man individualis as it was uh said in scripture eve still lived. He was still quite inferior. No Goliath is a formidable opponent. And it is important to when when considering this passage to understand the opponent that David was facing. But we don't want to focus on that to the point that we just d detract from what God is really trying to show us in this passage. Okay. We're gonna go to sorry I didn't advance So that's what we've been discussing so far is what what is the point of the text. Second question, which you have written down somewhere, is where does this text fall in the overall storyline of the Bible? What's going on? You tell me Israel got its wish and got their first king. Okay. And they haven't taken Israel yet. Uh what do you mean by Palestine because the first needs are the first thing? Ah yeah, yeah. Yes. Okay, very good. Um yes. So they are a nation. They are with a king. With a king. They haven't driven out the inhabitants. They they never will. Sorry to to spoiler alert. Um okay And then let's talk about the fact that this is this is pre exile, correct This is well before the example. What about as far as the the line of Jesus is concerned? Yeah. Well the Jew in the church today. Yeah, yeah. We're um we're looking at that very first time in in Genesis where it says that the line of kings will come from Judah and and that's also gonna be the Messiah and the Savior. So they're they're waiting for that guy and it's not looking good for Saul. And he's not So if anybody's been paying attention then they're still looking for that that cane to come. But you also have the pattern and judges of nobody's doing what God says. That they've already they're already past that. Okay, good. That's right. Okay, so some other things to recall. This is the this is after the Mosaic Law. The Mosaic Law has been established They are geographically they've they have a land, but they are continually uh in war and and in battle with other nations around them and trying that are trying to infiltrate. We sort of already said, but um in chapter sixteen we know that God has rejected Saul now and that um Oops, sorry about that. Um that David has been anointed now to be the next uh the next king. Okay, let's talk about the next question then. What biblical themes do we come across in this text? Some have been mentioned already. Like Lisa said they Absolutely. Yeah, that's a major one. God using the unexpected. Mm-hmm. That comes up over and over and over again, right? It's not a real You know, something that I started praying before we ended up in this building. I think it's the first time I've ever connected that theme Of God using the weak and the unworthy things. When we were on the cusp of trying to get this building And but there were a lot of details, right? A lot of uh things to try and get through to actually make it happen. And things had to work out in such a way that it was mostly out of our control, really And before it got to that point, I remember praying with with the other guys, that God would forgive us if it was his will that we would have this building, that God would do it in such a way. That none of us could take the credit for it, but that we would be able to give all the glory to him. And he answered that prayer. And I think that that that is a very God-honoring way to think and pray that we would the cop the things that we accomplish in our lives, they wouldn't be, we wouldn't try to do it in our own strength so that we would have a reason to boast But the fact that we would actually have it done through us with God's power, then we can deflect all the glory to Him. One of the proofs of that, and I think I get the story right, is there was some document that we needed at closing that we've somehow wound up with with the other building that we didn't even know we needed it. And that the whole thing would have fallen apart if this document wasn't there. Yeah, yeah, it was. And I that one's the one that just absolutely blows my mind. And you can think in your own life about about things like that too, and how God has worked in such a way and work things out ahead of you. Things that you didn't even know you needed. Or events that occurred that you didn't even know you needed to happen before such and such took place. And um that's an amazing thing about our guy. That's an amazing theme in the Bible. There are some other themes though for sure. What what else Little people rule of nuts. I no, that's not one matter Or people do matter, but I don't think it's a theme that we find in the Bible. It's a good track. That would be hard not to teach you a story. Yeah, that would be no that's not a correct interpretation. Um Dave was a young man. How all how when he became became mature man, how tall was he? He might have been six. So at the time he was short. Yeah. He was still a youth, yeah. Let me direct your attention to those other six Those other verses that I mentioned. And maybe we I can draw this theme out of you. It is verses 26 and 36, how David ends both of those verses. Uh-huh. Not only are Israel's armies going you know facing off against Philistine armies, but with the way Goliath was talking There's two other things that are facing off too. Well Pike mentions his gods at one point, and then David's coming at the one God, the one So it's a theme that we talked about maybe three weeks ago. Not not that theme. Idolatry. Yeah, idolatry. Idolatry, idol worship versus worship of the true God. That's a theme in this for sure that we find a major biblical theme that runs throughout and we see it here it's it's it's it's a little subtle Um, but I think it's very prevalent that Goliath was convinced that he had his gods and he had the might and the strength and the stature and all of that And and David sees that, and he knows that their gods are nothing. And his God is the one true God. And is the the I love the phrase, the living God. He is the living God compared with those dead gods that don't even exist that the Philistines worship. Okay, so that's a that's a that's a huge one. Um there's another theme as well that we don't want to miss And we've basically said it without saying it yet. So um help you and direct you there a little bit. So we talked about that it wasn't David really doing the act of defeating Goliath. But Israel was in bad shape, right? Israel, they were all cowering in fear. No one would step up to deliver them from this from the giant's challenge. And while it looks like David is the one from the outside, looks like David is the one doing the rescuing, really to God. God is rescuing his people. situation. And so that's a theme. Rescue or salvation. It's they are in essence being saved in this in this little microcosm of uh of uh the the events that they're facing. So yeah, rescue, salvation, another major thing that we see running through the Bible, and we see it here also. If Goliath had won, the Israelites would have all become slaves. Mm-hmm. Exactly. That that those were the stakes. Yeah. All right. We're gonna um we're gonna stop there. I thought we'd get through things faster. So I'm gonna leave we have uh one, two, three, about four questions left. So there's no chance. Without doing it justice. So I'll go ahead and close in prayer. My voice is going away too, so there's another one to stop. And um Well uh keep those notes if you can, if you got them in your phones or whatever. We'll pick up next time uh with with this. And um Maybe we'll get through the next ones a little quicker and we'll be able to start on a new one as well. However it goes, we'll see. But um I hope this was a good exercise for everybody. I I really enjoy going through this like And it's helpful for us to be able to put the things we've been learning into practice. So let's go ahead and pray. Father, we thank you for the time that you've given us to uh look at your word and um maybe see some of the tendencies that we sometimes have. Um looking at passages from your word and focusing on um m majoring on minor things rather than Looking at the important things and focusing on them. So, Lord, I pray that you'd help us as we become better students of your word and how to approach it. And Lord, I pray that You'd help us as we continue to go through this chapter, as we look at other questions that need to be asked. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.