Good morning everyone. All right. Good to see everyone here today. How many of you I know a couple of you didn't get to enjoy your extra hour of sleep. Anyone else get to enjoy That's good. Dave? End up enjoying your extra hour of sleep or did you wake up normal time anyway? Oh woke up at normal time. That's how it goes sometimes. The body clock doesn't automatically adjust to daylight savings time now, does it? No. No, it doesn't. That's okay. Uh well however your night went Well we get to continue our uh our study in biblical theology today. Um last time we we tracked the uh biblical theme of sacrifice. Hope uh that you can at least have in the back of your mind the the principles and the things that we learned from that because there is going to be a little bit of a a building upon today. in in today's class. As you can see, the title today is The Mission of God's People. And I wanted to start today by asking, when you when you think of mission, the mission of God's people. What uh what comes to your mind? A job. Can you can you be more specific? Okay. Something you have to do, yeah. What else? What else comes to mind? Purpose. Purpose, okay. Let me ask you this question. Um has the mission of God's people changed over time? Yes and no. Yes and no. Um she's had advantage of verified out. Okay. So okay. Alright. When you think of so you know recall some of the things that we've studied already regarding the the people of the Old Testament and the people in the New Testament We've tracked several themes already, and we have noted changes, right? Changes in how God has operated with his people. And so when you think of how God operated with the people of Israel and how he operates with us now, there are some actually fairly drastic changes, right? And when you think of that in the context of um what the mission of God's people is, I think you're going to see that In the Old Testament, while it's the same God and people are still people, God was working with his people differently back then than he is now. But before we even get into the mission of God's people, we're gonna explore a theme that might at first seem like, well, this is totally random compared to your introduction. And I will admit at first it is going to feel that way, but you're going to see how it all comes together at the end, Lord willing. If if I've spoken clearly enough and and and so forth. It's not the Bible's fault if you don't get it today, it's my fault. So um So what we're going to do is we're going to track the biblical theme of image. We're going to start today by tracking this theme of image in the Bible. When we say the word image, and you think of that word being used in the scriptures, what comes to mind then? God's image, okay. What else Yeah. Very good. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, definitely. Yeah, that that would be a uh a similar word for image. Yeah. What about on the negative side? Can we think of image being used in Scriptures uh in a negative way? Yeah, a graven image. Yeah, something an image that was made by or fashioned by human hands. So thinking about Genesis chapter 1, we think of how God creates plants and animals, and it says in there that they're going to reproduce after their own kind. Right? So the first the first zebras that God made, they're going to have offspring that look like zebras. You might even say it's not termed this way, we don't usually speak this way, but the baby zebras are going to have the image of the mommy and daddy zebras, right? And And that's how God ordained it, that every everything is going to reproduce after their own kind. You're not going to have two zebras and get a tiger. Stripes, sure, but it's a different animal. It's a different species, different kind biblically. But when you get to verse 26 of Genesis chapter 1, I'm sure you remember these words when God says, Let us make man in our own image. after our likeness. So mankind ultimately is not patterned after the first man Mankind is patterned after God Himself. He he uniquely, mankind uniquely mirrors or resembles God. Now how do you think we represent, think of the original human beings, okay? How do you think people would image God himself. What does that mean? Image himself Sure, sure, but mankind us when when he made us, yeah. Based upon uh an image that he and the the the triangle king the had uh had already previously you know existed so they're using uh model themselves when it says make it let's make uh uh make man in uh our end. So um The uh Sam was fashioned in a way that was uh to uh uh to to depict who the the the I have the the declared is that is keys itself. Okay, sure. Absolutely. That's definitely a a major part of it, yeah. Um Capability of love, yeah. Are you are you looking for the love sometimes Well and that's what I was wondering I would if I what I hear from you because typically we think of an image bear if if someone bears the image of someone else, we think of the physical But we know that from from John and from our theology class way back when God is a spirit. Right. God doesn't have a corporeal uh form. So some some would espouse that man is a a triumph being in the sense that the uh trichotomy because it's a body, soul, and spirit, you know, having the uh three three parts. Okay, that's just an image of what Godhead is. So some of the just a and those are I mean that you can be that can be debated. Yeah ultimately whether you're a I'm gonna throw some big words, whether you're a trichotomist or a dichotomist. when it comes to your anthropomorphic uh ideas. You it it it kind of it's whatever, in my opinion. Uh whether you believe man has two parts, body and soul, or whether you have to believe it has three parts, body, soul, and spirit. Uh we we see that now. I'm I'm kind of of the uh uh idea I have the idea that soul and spirit are often used interchangeably in scriptures. But um ultimately the fact that we bear the image of God has essentially nothing to do with our physical appearance. It has everything to do with we actually are capable of mimicking the character of God, imitating the character of God. So, like was said, the fact that we have the capability to love. We have the capability to be gracious. There are some things about God that we do not have the capability of being or being like. For instance, God is eternal. That is a character quality of God. That's an attribute of God. We cannot mimic that from the very beginning. We have a beginning. So there's no way we can we can do that. God is omnipresent It'd be really cool to be omnipresent. It would really be helpful if I could just be everywhere all at the same time, but that's not going to happen And some of you maybe remember from uh the theology class a while ago, we're talking about the difference between God's communicable attributes and God's incommunicable attributes. Those attributes that we share with him, and those there are those attributes that God has that we do not share with him. But it's very important to think about the fact that when we were created initially in God's image We bear those same characteristics that God has. Now I'm using past tense a little bit. That's because the image uh has been marred, has it not? So let's uh let's just go through the slides here. I've been talking and I'm gotta remember I have this new format that I'm using here and I've got to do this right. So We uniquely image God and we have, we are able to display God's glory before the rest of creation Like a son who acts like his father and follows in his father's professional footsteps, man is designed to represent God's character and rule over creation. Remember that the other thing that that God said to his people was that we would that they would have dominion over the garden and the earth. And that represents, that's part of how God acts too. He has rule over all creation, right? So we we uniquely do do that as well Now think, first of all, before the fall, Adam and Eve would have been able to completely and perfectly represent God's image as God designed it. Right? Certainly there would still be limitations to a certain degree. Don't know exactly how that would have looked or worked, but because we've never experienced that. But that was God's original intention. And as we've seen a lot through our study through biblical theology, God's original intention in many different ways was corrupted by the fall. And this is no different. So, God's people, Adam and Eve, they fall. God creates, then man decides to not represent God's rule Man is decides to image his own rule to display his own glory. This is a tragic truth, the fact that While we had the chance, Adam and Eve had the chance to image God's uh character the way God intended, and to image God's rule and his character. Unfortunately, Adam and Eve took it in their own hands. And so now, as we we know, mankind is corrupt and perverted Twisted. And so that image that was originally there has been marred. Like so many things that has been that had been corrupted by the fall, for instance, um God's dwelling place, remember that? That that had been corrupted When we look at uh these different things, this is something that God intends to correct as well. And we're going to see how that looks today. So now the image that we bear, while the the image of God is not lost to us, we still bear his image, but it has been it it is not a perfect image anymore. We do not naturally represent God's character, do we? You don't have to be around people very long to see that. You don't have to be around yourself very long. God to uh to see it. You um you don't have to look around or be alive very long to see that when humans rule It's not always in the way that God wants people to rule, right? You see people who are in authority, who have rule over other people, whether it's at a in a at a small scale, at a at a job place. In a work environment or a large scale, like a nation, people do not rule as God would have intended them to, and this is because of the fall. It is marred. The image is marred. So then we go and we go into the um We move to Israel and what God does in this time at this time. In Exodus 4, after Israel, before Israel is taken out of Egypt, he calls this nation his son in verses 22 through 23 Why a son? Well you could say because God because sons look like their fathers. And they follow in their fathers. They follow in their father's footsteps. Sons image their fathers in a certain way, from a certain point of view. And bur and I'm wasn't very clear here, sorry about that. In in chapter uh let me On the way to the promised land, God takes this son, his son, you might say, to a mountain called Sinai. And he says a number of things, and one of the things is that he says, You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make for yourself an idol or an image, in the form of anything in heaven above, or on the earth beneath, or in the waters below Israel was to keep the first commandment, have no other gods before me. Don't make any other images or idols that would replace God or replace God's image. God warned that if his son, Israel, did not did chase after other images and failed to display God's own holy character, he would cast him out of the land. So here we see the image of God. Is connected in in in the Ten Commandments So he says, You shall have no gods before me. You shall not make for yourself an idol in the form of anything. God was to keep this first commandment. By displaying God's image in glory, which naturally precludes bowing down to some other image. So God was trying to protect his own image. in the rightest sense, not in a in a bad sense like people would uh try to protect their own image when they're doing something wrong God's image was supposed to be sanctified, was supposed to be maintained as a holy thing in the minds of the people. And they weren't to replace that image with anything else or anyone else. But we know that ultimately Through the course of Israel's history, while you have many who do follow after God, you also have many that do not. and eventually the majority wins out, and most do not, and God does hold true to his promises of the consequences that they would s receive, and so they ca he does cast them out of the land. The sun does not choose ultimately, Israel does not choose God's image, but others, and God casts them out of that land. You know, i th we have a saying in in our in our day and age today, like father, like son, right Well in this case, if Israel was God's son, like like he did say back in Exodus, bless you multiple times, um you're welcome. If uh If Israel was a son to to God, well in in this particular scenario, like father, not like son. The Son of God Israel did not uh collectively altogether uh Broadcast a pr a proper image of God to the people around them, to themselves One of the main lessons of ancient Israel is that fallen human beings, left to themselves, cannot image God's character and glory. It is an ultimate failure there. Left to themselves, people cannot image God's character and glory properly. And we we learn a lot of things from Israel, but that is certainly one of the main ones. So you have this takes place in biblical history. Ultimately you have Israel in its nationhood. Fails. And you have failure after failure after failure in the in the history of Israel. You have some bright spots, which we're thankful for, and we can learn from those examples. But no one really met the expectations that God had fully, perfectly. And then we come to someone who does. And that would be Jesus himself. Jesus lives a perfect life while here on earth. Go ahead and and turn to uh Luke three twenty two We see something here that is not said about too many other people. Um if any. And this is after Jesus was baptized by John the Baptist And it says, And the Holy Spirit descended in bodily form like a dove upon him, and a voice came from heaven which said, You are my beloved Son, and you I am well pleased Well pleased. The son, up to this point, and of course throughout his life, would mimic God's image perfectly. He perfectly images his father while here on earth. We uh we won't take the time to look there, but after this genealogy that takes place there Well actually you know what? There is a there's a whole big list of genealog genealogy here in chapter in Luke chapter 3. And it is worth noting. I would say that what's happened here is the genealogy doesn't go from oldest to most recent. It goes the other way around. It goes from from Jesus and then goes backwards in history from here. And um Let's pick up in verse 36. The son of Canaan, the son of Arphixad, the son of Shem, we recognize him, the son of Noah, we recognize him, the son of Lemech. The son of Mesalusala, oldest guy in the Bible, the son of Enoch, didn't die, the son of Jared, the son of Mahalelel, uh the son of Canaan, the son of Enoch, the son of Seth the son of Adam. The son of who? The son of God. Adam was, in God's mind, like a son. Him. Adam and ultimately failed. Adam failed. Like father, not like son. Israel, called a son by God, like father, not like son. We see after this statement from God that Jesus in him, the Father, is well pleased. We then have the test, probably what you could call the ultimate test in Luke chapter 4, where Jesus is transported And is to the wilderness and is tempted by Satan himself. Just a quick thing. I don't know that any of us have been tempted by Satan himself to get his attention, you know, directly. And so what you have here is an ultimate test of Jesus' faithfulness. He becomes a prime target from the ultimate enemy. And what do we see in that? We can't take the time to look at it, but he gets tempted three times in three different ways, right? And Jesus passes the test every single time. And in doing that, he doesn't fail like Adam. He doesn't do what Adam does. He doesn't do what Israel does. He perfectly images God the Father, and he does it by by his own word, right? He he he does it by imaging and recognizing the truth of God's word, applying it to that situation, and essentially rebuking, refuting the devil. So we we have Jesus like Father, like Son. Where Adam failed, Jesus did not. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. So write these uh write these verses down. Colossians one fifteen, Hebrews one three And John 14. 9. And while you're writing those down, um Jim, would you be able to read Colossians 1. 15? And then Dave, could you be ready with Hebrews 1. 3? And then Miranda, could you be ready with John fourteen nine? Anytime you're ready, Jim. Okay. With uh Colossians one fifteen? Yes. He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over He is the in image of the invisible God. Okay, next one, Hebrews 1 3. Person and upholding all things by the word of his power when he had by himself purged out sins, sat down at the right hand of the Mitch of He's the radiance of God's glory and the exact representation or the exact image of his being. Talking about God there. Okay, John fourteen nine. Jesus said to him, Have I been with you so long and you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, Show us the Father? Jesus knew who he was. Jesus knew who he was. He says there whoever has seen me has seen the Father. So we see the New Testament writers and Jesus himself declaring that he is perfect image. Of the Father. Go ahead. John chapter one verse eighteen. No one has seen God in time, the only begotten Son. Yeah. So we have here then the fact that we have Adam, failure to image God. Israel, failure to image God But the Son, the capital S Son of God, does image the Father. And from what we see in the New Testament writings, he does it perfectly. He does it perfectly. So that brings us then to Christ, while he does this and he models what it is to be a follower of God perfectly. for us. He also, like we saw last week, he is the perfect sacrifice as well, right? And so he came not to politically overthrow a government and establish his kingdom, yet that is coming eventually. Instead, the first part of the plan is to redeem his people. To offer the gift of salvation to all mankind, that whoever would believe in him would not perish, but have everlasting life. And so he initiates and inaugurates the age that we are in now, which is the church. The church. What we see here is the fact that we are to display the character and likeness And image of the Son and the Father. We have multiple verses here again I think I'll ask for some help again as well. So let's um let's see. Carrie. Yes. Welcome. Would you be able to turn to Romans 829? Absolutely. Miranda, could you do 1 Corinthians 15. 49? Lisa, could you do first Corinthians 3. 18 Second Christians three and two. Yep. Um Mama, could could you take uh Colossians three, nine through ten? Ephesians and then Ephesians 5. 1, Jim, could you do as well? And so we're about to read them here in a second, but This idea of imaging God doesn't just die out when it comes to our our the time that we find ourselves in. In fact, there's something more going on here. Go ahead, let's start For whom he did foreknow he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son, that he might be the first first among many brethren. All right, go ahead, Miranda. Just as we have borne the image of the man of dust, we shall also bear the image of the man of heaven. Okay. Next. But we all With open face, beholding as a as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changing to the same image from glory to glory. Even as by the spirit of the Lord. Which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him. Yep. Okay, and then the last one, Ephesians 5. 1. Therefore be imitators of God as your children. So collectively, we just looked at several different passages, but collectively, the New Testament writers in their letters Have this idea of us imaging God, imaging, imitating Christ Himself, imitating the character, the likeness And the image of the Son as part of the commands of Scripture. Commands to us as his people. The question is, are we if you know we've looked at this like father-like son, can we be like father-like son? Like son. Do you follow me there? Like the Father, like the Son of God, like Son. Can we be like Him? So the now we might say, well, hang on a second. Jesus was perfect. Jesus, that's not fair. That's that's that we can't we can't make it to that standard. That's way too high. You're right Nevertheless, it's something that we're supposed to strive forward to while here on earth. If you look at, we won't take the time to turn there, but another passage would be Philippians 3. Really, you've got probably verses 10 through 14, where Paul talks about the fact that he wants to know Christ intimately Like nobody else. He values Christ supremely, and we see that he he is striving towards something in that passage. He's striving towards something to attain, something that he's already been said that he will attain. But he's striving for it now. And in verse 14 he says, For I press towards the mark for the high calling that is in the Jesus Christ. What is the mark? Well you see at the end of that passage in verses uh chapter three verses twenty and twenty-one That we are citizens of a different place. We're citizens of heaven. And it says in verse 21 that we're going to be transformed into his likeness. What is Paul saying he does? He's striving for that likeness now. He's striving for it now. Can we perfectly get there? No. No. But in the ways that we, with the help of God's Spirit, which people in the Old Testament didn't have He's called us to display his character, his likeness, his image, his glory. So in that the Father is a peacemaker, we can be peacemakers In how the Father loves people, both enemies of Him and friends. We can love our enemies and our friends. What was lost in the fall is supposed to be retaken to a degree. What was lost in the fall is supposed to be retaken to a degree while we're still here on Earth. And then comes the good news. When we come to glory then we will be like him, for we shall see him as he is. John 3. 2. The image of God will be restored in us as it was pre-fall. The image of God in us will be restored as it was pre-fall. We will be holy like him. We will be loving like him. We will be united like him and the Son is. Our souls will gleam brightly with His character and His glory like perfect mirrors. It says in Hebrews 1:3 that Jesus is an exact representation of who God is. And folks, my friends, we have that to look forward to as well. So, summarizing it so far, God created this world and humankind to display the image of glory for who he is. That is his mission for humanity. Adam and Eve who were supposed to image God's character, they didn't. Neither did the people of Israel. The Son did. God's Son did. In Christ, God came to display God. And in Christ, God came to save. Now the church is called to image and to display the character and glory of God to all the universe, testifying in the word and in action to his great wisdom and work of salvation. In other words, God intends to use the corporate life of the local church to accomplish his creation purpose, displaying his wise, holy, and loving image for all the world to see. In one sense, going back to our beginning, this is part of the mission of the church. To display the image of God. And you can't get around that. It's too much of an emphasis in the New Testament for us to ignore. God wants us to do that. We, in that way, will be set apart to God. Our work in this day and age you might say is an image recovery work. We are to live our lives as God originally intended us to live. Let's get let's talk about this for a second. We we talked here about the mission of the church And we talked about Israel and how they failed to to represent God's image. But what was their mission? Yes, it was to to um To image God and mo uh what were they to do? Well let's let's look at this. They were to obey the law, take God at His word. Whatever God said, they were supposed to believe and obey. They were to give their hearts in full devotion to God. Deuteronomy six Oh, there we go. Deuteronomy 6, 4 through 7 says this, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, with all thy soul, with all thy might And these words which I command thee this day shall be in thine heart. And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, when thou walkest by the way, when thou liest down, and when thou risest up. God was supposed to be the central figure in the life of an individual for them and in the life of their family. And when it says that it says, Love the Lord with all your heart, and these words which I command thee will be in your heart. It's said twice because it's supposed to be at the core of who they are. That was part of the mission of Israel, was to love God supremely. But not only that, it was also to love their neighbor as themselves. Leviticus nineteen through eighteen, or nineteen, verse eighteen. Verse eighteen comes at the end of a a passage of how to deal with their neighbors. And basically some of it is a reiteration of the Ten Commandments where it talks about not stealing, not murdering, not But it also gets into some other details like treating people unjustly. It gets into not defrauding someone else, not lying to other people. And ultimately it's it's um the whole thing is in encapsulated in this verse here. Thou shalt not avenge, it says, not bear any grudge against the children of the people, but thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. And he finishes it with by saying, I am the Lord. And he says that phrase multiple times when he talks about this. I say this because I am your God. Because I am who I am, because this is who I am. You're supposed to do this because of me. Because of who I am, because you're supposed to image Now, you know what's interesting in the Old Testament is the fact that There is never a point that I can think of, that I can remember, where they were supposed to the mission of Israel included an active pursuit of other people. to come to them, to come to God. You ever notice that? It's never been that was never a um Something that was emphasized by God. What was God's intention then? It was to be a light to the Gentiles. Isaiah 49, 6 says, And he said, It is a light thing that thou shouldest be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to restore the preserved of Israel. I will also give thee for a light to the Gentiles, that thou mayest be my salvation unto the end of the earth. And what's interesting is that this verse is quoted in the middle of one of Paul's sermons in Acts thirteen. And I'm reading from verse 46 and 47. Well, at a point when they were about to get like run out of town by the people who were listening. It says, then Paul and Barnabas waxed bold and said this, it was necessary that the word of God should first have been spoken to you, the Jews. But seeing ye put it from you, you judge yourselves unworthy of an everlasting life. Lo, we turn to the Gentiles. And verse 47, for so hath the Lord commanded us, saying, and this is where he quotes uh Isaiah 49, 6. Saying, I have set thee to be a light of the Gentiles, that thou shouldest be for salvation unto the ends of the earth. Paul says this to those people as a rebuke He's saying, you Jews were supposed to be a light. You were supposed that's not what God intended. But you failed. You do not see a command in the Old Testament to actively proselytize Instead, outsiders were supposed to look at the nation of Israel, see them imaging God, see their God ultimately And want to serve that same sa that same God. Can you think of um any notable proselytes though in the Old Testament? Sure. Caleb. Caleb? Yeah, I think so. I think he was. Well where was he from? Not exactly sure, but I think he was across the right. Okay. That might be true. Directly or indirectly. I don't know. Who you who you think of? Ruth and Naomi. Ruth and Naomi. Naomi was a a Jew. Well but uh but Ruth I was thinking of. Yeah Ruth Well that's what I'm saying. She's kind of indirectly you know, my God. Yeah. Ray Had. Ray Had, yeah. Definitely um from Jerry Yeah, not not uh originally a Jew. Yeah. And you see, though In both of those people, how the story is revealed to us is the fact that they witness or they see something about God that they want. For Rahab it was all the things that she had heard about all the things that God had done for his people and she wanted a part of that. So naturality our mission really hasn't changed. We're just we are the church is now the light that we're supposed to be for the rest of the world. We're just the group the group's just gotten bigger. Well I would say it has. I would say it has changed a little bit. Yes, we're we are called to be light and so. That's what I meant by a broad brush. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Um So we see that that that's the case. Now the truth is the first three that that are up there on the screen, I mean essentially That still applies to us. Now the law has changed, right? There are certain aspects of the Old Testament law like we've talked about before that don't apply to us anymore. But we are supposed to take God as Word. Whatever God says In revelation to us, we ought to believe it and obey it. We are still supposed to give our hearts in full devotion to God. We are supposed to love our neighbor as ourselves And added to that, we are supposed to, in the corporate life, love each other just like Christ has loved us. There's an addition to that command that God that Jesus gives personally. And we are supposed to be a light to unbelievers. But what is the mission of the church, of God's people? Now we we we've mentioned how before how greatly our approach to the Bible will affect how we view our interactions with the culture around us. And it seems as though that people tend to want to lean one one way too far or the other. And what do I mean by that? Well Many if you look at churches across the world, you have some who seem to be very um cultural minded. They want to positively impact the culture or society around them. You have others that are very gospel-oriented and very focused on terms like soul winning and uh passing out tracts and going door to door. And so forth. It seems it seems as though there tends to be a tendency to go too far one way or too far the other way. There are some churches where, I guess you have to wonder if they really are part of God's church, where the gospel of Jesus is almost completely absent. But they are making a positive impact on the community around them. They raise money to support different things. They go to rallies and they and they do that. But the gospel is missing. So while they are In a very real sense, emulating the character of God and Jesus, like father, like son, like sons. The gospel is missing. But there are churches where the gospel is front and centered. But there seems to be a disconnect between the gospel and the lives of the people. Their lives don't show Christ. They don't imitate God in their deeds, but they're quick to pound the truth into people's in front of people's faces. You know, the mission of the church God gave that. Jesus gave it to us. It is the Great Commission. You can't go through the scriptures and just sort of glance over these three verses. Jesus came to them and said, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. You know what that means? We've got to listen to him. Therefore, uh you could put there go or therefore first. So you could say, therefore Go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you, and behold, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. You know what? It is insufficient to walk up to a person. You know, I see people You've seen it, there are commercials mocking this, right? They're walking like this. Almost completely oblivious to uh to what's going on around them. And what if you found one like this and that but what if you found someone walking like that and they thought they were headed the right direction but you know thirty feet out it is a cliff and if they keep going they're gonna fall off. If you look at them and you say, oh, you know, it's a little chilly outside, I think I'll give them a coat. Or, man, you know, their shoes aren't very nice. I think I'll offer them my shoes. Give them nicer shoes That's not their problem. Their problem is they're walking to a cliff and they don't know it and they're about to fall off. You have to speak words that say something to the effect of, stop, you're about to go over a cliff. You know, when we look at people, it's certainly fine to display Christ to them But if we don't end up getting to the point where we say, look, you're walking off of a spiritual cliff, you need to repent of that direction and turn this way. The heart of the church's mission is to speak words. It's to call people to repentance, to preach the gospel, to say salvation is the way. If we don't, the rest of what we do, all the Christ-likeness that we achieve, it's for naught. So we are a light, but it requires words. It requires speech. The gospel is the power unto salvation. But that picture of the gospel can be marred. You know, a be a rose is a beautiful thing to look at, to hold and to smell. But take that picture of a rose that you have in your mind and then put that rose in the middle of waste and refuse. A rose is a beautiful thing, but a rose is a very undesirable thing if it's in a sewer. So what am I getting at with that? Well, if our gospel is presented, if if if Jesus' gospel is presented to other people Our lives should match that message. Otherwise, we undermine the message of a gospel or we actually end up sending a mixed message. A mixed message The mission of the church as its individual members is the great commandment. Love the Lord your God with everything, love your neighbor as yourself. It involves imaging God in word and deed. It involves not just teaching everything Jesus commanded, but obeying everything Jesus commanded. It doesn't li i I would sum it up this way, it doesn't involve less than the Great Commission, but it does involve more. It does involve more So let's go ahead and sum this up then. Let's put all this together. What is our mission then? What does it look like? Well, I believe that you do have to You have to bring that biblical storyline of the image lost from the fall to our current situation today. You have to incorporate that along with the Great Commission. It goes together It doesn't involve less than the Great Commission, but it does involve more. The mission of the Church as its individual members is the Great Commission and the two greatest commandments. This means living how God has intended from the beginning, loving God with heart, mind, soul, and strength, and loving our neighbor as ourselves. This involves imaging God in word and deed. It involves not just teaching everything Jesus commanded, but obeying everything Jesus commanded commanded about imitating and following him. It is preaching the gospel and living out the gospel every day. I think that's it. Let's go ahead and pray. Father, we thank you for your goodness to us and um the fact that you call us to this mission, but you don't leave us alone. You promise to us that you're with us the whole way, even unto the end of the age. And we thank you for that presence. We need your help, Lord. We need your help desperately to be able to fulfill our mission that you have for us I pray, Lord, that we would continue to get better and improve and ultimately love you more and more as time goes by, that we can greatly and better fulfill the mission that you've given us. We pray in Jesus' name.