Alright, so let's uh let's do a small recap here and then um pick up where we left off last time. We'll see how far we get today. We're still technically in uh I don't know why I did that. That's not where we need to be. Not sure how far we'll get today, but I do want to we'll try get as far as we can. If we get into the class four material break, if not, that's all right too Uh so we talked we were talking about two toolboxes and the first one were the exegetical tools just by way of recap. This is the one that were more uh A little more familiar with perhaps, a little more um adept to using. Uh it considers the historical context, um it considers the cultural context And this also uh would include issues of geography, politics, history. And then of course there are the the grammatical uh tools as well. Just, you know, subject, verb, object, and those types of things. And I didn't mention it last time, but I thought it I just thought about it today that You know, you do have another level of exegetical tools. Though for those who are able to uh use the original languages, it can be uh a help. But I don't I wouldn't want to say that that those uh tools of the original languages, the Hebrew and the Greek, are somehow absolutely necessary for studying your Bible or teaching or preaching. Um do they help? Yeah, they they'll help But I I've often heard some people say, well, you know, I don't know any of that, so you know, I'm just not up to snuff and and that sort of thing. And and to me when I hear that I go, hmm No, you you that's number one, you're not some kind of second class Christian because you don't know Koine Greek. And number two, you still have the ability to interpret in your own language. And thankfully, God has preserved his word. uh in many, many languages, right? And um and it's not w we don't teach like the uh Islam does where the only proper way to read that their book is in is in So that's not the way it goes with the Bible. That was never God's intent. So while they help, they're not a necessary thing. And we should never um we should never feel like uh inferior when it comes to those sort of things. Yeah. And that's what we' her specialty study but um she happens on this term that is a kudos superhand and he was interested Okay. And then um he just I don't know how he happens on a news But they uh it was just one ready of the things that she does. But she tapped into his study and realized that all the names masked that were the most popular today as well this thing in the Bible. I think we're doing can we trust the Bible and I think it says and she then um private that's high and so um see uh it was just amazing the amount of uh things you see And how it'll find the popularity of meetings over time. Yeah. The guy that did the baby was that question, I don't think, or anything that she did. And um Um the the names that are super popular is the names that used to be with an additional second name for Simon Bardona kind of yeah. Yeah, okay. Interesting, yeah. And yeah, that that kind of thing that kind of thing can help. Okay, so that uh brings us to Kind of where we left off. Remember we talked about there our uh our analogy of reading an article with the headline Orioles Wind World Series. You remember that? And um How do you skip yes, the right. And uh if you happen to come across that article And what if you did what my wife sometimes does and just picks up in the middle, right? Remember that that illustration? So if you picked up in the middle of that paragraph like paragraph twelve in the middle of the story and it talked told you some things about what happened, but um you wouldn't get the whole context of what the significance is of paragraph twelve And you probably wouldn't know the whole story as well. And we talked about what the headline of the Bible would be. Remember, and what were some of the things we said? We said um God's plan. Yeah, the gospel. I remember I think I remember um Jesus wins. Yeah, that's a good one. God restores his people. Uh all of those are are good and um but if we then approach the Bible without really considering the main heading or the headline you might say and just go to the bo uh you know any any place we feel like And then begin reading and studying. While that's profitable, we aren't considering how it maybe fits in the entire picture, the entire storyline of the Bible. So let's look at then, we didn't look at this yet, we only sort of introduced it last time. Let's begin now looking at the storyline tools that we have at our disposal when approaching the Bible. So number one in in all of this, the key is to look back and to look forward Now let me let's let's pause here for a second as we consider this. This has been mentioned a little bit in passing, but I want to make sure everyone understands The Bible is written and it has 66 books in it, correct? And they're all laid out in one order. Right? Same if you whatever Bible you pick up if it's at least uh one that we would adhere to without the apocryphal writings in it It's going to be the same order every time. Now let me ask you this. Is are the books of the Bible, as they're laid out, are they chronologically in order? No. They're not Why not? Good question. There's a lot of questions about translation of the Bible. And how to keep that the uh but basically I think Catherine Church is on the moment. Well yes and mechanical arrangements of books that uh uh uh come from So let's talk about let's talk about first of all what um how how the the uh books of the bible are divided up. Let's just talk about the Old Testament, since that's the biggest portion. So you have the first five books of the Bible which are called the No, ten to two. Yes. Tenta to uh Genesis through Deuteronomy. Okay? Written by Moses, yes. Okay. From there you have what? Joshua. Joshua through uh Oh I I I go with No, I I'll go with uh yeah say first second say angel So then uh Chronicles and kings and kings, right? So I would go to Second Key, who is Second Keen. Yeah, I think that of course you have Ruth throw it there. Ruth, Ezra, and Nehemiah would be included in all of those. And those would be they're typically looked at as what's called the historical books, card So that's your next section. After that, you've got what? Not yet. Not yet, yeah. What's up the songs and the Starts with Job. Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes Ecclesiastes, Song of Solomon. And those are the what are commonly referred to as the wisdom and poetic books. And then what do you have? Major profits. Yep. Major profits and what are those what is that range Isaiah through what I would say Isaiah Jeremiah Lamentation Daniel, yes. Ends with Daniel. And then after that, the rest of the Old Testament is composed of Yeah, the tiny minor prophets, yeah. The little books. Most of them are little. Some of them are still kind of long. Um yes, so that's everything. That that's the entire Old Testament, and that's how they're divided. Honestly, if you look at it, I believe it was more of a Jewish idea. They're not too worried about chronology. They're more worried about blocks of categories. And so that and so Jesus refers to the writings and the prophets or Moses and the prophets. He's categorizing them when he speaks that way. And um but It's really important to understand, okay, let's say you're in you're in Daniel Well actually when you're in Daniel you are also uh sorry I'm going by memory a little bit here, but When you're in Daniel, you're also in the big right after Isaiah, chronology, chronologically wise, and you're also going to be in the historical books. If you're in Malachi, you're also at the end of Chronicles. If you're in Malachi, you're also in Ezra and Nehemiah's time. And then when you get to the uh the uh and this is when you uh you guys uh we don't have study with the core on this uh through uh judges. Judges is itself is not all that problem Yeah. Right. You can't go by them or not. You can't sort of as a there's a yeah. Boo is and that's really because of the intention of judges. Right. Judges was not intended really to be a a chronological documentation. It was more, let me point out to you the failure of Israel before the kings came and and how every man did what was right in his own eyes. That's the theme of the book of Judges, and you see that over and over again. Yeah, so when we say then in this first element of our storyline tools, if you're looking back you need to know where you're looking back to. If you're looking forward, you need to know where you're looking forward to. Um incredibly critical to to understand that in the big picture. Now when you are if if we narrow it down a little bit now Um if we narrow it down some just as a well as a as a as a warning. As a as a warning and as a You know, an understanding of where some other people come from sometimes when they approach the scriptures. You know, if we neglect to do someone neglects to do the things that we've talked about so far They're doomed to make incorrect assumptions about the text. And ultimately, if they continue down that path, people will grow up to believe lies about the Bible and what it teaches. And let's let's also I I don't know how many conversations I've had over time with those who come from from different uh backgrounds within Christian Christianity. But boy sometimes when you're talking with someone you know they don't believe the same thing you do. But you use the same words, and there seems like there's this agreement, but you know something's off And while you while while we might be using the same words that someone else uses, you might as well be being be speaking German and Mandarin respectively, because you're not actually communicating Because they're coming from an approach of the Bible that is completely different than looking at this book as one unit. given to us with an intention that God has. So often people look at the Bible and don't look at it as the what intention God had to give it to us, rather what are my intentions when I go to this book. It's coming from two different perspectives, two different uh approaches. So we're going to look now at six storyline tools to utilize when looking forward and looking back. Okay? Six storyline tools that we need to utilize when we look forward from a text and look back from a text. And these should be considered within proper biblical theology. And the first one is plot. Now we said this before, sometimes people go to the Bible to just find answers. To look it as a self-help book, something that can fix their problems. And this might be helpful, but it can also be harmful Um pick your maybe I don't know how many of you are interested in in reading fiction, but pick your pick whatever you know fictional book you read. Maybe you have a favorite, maybe you don't. But what if you know that author in writing that story, that fictional story, has a complete plot that's developing in that book And sometimes authors will will give you twists and turns and kind of you know mis use misdirection and and point you in different Directions and finally there's maybe a reveal at a climax of the story, right? And uh you know, sometimes those kind of stories can be very interesting to read and uh and so forth. But The author designed his story to be read chronologically through, correct? Right? What if we decided if we approached uh a book like that and we just sort of disregarded that completely You know, you you pick up that book and you say, you know, I'm gonna read chapter twelve. You read chapter twelve and say, well that was cool, I'm gonna read chapter two And then, oh, that was cool. I'm gonna read uh I'm gonna read chapter 28. And and and you just sort of bounced around like that Now, you would have an idea of the content of that story. You would have a good grasp on many of the characters, but you'd have no idea what they're doing You might have very little idea why they're doing what they're doing. You may not really understand what the protagonist is doing, what the antagonist is doing, you know, all of these different things Because the plot was meant to be read chronologically. How well would you understand a plot and how it unfolds if you approached a fictional novel that way. Well the Bible has a plot line. It has a plot line. It honestly, truly tells one story through sixty-six books. And you know, when we look at that we could kind of say, wow, we can marvel at that. Because while most of the time in our world today a a book that is written is written by one author. Here it's different because God is the ultimate author of the Bible, but he used many human authors. And honestly, you would expect there to be plot holes and so many contradictions and things that don't make sense And yet you don't. You find incredible harmony in these books that were that are placed and preserved for us over a period of 1500, 2000 years that they were written apart from each other. This one story that's found in this book of the Bible That plot unfolds and goes through, and it all arrives at the same point, and it really is the person and work of Jesus Christ. Jesus sort of is the climax to this story. that God writes for us. And it's not just a literary device, you know, it's not written like that. It is an historical unfolding of the progressive revelation that culminates in Christ. It is the nature of biblical revelation that it tells a story rather than just sets out timeless principles. an abstract. Now that that is really key. It's a great way to put put it. Things that we've said mentioned in here before. That if if this is just a bunch a bunch of truths but it's told in abstract, just just general principles that we can find. That's a whole lot different than the Bible being written by a divine author and laying it out like that. They are not given in an abstract. There are principles in the scripture, but they are given in an historical context and progressively revealed throughout the pages. You know, it's interesting when you think about this. I think if if You let's see we're not really like venturing the heresy here, so bear with me for a second. If you and I were bound, okay And we created people, these two people, and they rebelled against you. I don't know about your temperament, but I feel like mine would be, well, you had your shot. Sorry. Sorry, Bob. And bubble you're you're you're done. It's over. I gave you I gave you all this freedom. You messed up in one area. I can't believe you you couldn't obey just one rule You you're done. But God doesn't do that, right? And then we're talking about the beginning of the storyline here. There's one other thing that he doesn't do though, which is rather puzzling if you think about it, and it's this, that the fact that his his creation messes up, right? They sin against him, and God declares the punishment, declares the curse, all those things. But he doesn't provide immediately a way for reconciliation. You know, it he doesn't just say, okay, you messed up, here's my son He's going to come help you out. It's instead God chose to unfold his revelation progressively Kind of slowly, right, from our perspective, little by little unfolding that plot line throughout the scriptures. The most important verse in Genesis. I don't care what anyone else says, is Genesis 3. 15. It's the most important verse in Genesis 3. 15. What does Genesis 3. 15 say? What does it talk about? Who's got it? Whoever gets it first, go ahead and read it out. And I will put enmity between you and and the woman and between your seed and her seed, he shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel. Who's that talking about? Yeah. Now, is Jesus mentioned by name? No. Hi there. Okay. We have several seats for you right here against uh up against the side there. Please join us. Thank you for coming. Glad we had those other things there. If you'd like you to turn to Genesis 315, we were just starting to talk about that. Genesis 3. 15 So yeah, Genesis three fifteen. Let me go ahead and pull it up here as well. Talking about Jim just said talking about Jesus, but Jesus is never named specifically. Let's talk about the What we do know from this passage, and quite honestly, what the people at that time would have known Now this is after the fall, right? This is after Adam and Eve sinning against God So it says, I will put enmity between you and the woman talking about the serpent, and between your seed and her seed. He shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel. Other translations would take that word bruise and would actually have more of the ideas of crushing. Crushing the serpent's head. And it says here that the serpent will bruise or crush the seeds heel Now at this point, no children have been born, right? It's just Adam and Eve, nobody else And so what God has told them is in this situation to Adam and Eve, everything can we just step back for one second and think about how devastated Adam and Eve would be. Because they're people, right? I mean they're the first people, but they're people. And they have human emotions just like you and me They had perfection, right? They had absolute perfection. And in a in a time of temptation For what the serpent was offering to them, they believed they could get, it was lying to them, right And they thought that yeah, we'll go ahead and take this step and it's going to be better. They're going to get so much more out of life now. That's what the serpent was essentially offering, a whole lot more. And what did they end up really getting? A whole lot less. A whole lot less. And when the weight of that comes crashing down, and suddenly they recognize the shame, they recognize their nakedness, they see all of this Everything is fallen. And there there is. The word that I would use is hopelessness. There is no hope for the future now. God talks about in the verses previous to that the the curse that's on the land and on on uh on childbearing and and and work is going to be hard now. And so forth. All of that is just this crushing weight upon them And what does God do? He gives hope to the hopeless. That's what verse 15 is. It's hope. It's the beginning of hope. Yeah. Along with that, um it makes that seem like that's so important. Um taking from tag It was. And um if we don't study a portfolio or if we don't even read Mm-hmm. Which is why we can try to work us not to stay out of it, yeah. Yeah. Um then if you try to start with So what uh what we're what I'm trying to get across here is that From this point forward, you see God's plan. And it might sound amazing. But or or kind of incredible. But the rest of this book is the unfolding of that plan. The the the relationship is now fractured between God and his creation. And God says in verse 15, and there's so many implications, because we have the whole story now, right? But he is saying, you feel like it's hopeless now, but There's hope. There is going to be someone who comes. He's going to be the offspring of a woman. And that serpent that beguiled you, that deceived you, is going to crush his head. Crush him. He's gonna get he's gonna get a piece of my this this individual. He's gonna crush his heel. What is that a reference to? His crucifixion. This crucifixion, yeah. crucifixion. So the rest of it is the unfolding of what God's plan is. Now think about it for a second. We we've got the whole thing. We've got the whole picture in mind. But if you think about the plot line, okay, you it's a first-time reading mentality, so to speak The rest of this, if you were really paying attention, reading this, you'd be like, who's this gonna be? What's gonna happen? Can you look just ahead at chapter four for a second? We had mentioned just a second ago, there's no children born yet, right? It says uh in verse uh chapter 4 verse 1, now Adam knew Eve his wife and she conceived and bare Cain and said, I have acquired a man from the Lord. Now, that seems kind of just a regular statement, but I would submit to you that that's not just a normal statement. Because of what contextually what was just talked about. I don't know how much time had passed from then to when Cain was born, but what did God say to them? The seed of a woman is going to crush the serpent's head. Is this is Cain the seed of a woman? Yes. Yes. She he is What we see here, I believe, in Eve is a measure of faith. That she's saying, well, this happened, this could be the serpent rushing. This could be a one. Now obviously we know saying say uh Kane is not it. Not by a long shot, right? But you keep tracking that plot line throughout. And that's what that's what we're trying to do when we talk about plot here. Looking forward, looking back, the plot, I mean it's an amazing beginning to the story. And the plot really thickens when when Adam and Eve fall But it it that that storyline we can track through the rest of the Bible. Who is this person going to be? And you see more information given as you read through the scriptures. Okay. The next uh tool in the toolbox is theme Now, when you think about regular stories, uh they are held together by themes, multiple and sometimes each interweaving themes. And part of looking back and looking forward from any one location in a story is how to trace those relevant themes that go through. What do I mean by themes? Well let's let's talk about one of my uh one of my favorite story sagas for a moment. How about the Star Wars saga? Okay now I was not alive when the first ones came out I didn't move here. Very good. I'm glad you were there. I've trust me, I've watched them I don't know how many times now. Yeah. Sure. So that first one, Star Wars, A New Hope, right It's incredible. I mean the bad guys are really bad and the good guys are really good and you're pulling for them. And um You know, Obi-Wan has this uh conversation with Luke and Luke's talking about, well my dad, if you knew my dad, you fought with him, and yeah. And Obi-Wan says he died because of this guy named Darth Vader. Darth Vader killed him. What do you find out in the second one? He is Dark Vader. His dad is Dark Vader. And Luca's like, no, it's not true, it's terrible. Yeah, the second the second is that so the no I'm talking about the second episode. So the Yes, very true. But as far as that original trilogy is concerned The theme of Darth Vader, so at least at that time, the main bad guy, being the father of the main good guy. That that altered the entire context of those films, right? Knowing Darth Vader's true identity Makes a really big difference. Even watching the first film, when you know that. Because now you you look at the conversation with Obi-Wan and Luke very differently from what you did before The same thing happens within the themes that happen in the scriptures. If you things that you know will that are truth from the Bible will help you in following the plots following the um the storyline that that is going on. So let's let's talk about this for a second. In Genesis 50. Please turn there. In Genesis 50 I'm sorry, uh it's gonna be uh forty nine, sorry, chapter forty nine This is when um Jacob is blessing all of his sons. He had a lot of them, right? He had twelve of them. And he actually blesses uh Joseph's sons individually as well, Manasseh and Ephraim. But when he gets to Judah He says this in um verse eight Judah, you are he whom your brothers shall praise Your hand shall be on the neck of your enemies, your father's children shall bow down before you. That's interesting. Your father's children will bow down before you. What's he talking about here? Verse nine, Judah is a lion's wealth. From the prey, my son, you have He bows down and lies down as a lion, and as a lion who shall rouse him. The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor law giver from between his hands feet until Chilo comes and it to him shall be the obedience of the people. When you look at the this blessing that Jacob puts on Judah. It's very different from the others. We don't have time to look at the other ones obviously, but this one is very singled out. Number one, his brothers shall praise him His brothers will bow down before him. And then you have this reference of the scepter not departing from Judah. What this is talking about is that a kingly line is going to stem from Judah. That is one of your next main themes. So if you know that, if you know that theme, that okay, royalty a a kingship is coming from the tribe of Judah. You're really going to be looking for that later, aren't you? What what tribe is David from Judah. And what tribe is Jesus from Judah? Judah. Yeah. Good. So now there are many other themes that we could think of in scripture as well. Some for example are Uh the the ideas of the promises that God's m God makes, also referred to as covenants. Covenants that God makes, the The promises that God makes, themes on how God orders and rules over his people, themes of how God stages his people, both spiritually and physically at times. You might even look at the themes of exile, how God punishes his people. All these are themes that you can track through the Old and New Testament. Now, one of the main storyline tools really is that idea of promise, but also fulfillment. Promise and fulfillment. When we read through the scriptures, we will constantly be seeing God making promises and God keeping his promises. God making promises and God keeping his promises. Unlike us, we we may give promises, right? But sometimes whether by our sin nature Or by things outside of our control, we end up breaking promises, right? But God is not a godlike man. When God makes a promise You know that it's guaranteed, and we're not going to be disappointed by the promise that he gives. He will come through, he will fulfill his promise Sometimes those promises have multiple fulfillments And we'll get to that in a second, where there's there's an element in which it's been fulfilled and there's even more fulfillment in the future. Let's look at some things here Uh I thought this was a really great way to track this. Let's look at Genesis twelve one through three This is when Abraham or God interrupts Abraham, interrupts his life and tells him, get out of here and go there. Okay He says this, Now the Lord had said to Abram, Get out of your country from your family, and from your father's house to a land that I will show you. I will make you a great nation, I will bless you, I will make your name great, and you shall be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you. And I will curse him who curses you, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. That is a six-fold promise that God gives to Abraham. And typically this is known as the Abrahamic covenant. Now, if you look at that and you're reading this as one story This is what God said. You're going to want to see how that's fulfilled. That would be something to look forward to, to look out for as you page through and read through the scriptures. God promises that childless Abraham will be the father of a great nation. Remember, Abraham has no children at this point. His plan at this point is to give his inheritance to his head servant, his chief servant in his household. That's his plan, Eliezer. So we see that also there's offspring promised, there is a nation promise, there is land promised And and there's extra things that are that are expounded on uh in in this promise. 12, it comes in 12, it comes again in chapter 15 So the first way that this is this promise is fulfilled is when two people, Abraham and Sarah, who should not be able to have children anymore, have a son. Isaac, right? Isaac has Jacob and Esau. God says I I I'm not choosing to I'm not choosing Esau, but I'm going to choose Jacob. And by the way, that's that was through no merit of their own. God chose who he chose in that situation Really, if you look at their character, neither of them were worthy of choosing, but uh but God chose Jacob. And Jacob has twelve sons, right, who eventually become the twelve tribes of Israel. And by the opening of Exodus, well by the time Jacob and his family get to Egypt, remember because of the famine that was there, there were 70 people Not a lot. More than just Abraham and his wife, but still not a lot. And in the 400 years that are between Genesis 50 and Exodus chapter 1, that small minority become a feared multitude of millions of people. God promise God's promises being fulfilled. God saves his people from Egypt Gets them out of there. I'm skipping a lot of details, obviously. But then we get to Joshua who recounts the story of this nation now conquering the land that God promised to Abraham By the time we get to King Solomon, there is the nation is prospering and is uh is is doing very well. It's very successful. Now there are things that come up after that that disobey, right? And do not honor God. Do not follow after God And God does punish them, and eventually there is exile in that. But as we track this promise, we see then from Abraham we have Jesus Who is the true promised offspring? Paul makes this connection in Galatians and Romans. And by faith in Jesus, all of the families of the earth can be blessed. Do you see that connection there? That's incredible. When you look when you think about that that uh that part of the promise In chapter 12, verse 3, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. That's a pretty lofty statement to tell one guy, who, in the grand scheme of things, at that point, has very little influence And I mean there isn't, you know, social media and and ways to communicate to everybody on the planet, right? So that is a very peculiar statement. And maybe as you would read that for the first time, you go, wow, I wonder how that's going to unfold. Well we see how it unfolds now, and it's in the person of Jesus. Right? All of the families of the earth can be blessed because when you place your faith in Christ for salvation, you are now redeemed. You are bought out of the slavery of sin and to be servants of righteousness. But not only that You see at the end of where in Revelation chapter 21 and 22, where the millennial reign is talked about, and Jesus will come and will rule. A physical, honest to goodness reign, with Christ ruling and us ruling by his side, and the land will officially be as it should be. You may not realize it, but the the Israel, while they did conquer a lot of the land of Canaan, never actually attained all of the borders that God had intended for them. So in a very real sense, while that was partially fulfilled in the Old Testament, it never was completely fulfilled. It will ultimately be fulfilled in the millennial reign of Christ when that happens. Promise fulfillment. Incredible tool in the toolbox of Storyline Really important to see that. And that's big picture, and there are smaller promise fulfillments that happen within Scripture as well. Really important to recognize those things. So we see really in everything that we saw, I mean probably five times where the promises to Abraham are fulfilled. They're clearly identified in Scripture. And you even see a grander thing. You know, when you look at the New Testament, sometimes the New Testament authors are quoting the Old Testament. You have something to really look out for when you're reading the New Testament Someone would say, would make a very specific statement and says, this happened so that blank would be fulfilled. You ever noticed that before? That's key. That's promise fulfillment storyline right there. That's connecting New Testament and Old Testament Next one is typology. We pretty much up against the the end here Let me see here. We'll go we'll go real fast through here. Um so typology Two things. Number one, you do need to be careful with typology. When someone, when a preacher or teacher says this is a type of Christ, this is a type of this. Are you what are they basing that off of? I've heard sometimes teachers and preachers they say this is a type of Christ And I look at it and I'm paging through the scriptures and I go, well, where are you getting this from? And sometimes, quite honestly, the preacher or teacher is getting it from their own imagination. And if that happens, guess what? Whatever they said is a type of price, it's not. It's not. They're making it up It might look good and it might fit well if you were thinking of scripture as allegoric allegory, but the only time we can really significantly say that something is a type of Christ is when the Bible says it is. We won't take the time to turn there, but in Romans 5 14, yet death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those whose sinning was not like the transgression of Adam, who was a type Of the one who was to come. There, in very plain lettering and plain wording, the author of Romans, Paul, says that Adam was a type of Christ in certain ways. Paul is drawing comparison But he also argues for the historical con uh correspondence in which the type Adam points forward to someone who would um be like him. And what the the point that he's making is, for as by one man's sin, death entered into the world, and death has passed into the world That's the that is the um correspondence that he's making. Adam did this, but one kind of like him, a type of him in Christ did this. So when the Bible does it, when the Bible makes the connection, we can rest assured that, yeah, it's a genuine connection. But we do want to be careful when it comes to these different things. Simple allegory can make all kinds of connections that aren't there. If we approach the scripture as allegory, you can make up whatever you want. And it might sound really good and it might look really good and it might feel really good, but it's not really good because it's not really true. Allegory is for some, is for other things. Meaning you can you can talk about the five stones that David picks up and say that they represent stuff like faith and hope and love and and all these other things. The Bible doesn't say that That's allegory. That's, for lack of a better word, nonsense. It's not scripture. It's just someone being very creative. There's so many other things that we could look at in regards to that. But we want to uh oh I went too far. We want to sum all this up As we wrap it up here, everything that we've talked about in class three here, biblical theology teaches us to start with the tools of exegesis, the grammatical tools. Um the flow of argument, uh looking at the context, and so forth. And then we also need to include the storyline tools of themes, covenants, promise fulfillment, and typology if we keep those things in mind. And learn to use those tools. You know, it it's there's a bit of a learning curve with some of these things, right? The first time I ever held a welder, uh uh a welder in my hand, I still have the first thing I welded by the way. It was a very mum momentous occasion. I was terrible. You know, I I mean I got it the the metal to stick together, but you know, it wasn't very good looking and it wasn't very uh it's not very strong I had to learn to use that tool. And now after years and years, I'm much better at it and I'm good at using that tool. Well the same comes with this. You know, some of these tools we might be more familiar with, more experienced with, others we might not. But the answer isn't to say, well, I'm just not good at it. The answer is to say, you know what, this will require work, this will require learning, and it's something that we need to invest time and energy energy in as individuals and as as corporately, as Bethel Baptist Church, these are the types of things that we need to incorporate in our teaching, in our preaching So that we can rightly divide the word of truth and interpret it and apply it correctly to those who are listening. Let's go ahead and close in prayer. can be dismissed. Father, we we love you. We we thank you for the um the story of the Bible. Uh we marvel Father at the fact that all of these human authors that you use um to tell one story. And we thank you, Lord, for the themes and the revelation that you progressively showed to us in your word. I pray, Lord, that as we continue to study these things, that we would grow more and more fond of your truth. We will grow closer to you and that we would be better uh we would be better at understanding your word. At telling your truth and word to others, that people would see Christ in us. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.