Today we are looking at the uh the biblical theme of idolatry. Not the happiest of themes, but um I will say at the outset that we're going to see some some parallels here to when we looked at the the theme of image. If you remember some of the things that that we studied uh for that when we looked at image in the Bible means being made in God's image and how the image was tainted and so forth. We're gonna see some of the some of that here again. Um we're gonna do something different today. Normally we've been starting in the uh in the beginning, somewhere in Genesis, but today In order to grab a hold of this theme in the Bible, it's actually a little bit better to start in the middle And I think you'll see why here. We're going to start with Isaiah's judgment. In the beginning of Isaiah, you have uh He he's commissioned to pronounce judgment or pronounce many woes to the nation of Israel. If you remember that Isaiah is living in the time of uh when the Babylonians are going to take over And so, I mean you really have the first half, the first um uh the first half of the book is dealing with the judgments that are coming upon them Second half is really a a uh one of encouragement and hope that this isn't the end for Israel, this isn't the end for God's people, God does plan to do more But we ha what we have here in in this is you m I'm sure you're familiar with Isaiah chapter six, and so you'll need to turn there and in a moment. Isaiah chapter 6. Isaiah has gone through multiple series of judgments to the nation of Israel, and then you remember that Isaiah sees a vision. He he he is given a vision by God and he sees God the Father in the throne room with the angels flying around him crying, Holy, Holy, Holy. And um The whole the whole house of God or the whole temple is filled with smoke. It's an incredible scene. And when Isaiah sees himself In light of this great and awesome and really terrible, fearful God, he he's he says, I'm I'm done, I'm ruined. I'm I I I just I'm dead. I'm over. This isn't gonna this isn't gonna work anymore. I'm I'm a sinful man in the midst of pure holiness and I cannot stay. I cannot make it But we do see that while Isaiah sees that, God declares him righteous. He purifies him of his sin. He's declared to be forgiven by God. And then there is a commission. He's already been pronouncing judgment. Some people would say, well Isaiah chapter 6 is actually when when the prophet was originally commissioned and you don't have a chronological order. I suppose that's possible But it's also quite possible that Isaiah did have a ministry for a while, that he was commissioned by God, and then God gave him this vision. Either way, it doesn't add much. Hi there. Welcome. Uh have a seat anywhere you'd like. We're uh starting in Isaiah chapter six. So while you're there in Isaiah chapter six, let's begin. At verse eight. After he's seen this vision, after he's seen all of this, and um God Or you might even say the entire Trinity is asking who will go, who will I send, who will go for us? And Isaiah says, here I am, send me, I will go, I will be the one. And then right after that, that's sort of where a lot of people stop, actually. And there's lots of songs, a few songs written uh based off of this text, right? What we find out though is exactly what God wants Isaiah to say. Alright, so let's look at this Starting in verse 8, and I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send and who will go for us? Then I said, Here am I, send me. God says, okay. He says, go and tell this people, keep on hearing, but do not understand. Keep on seeing, but do not perceive. Make the heart of this people dull. And their ears heavy, and shut their eyes, lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and return and be healed. Then I said, Lord, how long? And he said, Until the cities are laid waste and without inhabitant. The houses are without a man, the land is utterly desolate, the Lord has removed men far away, and the forsaken places are many in the midst of the land But yet a tenth will be in it, and will return for uh and be for consuming, as a terabinth tree or as an oak, whose stump remains when it is cut down, so the holy seed shall be its stump. What is the message that Isaiah is supposed to declare? It's definitely not one of encouragement, right? We know that his message is towards the people of Israel What does it mean when he says, keep on hearing but do not understand? Keep on seeing but do not perceive? Well, let me ask you this question. In the course of Israel's history From what you might say almost the very beginning to the time that they were exiled to the time that they came back. What was their main sin? Repeat the question. From the time they From the time they from the time of their when God started to work with them To the time they were exiled, to the time that they were even brought back to the temp uh to the city, what was their main sin? Idolatry. It was idolatry. When Isaiah says, when he pronounces these things to the people, especially in verses nine and ten, what does that make you think? Does that remind you of anything? Verses nine and ten. Any ideas Oh, who was that? I'm trying to think who it was that wasn't an Elizabeth. Well it obviously knows. Go ahead. Eyes that don't hear. Eyes that don't hear? I have eyes that don't hear, I have to admit. No, go ahead. That reminds me of Jesus. I mean Jesus said you have eyes but you don't see and you don't hear. Yes, very true. We're actually like a we're gonna we're gonna get to that, yeah That's very true. There's something else though. Let's go ahead to the next web. Is it later in Isaiah? Mm-hmm. When they he tells them how ridiculous it is that idols have words in do not Sure, sure. It's a difficult thing. It's all over. Yeah, right. No, it is all over. So yeah, you're you're right. But yeah, that that was the the main thing that I was thinking of was the fact that this sounds an awful like the man-made idols that that people make and and it's very similar to the description that God gives in other passages about their false gods. So let's go ahead and look at that. Just a couple other notes here about this, we see that um he asks after after hearing what he's supposed to tell the people, he says, God, how long am I supposed to do this? Because this isn't a happy message. I'd rather give something else. How long do I gotta do this? And I mean God says a long time. Essentially it's a long time. It's until until Israel and Jerusalem are no more, essentially. And even beyond that. Because It talks about when the people will actually come back. There's going to be a righteous remnant that will still be around. So So we see here idolatry is not mentioned specifically in this message that he's supposed to give, but the language that is used is not new. Let's go ahead and go to the next passage in Isaiah, which is in chapter 42. Next one that I want to look at is in chapter forty two And let's let's see some of the the connection here that we're making. Starting in verse 17, they shall turn be turned back, they shall be greatly ashamed, who trust in carved images. Who say to the molded images, you are our gods. Hear ye deaf, and look ye blind, and that you may see. Who is blind but my servant, or deaf as my messenger whom I send? Who is blind as he who is perfect, and blind as the Lord's servant, seeing many things but you do not observe. Opening the ears, but he does not hear. Let's go to the next one, Isaiah 43, verse 8. Bring out the blind people who have eyes. And the deaf who have ears. Let all the nations be gathered together and let the people um be assembled. Who among them can declare this and show us former things Let them bring out their witnesses, that they may be justified, or let them hear and say it is truth. You are my witnesses, says the Lord, and my servant whom I have chosen, that you may know and believe me And understand that I am he. Before me there is no God formed, nor shall there be after me. So he he talks, he's talking to his people, and he's calling them blind and deaf. They have eyes, they have ears, but they are incapable of seeing and incapable of hearing. And we understand he's he's not talking about the physical part of their hearing and seeing. It's their spiritual eyes, their spiritual ears that are deaf and blind Now let's go to the next uh the next section, uh which is chapter forty four. And verse eight says, Do not fear nor be afraid, have I not told you that uh from that time and declared it, you are my witnesses. Is there a God besides me? Indeed there is no other rock. I know not one. Those who make an image, all of them, are useless And their precious things shall not profit. They are their own witnesses, they neither see nor know, and that they may be ashamed. Who would form a God or mold an image that profits him nothing? Now let's look at 17 through 19, same chapter The there's actually this this passage is the whole passage concerning uh carving an image and making it. Before verse verse seventeen through nineteen it talks about the man who goes out and gets him cuts himself a down a tree and fashions it and builds a fire and puts meat on the altar and he eats some of it and the other he offers as a gift to his God, his false god And then so it picks up here in verse seventeen. And the rest of it he makes into a God, his carved image. He falls down before it and worships it. prays to it and says, Deliver me, for you are my God. They do not know this is talking about the idols. It says, They do not know nor understand, for he has shut their eyes so that they cannot see, and their hearts so they cannot understand. And no one considers in his heart, nor is there any knowledge nor understanding to say, I have burnt half of it in the fire, yes, I have also baked bread on its coals, I have roasted meat and eaten it And shall I make the rest of it an abomination? Shall I fall down before a block of wood? So here it says The wording is almost exactly what Isaiah's message is supposed to be back in chapter 6, where it says, He has shut their eyes so they cannot see, and their hearts so that they cannot understand. Isaiah is making a clear and crucial point. Idol worshipers have no spiritual eyes Even though they have physical eyes. Even though they have physical ears, they do not spiritually hear. Why is this the case? Looking at uh you might want to write this down, Psalm 115, portions of that um say this: their idols are silver and gold. the work of human hands. They have mouths but do not speak. Eyes but do not see. They have ears but do not hear. Noses but do not smell. They have hands but do not feel. Feet but they do not walk. They make no sound in their throat. Those who make them become like them. So do all who trust in them. That's Psalm 115, 4 through 8. Did you catch that? They who make them make those images become like them. And so do all of them who trust in them. There is a a principle that we are developing here. And that principle is this, if we worship idols, if people worship idols, they become like their idols. And of course, if we are worshiping anything than the true God, then those idols are bound to corrupt us and ruin us to some extent. Whatever however long we are devoted to them, whatever it might be. God is making a clear connection here. for us that the people of Israel they were known by worshiping idols who cannot see, cannot hear, and all those other things that it mentioned And so do the people become. They become like those inanimate objects that they worship. Spiritually they become inanimate. They can't do anything. We saw earlier in Isaiah chapter 6 where it says that the people became useless. It became useless to God. So with all that in mind, we understand that we're sort of hopping in the middle of the whole theme. So let's think about a little bit. We're in the middle of biblical history, you might say, when looking at Isaiah. What do you think would be the main idol worshiping event that takes place, the first main one in in the Bible? It really came at a bad time. Right right when right when God is giving them the law and Included in the law is you shall have no other god before me, you shall not make any graven images. What are they doing? Yeah, exactly. They're down, they're replacing God with an o with an idol, and they're making graven images. In their defense That's all they knew. It's not much of a defense because they watched God do amazing things, but they reverted back. They reverted back to what they had known before God entered the picture Which is a is a terrible error and definitely sin. And so we don't want to do that. But it does give us a little bit of a context. Like, what in the world are they thinking? Well, they were thinking like they had before God That's what they were thinking. Okay? So yes, let's go ahead and um let's look at this. The golden calf incident Certainly we have aspects of idolatry before this, but the word is not used that I can remember. And on top of that There doesn't seem to be any graven images being made, but was idolatry the the heart of idolatry? Was it there? Yeah When you have sinful people, that concept of idolatry is going to be within the person's heart. And we'll flesh that out more as we go through this. So God is giving the law, which excludes or which includes the forbidden of worshiping idols, which uh includes not having any other gods before me. When you think of chapters 19 and 20, In Exodus, God lays out for Israel what it means for them to be his people. That's essentially what he's doing. He's telling them, He's he's showing them how they are to reflect. To the world, his glory, and his character. That's his intention. That's what he's attempting to do. Remember, think about all those other things that we've been looking at as far as image goes. God wanted his people to reflect his image. Was it going to be perfect ever? No. Not at all. But that was still God's intention. And part of that was how they were supposed to worship God. Those are the first four commandments. In the Ten Commandments. And the next six were how they were supposed to interact with each other. You have those vertical commands and those horizontal commands within there. They were supposed to be reflecting God alone. Why? Well, because he rescued them, right? He rescued them out of Egypt in miraculous ways. So unfortunately, they disobey immediately. They had barely had a chance to even um um do it, but they did. They fall back to the things that they know before God. And um what's interesting Is that God begins after this event? This is a monumental event in nation's history, and it comes up over and over and over again as you look after Exodus, you can go through the rest of the Pentateuch, you can go through the the books of history, you go to the major and minor prophets. This event is referred to over and over again. It's like God wants to call attention to this. And there's something that we really want to see here that I think is really interesting. What have we said so far? We've said we've can we've seen the link between the fact that people who worship idols or worship something other than God, they tend to become what they worship, right? Or they are like what they worship. They ended up creating an idol or an image out of what they liked, what they desired. They they once they finished the golden calf They looked at it and said, These be our gods that delivered us out of Egypt. That's what they did. And it was a it was an image of a calf, right? There is there is a hyphenated term. I'm a little behind here on my uh my slides. Hey, function. Thanks. Okay, yeah, there we go. I'm caught up. Sorry about that. They disobey immediately, they begin worshiping the golden calf, and from this point on, God begins to use a hyphenated term to describe these people. Can any of you think of what that hyphenated term might be? Yes, you got it. Stiff you stiff necked people. Now is that a insult that we use today? Yeah, I think it could be, yeah. It's all all part about all about body language. What what does God what does God mean when he says that? Stubborn. Mm-hmm. Stubborn. Set in their own ways. Ignoring his ways. Kind of like a horse when you ride it. Hmm. Or kind of like an untamed calf. An unbroken cast. Did you know that that was a term that was often used for people for for animals and calves that wouldn't do what you wanted them to do. If you had an animal like that you would call it you would call it stiff neck. I mean if you wanted it to if you wanted a calf to go or an ox to go or something else, it would stay put. It would ridge it up and be I mean Most of the a lot of times bigger than you, so you can't make it move. It stiffs up to it stiffs up its neck and remains in its spot That's the imagery, it's an odd phrase, but has a very ironic meaning. It it portrays m Israel mockingly as rebellious cattle because they were worshiping a calf. And thus had become like it. Just like a stubborn cow that refuses to go in the direction you want it to, idolatrous Israel is stiff-necked. And in this case, well in in reality I mean eventually you break you break an animal and and make it do what you want. But Israel over the course of its history would essentially stay like this for the whole time. Obviously there were points of that were bright spots, and there were people that did follow hard after God and did give their hearts to Him fully and did worship Him fully. But the nation as a whole. They weren't resembling God. They were resembling that golden calf that Israel made so long before. We can go back even further in that remembering and sort of bringing back to remembrance that we are created to reflect God's image. That's what God intended from the beginning. Adam and Eve, before they fell, they reflected that image perfectly, as God intended. But when they did fall, that image was marred, and we won't talk too much about that because we have dealt with that already. But some of the things that we do want to highlight or recall here is that we can now, since the fall, there is an option That we have when when we are saved, when we are brought into God's fold. We can now either reflect the image of God the Creator or reflect something in the creation itself. And obviously anything in the creation itself would be um twisted or corrupt in some fashion. Now on this on this point, it it bears some clarification that even an unbeliever can can reflect the image of God to some degree. Because it's how He created us, right? So it doesn't take a believer to to say, you know what, I want to donate some money to a charity You don't have to be a believer to do that. An unbeliever can do that. It doesn't take a believer to look at someone who got hurt on you know while they were walking tripped or something and go over there and help them up and make sure they're okay and you know take care of them in some fashion. It doesn't take a believer to do that. An unbeliever can do that that. And what are they doing? Well they are reflecting God's character to an extent because we are all still created in God's image. Right? But humanity left to themselves without the aid of the Holy Spirit in general is going to reflect and imitate other things that have been corrupted And so that's something to take into account. As a believer, we can choose now to truly reflect God's character in his image. to a high degree or we can choose another route and reflecting something in the creation itself Adam, Adam's plural, or possessive rather, Adam's commitment to God and reflecting his image was replaced by a new object of reverence. and worship to which he became conformed. What that object could be himself His pride, his own ideas. I mean you could put a lot of things in there. So I have it singular there as far as object goes, but it could be plural as well That's what Adam did, that's what Adam and Eve both did when they made that decision. What a person reveres, they reflect. And this is one of the main principles we want to get out of this today, is that what a person reveres or what a person worships, they reflect. This will either lead to ruin, if it's something that's in the creation, or restoration, if it's God the Father. This will either lead to ruin or restoration for them. And that's what we have. We see that at the very beginning here. So we've kind of started in the middle, we've gone backwards. Now let's jump ahead a little bit and just sort of get our minds around this even a little more. Did Jesus deal with idolatry when he was on earth? Okay. I think he did. But did it come in the normal form that of of Israel's history What form did idolatry take in Jesus' time for the nation of Israel? A lot of personal pride and on work. Yes. D are you thinking of a specific people group? Yeah. Like they were their own idol. Yes. Like they claimed to be who were buying God, they really just wanted all the attention for themselves. Yeah They had God's word, right? They had the Torah. They had what God has said. And The Pharisees, the scribes, the religious leaders of the day were experts in it. And, as we've seen also, they thought they were experts. Well they well when yeah when they tackled Jesus that was when their expertise went right. That's a good point. You Jesus They thought they could corner them, yeah. But in the eyes of the people they were expert, right? Now if I mean if they had just Followed the law, understood the law, followed it, believed in it, they probably would have been okay, but they didn't stop there, did they? They added to the law, right? Right. Six hundred and twenty-six. Is that what the number is? Six hundred and thirteen commands in the Old Testament. And they decided you know what? That's a lot of stone tests. We need some more. That's a good thing. Yeah. And they thought, well, you know, we have these rules for the Sabbath, but you know, we're gonna make it even more strict and and that way we'll be more holy and even gain more favor with God. And we're gonna try and we're gonna promote that with with the people people under us as well and say that that's how they gotta operate is also another form of idolatry be like our own nationality like what When Jesus came they wanted him to be their king and set them free from Roman rule. And so it's like they were willing to follow him as long as he was going to do that for them. But then as soon as he wasn't that he was going to die, there was their king and their idea of freedom. But that was something they really looked forward to I think that's a great point. They they they were worshiping Jesus but their version of him for a while. That changed. They they they they realized what he really came for eventually. Um but yeah they they were worshiping their own image of Jesus at the beginning So I mean that's that's the um that's that's with his own disciples though. That's with his own followers. Um so it bears it bears uh it's kind of a warning to us that even even when you have Jesus Himself walking with you and teaching you and speaking with you, you can still actually create in yourself a false representation of who he is. And they had they They did do that. That's an excellent point. But if you look at Israel as a whole, what did they worship? Yeah, they they They did the rituals and they did the things that they were supposed to do, um, to an extent. But And they they hadn't fallen into the idolatry of their forefathers, but as we've just discussed here, they fell into a different type of idolatry Which was man-made tradition, man-made rules. You couldn't be considered spiritual unless you went above what the law said. And conformed to the Pharisees' idea of what spirituality was. At the same time you have And while Jesus is among them, you have the Word incarnate among them, right? They were rejecting the people as a whole, Israel, was rejecting the Word of God in the flesh. And just like Israel before were becoming what they worshipped, they were stubborn and spiritually lifeless. Oops. They had eyes, the people had eyes, right? But they didn't see Jesus for who he was They had ears but couldn't actually hear what Jesus was saying. Remember something that Jesus would say over and over again when he was teaching? He that has ears to hear, let him hear. It's a fascinating statement when you think about the con this this theme in the backdrop. These people, while outwardly, they were super spiritual and looked like they had it all together with God. Inwardly, they were something else entirely. Look at uh let's turn now to Matthew chapter 23, just to get a glimpse of this Matthew twenty three, and look at uh verse twenty seven Again with the word woe. Woe is a term that ascribes judgment. To someone or something. And he says, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you will like whitewashed tombs. Um you know what I need to back up. I need to back up, hang on. Sorry about that 23. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you pay tithe of mint and anise and cumin, and have neglected the weightier matters of the law, justice and mercy. And faith. These you ought to have done without leaving the others undone. Blind guides who strain out a gnat and swallow a camel Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you cleanse the outside of the cup and dish, but inside they are full of extortion and self-indulgence Blind Pharisee. You see this imagery again, the blind and the deafness coming up again. First, cleanse the inside of the cup and dish, that the outside of them may be clean also. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you are like whitewashed tombs Which indeed appear beautiful outwardly, but inside are full of dead men's bones, and all uncleanness Even so you also outwardly appear righteous to men, but inside you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. And we'll stop there. But you see that they were spiritually dead They worshipped, what they worshipped was man-made tradition, which was empty and vain. It had nothing to do with what God actually expected. Did you see what it said there earlier on? Where it said, You pay tithes, you do all these things, these outward things That looked really good, but what you should have paid attention to, Pharisees, in the second half of verse 23, was justice and mercy and faith. You ignored the more important things for the outward appearance that you wanted to have So since they worshipped these outward things that were actually profitless and useless for God They became what they worshipped. They became like empty hollow things, with nothing actually going on inside as far as a relationship with God. was concerned. And Jesus is while he's there with them, he's providing the answer, isn't he? He's saying, look to me, believe on me, and follow me. You want true religion? You want true relationship with God? Look to me. It says, you know, Jesus talks to himself as the light and reflecting the light of the Father. And in him really is the hope of restoration for anyone who believes in him. Anyone who believes in Jesus or anyone who worships him will reflect him. Not for ruin. You reflect Jesus, it's not going to be for your destruction. But it's going to be for your uh restoration. Let's try and wrap this up here in the next uh five minutes or so. Let's go to Paul, the Apostle Paul in idolatry. Does he talk about this at all? Oh yes, he does. Romans 1, 20 through 25. Let's go ahead and turn there. It's one of the key passages in understanding how people who give themselves over to worshiping false gods, false idols, and what they become Starting in verse 20, it says, For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes are clearly seen. Being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Because although they knew God, they did not glorify him as God, nor were they thankful But became futile in their thoughts, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Professing to be wise, they became fools, and changed the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like corruptible man And birds and four-footed animals and creeping things. Now, we've we've talked a little bit here about the fact that What you worship, you become. And look at what it says here in verse 24. Therefore God also gave them up to uncleanness in the lusts of their hearts to dishonor their bodies among themselves, who exchanged listen to this, who exchanged the truth of God for a lie, and worshipped and served the Creator The creature rather than the creator, who is blessed forever. And it says, for this reason God gave them up to vile passions, for even their women exchange the natural use for what is against nature And the men also, and it goes on. And Paul in this powerfully demonstrates that idolatry leads to a malfunction of one's relationship to God. It twists it, it perverts it. And so your relationship with God is is malfunctioning. And at the same time it always leads to a malfunction with one's relationship. with humans around them. And we see that clear in this passage as well, don't we? Remember that it said that he said to Israel, that you are blind, you are deaf, you are like the idols you serve. And I think there's a direct connection between what people pursue when it's not God. There comes times where God says, you want that? You really want that instead of me. Okay. I'm gonna let you have it. I'm gonna let you have it to the fullest. And there sometimes comes a point where I believe we see in Scripture that it can be really hard for a person who has been given up by God to hit their passions and desires. That's an unfortunate truth. And you know what? It serves as a reminder for us that as we interact with other people And we see we see the path that certain people are on. And we can look up from a side and say, do you realize what you're doing? Maybe you don't put it in exactly these terms, but you watch them and what they're worshiping. And you watch them and you see what they're becoming. It's like what they worship. And as an outsider looking into their life, you can see you're headed for destruction. And it really is our responsibility, whether they profess Christ or not. To go up alongside him and say, hey, do you see what you're doing? Is this really where you want to end up? Do you really want to keep ignoring God for what you're pursuing? It's a dangerous route that you're taking. Yeah, go ahead. Okay, I really admire or worship this thing, it's just gonna take the place of God. I think there are people who put things in the place of God because they don't want the accountability of God. And so if you can worship something else that doesn't have any authority over you and that frees you supposedly to live the way you want to live. You know, I think of like, you know, right now I'm teaching through the eighteen hundreds in my history classes. Yeah. Charles Darwin, Karl Marx. Why do these I d these people come We cannot have the answer to a higher power, we can live however we want. That's exactly right. So I guess the idolatry there would be self would be your your own way. You are. Yeah. As opposed to someone who worships nature and so they're creator or when we worship ourselves, we are I think we're creating a a version of ourselves because of what we're letting influence us. And influence is probably a really soft term to say what we're worshiping. Agree or disagree? Does that make does that make sense? What we're allowing to influence us is what we're going toward, what we're pursuing. What we're what we're what we like and what we uh want the want to be exposed to. Very good points. So real quick, Romans twelve presents the antithesis to chapter one. And um it you remember what it says in verses one through two. Uh beseech ye therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present yourselves a living sacrifice holy and acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. Real quick, a graph here that um that kind of shows the the parallelism of that. In Romans 1, God's wrath is upon those who um are exchanging God's glory for the glory of the created thing. And ver and in chapter twelve, they get mercy instead. They refuse to glorify God or thank God. But the person in Romans 12, they are sacrificing to God. They dishonor their body in chapter 1. In chapter 12, they offer their body. In chapter 1, they misunderstand the idolatrous service of worship. They don't understand what's going on. What they think they're doing is not really what they're doing And in chapter twelve, worshiping God and service to God is just a reasonable thing. They're giving up they're giving uh they're giving up to a reprobate mind is what it says in chapter one. In chapter twelve. We get a renewed mind. People reject the righteousness of God in chapter 1, and in chapter 12, they are approved by the will of God. Real quick as well. I'll put that up again if you'd like. I'll put that up at the end. Revelation 13 and 8. Just sort of bringing this all to a close. Revelation 13 talks about, and it's more than just this chapter, but this is the crux of it. You might also want to write down Revelation 8, 13. Revelation fourteen six through nine, Revelation seventeen, two and eight. And there's a theme here where uh it talks about some translations would say inhabitants of the earth. When the people and these are the people who have adopted the world system, the system of the Antichrist, the system of the beast, or Satan. And they they are called the inhabitants of the earth. You it i but you could also sort of when you look at it, I mean it's almost like a title that they're given uh as earth dwellers, you might say. They dwell upon the earth. They are earth dwellers. And there's a significant connection between that and that these people aren't They aren't following the Lamb. They aren't following God. They've rejected God. They've rejected the Lamb. And they're following hard after the system that the Antichrist has put. And um these these people real quick I need to get to Revelation thirteen Verse eight says, and all who dwell on the earth or all the earth dwellers will worship him. The Antichrist, whose names have not been written in the book of life of the lamb slain from the foundation of the world. Verse 14 says And he deceives those who dwell on the earth, or those earth dwellers, by those signs which he was granted to do in the sight of the beast. Telling those who dwell on the earth to make an image to the beast who was wounded by the sword and lived So we see in these two verses, these earth dwellers are worshiping the beast. That's their idol. That's who they've replaced God with. And they're called earth dwellers because they they are they are uh acting like the person that they are worshiping. They are they are totally focused on the horizontal They have not uh they do not acknowledge the God of the universe. And so they have become like the system and like the person that they're worshiping. Finally, let just final thoughts here. God's intention is that we Although we are naturally idolaters, he wants us to become glory reflectors. He wants us to become like him. We are all idolaters at the heart, but God gives us a chance to reverse that. We are either being conformed to an idol of the world or to God Himself. And neutrality in worship isn't a reality. We are either worshiping God and serving Him or replacing Him with someone or something else. There is no neutrality when it comes to worship. I'll go ahead and pray for us to close, and then I'll put um I'll put that graph up as well And we can be dismissed. Father, we thank you for your help for us today, and we thank you for this theme of idolatry. And we confess to you that that we have replaced you and we have exchanged you uh with other things at times and and that is to our own detriment and to our detriment with our relationship with you. And we pray, Lord, that we would be able to catch those things early. and uh be wholly devoted to you. May we look at these examples from Scripture, like in Revelation and like in Israel's history, as a warning to us that we would uh be mindful and steer our our hearts away from idolatrous thoughts and thinking and only have space in our hearts for you and your right uh the rightful place that you deserve in our hearts. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amens