All right, welcome everyone tonight. Thank you for coming out, uh even though the re the Redskins are playing right now. Uh And uh I appreciate you being out anyway. And uh we are uh what in the world? Really? He's got the reskin up there on that on that screen You cannot be d thank you, I appreciate it, but thanks but no sk anyway. That's hilarious. I thought I thought that's the same thing. So now you can shut the Redskins back there too and you can listen. That's hilarious. All of a sudden I'm seeing the Redskins playing up there and oh boy. Isn't technology wonderful? Oh boy. Well anyway, uh I am glad you're here and glad that uh we could be together tonight and um let me let's do this. Let's start with just taking your Bibles and turning to Romans chapter twelve tonight And we're just going to read and kind of look over a couple of verses here. It has just been one of those weeks that I've been thinking a lot about missions. Actually I have been for a while. And I think um you know some churches have uh elaborate missions conferences and I am not uh against those at all. Um But um I'm also not sure that they do all that much to really impress us with the importance of missions. You know, we sort of get it's sort of a fun time to eat a bunch of different kinds of foods, but you can do that in Maryland anyway Um just go to a different restaurant all the time. But um so I'm not guessing doing it, but I also uh sort of feel like Skyping a missionary on the field is a little bit more effective than some of the other things that we we sometimes do for missions conferences. And and I and and one of the things that's just really a blessing is to read bit missionary biographies. And what I really would encourage you, especially you teens and you kids here, get started on missionary and biographies of of Christian uh people in Christian service and and even biographies on Christians who've been in the workplace. You know, I'd encourage you to read Oh man, why is I why am I missing his name? The truth Kathy, read his his biography, see what the Lord's done in a guy like in in h his life and some of these other uh Christian businessmen. I really would encourage that. It really helps you to see how God works in the lives of others. And one of the things you're going to find, whether it's missions or Or whatever. What one of the things you're going to find is you're going to find I'm not sure what's going on there. Oh, I don't need to have it go to the iTunes store right now. Anyway, one of the things you're going to find is that God uses a variety of different kinds of people. Sometimes, you know, he'll use the cool, calm, collected guy who's just a s you know, that's the way Matt is this morning. Um that's the kind of guy he is. He's a phlegmatic So the nothing phases him, just keep on going, very organized, very sort of it's kind of the way he is And you have guys like Jim Elliott who are eccentric. You're going to see uh tonight some of the things he says are sort of he's one of these gusto Grab all you can while you can kind of a guys. And God uses them too. He uses he uses all kinds of different personalities for different kinds of work. Jim Elliott would not do well in China. He wouldn't have. And uh um and I not don't think Matt would do that well in Ecuador. So um so God uses different people. He places people where he wants to place them based based upon their giftedness And whether it's missions or or or just where he's placed all of us, uh seeing how God's working the lives of people is very helpful. I think one of the things that we have to do most importantly in order to be used of the Lord in the way that He wants us to is we have to present ourselves that way. Now if you look with me for just a few moments at chapter 12, verse 1 of Romans, it says Paul has just done an extended discussion on the gospel. It's really what chapters one through eleven talk about in really uh in-depth manner. And his conclusion about all this for somebody who's accepted the gospel is verse one, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God That ye present your bodies, a living sacrifice. That word present is the same Greek word that's used over in Romans 6 when it uses the word yield, same word. And it says there, for us to yield our bodies or to present our bodies, a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God. Which is your reasonable service because of all that Christ has done for us, and you're going to see this in the life of Jim Jim Elliott for sure. Because of the things that Christ has done for us, primarily the giving of his life on the cross for us. Living a perfect life, coming down to earth, and all what we've celebrated with the incarnation recently. It's only reasonable. It's not like special that we would give our lives to him. You know, sometimes we look at these Christian, the various missionaries and Christians and say, boy, that's a super Christian. That's a great Christian. Now, actually what they're doing is reasonable. It's just reasonable to give your life to someone who's given their life for you. And we're going to find that to be the case, and that's what Scripture is saying here. Verse 2, how do you do this on a continual day-to-day basis? It's one thing to say, I I give my life to the Lord, and then on Monday morning You know, just life goes on as as you want. Well, how do you do this? And he be not conformed. Don't be adjusted. to the world, but be transformed. How? Daily, by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. So as we present ourselves to the Lord for His Service in the way that He wants us to, then we begin to see God working in our lives to accomplish His will. There are sometimes you get this impress and particularly young people and really all of us, we want we want to know what God's will is, but we're not really ready to do it no matter what it is. It's sort of like, yeah, I'd like to know what that what my options are. And that is not at all the way God's will works. In in determining what God's will is, knowing his will, we have to first present ourselves and say, whatever. Lord, whatever you want me to do, wherever you want me to go. I'll do it. Total yieldness to him. And then after that, you then begin to be in the right place where then He can He can show you His will. And He can prove that to you So let's go ahead and uh we'll open we'll let's pray together, ask the Lord's blessing our time as we look at Jim Elliott and uh his life. And I I just pray I'm just our prayer, my prayer is that this really is a big, just an encouragement to all of us tonight. Let's pray together. Father, we do pray as we look at your word, as we've already looked at your word a little bit here tonight, and we look at the life of Jim Elliott, who really applies these verses very well. We pray, Lord, that this would challenge us and encourage us as we um as we consider your will for our lives I pray that it would begin with just presenting ourselves to you as a living sacrifice, wholly, acceptable unto you, which is which is just reasonable for us to do. And so we pray that you would use this tonight, use this tonight to challenge us. I just think of the young people that are here, the teens and kids that are here as well. I I pray, Lord, for them that you would take some of these things. And indelibly imprint them on their hearts and their minds, that they will recall some of the challenging things that we'll look at tonight for their own lives. And we pray these things in Christ's name Amen. I do want to mention this, but when I was a teenager, I read Jim Elliott's well it was it was written by Elizabeth Elliott. It was a biography on Jim Elliott called The Shadow of the Almighty. How many have read that book? I'm just curious. I would say for a teenager, I would recommend that as the number one I don't know about books. The Bible's the number one book, but number one biography to read for a teenager. Shadow of the Almighty by Jim Elliott. I have it. You're welcome to one of you are welcome to borrow it. And uh I would just really encourage you to read read that. Jim Elliott was survived by his wife, Elizabeth Elliott. who had all who had access to all of his journals and everything. And so he was a she was able to write a couple of different works on him. Um but uh Shadow the Almighty is one that reviews a lot of his journals, his writings to her, his anticipation of going onto the field, and a lot of what we are going to look at tonight comes from that book, but not all of it. There's a lot of things in that book. that you would really do well to to to get uh from this uh from from the book itself. So I encourage you to read the book. My hope is in doing this biographical sketch, it will encourage you to see some of the value of reading biography. I feel like if you don't at least have an appetizer, you'll never get the main course But I do want you to understand this. This is just an appetizer. If you don't read the biographies, you won't get the main course. So don't take this and say, okay, well now I don't have to read the biography read the biography. I hope that this really encourages you to do so. Elizabeth Elliott said this. Jim and the other men with whom he died were hailed as heroes, martyrs I do not approve. Is the distinction between living for Christ and dying for him so great? Is not the second the logical conclusion of the first? Something to think about, isn't it? We often um think of our heroes as martyrs who died for the faith, John Huss and the apostles, with the exception perhaps of John and um guys like him, but but is not, she's right, is not um The second, the logical conclusion of the first. So let's look at how God prepared Jim Elliott for the mission field and his pre-mission field summary Philip James Elliott was actually his official name, and he was born on October 8, 1927, in Portland, Oregon. All right, well, let's just stop there for a minute. What was our country like in 1927? By the way, this is a little more modern than Hudson Taylor, for example. Okay. So we can relate to this a little bit in a little bit different way. He's this is not, you know, the eighteen hundreds or the early eighteen hundreds, late nine late 1700s. nineteen hundreds. This is this is nineteen you know this is nineteen twenty seven. But what was going on during that time? Okay, prohibition was going on around that time. What else? What was about the depression was coming coming up here soon that there about that time when he was born? What's that? That was very much flapped. Flappers. Oh, right, right, right, right, right. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So you have that going on. So you have a lot of things going on during that time in our nation's history that's good to kind of think about where he was born, how he was born during that time. Growing up, Jim had godly parents who regularly had many missionaries come through their home. This proved to be an important influence in his life. As a boy, Jim was saved at an evangelistic meeting He was a very talented young man, involved himself in acting and sports, and writing editorials for the school newspaper. You don't usually see actors and sports together Normally they're in that group, the acting group or the sports group, but apparently he did both. So he was really pretty talented. And he was a writer too. So he was a he was a pretty uh fairly talented young man In 1945, Jim entered Wheaton College to study Greek and Bible and roomed with Pete Fleming. That's going to become significant later on. So he he rolled he enrolled in Wheaton College. Wheaton College really at that time is not like Wheaton College today. I wouldn't recommend Wheaton College today. But uh at that time it was a a very good school and that sent out many missionaries from that place A mission statistic that profoundly challenged him was there is one Christian worker to every 50,000 people in foreign lands. while there is one every 500 in the United States. I'm not sure that that statistic would apply to today. I'm really not I have no idea. But uh he was he was challenged by that statistic. One summer he visited Mexico where he stayed with a missionary family to learn Spanish for six weeks. He here he felt the missionary call to South America. So there is, there there can be um a lot of benefit to going on the mission field as a as a in a survey kind of a kind of a way. You have to be careful with that. I have mixed feelings about missions trips. I think that you can have missions trips that are uh nothing but a sightseeing time and a time where the missionary is actually uh it's more burden for the missionary than a blessing for the missionary. And so you have to be careful about that. Missionaries, if you talk to them, will sometimes express that. They will say, we've got another mission field, missionary mission group coming. And it's it's like with angst that they're saying this. And so have you I I see Guillaume, you're you're kind of shaking your head. Yes. Of course Guillaume uh grew up on the mission field. And so sometimes you have that to be the case depending on the mission field. However, there are some times where you can be useful if you plan ahead and it makes sense, you can be very useful on the mission field and short-term work as well. I would suggest to you that you're going to have less, you're going to be more useful when you go as a smaller group than if you go as a larger group in many cases. That's not always the case. in in many cases that it's probably the case. And so the Lord did use this. He went by himself and stayed with a missionary family for six weeks, and the Lord really impressed upon him the need for Spanish-speaking people, particularly farther down south and in South America. During his junior year in college, he began a slightly unorthodox courtship with Betty Howard Kids, for those of you, that that's dating is what that is. Okay. Courtship is kind of an old word. Also a student at Wheaton. Though they cared for each other deeply, they postponed the marriage yoke in order to place God's priorities first. Jim said, so long as I can do a work in reaching a primitive people better as a single man, I will stay single. Now, I just want to pause for a moment because we've got young people here. What do you think about that, adults and young people This was a when I read this, I read this as a um I was going into my freshman year in in college. I I read Shadow of the Almighty. So it was like after my senior year. I think I I think somebody gave me this book for my for m for like a senior gift. And so I read it between my senior year of high school and my freshman year of college. And it caused me to say, you know what, I'm going to hold off on dating for the first year of college. And I held off on dating after the second year of college. And then my parents started saying, What's going on? Are you gonna get started? There's lots of girls around here. Why don't you do something? And they came down here, they came down to college, they said, That's a good one, and that looks like that's a Like, okay, anyway. Um so I start thinking, well my parents are kinda lean so anyway my senior by s my my senior year uh the Lord brought Elizabeth along and and um but we even chose to wait after that. We did not we said you know what let's finish our schooling both of us Finished all of our schooling. She finished she was it was she was a sophomore and I was a senior. I robbed the cradle by by by college standard standards there. But um And uh so she had a little had a little longer to to go. And so I finished my seminary degree while she fin until she finished up her her uh her senior uh or you know her bachelor's degree. And um that was that was the right decision for us. And I I often saw it through, well, you know, we'd like to get married sooner. I'd like to, you know, in my whole Timing everything. And I thought about what Jim Elliott said. What is the most appropriate time for God's service? When does it make sense for the service for God's service? And we ought to have our in our minds You know, young young people you ought to have in your minds, I want to be s if I can be better if I could serve God better single than married, then I ought to stay single. And if I c and if I can serve God better married than single, I ought to be married. That really ought to be the way that you look at it. And the timing of that ought to matter. If I can serve God better By holding off on marriage, I ought to do that. It's not always in God's plan, but it's something really to consider. And for Jim Elliott, he really said, you know what, we're going to wait on this. And so um so he did so. It would be another five years before they would get married in Ecuador and Jim's twenty-sixth birthday. So they met and they got to know each other and they wrote what wrote to each other. And they had a very deep love for each other, but they held off on marriage because Jim Elliott felt that he could serve the Lord better without marrying her at that point. And uh so she waited for him. You ever have to wait for something, kids? We have to let me just tell you this and all of us adults can tell you, you'd ever stop. So you say, well, I don't want to wait, and then you just go ahead and do it. We're always waiting for something. Until you know you get to a certain age age and I guess you're waiting for death. I don't know. But but anyway, uh that's not very nice. Nobody's in nobody in here is of that age group, okay? So Uh anyway. I heard the joke about that one time, that's why it came to mind. But anyway, so um but you're always waiting for something. So don't just get used to waiting on the Lord. Let God do what He wants to do in your life. One summer he visited Mexico where he stayed with a missionary. Uh wait a minute. Did I go backwards? Alright. Let's try this again. Okay, here we go. In June 1950, Jim spent much of his time with a former missionary in Quichua Indians of Ecuador. And first learns of the fear of the feared Alka Indian tribe. After ten days of prayer, Jim was certain this was the place. So he essentially took another mission trip down to that that point, down to Akecha Indians for that purpose. After ten days of prayer, Jim was certain this was the place. Many of his friends were convinced Eliot's uh spiritual giftedness should be concentrated on building up the church in America. But Elliot appealed by saying, why should some hear twice when others have not heard the gospel once? And by the way, at that point, that was a very real reality The truth is we have now come to a point in the history of missions where there is not a lot of places in the world now that don't have access to the gospel. There's a few, but not many. Either the 1040 window that has significantly less access, but you do you do you don't have it, it's not quite like it was back then However, so his point would be more would would have been definitely more the the reality at that point. But certainly there's still a great need on the mission field. After Jim had successfully convinced his friend Ed Macaulay to drop out of law school and begin mission training, he and Pete Fleming, whom he roomed with, traveled the country to raise financial and prayer support. And that kind of, I would just say this, you know, Jim Kelly's going to say a very sharp, almost cutting thing about Christian American, American believers later on. But he did go around raising financial and prayer support from these from us. You know, from from so so you gotta kinda weigh all that out sometimes. Sometimes missionary mission missionaries I've heard this before. I've had missionary friends this way. Matt is not this way. But um I've had missionary friends who and Joel's not this way. I should go if your mic is not this way. Anyway. But I have had missionary friends that um uh do sort of have this mentality, like, you know, you're really doing You're not doing the best ministry you can do if you're not on a foreign field. And for them, I'm sure that's true, but that doesn't necessarily mean that that's true for all of us. Summary so let's look at him Jim Elliott's summary of Jim Elliott on the mission field. Jim Elliott and Ed McCully arrived in Quito, Ecuador. On February 21, 1952, one year later, he married Betty, or what we know, who we know to be Elizabeth Elliott. The only witnesses were two missionary couples. Okay. Nice small wedding. The service lasted nearly 10 minutes. But Jim wrote of his first year of marriage, it has been the happiest and busiest year of my life. It is interesting that at the end of the uh book Shall you the Almighty, which with which Elizabeth Elliott wrote She talks about her side of it, how she was waiting and waiting and waiting and waiting, and she needed to just trust the Lord and wait on him. Jim was saying it wasn't a wise thing yet. And she she talks about her emotion the emotions that she has, she struggled with during that time. And at the end of the book she says, after they got married, she says And I don't remember the exact quote, but she basically says it was well worth the wait. And um and that was her testimony as well. So you have the testimony of both Jim and Elizabeth Elizabeth in this area Jim and Elizabeth, what is that ringing about? Anyway. Okay. Soon soon a missionary team was constructed. The Elliots, the Macaulays, the Saints, and the Flemings. Together they built a mission station, a small medical station, a few houses to live in, and a small airstrip, which all took about a year. During the rainy season, however, a flood came that wiped out everything that they had built during their first year. Their new home consisted of a thatched hut and later just a tent because of the roaches. Now let's just there are a lot of lessons in that in that statement, aren't there? One lesson is that they they built all this stuff and it got all knocked down. Now just imagine that's you. What are you thinking? Yeah, maybe you know God doesn't seem to be blessing this. Or um um Boy, wh why why is God allowing this to happen? We're trying to serve him and I mean he could have kept these buildings from being knocked down by the rainy season. Or you might have said, maybe I should have built these buildings better, I don't know. But there would have been different thoughts that went through their mind. Do we ever have those kinds of thoughts? Lord, why are you allowing this to happen in my life? And I'm sure that these couples, they're on the field and they're wondering why God is allowing this kind of devastating um circumstances to occur. But really um they were they end up having to live in a tent at some points. Along uh all along Jim's thoughts were on the Alka Indians. Jim did not realize at the time that the Alcas, naked savage were really called the Wodani. They were known as a ruthless tribe that killed often because there was no means of reconciliation in their culture. Studies have shown that in the five generations prior to the missionaries' arrival, I don't think they knew this when they went in there, but six out of every ten people in the Wodani tribe died by homicide. Six out of every ten, sixty percent by homicide. Outside efforts by other missionaries and oil companies to reach this area had failed because of the tribal raids. The Wadanis uh uh wood carved spheres had literally held the outside world at bay. Jim was determined to change that. So you have a man who sa who is just extremely determined, and if you read this in his journals He is just convinced God has him to do this. And he is a very determined, he is one of the most determined individuals. You know what his favorite support was? Who knows? Not soccer. Who knows? It was wrestling. He was a wrestler and he was really into it. And if you any so how many of you have wrestled, Josh, I know you wrestled, right? How many of you have wrestled before? I I'm not talking about in the backyard. I'm talking about actually it it is it requires yeah collegiate kind of style wrestling, Greco Roman or something like that. It is it is it is it requires intense determination Um I've never wrestled real real uh technically like in but I would I would go sometimes to college down to the wrestling mat and we play this game called wrestle football And um and uh I'll tell you what, where you're at after like the first ten minutes. And uh I remember this one wrestler just wrapped his whole body around me, and I said, what in the world is he doing. It was uh it was quite interesting anyway. You know, I thought I was really a pretty strong guy and And after that I s I I didn't play that anymore. Alright, so uh that gives you gives you kind of an kind of an indication. And I was in pretty good shape at the time But uh I didn't know these wrestling techniques and then I then I uh started uh I didn't know Joel Porsche at the time. I didn't know Joel until my senior my sof my junior senior year maybe. Uh I should have gone I should have gotten to know him earlier and he could have taught me some things. Anyway. But you have that kind of a m um uh of a intensity in Jim Elliott and he needed it for what he what God had called him to do September of 1955, the missionaries stopped the first houses of the Alka Indians while flying over their territory. In order to establish friendly contact with them, they drop gifts down to them from the plane. Roger Yodarian, I'm not sure I'm saying that right, and his family had by now joined the team and on January third, nineteen fifty-five The five men left for the strip of beach along the river where the Alcas lived. Soon they joyfully made contact with some of them January 8th was the last contact the men made. Nate Saint radioed his wife and said, pray girls, I think today is the day It was. Several days later, all five men's bodies were found brutally pierced with spears So we have here a missionary who has a pretty short life and a pretty short ministry relatively. So why is Jim Elliott considered a missionary hero? And again, I'll just remind you that Elizabeth Elliott did not like that term because it sort of made him elite rather than somebody that we could all relate to. And you're going to actually find here from from some of the things we're going to go over just how relatable this man was. Jim kept a detailed Christ-saturated journal. He said more than anything else, it was the journal of Jim Elliott that has endeared him to the thousands who have read it. He wrote directly, his focus always being his Savior, Jesus Christ, but he was also very honest. He would not sugarcoat his struggles. And you do see a lot of his journal entries in the Shadow of the Almighty. Here's some of the things he says in this in this journal entry. And I remember these indelibly. It was there are many of them anyway. In studying Spanish, I have put off my Bible reading. I have never restored it, he says. Now, that was at that point. It didn't mean he didn't ever restore it, but at that point he didn't restore it Entertainment. Sins by being intemperate and working all day on my stamps. Now by our standards that seems kind of benign, but um it should tell us something about overindulgence in in certain activities. Doesn't mean that we can't be involved in various entertainment, but all day, um, I'm not sure we should be doing any kind of entertainment all day. At least he felt that we should. Something to consider. Much time on my knees, but no fervency or any desire for prayer. You know, I wonder what it would be like if we were that honest with ourselves. That when we got sat down, when we got down on our knees to pray, or when we were sitting in our chair to pray and we and we prayed and started praying and we just didn't want to pray, that we would be honest enough to say, I don't want to pray. And we would and we would admit that, and he says, no fervency or desire to pray. In preaching, he said Feel I failed the Lord in too much digging for sermon thoughts, and not enough time letting Scripture speak to me. terribly depressed after preaching tonight, once I felt compelled to stop during the sermon and tell people I didn't have a message from God Now you think that that make that that's a little bit weird. That's not weird from for a preacher. Um I have had uh I not in recent days, but I I've had I've had those experiences before where you After you're finished preaching you just feel like, man, what was that? And uh you feel uh some occasionally I've gone home kind of depressed. And um uh it's uh weird emotions that happen after you preach, frankly, sometimes. And uh and so some of those things uh uh occur. And uh so he's honest with himself. He is he is He he uh he admits what's going on inside of him in these journals. And I think that there is a s there is a real value to this. Do you all ever feel the way that he is feeling about prayer, about devotions, about entertainment, about these, about service to the Lord? Um, I'm sure we all feel this way from time to time in our walk with the Lord. And we can either we can always we can just act as though, you know, everything's fine and we're super Christians and we got it all together, or we can admit that we struggle with all of these things. And I think admitting the struggle is something that is necessary for spiritual growth. There are a number of quotes from Jim Elliott that have stirred the hearts of many. The will of God is always bigger, is always a bigger thing than we bargain for. What do you think Jim Elliott meant by that? Any ideas? The will of God is always a bigger thing than we bargain for. Okay. Kevin? Asking for the will of God isn't like a casual request. It's not requesting God is slightly changed the trajectory of the life is asking God to really change your whole outlook and vision and focus. His will is his will is so much brighter and more Okay. We might be caught at the present time training or focusing on one thing and things Yeah. I think I think you're warmer to what he's saying. I I think what he's saying is, you know, we we have all kinds of plans in the future. We have our expectations of what it's gonna look what the future is gonna look like. You know, we sort of have these expectations. I got my ducks lined up in a row, and I I uh this is the way it's going to be, and I've got it sort of projected out. And he says, and Jim Elliott's conviction was it's always bigger than what you expect And that's why it requires faith. Uh what what you think is going to happen is div is bigger. And it may not be bigger in the way that we think it's bigger, like you know, I expect to make twenty thousand dollars next year and I'm gonna make you know eighty or something. May not be necessarily that way, but it's bigger than we can wrap our minds around. Which is going to require us to trust the Lord and to have faith if we're going to do His will rather than our own. God, I pray thee, light these idle sticks of my life. And may I burn for thee. Consume my life, my God, for it is thine. I seek not a long life, but a full one, like you, Lord Jesus. Now that seems as though God answered his prayer there, didn't it? And when you think about it, did Christ live a long life? He did not. In fact, I'm just contemplating this and I realize I've lived longer than Christ did on earth and uh and way longer than than than um Jim Elliott did and many of you in this room have. And um and but Jim Elliott was not concerned about a long life. He he just wanted a full life that was lived in and by full it didn't mean that, you know, he He fulfilled his bucket list. It meant he he wanted all of his life in a concentrated way to be for God's service. And I think uh this is a great way great approach for uh for young people to really consider. He is this is one of his most famous. He is no fool who gives what he cannot keep. To gain what he cannot lose. I can't help but camp out on that for a minute. What did Jim Elliott mean by this? He is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. What can he not keep his life? What can he not lose? His life. Okay. All right. So he he said, I'm going to give my life for the service of God. That's his really Christ was saying the same thing. Throughout the Gospels you have things like he that giveth his giveth his life for my sake will find it. And remembering that, you know, how do we apply this practically to our everyday lives? We like this phrase, it's inspiring, but how do we practice this in our everyday lives? Any ideas? Not not to be afraid or timid of how you're going to um Live your life for him sometimes. Okay. Hold back to good one there. Hold back, okay. Kevin? first think it and ask yourself what you're keeping instead of what you're gaining when it comes to spiritual things and what God you're keeping from giving to God. Good. What else? Any other ideas What do we want to hold let's let's let's kind of go down Kevin's road here. What what do we like to hold on to that God might want us to give up, Yvonne? Comfort. That seems to be one of the that's the first thing that came to my mind. We want to hold on to our comfort We like comfort. We're comfortable. We want to be comfortable. And uh I don't know why that comes to my mind first, but it can't it did. Uh Josh? Relationships, yeah. Family. He was willing to be alone. He wanted to do the will of God alone. Right. Right. Right. We do, if we're not careful, we do put our families above God sometimes. And we have to be careful about that. Um and so good. These are these are he is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. It's something to really think about. There are all God Without faith it is impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. That means the life, the Christian life that God wants us to live is a life of faith. It then requires us to give up things. And God is going to require that of us. It's not always what we expect. It's all it's up to Him what he what that means. But uh it's no fool to give it up. Because because you always gain so much more. And you find that in in Hudson Taylor's life. I'm reading a an extended biography on him, a two-volume biography. And what he says in the biography is every time he gives something up, he gains something. It's like he can't give up enough because he gains more And uh and it's a it's a it's an incredible account of God's working in this man's life. And so Jim Elliott is saying the same kind of thing. It makes me boil when I think of the power we profess and the utter impotency of our actions. Believers who know one-tenth as much as we do are doing one hundred times more for God. with his blessing and our criticism. Oh, if I could write write it, preach it, say it, paint it, anything at all, if only God's power would become known among us. Ichabad, I mean here we got a guy who's He's pretty he's pretty direct. Jim corralled a group of young men to go with him to the field and share his vision. Jim was a leader. He understood the brevity of life, and his boldness attracted others. The four other men in the team were all missionaries in part because of the influence of Jim Elliott. Furthermore, these were young men in the prime of their life. Many were newly married and children on the way. But Jim's passion to spend his youthful years serving Christ can be seen in his journal entry at the age of twenty-two God is peopling eternity, and I must not restrict him to old men and women. Interesting uh interesting phrase there. People ing I've never seen that as a verb for you uh for you uh English people out there, but um Jim Jim Elliott may not have been known for his English grammar. All right. Um Jim was willing to go to the most difficult fields. And there's no question that he went to maybe the the most difficult field, if not certainly one of them. When his family and friends would earnestly plead with him to stay stateside, he was perplexed. He wrote, This is nothing else than what the Lord Jesus warned us of when he told the disciples that they must become so infatuated with the kingdom that all other agencies must become as though they were not. I dare stay home while uh Kinchas perish. So what if the well-fed church in the homeland needs stirring? They have the scriptures, Moses and the prophets, and a whole lot more. Their condemnation is written on their bank books. and in the dust of the of their Bible covers. American believers have sold their lives to the service of mammon, and God has his rightful way of dealing with those who succumb to the spirit of Laodicea. It's pretty harsh words, right? Pretty direct words that he says uh there. Um in in in and I and I'll just say this, you know, I uh We ought to at least check our hearts with that. We ought to we ought to check it. Not saying that every I don't know that he meant every American believer. I certainly would not think that every American believer is that way at all. But uh when we hear these things we ought to at least cause us to check and say, Okay, Lord, is there any truth to this in my life? Jim ultimately lost his life for the sake of the gospel. All five men have talked about guns and if they would ever use them on the Alkas. They decided that they would not because the missionaries knew where they were going when they died and the Indians didn't. They kept their word. On Sunday, January 8, 1956, the men for whom Jim Elliott had prayed for six years killed him and his four companions. The tragic story flooded the headlights. I'm just curious, is there anybody that would be that would remember that? Dave? Okay. Alright. Are there others that we remember about this became from understand from my history books, this became a real A real issue issue. Like, I mean it went worldwide. Everybody knew about it. Which was some of what got what God was doing. I mean, God was using their death to to strike at the hearts of people and say, you know, there's there were some Christians willing to die for the cause of Christ, knowing that it was very likely that they were going to The tragic story floated the headlines around the world five men entered the jungle in search of a savage tribe and never returned. Decades later, this story of unconditional love and consecration to God still inspires today's generation. So you just look at it and you say, well okay, he had a short life, but I mean how many of you all have heard of Jim Elliott before this f before the day? Okay, mo most of us have heard heard of him before for the for tonight. And most of them had read by he has had a significant influence. Thankfully, God left somebody behind that would tell of his story that did live a long life in sta in fact I think she's still living, right? Did she just pass away? I thought so. Wow, or last June, that's right. I remember that now. Okay, yeah. So lived a long life and survived three husbands before she passed away. Okay, and that's Elizabeth Elliot. So God did God uses long lives too to tell of a short life. But um but at the same time, I mean God used Jim Elliott in a great way where his legacy uh transcends his short life and God just continue to use his story. He said this only when life twill soon be past, only what's done for Christ will last. Any other any thoughts before we close? Any thoughts or or questions on Jim Elliott? Yes. Well, not just at Jim Elliott, there actually will quite a few men uh uh uh other vicheries very much like Jamellian that went in some similar areas uh along with Amazon. And uh this one uh command of the price And um uh real good book is actually still available in the maze. But But uh it it told how difficult it was to reach these people groups um in the interior of the Amazon and how how um how uh dangerous it was And uh what the the hardships they have for those things. And about the same time. Yeah, it may very well be the hardest mission field, I uh possibly, uh as far as they're just so violent and lethal on the I know. If they kill off sixty percent of themselves, it's pretty pretty bad. Yeah, he shim. I think of Paul and Libyan for saying I learned from the boat how to be a and help the balance. And um I think we can just be in living in attached mug for a kid. Yeah. And even uh you know the comfort in this sort of Yeah um I think it's the detail. Yeah. I saw another hand. Yes, another. play of this I was from CNS school so in London we did a bit of play and then the research for it we actually found that it wasn't as widely written about, but at least things like went back to that tribe. Yeah, I remember that. Yeah. The whole people group that often Did everybody hear what Melody said? So Nate Saint, which was the pilot and one of the one of the team members that died His wife went back with with the was it one child? Yeah. Went back to the area and and and led the tribe to Christ essentially. And uh and so it must have had an effect that their their lives even in a short contact they had the gifts and the must have had a serious effect on them. Well God used that. So yeah, thank you for that information. That's good. Um and I I yeah I do recall that, but I couldn't find a source on it. I wouldn't mind getting a source on that if you could gates of splendor Oh, okay. Alright. So that's the second book. It's a it's a great book. Yeah. Good. Yeah, that's true. That's good. I have not read that one. I should read that one. Uh yeah, did she went back, right? She was an author for a while. Like the summer of Mitchell. The the the one that what? The one that kind of bothered Oh, that's not an original thought, but I really do want to remind everyone that wasn't one. Jim Elliott said memory to be one of a hero, a supernatural person who just couldn't be you. Couldn't be that person. If you theorize, let's say he has some medical condition and he had to stay in America. What life do you think he would have lived here? What sacrifice do you think he would have had? Maybe he died. Sure. What kind of life would he live? And I would like to find that in my life. What am I We're going through the must trade, you know, uh the the exchange seminar on the second one. Yeah. And I'm pretty sure Jim Elliott would have followed that program in his life here in America without being the threat of being killed. Still live at LYC. Yeah. And that's the point we ought to gain from all of this. That's that's really the main point. is that um is is what we started off with with with with Elizabeth Elliott's point. It ought to really, these things ought to challenge us to live this kind of life here for as long as God gives us. Or if he leads us somewhere else, fine too. But wherever we are, this is another quote by Tim Elliott, wherever you are, be all there, he said that. And uh and and um I often think of that one. Wherever you are, be all there. Don't wish you were somewhere else or wish you were ahead, thinking the future all the time. Just be all there where you are. And um I think that's really the really the the challenge for us as as Christians. This is not something when we look at these guys we are so e we so easily go, well, that's them and I can never be like them We've got the same Spirit of God living in us. And they did go through struggles. Jim Elliott journaled of his struggles. It's not like he was a perfect Christian. He did go through difficulties and struggles and trials and questioning of things. In fact, there's a lot more in these books about in his journals about uh he him questioning his own salvation at times and all kinds of things about like that. And you s you see that kind of a thing and um and God God still used him and you and and he can use us and and we just need we need that kind of a dedication that the only life worth living is the one that's lived for Christ. And may we really be be mindful of that, and not just mindful on Sunday night, but but Monday morning, and that we really consider these things. All right. Any other thoughts? Let's go ahead and and uh and ask the Lord's blessing on this and our just on our week and what God has for us that we would really think about these things. and choose to live the kind of life that God wants us to live, presenting our bodies a living sacrifice to God. Lord, we do think about the life of Jim Elliott and and others who challenge us and I pray that they would challenge us to the effect of not saying, well we never could do that or if we could never be that, um, but would challenge us so that we understand that that we can, though it may not be going to the Alka Indians, or to China, we can live the kind of life that God wants us to live here, that you want us to live, Lord, and that that we can be have the same kind of sharp focus in our lives for your for your glory. And I I pray, Lord, that you would take these are so helpful I think just for me personally helpful challenges in the beginning of this year as we look ahead I pray, Lord, that you would use these things in our lives to reach out in our area. We may not have the unreached in the way that missionaries may think of it, but we've got a lot of people here in this country and in our area, right here in Glen Burney and the surrounding areas around in this region that don't know you and don't know the gospel and don't they may have access to it but they don't they have not been confronted with it yet. And I pray, Lord, that you would use us to establish the relationships that are necessary, to be wise, as Christ was with a Samaritan woman that we would have wisdom with all of this and it would cause us to be able to have relationships with people where we can they can see Christ living in us. and they can we can reach them for Christ. I think of the the Bible studies that according to your will uh we'll at least try to do in February I pray, Lord, that we'd be able to invite friends and neighbors to those particular locations, Lord. And I pray, Lord, that we would use opportunities to do exchange Bible studies with folks That we would really be thinking in terms of how we can best use our lives for your glory and your purposes And that we would stay on the altar, that our present we would present our bodies a living sacrifice in the way you want us to, and that daily our minds would be transformed by the renewing of your word. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Have a