So the question is, is it ever right to sin in order to do right? And uh if you have your Bibles, uh open up to the book of Psalms, and we're going to be in uh Psalm 103 tonight. It's one of the most beautiful Psalms that David ever put the pen behind. It's just a wonderful psalm. He's here talking about God's great love for us and what God does for us. And it really tells us what God is like. And most of us can agree with almost everything well we we would agree with everything I think that's written here, uh because it is we all know these things. But David brings it out so wonderfully in Psalm one oh three And so I'm going to uh read it through first and then we'll come back and divide it up a little bit and see if we can glean some uh good encouragement from it. If you have your Bibles, I'm at Psalm 103 and verse 1. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me. Bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul. Forget not all his benefits Who forgiveth all thine iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases, he redeemeth thy life from destruction, he crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender Mercies, who satisfies thy mouth with good things, so that thy youth is renewed like the eagles. The Lord executeth righteousness and judgment for all that are oppressed. He made known his ways unto Moses, his acts unto the children of Israel. The Lord is merciful and gracious. He's slow to anger and plenty of and mercy. He will not always chide, neither will he keep his anger forever. He hath not dealt with us after our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities For as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. For he knoweth our frame. He remembereth that we are dust. As for man, his days are as grass, a flower of the field, so he flourishes, for the wind passes over it. And it is gone, and the place thereof shall know it no more. But the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting, upon them that fear him and his righteousness. and to children's children, to such as keep his covenant, and to those that remember his commandments, to do them. The Lord hath prepared his throne in heaven and his kingdom ruleth over all. Blessed, bless the Lord ye his angels, that excel in strength, that do his commandments, hearkening unto the voice of Bless ye the Lord, all ye his hosts, ye ministers of his, that do his pleasure. Bless the Lord, all his works in all places of his dominion. Bless the Lord, O my soul. As I was reading through this the other evening, I got a call on Monday and I I didn't respond right away, but I got a call from Pastor asking if I would be willing to come tonight because he wanted to work with the youth since uh Josh Collins was out of town. And it took me all day to think about this because I started to get a scratchy throat and I'm thinking, I don't know, man, I'm afraid to say No, because I don't want him to be burdened, I'd like him to be able to work with the youth and I want to do what I can to help him. And so Tuesday came by and I get two more phone calls in my phone. and I'm at work and uh God just started to work on my heart and I was sitting in the truck and I was reading this or not in the truck at home and I was reading this psalm and I thought This would be wonderful to share. Uh it really encouraged me and lifted me up, so I called Pastor right away and told him that I would be willing to come and fill in if he wanted to work with the youth. He loves to get together with the the teens out there and I think that's a great thing that a pastor gets that fellowship with the teens too and have that good rapport with them. And so here I am, and this is a psalm that really tugs at my heart. And It's a great psalm of praise. But in verses one through five, I don't know about you, but I called Pastor when we were at the men's retreat, we did a song called Bless the Lord, O my soul or it's called uh a thousand reasons. And so I asked Pastor if he could find that and uh maybe we could do it tonight but I put him on the spot too quickly so but uh hopefully one day we'll be able to sing that. I I love the hymn. I love the song. But uh anyway I thought about it as soon as I started reading this. Bless the Lord, O my soul soul. And so as I think about this and uh bless the Lord, uh in this particular passage here, uh it's the Hebrew word uh barak, which means to esteem Greatly or praise, as we find in Ephesians one three, where it talks about that. It's a worship type of blessing. It's not that We can do anything for God, but we can bless God by the way we carry ourselves and how we uh are obedient to Him, how we study, how we act. And we can bless God anything that but here he's really praying that God that uh he's praying about his soul blessing the Lord and I don't know um we don't say that a lot uh bless the Lord Uh oh my soul, we don't think of ourselves a lot of times as being uh blessing God. Do you ever think about that yourself? Do you ever think about, you know, I'm blessing God? Uh we we don't really think about that. We think more about his blessing on us, which is the provision and everything that he does for us. And so here it really caught me a little bit by surprise Not really by surprise. I've read it before, but it just caught me that I know I don't always say, Bless the Lord, O my soul. And I thought about that and I thought maybe you all might have uh a little input on what you think about that in your life. Do you ever think about that? About being the blessing to God, to bless him. I mean we think again, I think we think different terminology of bless. And this one here is mainly about esteeming God and and all we want our soul we want our lives to glorify God in what we do and what we say and uh here he just brings it to word and that's what I really like about It shows a man after God's own heart, this man David. Do you have any comments or input about this? About blessing the Lord. Do you ever think about that? You ever anything come to mind in your life? Have you ever thought about it? Okay. Yes. Thank you, Carol Excellent and share with my kids like um if they have a bad idea about sports or things like that and I'll tell them, Well, you have to do this either way because I'm telling you to do this, so you can either it with a bad attitude and it doesn't count for anything, or you can do it for the Lord and it'll count for eternity. You have this choice. Yeah. Even something like boarding your laundry or back being the floor, you know, are you going to do it for the Lord or are you just gonna uh with. Yeah. Instead of just being the mundane things of life we can use to blast the board. Like just giving them over to him. Like I think they're a good attitude and But we don't think of it that way. We we think about glorifying God is what we really want to do. But that's good. That's a good point. And when we are teaching our children to be obedient, that's a great uh way to teach Teach them that you bless the Lord when you do right. And when you don't, I'm not going to say you curse the Lord, but you're not pleasing in his sight. And so it's a great eye opener, but I I think it's just a wonderful way that David puts this to pen. And in uh he says, uh not only that, but David mentions here He says, O my soul, and all that is within me. You remember in Deuteronomy chapter 6, verse 5, where it says, Ye shall love the Lord your God with With all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength. David really brings that out in this uh passage right here when he says, With all that is within me. Bless me the Lord. And I like that. And because it it rem he's he's thinking back about this Deuteronomy 6. 5 most likely. I'm sure he knew it. So why is this David's heart? That he says these things I mean why is it? And I tell you, he answers everything as he goes through this. And he says, Who redeemeth well he says who forgiveth all die and die But before that in verse two, he says, And forget not all his benefits. And I think this is why we can say, Bless the Lord, O my soul. We're reminded of all that God does for us, all the things that we have in Christ. And I don't know that we take the time to really consider all that we have in Christ. We know it's there. We know it from studying God's Word and all, but have you ever sat down and considered? And I think most times when we do that is when we are in a situation where we're reaching out to God. God we start thinking about this. And um but here he says uh not to forget uh all of his benefits. And I think that's why he can say And uh because he knows who God is and what God has done. He talks about God who forgives all of our iniquities and our sins. And this is something that most people not most people, a lot of people struggle with, even as a Christian, that God would forget uh forgive all of our iniquities. And I'm gonna get down here a little further. But he says that he heals all of our diseases. And I'm not thinking he's talking too much here about physical, but more so all the stuff that comes at us and God can get us through that. He can heal us from that. And I think it could be diseases too. It could be sicknesses that He heals us from, which He does But in uh the next verse here it says that who redeemeth thy life from destruction, who crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender mercies. And here he's talking about salvation. God redeems our lives and it's through his son Jesus and he crowns us with loving kindness. And tender mercies. He adorns or blesses us. He bestows us with blessing. And I think about this that being a loving, kind Father, a loving Loving, kind God and His tender mercies. He is tender with us. He can be um strong when he needs to be. body and he knows that we are dust. And it says here in um verses verse 5, it says, who satisfy thy mouth with good things And I thought about that, and if you remember, if you would turn to Job just uh for a moment, go back to the chapter, I mean the uh book before Psalms. And go to Job 33. And here it states in Job 33, verses 23 through 23 twenty six and it says If there be a messenger with him, an interpreter, one among a thousand to show unto man his Then he is gracious unto him and saith, Deliver him from going down to the pit. He shall return to the days of his youth. He shall pray unto God, and he will be favorable unto him, and he shall see his face with joy, for he will render unto man, his righteousness. And I think about this when Christ saves our soul. And uh how I know when I first got saved it was such an amazing thing to me that God would do what he did in my life from the life that I had uh beforehand, which was not real pretty. I thought I was something And I thought I was having fun, but things got a little rough and uh God in all of his mercy, his tender mercy, reached down and saved my soul. And uh I like when he talks about it feels like going back to your youth. You know it's like you got new life here now and new power. And uh I think of uh Isaiah forty thirty one, but those who wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up With wings like eagles. They shall run and not grow weary, and they shall walk and not faint. And uh he uh gave me a picture one time of an eagle and it had that verse on there. I still have it to this day till my office door. And uh when God, by His grace and comfort of His Holy Spirit, redeems us from our sins and fills us with new life When we are born again, and causes this unspeakable joy in us. I think it really brings our understanding to The fact that we are now reconciled to God. And to me, that's that is the greatest joy and the greatest peace that we can have, to know that we are right with God. Even when we sin, when we repent and come back to God, we never lose that salvation, that friendship that we have with God, and that relationship we have with Him. And so Ephesians one thirteen through four 14. This is one of my also favorite verses. I had a gentleman one time couldn't understand how You could be saved and not lose your salvation. What does that mean? And I think that uh Paul puts it real well in uh Ephesians 1 In uh verse thirteen, it says, In whom ye also trusted, after that ye heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, in whom also that after ye believed, ye were sealed With the Holy Spirit of promise, which is the earnest of our inheritance, until the redemption of the purchased possession, unto the praise of His glory. I don't care how far we get away from God, you will not lose the salvation. Because God is tender, He's loving, He's kind, He's merciful, He's patient. And uh so God here in uh these few verses, David really reveals about God and salvation. And uh that's why he's Singing this song, Bless the Lord, O my soul, because he knows all the benefits that he has in Christ. And it says here in verse six, the Lord executeth righteous and judgment for all the oppressed. In the acts of the children of Israel. And the Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, plenteous in mercy, and he will not always chide, neither will he keep his anger. Anger forever. And I think about this, God is merciful and gracious. And verse 9, he is patient. He's slow to anger. He abounds in mercy. He will not always strive with us Now here's a good thing for husbands and wives. I think about this passage, and it's a good lesson for you and I. How often do we like the child with with our mate about something they did. We keep bringing it up. Bringing it up. Remember when you did this and God's not like that. Isn't that wonderful? And I like the fact, and it says here, how unlike God are those who take every occasion to chide And there are people that way. And they never know when to cease. We could learn from God here. We shouldn't continue to rub in or bring up stuff that we ought to not be bringing up. It only causes strife in the marriage, it only causes problems, even with our children. And uh here we can learn from God the fact that He will not always chide. Neither will he keep his anger forever. He had some rough times with Israel, as we all know, and they went through a lot. But he always kept Israel. So what would become of us if God were to deal with us in that manner? To chide with us and keep bringing it up? We would never have peace, we probably would never have hope. But God will not keep his anger towards you forever. For some sins that we struggle with, we think that God is not going to love us God does discipline those he loves. Discipline is different than God is patient, he's long-suffering. And it says down here, He hath not dealt with us after our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. Here we see God's wonderful grace. Unmerited favor that he shows us and God's forgiveness. In 1 John chapter 1:9, where it says, if we confess our sins, he is faithful to his word. to just and he's just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And when I think about that passage, I wanted to put a little reminder in there Many of you probably have been to this passage, but in Proverbs 28, this is a good reminder for us. Repentance is not just saying, I'm sorry. to God is it? Would you agree? It's not just saying we're sorry. But in Proverbs 28 verse 13, he that covereth his sins shall not prosper. But whosoever confesses and forsaketh them shall have mercy. So we can't just say that we're sorry, but we have forsake it, we have to turn away from it. And it can be a besetting sin that you're struggling with, but sooner or later it's gotta go. Uh 'cause I think as you read that there Uh it's dangerous to keep that thing going when we know it is dishonoring and displeasing to God. And I like in uh Verse twelve where it says, As far as the east is from the west, far as he has removed our transgressions from us. And um I think about that. And in um As far as the east is from the west. So when God forgives us our sins, what happens to that sin? What happens to it? He erases it. He never remembers it again. And uh as far as the east is from the west, he puts it away from us too, by the way. If we are willing to be obedient to that. But in Jeremiah 31, 34, it says, I will forgive their sins and remember them no more. So when we're struggling with sin and we ask God's forgiveness Forgiveness and we turn from it. We ought not to be carrying it around with us, wondering if God forgave us. Only Satan likes to cause us to doubt what God is doing. And wanting us to be weak so that we are not able to do what God wants us to do. And I know um it's a struggle a lot of times to know that you are forgiven and that uh you can go on with your life and not have to keep bringing Verses 13 and 14 mentioned here, like a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear Him, for he knoweth our frame. He remembereth that we are dust. God knows our frames, he remembers that we are dust. I think about this. As we pity, have pity on us our own children. We know their weaknesses. We know that sometimes they're weak in knowledge and don't know. We teach Them. And when they are rebellious, we bear with them patiently, but we also correct them. And when they're sick, we comfort them, we take care of them. When they have fallen, we help them back up. When they offend after submission, we forgive them, etc. God knows our weaknesses. He knows our our frailty and he knows the folly of our souls and how little we can do or bear. Yet he remembers that we are dust and has compassion. And those who fear Him or reverence Him. And so like we feel for our children, God feels for us. And uh I think that's a wonderful way of putting that that uh David puts here about that that as a father pitieth his children, the Lord pitieth them. Fear him. Also it mentions down here about a man's day being like grass and a flower And uh I think about my life and uh I'm sixty seven and uh I'm a dad in where the wind's gonna blow one day and I'm gonna be gone And to me it's a great thing. But I remember when I was young, I thought, man, I've got my whole life ahead of me. I can do all this and that and now I'm looking what of a done with my life. And what do I want to do now that my time is coming? And so my greatest desire is for my children and grandchildren to know Christ. Each one of them of them. I have some younger ones that don't know Christ yet. They're being raised in a Christian home in an atmosphere, but they have not understood the gospel yet because they're young. So it's my desire and Joey's desire to Do the best we can to help our children in teaching them in the way that we live in our example. Verse 18. states that to such as keep his covenant and to those that remember his commandments and to do them. Hmm. Obedience to God is One way of blessing God. And that was what Carrie was sharing with us. So when we say, Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, it comes to this point that our obedience Obedience to God is a blessing to God. And to me, I struggle with obedience. I mean I'm I'm not perfect by any means, and uh I struggle with obedience. at times, but I'm grateful uh for the opportunities and the privileges that God gives us as His children to be a Blessing to him. And so my thought is that maybe through this uh psalm, which I'm sure we're all familiar with, it would be a good thing to consider whether or not We understand this thing of blessing God. And uh verse 19 says that um the Lord hath Prepared his throne in heaven, his kingdom ruleth over all. God is the creator and sustainer of all life. He is sovereign over all his creation. And this is where the issue of of those who fear him comes into play. This fear that we have for God is a reverent fear, not a fear that he's gonna beat me over the head with a hammer. But it's a reverence here. We have a reverence for who God is. And uh I was riding down to work uh into work uh a while back and uh after Jim had did a lesson on uh worshiping God. And for some reason it just struck me when I was praying going down the road that I was praying to the God of the universe. And, you know, I know this. in my mind, but all of a sudden it just struck me so and it made me change my whole way that I was talking to God for some reason. But it woke it woke me up to the fact that But uh you know, God's not just a you know, somebody we can fling around that we like and and when we don't like we don't talk to him, but he is holy and uh he deserves uh our reverence Fear and all of who he is. And uh also uh the way to bless God is to acknowledge his greatness. I had a young man at my job the other day. Was mad at his uh siblings, uh I guess it was his aunts and uncles who were down south somewhere. They kept emailing him, or not emailing, but I guess they have Facebook or whatever. And they always put Christian verses and stuff on there and and he hates this. And I said, The only tell me there's Christ up and so I just spoke up and I said I said, do you have something against Christ? And he stopped for a minute and he says, No, I don't have anything against Christ. He said, I just can't stand them sending me these verses up. I said, Well, it's not them that you're angry at And um I've known this young man for quite a few years and um he's just fooled himself. He has no desire for God or he he told me one time that he be Believed in that kind of stuff, the way they act. But he didn't believe that there was a Christ who came and died on the cross for his sins and rose out of the grave and and sent it into heaven. He didn't believe that And uh but he believed in the principles of Christianity. So pray for me. Uh I'm praying. We're we're we're getting pretty close at work right now. Just uh all right in our job reaction back and forth. But um to finish out the chapter, um David speaks about the angels and those who do his ministering there. From heaven, that they are also to bless the Lord. And he says that as the angels and God's special ministers in heaven who do his pleasure His will. Bless the Lord. And then he ends with, Bless the Lord, O my soul, all that is within me. Bless his holy name. And uh I hope that uh Just as a reminder, I'm sure we're all familiar with this psalm, but it's a good reminder for us to have that desire to bless the Lord. Can I really bless The Lord, who blesses me abundantly beyond anything I deserve. So it is true that we can truly bless the Lord. I don't know that we can consider that when we're trying to do things that please the Lord. Uh it's another way of putting it. Uh we want to do what's pleasing in his sight. But And to me, it was a good encouragement to me and reminder for me to bless the Lord, oh my soul, and all that is within me. And how I do that is remembering all that God has done on my behalf, our behalf, and not only remembering it, but all the more praise him and give him the uh praise and honor that he deserves, even in this world and the people around us, that they may know him. Um anybody have any Comments or anything on this uh particular psalm? Something that rings to your mind, something that you've remembered when you studied it? Yeah. lessons. Yeah. And and we we get so hung up on the stuff that's stupid. Or bothers us and shouldn't, or peeps at us, or we also And we get so you get so tied up in it that you forget all the blessings that you got, whether they be physical, family, spiritual. I mean we are such a Plus people we're we're we're we lose sight of it on a regular basis. That is so true. And you know I was challenged this morning. I went into Highs to get a cup of coffee. Well no, I got coffee at Duncan and I went to Highs I'd get water from my office so I could make coffee at my office. And there are two ladies that uh work there. They're probably my age, maybe one of them might be a little older. They're two sisters and they have a yeah, they're old. No, they're not. They look a lot better than I do, but um they have a mother and those two sisters and two brothers and they own a farm in Davisonville. And one brother lives in a trailer next to the house. The two sisters and the mother mom live in the house and the one lady well they both got into the conversation. When I went in there was nobody in the store, so I was just picking my water up, asking how they were doing. And uh the girl kinda down at the register and and uh so I asked her, I said, Well, what's going on? And uh, you know, she broke down and started to cry. She was concerned about her mom Mom. Her mom, they have they have no heat in the house. They have a kerosene heater in this farmhouse and it heats the whole house. They can't afford and they can't get assistance because they only property. And uh anyway, the brother that lives in the trailer won't help. And he's got a stove, a wood stove in his connected to his trailer so he's got heat and uh you know he works for some guy off the farm. I don't know that they farmed the farm. I didn't get into a lot of discussion about the farm, but I could see the hurt in this lady's eye. And the she started to tear up when she was telling me, said my mom can only get up out of bed to go to the bathroom and go back in bed to keep warm. She said we have a kerosene here. heats the whole house said I don't know what we're gonna do. And I know just from uh meeting these ladies before, I don't think they're Christians at all. Uh just from their demeanor, but she said that uh all she has now is a prayer. So she's I told her I would pray for her, but I wanted to do some more uh investigation to see how maybe uh God would have us work there in their lives. But I thought about it and, you know, it's amazing. I just stopped there to get um gallon water and uh you know for my coffee and that's the conversation that I got and that's how God brought this person into my life. And I seen the hurt and the pain there. And so I'm praying. Uh uh I knew Need to do something real quick though. But she did say that her son brought kerosene there, bought some cans of kerosene for him. But it's been really bitter cold. Them old farmhouses, they got the single pane windows, they got air going through 'em like nothing. And so I'm I'm praying that God might uh encourage me in some way to get a visit to the farm. see actually what is going on and what way I might be able to help. So keep that in your prayers if you would. Now back to what I asked you at the beginning. Is it ever right to sin to do right. What's your thought? Thank you. Yeah I remember at uh the other church they had a sign up by the water fountain it was mainly was that yours it's never right to sin to do right. But um I was thinking about it on the way last Sunday. Tell you a little short story, I'll let you go. Last Sunday on the way here, um, Mary didn't want to stay all day because she gets very tired. So she came for the service, had the meal, and then Joey was gonna take her home So I told Joey, I said, I'll just drive the truck up and I'll meet you there. And so Joey asked me if I would be here in time to help Mary walk in. I said, sure. So Joey left to go pick Mary up. I knew I had fifty fifteen minutes. So I'm lingering around and and golly wagon and I finally got myself together and went out. I wanted to stop at Starbucks on my way, so I stopped in the Starbucks and I went inside. I saw the cars coming around the bat, the driveouts it's quicker to go inside. That was a mistake. But while I was inside, there was a family in front of me and of course they wanted sandwiches and everything else. And then there was another guy in front of me and he wanted a special drink and another lady. So I finally get up the counter and order mine. I'm standing over there waiting on my drink. Here comes Joey up to the window. She gets her stuff and she's gone. And I'm thinking, how did she get around people want all this stuff. But finally the guy got to my drink and he gave it to me. This is probably five, six minutes. So I jumped in the truck and said, I gotta catch up there. So I'm barrel out of there and drinking my coffee and I'm going up the road and got on to the ninety seven and I thought, man, I gotta speed up until I can catch her before she gets over because I won't I don't want to I'm hurrying up the road and all of a sudden I'm praying to God. God I pray you'll help me get there on time and I'm looking down at my speed off I'm doing seventy-five. I says, oh no. And right away God convicted me. And I remembered that sign. It's never right to sin, to do right. I wanted to do something right. wanted to get here and help Mary get in the car. I said there's no way I'm gonna catch them if I go on the speed limit 'cause they're already five minutes ahead of me. Do you know that because I slowed down to the speed limit and came on It's unbelievable. I don't know how I ever caught up to her. But anyway I got behind her and got in here So it's just a little lesson that it's it's definitely I'm praying to God to get me there ahead of them and I'm speeding down the road. That don't work. I don't want God to justify I mean I don't want to God to say it's okay for me to sin. So even though we remember the story about the uh harlot and all them other things, they lied and all that, it's never right to sin, to do right. So So that was my lesson for that. God did convict me while I was driving down the road and saw how fast I was going. I said, I can't be praying to God to get me ahead of them if I'm gonna be breaking the law Father, I just thank you so much for your word, Lord. We thank you so much for all that you have done on our behalf. Father, we are a needy people and we are grateful also Lord. I thank you for each one that came out tonight. And Lord, we pray tonight that we will be a blessing to you. Remind us, Lord, as we go of all the benefits that you have given us in Christ. So, Father, we pray that you'll Give us a safe ride home. Pray that you'll continue to help us to do what is right, Lord, in your sight. We can bless you, Lord. We thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.