And we will be reading verses four through twenty-five. Therefore those who were scattered went everywhere preaching the word. Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria and preached. The multitudes with one accord heeded the things spoken by Philip, hearing and seeing the miracles which he did. Unclean spirits crying with a loud voice came out of many who were possessed, and many who were paralyzed and lame. were healed. And there was great joy in that city. For there was a certain man called Simon who previously practiced sorcery in the city and astonished the people of Samaria, claiming that he was someone great. to whom they all gave heed from the least to the greatest, saying, This man is the great power of God. And they heeded him because he had astonished them with his source For a long time. But when they believed Philip as he preached the things concerning the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, both men and women were baptized. Then Simon himself also believed. And when he had was baptized, he continued with Philip and was amazed, seeing the miracles and signs which were done. Now when the apostles were who were at Jerusalem heard that Samaritans had received the Word of God They sent Peter and John to them, who, when they had come down, prayed for them that they might receive the Holy Spirit. For as yet he was fallen upon none of them. They had only been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Then they laid hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit And when Simon saw that through the laying on of the apostles' hands the Holy Spirit was given, he offered them money, saying Give me this power also that anyone on whom I lay hands may receive the Holy Spirit. But Peter said to him, Your money perish with you, because you thought that the gift of God could be purchased with money. You have neither part nor portion in this matter, for your heart is not right in the sight of God. Repent therefore for this your wickedness, and pray God, if perhaps the thought of your heart may be forgiven you. For I see that you are poisoned by bitterness and bound by iniquity. Then Simon answered and said, Pray to the Lord for me, that none of the things which you have spoken may come upon me So when they had testified and preached the word of the Lord, they returned to Jerusalem, preaching the gospel to many villages of the Samaritans. Let's go. Father, as we come to you this morning and we look at this passage in the book of Acts that shows us the continued spread of your gospel, the branching out of the gospel to from Jerusalem into Judea and Samaria, and we anticipate into the othermost parts of the world. We pray, Lord, that you would teach us and remind us and encourage us with just how powerful your gospel is. Help us also to realize this morning just how dangerous it is to stray away from the gospel. Or to have wrong thinking or wrong motives when it comes to the gospel. Pray, Lord, that you would help us to understand these things so that we can live out the gospel in our lives every day. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. I want to begin by asking you a question. What are the vices in our culture that threaten to hinder the gospel? What are the vices in our culture that threaten to hinder the gospel? Well, I I I had four that I I thought of. One is overstimulation. We are living in a society that is just overly stimulated on every turn. Flashing lights, life-threatening rides, and Mary Bur uh in in uh different places. 3D and 4D movies. I I recently went to see a 4D movie at the um at the aquarium in Baltimore. My family went down to the aquarium and went and saw that four D movie. Yeah, how many of you have have have seen that? Talking about talk about overstimulation. So it's not enough that it's three D, you got the three D glasses and everything But they're spraying things at you and uh and wind is blowing in one way or another. I I I I was you know it was sort of toward the end of the day and we had been walking a lot. I thought I'd sit down to a nice four D movie and think Things are spraying at me and wind is blowing at me and and then uh and then something stabbed me in the back. Literally. This is true. I'm not joking about that. It was like Like, what is wrong with this place? This is like over the top. I was fine with sharks coming at me. It was okay. But the all the rest of this was just Uh too much. It's like we we we 3D is not enough anymore. We've got to have 4D where things are doing all kinds of things. So overstimulation I thought of. Like sitting down and reading a book when you have all of that going on and we're raising our kids with that, um my kids went, Dad, stuff was stabbing me in the back. It was a little bit a little bit too much Uh self-medication. We tend to self-medicate ourselves with hobbies and movies and television, video games, social media, slide uh uh all kinds of diversions that that that move from diversions to um to voids in our hearts that need to be filled by these things. I thought of preoccupation. We can be preoccupied by our vocations, by our even our families. We can be preoccupied by them. We can be preoccupied by one particular area in our life to the exclusion of the other responsibilities in our lives. Be overly busy, be overly preoccupied. I thought of self and man worship. It doesn't even phase us that there is actually a television called American Idol. Like that doesn't that doesn't even phase us anymore that we would actually think that idols in America are something that is just benign, that there's no problem with that at all. I know that it's not actual idols but but just the name, I mean just uh but we do we do tend to worship people of great talents. We are enamored with the greatest talents in the world and the greatest minds in the world. We're We tend to worship self or worship man. All of these kinds of things are things that can keep us from simply understanding the Word of God. Reading the Word of God and knowing God. It is almost as though God is not that exciting to us when you have all these things that stimulate us. And yet the gospel has the ability to penetrate through all of that. And what we're going to find as as the gospel spreads and branches out from Jerusalem into Samaria and Judea. Is that they're going to, the gospel is going to counter new opposition and the the the people that go there, Philip in this case in the text that goes to S Samaria is going to encounter new problems and new opposition But the power of the gospel is so strong that it penetrates all of that. That's why Romans chapter 1, verse 16 says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. For it is the power of God, the salvation, for everyone who believes, for the Jew first, and also to the Greek. So as we look at this text this morning, we want to see that this has taken place. What's going on here is that Philip is going into Samaria, and this is significant. It's significant because it's something that we should expect to happen in Acts chapter 1, verse 8. Be witnesses to me in Jerusalem and in Judea and in Samaria and under the uttermost parts of the world. So it shouldn't surprise us that now it's gone in Jerusalem and now it's branching out into Judea and Samaria Now Philip is going to who is actually a deacon. The apostles have remained in Jerusalem, but now Stephen was branching out a little and and then was put to death and as a result There was mass persecution taking place and a scattering of God's people all over the land. And now Philip has sort of taken up the mantle, if you will, and gone into Samaria. And this is also significant because we need to understand the fact that the Jewish people were at odds with the Samaritans. You remember back in John chapter 4 when Jesus went through Samaria? It says in three verse 3 of chapter 4 of that passage, he left Judea and departed again to Galilee. But he needed to go through Samaria. As he began to talk to the woman at the well, the Samaritan woman at the well He discovered that there was a division among, well he didn't discover Christ knew it, but we discover that there's a division among the Samaritans and the Jews. In verse 9 of John chapter 4, it says, When the woman of Samaria said to him, How is it that you, being a Jew, ask a drink of me as Samaritan woman? For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans. Jesus answered and said to her, If you knew the gift of God and who it is who says to you, Give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. There was this divide between the Jews and the Samaritans. And the difference had to do with the fact that there was a crossbreeding between Gentiles and Jewish people in that area brought on by Alexander the Great many years prior. They were considered half-breeds. They were considered not to be Jewish at all. They were considered to be Gentiles. But it was almost as though the Jewish people treated them worse than Gentiles. There was ancient racism, as you will, among them. And the religious differences were significant as well, and you find in that same passage in John chapter 4. That the woman asked this question, where is the proper place to worship? We think it's at this mount, which was she was referring to Mount Gerizim, which was where Abraham was when God appeared to him in Genesis 12 This, of course, was because the Samaritans only believed that the first five books of the Old Testament, the Pentateuch, was actually inspired by God, the rest were man-made writings. Jesus explains that the Jews have it right, but there is going to be coming a time where the place of worship will not matter. That we must worship God in spirit and in truth. And that time now has come. Stephen foretold of that time where he was not blaspheming the temple or making light of the temple, but he said that he said if you remember in his sermon that the that the temple was not going to be be a place where that could contain God, that the presence of God was everywhere. And that includes now in this region of Samaria where Philip was. You'll remember also that when Christ spoke to the Samaritan woman, that's the Samaritan woman came to Christ, and that she went and told others, and there was a group of Samaritans, all that at that time believed in what Jesus. had who Jesus was and what he was going to do. And so you could say that Jesus could book uh he he cultivated the soil, if you will. For the time now that Philip would go and would begin to branch as a representative of the church into this area. It's interesting that it's Philip, too. Philip is a deacon. The apostles remain in Jerusalem, but it sort of gives us a tangible demonstration that the ministry is not to be done only by those who are called to the pastorate or to elderwork. This was a deacon. The ministry is those for everyone. The the role of the pastor and Elders is to equip the saints for the work of the ministry. And you find here that Philip is well equipped. In fact, Philip is going to preach the word. And with all of that in mind, we pick up with verses four and five of the text that tell us that there were two kinds of preaching going on. There was a group of people that went down They were scattered abroad. They were preaching everywhere, and that would include Samaria. And you have this word, this idea of preaching the word there. And in verse 5, you have a formal kind of preaching in verse 5 where it says that Philip went and preached. Notice what it says there. Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria and preached Christ to them. The the the the preach word preach in in verse four is different than the word preach in verse five. There are two totally different words. The one is a a general kind of preaching that that we all should be doing as we go, we are going, we ought to be proclaiming the gospel. This word in verse 5, though, is a specific kind of heralding the word with authority that comes from the Greek word keruso. And he is going to preach, faithfully preach the word of God to these people. He was in the city of Samaria, it says, is actually a region that he was going to. A suburb, if you will, named called Shechem. It was 37 miles away from Jerusalem, so it took him about two or three days to get there. And the Samaritans were expecting in a sense him because Moses said that there would be a man that would raise up, a prophet, that would be raised up. It says, I will raise up from Exodus, I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among the brethren. Now put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them in all that I command him. So the Lord had prepared These people by these commands in the book of Exodus and these prophecies in the book of Exodus, as well as the working of Christ and the ministry of Christ. And you're going to begin to see a response. Now I want you to notice the order here in verse 6. Would you pick up in verse 6 and see what it says? And the multitudes with one accord heeded the things spoken by Philip. Hearing and seeing the miracles which he did. But I want us to understand that the thing that they heeded was the Word of God. The order was that they heard the Word of God first Then they gave attention to, the word there means to give attention to or consent to, they consented to the Word of God. And then that was authenticated by various miracles that Philip was able to perform as an extension of the apostles. This word give attention to is an important word to keep in keep in mind. We're going to see this word again in verse 10. 1 Timothy 6, verse 3, it says, if anyone teaches otherwise and does not consent to wholesome words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which accords with godliness. There is this consent idea with this word. The validation from these miracles all caused there to be a great rejoicing in verse 8. Verse 8 says, And there was a great joy in that city. Then we're introduced in verses 9 through 11 to a man named Simon. Many of you are aware of this man. He's often known as Simon the Sorcerer. And here is a man who was involved in sorcery and magic in the city. Verse 9, we pick up and we see that. But there was a certain man called Simon who previously practiced sorcery in the city and astonished, astonished the people of Samaria, claiming that he was someone great. Simon was doing all these things, these were incantations that were designed to influence and to control people and powers. And I w some people say, well, were these real? Did he was he actually able to do various miracles? Well, I want us to, there's nowhere in the text that suggests that what he did was fake. I want to remind us that Satan is the prince of the power of the air. You remember back in the Old Testament when Moses performed various miracles and some of the and some of the false prophets were actually able to duplicate some of the miracles that Moses performed. But Moses obviously showed the superiority of God and doing them better. To think that Satan cannot do any kind of has no power to do any kind of um Oh unnatural things or we would call them supernatural things would be naive. Apparently Simon had this ability as he was connected to the wrong person. He was connected To Satan. And the people were astonished by this, but instead of attributing the right source, they attributed the source of these miracles to God. They thought that this was the power of God. This man, it says in the passage, this man claimed to be great. He was a great man. He was self-proclaimed that way. It's interesting that Justin Martyr of 8100 to 165 A. D. , who was actually a Samaritan himself, Said of this man that he declared that he was God above all power and authority and might. He said that the Samaritans that thought that he was a God And that they confess that this man as they would confess this man as their first God. Now that really I don't know if that's exactly the case. Justin Martyr was a Samaritan. He lived, didn't live back then, but he lived, you know, several years after this occurred. If that's the case, we can understand the kind of attention that this man is getting. He is lifted high. He is one who is like a prophet of God or even a deity in the minds of some of these Samaritans. These, of course, would not be people that knew the Lord. But when Philip comes on the scene and preaches the word, they are amazed and they give attention to it. The same attention that they previously gave to this man. Look at verse 10. Verse 10 says, to whom they all gave heed. It's the same words, exact same word. Luke does this on purpose to identify this idea of giving heed or giving attention to in verse 6. It's also in verse 10. From the least to the greatest, saying, this man is great power of God. They were giving attention and consenting to him. So you could see a change from giving attention to him to giving attention to the gospel as Philip preached it. And we find here in verse 11 that they were amazed by by Simon because Not only was Simon able to do this in one showing, he was able to do this very, very frequently. It was something that he did for a long time, the passage says. Now all of this ought to cause us to see the greatness of the gospel. All of this Stimulus, if you will, this stimuli, all of this what was going on here with great miracles and sorcery being done. The power of the gospel, the message of the gospel is so great that when he came to present the gospel, Philip presented the power of the gospel to them. They gave consent to it. They gave attention to it. They turned their attention from all of these These enamoring kinds of things that Simon was doing, and they gave attention to the Word of God and the gospel. Folks, that's the power of the Word of God. It is the power of God unto salvation. And I want you to notice the method that he used. Philip didn't sit in Jerusalem that we're preaching the gospel and we we've seen this before with the Jewish people. Philip comes now here and he preaches the word of God and he does it the exact same way. The word kerusa was used before in the book of Acts. It's used again here. The same gospel with the same method is being used with totally different people. It tells us that the method of the preaching of the word transcends culture. It's not something that we should mess with at all. It's something that we should always remain intact. And it's unnecessary for us to come up with weird ideas to augment preaching like interpretive dance. I went to one place I was not where we just went, by the way. Don't get the confused Um I went to uh I went to a place several years ago I was totally unex I was totally not expecting there's a church down in Bowie, I was totally not expecting what I saw. Uh but it was uh it was uh these two girls that were that had this um interpretive dance thing that they were doing. It was a it was a conference and I won't say the name of the conference, but it was a conference And they were and they decided to do this interpretive dance thing. It gave me the willies. I was like, what in the world? What does this have to do with the gospel? What does it have to do with the word of God? How is this supposed to be helpful? It was just totally weird We don't need to be weird. All we need to do is preach the word and let the gospel do its work as the Spirit of God Illumines the minds and hearts of people, and the preaching of the word, as well as the message of the word transcends culture. That's why it says in 1 Corinthians chapter 2, verse 4, Paul came to the church of Corinthians, he said, My speech and my preaching were not with persuasive words of human wisdom, but in demonstration of the spirit and of power That your faith should be in the wisdom of men. It should not be in the wisdom of men, but the power of God. Francis Chan, a pastor who who actually started a small church and it became a megachurch out in California. recently wrote a book that has this quote and I posted it just to get people's interest on Facebook and apparently it was a bit of a lightning rod. I I had several people Uh chiming in which was great, I had no problem with that. I thought it was good, but I didn't know I didn't know received that much attention. He says this The early church didn't need the energetic music, great videos, attractive leaders, or elaborate lighting to be excited about being a part of God's body. The pure gospel was enough to put them in a place of awe. Aren't you at least a little embarrassed that you have needed this extra stuff? It's not all your fault. For decades, church leaders like myself have lost sight of the powerful mystery inherent in the church and have instead run to other methods to keep people interested. In all honesty, we have trained you to become addicted to lesser things. We have cheapened something sacred, and we must repent. And I read that and said, good for Francis Chan. To be willing to have the humility to admit that perhaps when we get off on secondary things, we lose our taste. We lose our desire that should be cultivated to listen to the preaching of the Word of God and to follow it, to obey it. And we see in this passage clearly that the same method and the same message that worked in Jerusalem are working in Samaria. But I want us to know is that notice this as well. As the gospel advances, it's going to unify this group of Samaritans with the Christians in Jerusalem. And we see this in verses 12 through 13. It says, but when they believed Philip as he preached the things concerning the kingdom of God in the name of Jesus Christ, both men and women were baptized. Then Simon himself also believed, and when he was baptized, he continued with Philip and was amazed, seeing the miracles and signs which were done. So, what was going on here? There's a lot of questions about these two verses. One of my daughters on the way to church this morning was asking what I was going to preach. And I always say Jesus. I'm preaching Jesus. And then she says, Yeah, Dad, I know. But what else are you going to preach along with that? And I told her about the passage and she said, Well, why were they laying hands? on on uh on this on the the people. What was going on there? Well to understand this we need to observe a couple of things in the passage and it will it will really help us as we go through this You'll notice that the people believed. And notice also, I just want to set this up. We have Philip here, and Philip also believes. And all of them were baptized. Now that brings up another question, and I'll get to the laying on hands question in a minute, but it brings up another question. Was Simon saved or not? And can I tell you that no one agrees on this? The commentaries, I mean, literally the commentaries will say things like I read one commentary, one very uh very good, solid commentary that said, There is no question. But that Simon was saved. I read another commentary that said, it's clear from the passage that Simon was not saved. And I read a sermon that's put into commentary form by James Montgomery Boyce, and in his commentary he says I'm not sure. He's preaching this and he's saying, I have no idea whether or not he's saved or not. Let me teach it from and he literally teaches it as but he says, if he's saved, this is what it means, and if he's not saved, this is what it means So after being totally confused, uh after looking at all the commentaries, I sort of settled in and read the text again, and I want to say authoritatively without any question that I really am not sure about this. But if I had to take a stab at it, I think Simon is saved here. You see this the parallel belief of the all the Samaritans along with him And there are certain things that Peter is going to say later that could be interpreted as unsaved, uh as as that he's unsaved, but there's also another probably more valid interpretation of those things. So I I leaned toward thinking that Simon was actually saved. And by the way, that's a change of my opinion. Before I really studied this out, I thought he wasn't saved. So I don't know. Next week you can ask me and we'll let you I'll let you know what I think then. I will say this, that when it becomes that unclear, what you know is that that's not the point of the passage. It's like other times in scripture we'll see other people and we're trying to debate whether they're saved or not in the Old Testament. Folks, if it isn't clear, then it's not the main point of the passage. It's not the main you you in other words you can glean what you need to glean regardless of whether or not that You understand that issue. And the reason it's important to understand that is because we get sidetracked sometimes on things that are not really as that important. Now, it does color the passage whether or not you think the guy's saved or not. But understand that ultimately, whether he's saved or not, you can get the main point of the passage. And understand the purpose of what Luke lays down here and what God intends for us. Now with that in mind, we see here in verses 14 through In verse 14, that they, the apostles are in Jerusalem and they hear of the conversions of all of the churches, all the people in Samaria. And you'll notice in the passage that even though they are saved and they are baptized, the Spirit of God has not been placed on them yet. And there's a very important interpretive key in verse 16 that we'll see here. Would you notice what it says in verse 16 that will help us to understand what's going on? It says, for as yet he had fallen upon none of them. That's an important phrase. That phrase indicates that this was not normal. That the normal pattern when people came to Christ, of course we have a difference in Pentecost, and there is another difference in in Acts chapter 10 and 11 when the Gentiles with c uh at uh with for the Gentiles m a massive amount of them come to Christ. But at this point Um th this is this is unusual for this to happen. The normal pattern is for people to be saved and then bapti and then and the Spirit of God comes upon them and then dwells them. And right around the same time they are baptized not only by the Holy Spirit, but baptized by immersion in water as well by the church. That's a normal pattern that we see in the book of Acts. And that is the established pattern for the church now. So the question is, why is this different? And the answer that has to do with what this laying on of hands is. What is it that they laid on hands Laid hands on them, and they received the Spirit of God. The laying on of hands was a signal. We first see this in the Old Testament with the sacrificial system in Leviticus chapter 3. And again in Leviticus chapter 16, you'll see that the priesthood, the priest was supposed to lay his hand on the sacrifice And when he laid his hand on the head of the sacrifice, it dedicated that sacrifice to the Lord. It endorsed it, and it sanctioned it to be used for God's purposes in worship. And the same thing essentially is happening here. God wanted there to be a tangible demonstration that these Samaritans, who were previously outcasts, Are now going to be part and in union with God's church. They are going to be united with their Jewish brothers and sisters in Christ together. Gentiles or mixed breed of Jewish Jews and Gentiles and Jews together are now going to become one. And it teaches us, folks. It teaches us that the gospel unifies. And the Spirit of God, His intention is to unify people. In Ephesians chapter two, verse fourteen, we see this clearly laid out where it says, For he, meaning Christ Himself, is our peace, who has made both one and has broken down the middle wall of separation Having abolished in his flesh the enmities that is the law of commandments contained in ordinances, so as to create himself one new man, one new person, the body of Christ, from two thus making peace, and that he might reconcile them both to God in one body through the cross, thereby putting to death the enmity. And you can have all kinds of social reform, and you can have all kinds of different ways of putting people together and trying to unify people. And if you look at our world, you say, we're not doing all that great with that. But the gospel does unify. The gospel unifies all ethnic groups, all peoples. The gospel is going to go forward to all, every kindred tribe and nation. The gospel is that great unifier that can do what nothing else is seems to be able to do. And that's why you can have different people in the church with different backgrounds and different experiences and different socioeconomic statuses and different places all unified around the gospel. and around Christ. And it is something that is glorious and a tangible demonstration of the work of the gospel when you see that. The Spirit of God does this as he brings all people that come to Christ together and baptizes into one body, it says in 1 Corinthians 12, verse 13. For by one spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free, and have all made been made to drink into one spirit. And Ephesians chapter 4, verse 3 and 4 tell us that we must endeavor to keep the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace, that there is one body and one spirit, just as you were called, in one hope of your calling. So the gospel is doing great work in the lives of these Samaritans and unifying them with the Jewish people, the Jewish Christians, rather, specifically the Jewish Christians. But the gospel is not without its opposition. It's not without its distractions. And what we're going to find in this passage then is that there is some misunderstandings and even some misplaced motives that are evidenced here by this man Simon. And we pick up here in verse 18 and we will begin to observe what happened here. Simon sees the laying on of hands of these people. And realizing that the Spirit of God comes upon them. And then we find in verse 18 that Simon gets a very bad idea. And when Simon saw, verse 18, that through the laying on of the apostles' hands the Holy Spirit was given He offered them money, saying, Give me this power also that anyone on whom I lay hands may receive the Holy Spirit. He was wanting to buy the power to indwell the Holy Spirit, to cause the indwelling of the Holy Spirit to take place in the lives of people. This, of course, was ridiculous. It was totally a man who was completely uninformed as to what was going on. And we need to understand a little bit of what's going on here. Very likely, when the people laid hands on, when these two apostles, Peter and John, laid hands on all these people. There was some evidence of the Holy Spirit. I suspect they probably spoke in tongues here. And the passage doesn't say that But either they did that or there was some outward evidence, maybe prophecies. There was something that caused the people and caused Simon to be amazed at what the Holy Spirit did when they came upon them. Now, this is very un unusual. This has not happened all the many times throughout the book of Acts. We find it happening in in uh Acts chapter 2. I think probably it's happening here. And later on we'll find in Acts chapters ten and eleven it's happening when Cornelius comes to Christ and all these Gentiles to sanction and identify the gospel work there among all of these Gentiles. to signify that they're c they've come into the fold as well. But it's not like the speaking of tongues and these manifestations of the spirits are all the way through the book of Acts like some Some would suggest, it's actually very few times that this occurs, but it does likely occur here, and it caused Simon to get this idea that maybe I could do this, maybe I could lay hands on people, and maybe I could do what these apostles were doing. Well, how does Peter deal with this? Peter is going to deal with this swiftly. He's going to be very direct with this. This was doctrinally false. This was errant in his practice. There's nothing right about what Simon was doing here. In fact, there is a term that now has been coined, I think it was originally coined by Thomas Aquinas called Simony When someone offers to pay for something that is spiritual or annexed to be spiritual. This was something that was awful, and Peter realized it and he identified immediately that this was wrong. He says in verse 20 or verse um verse 20 and Peter said to him, Your money perish with you, because you have thought that the gift of God could be purchased with money. First thing he does out of the gate is he's going to say to Simon, look, there is a threat on your life here. The word perish is a word that is used, the Old Testament equivalent is used uh several times in the Old Testament. In Deuteronomy chapter 8, in Job chapter 11, Daniel chapter 2, and in all of those cases it has to do with the loss of life. So this is talking probably not about the fact that he would perish spiritually But that he would perish physically if he continued down the path that he was going and he didn't repent. This was, in fact, probably what Peter had. You think what do you think Peter perhaps had in in his mind with that in mind? Probably he had in mind Ananias and Sapphira and what happened there. But as a result of their evil lying in the in the presence of the church, and in the and and lying to the Spirit of God there, they were put to death. And very likely what Peter is saying here is, look, if you you you better hope That God forgives you for this, and you better repent soon, quickly. Otherwise, you may be facing the physical justice of God. And we ought not think that we're exempt from this as well. In Hebrews chapter 12, it says that it's a fearful thing to fall in the hands of the living God, and this is something that Christians can happen to Christians The Bible says in 1 John that there is a sin unto death. And if we continue in our sin unchecked and unrepentant, there is that possibility that God would take our lives. And Peter is saying that this is so heinous and so awful that Simon did is saying this, that he is, there is a risk that he could be swiftly judged by the taking of his life. We find in verse 21 that he is going to now drill into the problem. And there are multiple problems here, but he says, first of all, you have a wrong understanding of things. He said, because you thought that the gift of God could be purchased with money, he said, you've got bad thinking. Peter is not saying this. He's not mentioning any words. He is direct, he is clear, and he is simply saying, you are wrong and your thinking is wrong here. You have a problem you're not understanding correctly. But Peter doesn't stop there. There's a possibility when somebody comes to Christ that That their thinking is wrong, but they don't make this terrible error. Why was it that he made this terrible error? Well, it was more than that, it was a heart issue. He says, your heart is not right before God. He says, you have done this. Number one, you don't understand how this works. Number two, so you have a thinking problem, but number two, you have a heart problem. Your heart is not rightly aligned. The word right means to be straight or in direct line with. Your heart is not rightly aligned with God. You have a heart problem. You have a problem with your motives, if you will. There is a problem with his motives of selfishness. And pride, but we're going to see the root of it in a few minutes. But before he gets to the root of it, he says, verse 22: Your response, what you need to do, Simon, is you must repent of your wickedness. He makes no bones about this. Repent of your wickedness. And then he says, you need to ask God that he may perhaps forgive you for the intent of your heart. He says, pray to God that He forgives you. And I don't think this is talking about positional forgiveness. This is probably talking about forgiveness of the consequence of his sin. Of the possibility that he could be put to death for this. Verse 23, then, we get now down to the real root problem of Simon. He says, verse 23, For I see that you are poisoned. You're poisoned by bitterness and bound by iniquity. That is quite a statement. Simon hadn't, if he if he is saved here, he hadn't been saved for very long, and now he has this root of bitterness inside of him. He says, first of all, you've been poisoned. That word poison is a word talking about a bitter yellowish liquid secreted by the liver and stored in the gallbladder. It's talking about bile or gall. The same stuff that was mixed uh for Christ mixed with vinegar for Christ when he uh when he went to the cross, and remember they they they tried to give him that and he refused it. It was a poison. It was in Deuteronomy the Old Testament equivalent is abominations. It was something that was abominable, something that was make going to make you, you know. Puke, for lack of a better word. It has this idea of sour, a sourness. And it goes along with this bitterness here of being a sourness The word bitterness is used also in Hebrews 12, verse 15, where it says, Looking carefully lest anyone fall short of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness spring up Cause trouble, and by this many become defiled. And then it's interesting in that passage that that passage is actually in this in the context a passage where he's going to say that you need to be careful that you don't fall into the hands of the living God, that there is a discipline for those whom God loves. The same root problem that the writer of the book of Hebrews identifies as a root problem that would incite God's discipline. is the same problem here that Peter says you are going to be disciplined if you don't repent. And the root of all of that is bitterness. Can I just say from a personal experience that in my working with people and counseling people, I would say that more times than not the problem in the heart is a problem of bitterness. In fact, I've in working with people and counseling and things like that, I I if if I don't know what the problem is I usually cite this problem of bitterness as a very good possibility. There is something about this from the inside out that causes problems in our lives. It is something that is so subtle That we are unaware of, that creeps into our lives, that builds in our hearts, and that if it goes unchecked, the Bible says will defile many. Well, can I ask you a question, brother or sister in Christ? Do you have bitterness in your heart toward any brother or sister in Christ? Is there bitterness in your heart? You say, why was the issue bitterness for Simon? I mean, it doesn't seem like bitterness would be the problem. It seems like he wanted attention or maybe pride, maybe. Self-aggrandizement, but why was it bitterness? You know what Simon was feeling here very lightly because he identifies bitterness as the problem. Simon, in the beginning, was getting all of this attention and accolades for what he was doing They get saved, he gets saved, now the accolades turn to someone else or to something else, and he feels the sense of loss. Watch out, folks. When you feel a sense of loss, the flesh wants you to become bitter. It feels better to be bitter Than to feel a sense of loss. And if you have experienced loss in your life of one kind or another, There is a possibility that a sourness can settle in your soul. And that's what the passage is talking about in Hebrews 12, where it says that you ought to be very careful that a root of bitterness does not swell in you and then spring up and defile many because folks that's exactly what happens when bitterness goes unchecked. It will defile many. And it will bind you. You see, in the passage, he goes even farther. And he says He says the it and you're you are bound by iniquity. Verse 23. Bound by iniquity. This word bound. is the word, it's the idea of being chained or shackled. I think of, when I saw this word, I thought of those those Chinese handcuffs, which aren't really Chinese and really aren't handcuffs. You know those things I'm talking about where you stick they're really just gadgets that you stick your finger in and you get stuck? And then you really don't get that stuck because they're really not that hard to get around. I did a little research to see if there was any merit to them being Chinese or handcuffs, and I don't think there is. Anyway. But But if you can kind of think that it's like being chained or shackled from the inside out, you're bound up. You're seized up That's what bitterness does. In your soul, brothers and sisters in Christ, in your soul, if you allow a sourness to settle in your soul when it comes to any brother or sister in Christ, and that goes unresolved, there's going to be a problem that is going to well up inside of you until you deal with that problem. And sometimes it re really requires you to go to the person. I remember several years back, I was at odds with someone and I knew that they were at odds with me. And I uh I realized that I had a little bit of bitterness in my soul because of it, because there were some false accusations leveled against me and I first of all needed to settle that in my heart and and and uh forgive the person, but I also knew that I needed to try to make it right the best I possibly could, and so I called the person And they didn't answer. And I thought, I'm done with that. I did the best I could with that. And then the Spirit of God convicted me again. And I uh I said, Oh Lord, really, I gotta do it again. And so I called him again. And um and uh he didn't answer and and then I said, Okay Lord, I'll do it one more time. Is that good? If I do it one more time, that's as much as life within me and I called one more time and I did get an answer. and it didn't get resolved, but I tried the best I could. I can really lay it to rest that I did everything I possibly could to resolve the matter. And I could be free from it. I could live in freedom. And let me encourage you, both in your heart and your soul, as well as externally, don't do not take the chance. So that you can't you y it will shackle you, it will bind you, it will dis it will eventually destroy you. And if you continue to allow that thing to go aha go on in your mind and in your heart, it will end end up it could end up in God taking your life. Do not allow that root of bitterness to be a stumbling block in your life. I encourage you to make sure that it does not. Well, Simon says to him, he says, Would you pray the Lord for me? And in ver in verse 24. And there's a lot of criticism when Simon's saying this, and very likely Simon had a lot to learn. That Peter is not his intercessor, and there is no reason for Peter to pray the Lord, that that if he really does know the Lord is a savior, that he can pray to the Lord himself and ask forgiveness, and Christ is the is the intercess is the only intercessor on his behalf But I want to say this, when I look at verse 24, when when Simon has this response, it seems to me that even though he doesn't understand what he's supposed to do or how he's supposed to do it, there does seem to be a fear of God in him. There does seem to be a this is just my thinking anyway, and so well everybody disagrees on this, but there sometimes seems to be at least on some level a realization that if I keep going the way I'm going Then I and I don't really know how to get out of it. I don't really know what to say to God, but Peter, would you just ask God for me? There seems to be at least some humility in this man's life Now he doesn't handle, I mean that's not the way he needs to handle it. If you have a sin against God, you need to confess it to the Lord, not to you know, the not to Peter or to someone else You've got to deal with it with the Lord. But but but you know at the same time I I would cut Simon a little slack here. But I think probably he was doing the best he can could with what he knew. At least that's the way I see it. And I I think that that's wonderful when someone someone will come to me and and will say, Hey, can you help me with this? And I uh sometimes they you know they they could have probably handled it themselves but I don't have any problem with helping them. I'll tell them, hey look this is how you handle this and We don't see Peter, we don't see any kind of condemnation from Peter after that point. And it just says that none of these things which have spoken may come upon me. The text ends, and then we find in verse twenty five, so that they that had testified and preached the word of the Lord, they returned to Jerusalem, preaching the gospel, in many villages of the Samaritans. And so the gospel was continued to go forward in Samaria as a result of all that took place in dealing with this problem. Now with all that in mind, I want us to just review three things and then we'll be finished. Number one, we need to believe. That the method of preaching the gospel transcends all cultures. This is important for us to understand and to always remember. We do not need innovations that take the place of the gospel. And that doesn't mean that we can't have we don't adjust to cultures and reaching them in certain ways. But folks, may it never take the place of the gospel. Number two, we must rejoice that the gospel unifies divided people. Folks, anytime you see that, rejoice. Because we must understand that that is the case. And number three, we must deal with misunderstandings and obvious misplaced motives that hinder the gospel by identifying heart issues. And whether that's it, when when when the heart does not deal with something correctly, it will eventually come out where it is an external problem. And when that occurs, there is a clear example from Peter to deal with the problem. You cannot shove those kinds of problems under the rug. You've got to deal with them. And so it's incumbent upon us to think in terms of what do we deal with, mixed motives and heart issues. Just understand if it's an eternal thing you know about, you've got to deal with it. And frankly, if there's something in a brother or sister in Christ's life or somebody that you are responsible for, a child or or spouse in their lives, if you see a problem there, folks, then you've got to deal with the problem. Problems of bitterness do not solve themselves. They must be dealt with. And we see that clearly in this passage as well. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Our Father, we come to you and we thank you that your word tells us that we We can trust the power of the gospel in the lives of people to do what we would be hopeless and helpless to do ourselves We learn a lot from this passage, one of which is that we need to check our own hearts But the same kind of thing that's that this man risks are the things that we can risk ourselves. Father, I would pray that if there is a root of bitterness in any of our hearts in this room, if any of those who name the name of Christ have bitterness in their hearts towards someone. It's unresolved. I pray, dear Father, that you would motivate them to deal with the problem. And to not push it under the rug, which is so easy to do, but to check their own hearts before you, to deal with the problem knowing that the consequences of not dealing with a problem of bitterness are Great. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.