We pray, Lord, that you would bless this service and that it would be honoring to you. We thank you for Jeff's hard work and Tracy's and many others' hard work in putting this together I pray, Lord, that you would use it for your purposes and that we would be able to please you and really genuinely truly worship you tonight and reflect on The incarnation and what that means, the greatness of who you are in humility coming to earth and giving us the opportunity to have great joy. And I pray, Lord, that that would be clear tonight. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well good evening and thank you again for being with us tonight. Just a few instructions about how it's going to go tonight. We um often at Christmas time we'll we'll come and listen to a choir sing and uh hear beautiful music and and all of that. But what we're actually going to do tonight is enlist your help. And I didn't know if you were aware that you were going to be put to work tonight. But we're going to be caroling together and we will all be the choir together And uh so just as an instruction, we're trying to make it a little bit more clear. Sometimes we're going to all be singing together, and other times uh we have some sort of prepared selections that we'll be singing uh from up here. When the text is white on the screens Or you can basically follow along with the bulletin that was handed to you when you walked in. You can follow all the lyrics there, and that's what we're going to be singing through. But also the text will be white on the screen for you uh as as we head through the night. But when the uh text is l goldish in color, then you can listen and enjoy to the to the pieces that have been prepared in the scripture readings So at this point, we're going to start off with a scripture reading from Isaiah chapter 9 The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwelt in the land of the shadow of death, upon them a light has shined. You have multiplied the nation and increased. Priest, its joy. They rejoice before you, according to the joy of harvest. Linda be king was The word was with God and was God And through him everything was made. Without him nothing has been made. In him was life. All was life. That shines into the darkest nine There is no night out of The light of heaven is fully. Therefore, the Lord Himself will give you a sign. Behold, the Virgin shall conceive. And bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. Let's sing together. Oh, come on. Oh coming We an exile here until the sun returned. No disregard. We're not and just our shadow call to find no free. Say that this on high and show the plan. Shall come to the always right. Now we'll sing a carol, a medley of carols, worship Christ, the newborn king. God rest thee, Mary gentlemen, let nothing ye dismay. Remember Christ. Our Savior was born on Christmas Day to save us all from Satan's heart when we were gone as tidings of comfort and joy, comfort and joy, oh Both high needs of comfort and so the Lord sing praises of in this place and with your love Love and brotherhood, each other's now embrace this holy time for Christmas deep face, all tightness of calm and joy comforting. And joy, oh sighting of conquer and joy to the world. The morning is come, let our receiving Let every heart prepare and Heaven and nature see, and heaven and nature seek, and heaven, and nature seek He rules the world with truth and grace and makes a nation. The glory of his righteousness and wonders of Israel and wonders of his love and wonders love To the newborn king, East Honor, and Bursy Bible God has in the fragment. Join the Lord in nation's life, join the trial, great in Germany. West front Christ is glory back to the hero dangerous. Worship Christ on you for team. Comment version, comment version, worship Christanu. For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government will be upon his shoulder, and his name will be called Wonderful Counselor. Mighty God, Prince of Peace, everlasting Father. I must reach me on land. Oh we must say he came The runs for me to run. Oh, for those days, Thou it got is not breathing Oh for last day he came a spiral Stormings one more must be raising and my night is high. Oh my god, no brazy I say. Save your hand, we worship thee. We are with me as the wall. Make us Save your hand key, we were shaped The angel Gabriel was sent to a virgin engaged to a man whose name was Joseph. Of the house of David. The virgin's name was Mary. And having come in, the angel said to her Rejoice, highly favored one, the Lord is with you. Blessed are you among women. But when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and considered what manner of greeting this was. Then the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God, and behold, you will conceive in your womb and bring forth a son. And shall call his name Jesus. He will be great and will be called the Son of the Highest. And the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. In just a moment we're going to sing together a another carol, and as we do that, the children who have been working so hard On this next piece are invited to come on up and they will get situated up here as we sing the next song, What Child Is This? Come on up, kids. What is there to lay to rest on memory? While we're charging. Say you bring in but the name not done a memory. Why such me? Well ox and us are good friends and we put in and I landing Christarke for shabbers guard. And they shall take place to bring him on the baby of merry. So bring him a school and birth from that king. Salvation brings that farming he's trying I suck in who shut words God and angel seek to bring him out the But while he thought about these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take to you Mary your wife. For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit, and she will bring forth a son And you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. So all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophets, saying Behold, the virgin shall be with child, and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated, God with us. Jesus, joy of the high heads Haven't born as a little baby under how wondrous Star Lycus, crying, he takes his first breath, held by his mother helpless Close to her beating heart, she's oscillating a loving manger. Facing a world of dangers come to turn me a stranger Into a child of time She is the joy of the highest heaven, born as a little baby, under a wondrous On my cart, his first breath, held by his mother help bless Close to her beating heart She's not laden all lonely, manager Faithing a world of dangers come to turn me a stranger into a child of God. Jesus, King of the Highest Heaven, learning to take his first. Said that he might bring us by God, knowing us while I started to do it. Teach us the way to follow, the way that is true and right. Just take away every darkness. Steady my simple footstand that I might in your good care live as a child of God. Oh Jesus Waiting on a remainder, fatling a world of changers, come to turn me a stranger Into our child of God, that he might send for food stuff That I might in your goodness live as a child Of the colour, and I'm not sure if you're not going to be able to get a lot of people. Oh, From this contration, God's salvation now on the world for forever from all God is being the war being love gives us what she does for me Sounds of wonder fill us right with the sounds of angels and The mighty prince of life shall display us table before we find us. Shall we thou before my forty? His office deadless on the side. I'm seeing it for today since God is with us permission to make our way. Self It's the idea of the water. I'm not then by the glory of Christy For us and we have God the Lord Christ free I think that's fascinating. We have a few more carols to go yet tonight. But at this time I want to invite the few gentlemen that we had asked to come and And pass out the candles if you could take these. And they're going to make their way down the center aisle here and pass out the flame. And if you're able to pass that down the rose as they go, they will hand out the flames then And we're going to sing two more carols together, Joy to the World, and then Silent Night. As we uh Enjoy just a few more as a large choir. They're going to continue doing uh handing out the flames there as we had then into joy To the world. We'll sing two verses of this carol. Joy to the world, the Lord is some letter received. Let every heart preparing room and have that nature sing and have that nature sing. And an angel joy to the earth, but take your face, let's men. Them cause them for sounding joy. Repeat the sounding. I'm gonna invite you to stand with me while we sing silent night Holy night. Simon. Virgin mother and time. All the infant sounder and miles sleep in heavenly. Sleeping and leaving silent night holy. Shabbat squake has a sight glory stream from heaven. Christ the Savior is for All in S your life rain and miss. From thy only face with the ton of reason. Let's sing the last verse without the instruments Wonder lies. With the thing. Christ must take your impulse. Cry us your His home. At this time you may extinguish your lights. Pastor. And you can be seated as well. Just want to take a few moments and uh look at God's Word tonight with the voice that I have left. which is not a lot. Um and uh but I think it's important for us to sort of make sense of all of that we've been looking at both this morning as well as tonight with the primary theme tonight being one of joy and the fact that Christ came to bring us joy. The question that we should ask tonight is: what is joy? What is joy? Well, joy is not a state is a state of gladness and satisfaction. State of gladness and satisfaction. It is not dependent upon our circumstances or our situation The kind of joy that we've been talking about tonight that's in the Bible is the kind of joy that occurs in the midst of difficult circumstances. That can happen even though we are going through trials and difficulties in life Joy is not in the absence of tribul joy can be a w uh uh available during tribulation. In John chapter 16, verse 33, it says, These things have I spoken unto you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. There is a kind of joy that That a allow that we can have in the midst of difficulty, in the midst of tribulation, in the midst of struggle, that no one can take it from us, Jesus said in that same passage. Therefore you now have sorrow. But I will see you again, and your heart will rejoice, and your joy no uh and your joy no one will take from you. There is a kind of joy that is lasting, it's eternal, it's satisfying, it's not dependent upon circumstances, and that is the kind of joy that we have sung about tonight. That is really one of the main themes in the birth of Christ. There's an interesting illustration in Scripture about what joy is. And it's also in this passage in John 16, of which I've referred to as well, it's actually the illustration of a newborn baby. When a newborn baby comes into the world, there is great joy. And God uses that illustration to help all of us universally understand The kind of joy that God is talking about in this passage. And it actually says in in that passage in verse 21, it says of John 16, a woman When she is in labor, she has sorrow because her hour has come. But as soon as that as soon as she has given birth to the child, she no longer remembers the anguish. For I don't mean technically it doesn't mean technically remember, she still remembers it, but the comparison of joy for joy that a human being has been born into the world So the comparison of the joy that a woman experiences when she sees her baby for the very first time surpasses the difficulty of labor according to the Bible. Now by the way, don't I I didn't say that, ladies. The Bible says that. Just so you're you're aware of that. It's the Bible saying that, so don't argue with me. So you have no idea. I have no idea. But the Bible is very clear, so just argue with the Bible if you're going to argue with the Bible, but don't argue with the Bible. So that's joy. Now the question then becomes, what is the path to joy? Well, we get a little bit of a glimpse of what that pass is. When John is, or when Christ rather, Jesus is talking to his disciples about the fact that he wanted them to abide in him. And he says, These things have I written, have I spoken to you, that my joy may remain in you, and that your joy may be full. Then we really see in Acts chapter 2, verse 28, Peter's preaching there, and he says, This: You have made known to me the ways of life. You will make me full of joy. And it says, then in your presence. And then in Psalm 16, verses eleven through seventeen, well we'll read we'll read just verse eleven, it says You will show me the excuse me. You will show me the path of life in your presence is fullness of joy. In your right hand are pleasures forevermore. You see, the Bible links joy with the presence of something. A child understands this on Christmas Day, sh they go down and run run over and all these presents are around and and they are present with those presents and they get a little glimmer of joy. The presence of a newborn baby gives a much greater kind of joy. But the presence of God is the greatest kind of joy. That's why when Jesus came down to earth to become a baby The Bible actually describes this as something of great joy. It says in Luke 1:14, and you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice in his birth. In Luke chapter 2, verse 10, it says, And the angel said to them, Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which will be to all people. Why was this coming of Christ of great joy, of great joy? Because the presence of Christ was going to be among his people. And that presence of Christ that was going to be among his people, Jesus was going to come and live a perfect life and live among his people. But then he was going to die to pay the punishment for our sin, for the sin of the whole world, so that we can have eternal life in Christ. and that we can always be in the presence of God. In Hebrews chapter 12, verse 2, it says, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy That was set before him, endured the cross, despising the shame, that sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Jesus came to earth, lived among us, walked among us, came in humility, laid aside his glory, came to earth. And the announcement of the angels was that this would be great joy. But then he would die And he actually said before he died to his disciples, he said, It's good for you that I go away, for if I don't go away, the comforter, the Spirit of God will not be able to come to you. But when I go away He'll come to you so that you can have His presence. You can be with Him and the presence of God will be with you always, and that's going to produce fullness of joy. Now some people like to suggest that joy that when somebody really has a relationship with God There's almost the suggestion that if you have enough faith, all your problems will go away. And I'm here to tell you from personal experience that all your problems will not go away. I can honestly say by no merit of my own that I have a relationship with the Lord, and I can guarantee you my problems have not gone away. But there is a joy and the presence of God in the midst of those trials and problems that are in life, that give us a sense of gladness and satisfaction that only comes through the presence of Christ. In 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verses 3 and 4, it says, Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. And it was buried, and he was buried, and he rose again the third day according to the scriptures, and he was seen and see if his And that and the twelve, that passage teaches us why Jesus died, why he had to die. The bat passage says he died for our sins. See, you and I, we know we sinned. It doesn't take a rocket scientist to see that everybody sinned. Probably one of the most verifiable facts, the most obvious things in the world is that everybody sins Nobody's perfect. The Bible's way ahead. The Bible actually says in Romans 3. 23, all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. And it doesn't take long and much life experience to realize we're all in the same boat. We've all sinned. And the problem with that is that sin separates us from God. That's the problem. God is perfect, and he can't look on sin. He can't be around sin. We have sin. Sin separates us from a holy God. And so we are, the Bible says we are born essentially miserable in our sin. No one is born with a relationship with God. Nobody can live such a good life that his good outweighs his bad, and therefore he's able to have a relationship with God. The Bible actually says that in Titus 3. 5, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us Or the watching of regeneration, the renewing of the Spirit. It's not by works, it's only by faith alone, and depending on what Jesus did to pay the punishment for our sin, and dying to for us, and rising from the grave victorious over sin and death. The Bible, the question that I would have for you is, do you have this kind of joy? This joy that surpasses circumstances, this joy that overrides trials, this joy, this gladness, this satisfaction. Do you have that kind of joy? Well, it only comes through the presence of God. And the only way you can be connected to God, the only way that you can have the presence of God that you can have a relationship with God is by having your sin dealt with. And the way that we have our sin dealt with is we allow Christ We actually depend on Christ to deal with the sin for us because we can't deal with it w for ourselves with ourselves And when we do that, when we say, Lord, you have taken your sin, you've taken my sin on yourself and died in my place so that I could have a right relationship with you Then we can have, we can receive Jesus as our Savior and we can have true joy The question I would have for you tonight is, along with the question of whether or not you have that joy, is do you know for sure that you have a relationship with God? The Bible tells us. That he wants us to know. The Bible says in 1 John 5, verse 13: These things are written that ye may know that ye have eternal life. To believe in the name of the Son of God. It's written in Scripture that you can know that you have eternal life. Do you know? Do you have confidence? Are you sure that you have a right relationship with God and that you have eternal life? If you don't, there's a simple way. John chapter 1, verse 12 says, But as many as received him, to them gave ye the power to become the sons of God, the children of God. to those who believe on his name. Folks, the way to have a Merry Christmas is to have Christ living inside of us. The way to have a Merry Christmas is to know the presence of God in our lives that produces joy. That comes through accepting and depending upon the finished work of Christ. who died to pay the punishment for our sin. And if you're excuse me, listening today, and you don't know whether or not you have that relationship with God, maybe you've been a good person Maybe even a religious person, but you're really not sure whether you have that relationship with God or not. You're not sure about that. Can I encourage you before you leave this place to take you can come and talk with me. I will stop whatever I'm doing. Doesn't matter who I'm talking to. I'll stop whatever I'm doing and I'll take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure So you can have a relationship with God or if there's somebody else that you're comfortable with that you know they have that joy you're talking about or we've been talking about tonight, you've seen that in their lives, and you want to and you want to uh Ask them, then they'll be able to do that. But don't leave this place without knowing for sure where you will spend eternity and Where you will have a relationship, whether or not you have a relationship with God, because the Bible says these things are written that ye may know that you have eternal life. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, as we come to you this evening. We pray that you would help us as we consider the reality of whether or not we have this joy. And for those of us who know you as our Lord and Savior, who have made that decision to depend upon Christ, we admit before you that the presence of God is with us, but we always don't all we don't always act like it. We don't always live in that reality. And I pray that you'd help us to do that. And then I'm sure that in a in a group this size. There would be more than one, I'm sure, that tonight would not be sure of whether or not they have a relationship with you. I pray tonight that they wouldn't leave wouldn't leave this building. without talking with somebody to that can that can show them how they can know for sure they will spend eternity with the Lord. I pray all of these things in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, I am actually unsure of what's supposed to happen next. Is do we have a hymn now or what's going Oh, okay let me give you a couple of directions about tonight. as far as uh what to do. We're going to be headed down to to a cookie fellowship. Sure. You can interrupt any time you want, Enrique. Your voice maybe. Yeah, like take it over, please. Anyway, I didn't want you to sit down. Oh no, I didn't want you to sit down. You sure? Yes. Okay. Could uh Could I have uh Elizabeth come up? This is my second bottle. Oh yeah. Could I could I could I have I know I'm uh putting you all on the spot, but it's it's for it's for good reason. You know, one of the great things about Bethel, in my opinion, is that um From the very outset