Okay, last time we were here, we talked about Old Testament canonicity. And let me summarize Old Testament canonicity by putting it this way. The reason that we embrace as Christians the Old Testament books that we do as Scripture and we reject certain apocryphal books uh that were written during that intertestamental period really comes down to the fact that Christ, the apostles, and the Jews used those books, the books that we view as scripture. Used those books, those books as scripture. And that that really is ultimately where our Old Testament canonicity goes down, if you want to just sort of summarize that. I know we talked about a lot of other uh things last time we were together, but you could summarize the Old Testament by saying that Christ, the apostles, and the Jews. And one of the things that the Jews and Christ actually agreed on, ironically, was the canon of the Old Testament. So that's sort of a quick summary there. What I'd like us to do now is I'd like us to move to the New Testament canon. And remember our study is how do we know which ancient books can be called scripture? I need to go through quite a few of these slides, don't I? I didn't know where you wanted to start. Yeah, help me out here. Uh to one that says New Testament canon. You just pause for a moment, spatial identification and ask Do they even do that anymore? I don't know. Okay. That's huge. We don't watch T V Dead space is always a blessing. Dead dead dead time, downtime. History of the Word, Old Testament. Yeah, keep keep going there, Pat. I think you probably have about three more slides of me, I guess. There it is. Number 20. Number 20 is the one I think we want. New Testament canon. Don't worry about it. Okay, now we're back. Had our short little thing there? The New Testament canon. Why is it that there are certain books in the New Testament There are certain books that were written during the New Testament, Apostolic Era, that we embrace the scripture and others that we don't. It's a really good question. And the reality is that there were a lot of books that were written during that time period. For instance, we know that Paul did not just write 1st and 2nd Corinthians. We know there was a 3rd Corinthians as well, okay? At least a 3rd Corinthians I'm sure that Paul wrote many different documents to many different churches. The other apostles would have as well. But why is it that there are certain books Romans, first, second Corinthians, Ephesians, Colossians. Why is it that those are the books that we view as Scripture and these other books essentially have vanished? We don't even have them anymore. We know that they were maybe written, but we don't know what they said. We really don't have any manuscripts. There are books that were being transmitted and and passed around during that time period in the second and third century that were rejected by the church. And the question is why did they do that? I hope that we can answer some of those questions. And after we go through this material, at the end of our time we'll open it up for questions and uh discussion. So uh we'll keep that in mind. Let's let's bow our heads together, ask the Lord to bless our time, and uh that will be very good Father, thank you so much for your word. We are so grateful that you've given us your word and you've preserved it so that we can read it. And it can be preached to us on a regular basis. We can uh build our lives upon the scriptures. And I pray that you'd help me as I go through these things, have a clear mind, help each person. I know that we just ate And uh we'll all be a little tired and maybe not mentally sharp. I pray that you'd help us to think these things through. And would you equip your people to be more prepared to engage with uh those in our culture? We ask it in Christ's name, Amen. New Testament canon. The question we want to ask, first of all, is who was qualified to write Scripture? Who was qualified to write scripture? Tablet. How's that Okay. Who was considered qualified to write scripture? This is what we have here in our notes: only those who were recognized as apostles and Those books that were received by genuine prophets and the apostles could be regarded as scripture. Now I think I made a statement last time that uh either was incorrect or it was easily misconstrued. And I think I gave the impression that the books that we have in our New Testament, these epistles And these gospels were written only by people that we called the apostles. Now, let me say something. This statement is telling us That books that were written by apostles and or received by genuine prophets and apostles were books that could be regarded as scripture. That word received is very, very important. One of the reasons that the canon closed at the end of you could say the apostolic era when the apostle John died is because we no longer have people who are qualified, first of all, to pen scripture And we no longer have people who are really qualified to authenticate the scriptures that have been written. Do you understand what I'm saying? In other words, when Paul wrote, the other apostles would have recognized immediately this particular document is not just Paul writing as an apostle for for a certain occasion and it's going to be the end of it. But that is actually scripture that is meant to be preserved, that is meant to be passed out, that is meant to be copied and sent throughout the whole Roman Empire. And all the churches need to take this particular document Written to the church at Corinth, written to uh whatever group it was, and they're supposed to preach it and teach it and say, this is the word of the Lord. That word received by genuine prophets and apostles is very, very important. A second thing that we see here Is how was this book received by God's people? Okay, so I just made the statement that it needed to be received. Well, how exactly did this happen? Only those books that were received as Scripture by Christ's Apostles, New Testament prophets, and their disciples were regarded as Scripture. These books would have been recognized as Scripture in the late first century and early second century. So we could just put it this way. Those books were received at the time that they were written by the people that were living in that time period. Consider the history of the New Testament. I'd like us to kind of walk through a little bit of a progression. Like we're going to talk about The apostles' ministry, how it was predicted by Christ. We're going to look at their position and some of the things that were stated about apostles. We're going to look at examples of them actually saying what Paul wrote is scripture. And these are very, very interesting texts. So let's move into that particular area. The first church council to list all 27 books in the New Testament was the Council at Carthage in 397. Individual books Of the New Testament were acknowledged as Scripture well before this time, though. Let's not believe, as some would lead us to believe, that there was no understanding of what was Scripture until. 400 years after Christ. Let's not believe that because that's not the case. Essentially, we could say this: in the first and second centuries, there were books that were written by apostles. Received by other apostles, received by genuine prophets. They were preached out of in the churches, they were copied and they were spread all around. And in the time that the apostles were living, and after their death, The people that were the church recognized that these books are scripture. As far as I know, there was not debate. Is this really scripture? Is this not? That had been settled because people knew who the apostles were People knew who genuine prophets were. And what those leaders, those foundational leaders, had accepted and had preached and had distributed, the church recognized And the reality is once we've res once we've removed from that time period a few generations, that is when some of the debates, some of the questions, some of the arguments came into play. And so in 397 That is when they sat down and they said, okay, let's look at the issue. The issue that is now being debated, that apparently was really not being debated in the early, early days And let's ask the question, what books are truly Scripture? What books bear the marks of Scripture? What books have been received by the church? What books have that apostolic, could we say, signatory? Either they wrote it or they embraced it. What books? And that is where we got our 27 books. being stated again, though we could find evidence of it well before that time. Most were accepted in the era just after the Apostles, Hebrews, James, second Peter, 3 John, and Jude were debated for some time, and that would be a few generations after. The selection of the canon was a process that went on until each book proved its own worth by passing the test of canonicity. First of all, let's look at the apostolic ministry that was predicted by Christ before he went to the cross. John 14, 26, this is what Jesus says. The Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things. And bring all things to your remembrance whatsoever I have said to you. Now I've heard this passage presented different ways But I think if we look at it in its original context and we just look at what Jesus is saying to people in real time, he's looking at men who are going to write scripture Who are going to be apostles going all throughout the Roman Empire. And he looks at them and he's saying, Men, I'm going to die. I'm going to be nailed to the cross. I'm going to rise again. And then I'm going to go to the Father. Now they didn't quite understand all this yet. And he says, but don't be discouraged, because I'm going to send someone who is going to be a comforter. It's the Holy Spirit. And this is what he's gonna do. He's gonna teach you all things. What do you mean by that? Well he's talking about What's going to happen when these men as apostles establish that doctrinal foundation? I think I mentioned a passage earlier today from 1 Corinthians, and it says this. 1 Corinthians chapter is under foundation. 1 Corinthians 3. 10. He says, Other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ. In the passage before in Ephesians 2, he talks about how the Holy Spirit, or how God is going to lay the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ being the chief cornerstone. Those passages talk about the fact that the apostles are going to do a foundational work. Now it's all going to be rooted in the person of Christ. It's going to involve his teaching, but it's also going to involve, we could say, inscripturation or the penning of scripture through inspiration. He also mentions in verse 23, he says, When the Spirit of truth is come, he will guide you into all truth. He shall not speak of himself. Whatever ye shall hear, that shall he speak, and he will show you things to come. Now that's talking about a prophetic kind of instruction, not something that has already happened, but he's going to give you information that is to come. An example of this is in the book of Revelation. What is John doing? He's writing about things to come. When Paul's writing in 1 Corinthians 15, he's writing about things to come. When he's writing in Romans chapter 8, he's writing about things to come. And so he's emphasizing the fact, too, that he's going to bring to remembrance things that they've heard and seen. These people are going to be writing not only as apostles, but as eyewitnesses. People who witnessed the ministry of Christ. So their ministry was predicted in John 14 and in John 16. Their position, secondly, was authenticated by apostolic signs. Now, this is very interesting. The Apostle Paul had to write some very hard things to the church at Corinth. Now they were a divided church. They were a carnal church And so he has to address a carnal church. How would you like to be the person to address the carnal church? Well, that's what Paul did. So what did the carnal church say? They say, oh, you're not really an apostle. You don't have the right to speak like this to us. So what does he do? He defends his apostleship. And so in 2 Corinthians, you see plenty of evidence to the fact that he is defending his apostleship. One of the things that they would say is, well, you weren't one of the original twelve. You weren't one of the eyewitnesses. You came after the fact. So what right do we have? Why do we have to listen to what you have to say So these are the kind of charges that the apostle Paul would have received. In 2 Corinthians 12, he says this: Truly, the signs of an apostle were accomplished among you with all perseverance. And signs and wonders and in mighty deeds. What is he saying? He's saying that there were certain gifts That he had the power to perform, they were not meant to puff him up. They're meant to authenticate his ministry. And he wasn't the only one. We read in the book of Acts how Peter Heals the man at the gate, beautiful. And then all of a sudden he begins to preach. He says, do you know why this happened? Do you know by whose power this has taken place? And he begins to preach Christ. We see examples in the book of Acts like this. So what's the point? The point is that there were genuine signs that accompanied the apostolic office that authenticated their ministry And when people saw those signs, as well as the fact that they understood these men had been eyewitnesses of the ministry of Christ, they had been sent out by Christ. They saw that there was a doctrinal unity. These people were recognized as apostles. In fact, it's interesting in Revelation chapter 2. When Christ addresses the church at Ephesus, he says, you have tried some that say they are apostles and are not, and have found them to be liars. That tells us that there were certain things that people living at that time period could have looked at and they could have said, This person is an apostle, this person is not. Very, very interesting. Thirdly, I'd like us to look at this. Their work was recognized as Scripture at the time when the apostles and prophets could validate the authenticity of their work. Let's put it this way. Let's say that the Apostle Paul came to visit the church, Bethelbaptist. And Tony Massarelli wanted to be an apostle. And so, sorry, Tony wanted to be an apostle. You've got a good apostolic beard. I like that. Mine mine is too is too trimmed to be an apostolic beard. My wife makes me trim it. What are you saying? No, it's I like it. I like it. I like it. Sorry. So Tony with the apostolic beard decides beard Get that right? He decides that he wants to write an epistle. So he sends an epistle To the church at Bethel. The church at Bethel. Okay. Well, the church reads this this letter and they they there's there's some disagreement about some of the things that Tony has written. They start going, well, this doesn't seem consistent with what's been taught, and and we have this problem here, we have this problem here, and there's lots of discussion. Well, how do they settle the discussion? Paul shows up Paul, we have a letter written by a guy named Tony. Is this scripture? And he says, no. We won't go any further. So they deal with this problem. The church says, no, Tony's not an apostle. Tony's not an apostle. And they and they and they deal with the issue. They make you shave half of your beard. So th the the whole point I'm trying to make here is that there was a way to authenticate them Even within the church, there were people who were genuine prophets, just like the Old Testament prophets. They received revelation from God. They spoke for, an example of this is Agabas. An example of this is Philip's daughters. Okay? These are people who received revelation from God and were responsible to give it to the church. And these people were living in that time period. Listen to carefully to what Paul writes in 1 Corinthians 14, 29 and following. He says, Let two or three prophets speak. And let the others judge. The spirit of the prophets are subject to the prophets. If anyone thinks himself to be a prophet or spiritual, let him acknowledge that the thing which I write to you are the commandments of the Lord. That's a really interesting statement. What is he saying? He's saying, if we have people in our midst, who are prophets, or they at least are claiming to be prophets, those who are recognized prophets are to listen to what they're saying. And there to tell the church whether or not that guy is a prophet or not. Is his message genuinely from God or is it not? He says the spirit of the prophets are subject to the prophets. And then he says, and by the way. If you have any doubt about what I'm saying to you, ask the prophets in the church, and they can verify that what I'm saying is The word of the Lord. Pretty interesting, isn't it? So if Paul's dead, can Paul do that anymore? Nope. If John's dead and he's the last living apostle, can he do that anymore? So what would the church have assumed when John died? They would have assumed, I guess we don't have anyone else who's going to be doing this work. We'll see something else interesting in another minute. In 2 Peter chapter 3, verses 15 and following, listen to what he says. The account that the long-suffering of our Lord is salvation, even our beloved brother Paul also, according to the wisdom Given unto him has written unto you. Now, that statement doesn't necessarily guarantee that what he's saying Paul is writing in scripture, does it? He's saying God's given him wisdom. He's written it down and given it to you. But in the next verse, it makes it very clear what he's saying. He then says in the following verses. As also in all his epistles, speaking in them of things in which are some things hard to understand. Which they that are unlearned and unstable rest as they do the other scriptures. Well, wait a minute. Let's go back. He says, they that are unlearned and unstable, as they do also the other scriptures, unto their undestraction. What is Peter saying? What Peter is saying is that the epistles of Paul are scripture just like the rest of Scripture. The Old Testament. In other words, when Paul writes in 2 Timothy 3:16, all scripture is given by inspiration of God, in Peter's mind Those Old Testament scriptures and the New Testament scriptures are equally scripture. In 1 Corinthians 15, he talks about the fact Let me read. 1 Corinthians 15, 3 and 4. It says, I delivered to you first of all that which I also received. That Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. He was buried. He rose again the third day according to the scriptures. When he talks about scripture, what are the people thinking about? Most of them are thinking Old Testament. But now they're thinking something additional to Old Testament. They're thinking about apostolic epistles. They're thinking about these other books. And this is very, very significant. What this is telling us is that during the time of the apostles, there were certain books That were written by these men, or were, we could say, verified and received by these men, that the people all of a sudden saw this epistle written in our time period is on equal level. With the scriptures of the Old Testament. The same scriptures that Jesus received, that the Jews received, and that the other apostles received and preached and quoted as Scripture. It's very interesting. The pastoral epistles, Paul says seven times to preach the word or the scriptures. How would that make sense? If the people did not understand what was Scripture and what wasn't. When he says that, there are documents that they were thinking about. Now this is very interesting that I that I've noticed when I look at the writings of Paul and Peter and John. If you look at Paul's epistles, 1 2 Corinthians. Very doctrinal. Lot of instruction. We look at Ephesians. Very doctrinal. Lots of instruction. Philippians. Colossians. We see these documents, 1 2 Thessalonians, even 1 Timothy, lots of instruction. But 2 Timothy is very different You know what's unique about 2 Timothy? Number one, it's the last epistle that he wrote. And number two, rather than him introducing new teaching, he is throughout the entire book telling the church. To preach the scriptures. Very, very significant. In fact, at the end of the book in 2 Timothy 4, verse 7, where he says, I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith What does he mean by I have finished my course? He's not just saying I've run my race and I'm about to die. He's talking about his apostolic work as well. What is very significant is if you compare 2 Timothy to the other epistles, you will see a distinct difference. And the fact that one is giving lots of new instruction. Many are the the epistles prior to that one are giving new instruction and second 2 Timothy is simply instructing Timothy and the church to hold fast. to sound doctrine. Hold fast to the faith. It's interesting. We look at Peter's writings as well. First Peter, what do we see? Lots of doctrine, lots of instruction. 2 Peter, what do we see? The difference between Scripture and what is not Scripture. A true teacher versus a false teacher. In fact, it's very interesting. We're familiar with 2 Peter chapter 1. We have not followed cunningly devised fables when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. But we were eyewitnesses of his majesty. It's very, very interesting if you look at the verses just before that. Listen to what Peter says. He says, moreover, I will endeavor that you may be able, after my decease, to have these things always in remembrance. What's he talking about? He's saying I'm writing down My apostolic instruction. Then he goes, We have not followed cunningly devised fables. We have made unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Verse 17, he received from the Father glory and honor He says, this is the voice that came from heaven when we were in the Holy Mount. He says in verse 19, we have a more sure word of prophecy, whereunto unto you do well to take heed. He says in verse 20, knowing that no prophecy of the Scripture is of any private interpretation, the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Ghost You say, what's the point that you're bringing out? The point I'm bringing out is that 2 Peter, like 2 Timothy is the final epistle that these apostles are writing. And in these epistles, they're emphasizing the fact that they have accomplished the work God sent them to accomplish. And they're leaving instruction for the churches to follow, and they're consistently saying, hold fast to sound doctrine, hold fast to the scriptures. That to me is very, very significant. We see the same thing in Jude. We don't know of any other books written by Jude. But what does he say in verse number 3? He talks about earnestly contending for the faith. What is the faith? It is that body of doctrine that had been laid out by the apostles. We look at the book of the Revelation, John's final writing, the last apostolic work that we have. What is it? It's John telling them what is to come. He's not telling them how to live in the church. Now he does write those letters, he does record those letters to the churches of Asia Minor. But those churches, he's referring back to them holding fast to what's already been given. He's not necessarily giving them something new. When he talks about what is to come, He's not necessarily giving them something new. It's actually all been laid out in the Old Testament. He's simply saying here's the final chapter. The reason I'm pointing this out Is that we can see even a progression in the lifetime of the apostles, where they were giving instruction to build up the church, establishing doctrine And now, at the end of their ministry, they're referring back to what's already been written, and they're saying, hold fast to that. Anyone who doesn't hold fast to that is a false teacher. Watch out for them. That's what these men are doing. We also see that there is a theological agreement in these works. One of the things I love about reading the scriptures is when you read the Bible, you'll be reading a passage and you'll be like Huh. That sounds exactly like what I read and said at place. It's it's it's teaching the same thing. It might be expanding it a little bit. It might be giving it more clarity. But it's saying the same thing. We see this harmony all throughout the scriptures. One of the things that's wonderful about using electronic resources is they a lot of times will have some way of showing you when they're quoting from the Old Testament. You know what I love about that? Look at the book of Romans. How many times Paul quotes from the Old Testament in the book of Romans? It is unbelievable. What is Paul saying? Paul is saying that the faith that I preach to you today is the same faith preached in the Old Testament. That's what he's saying. When he went to the synagogue, what was he doing? He's saying, the Jesus I preach to you is the same Jesus that was preached in the Old Testament. They didn't call him Jesus. It's the servant. It's the branch. It's the root. That's who he is. Jesus. Very, very interesting. We also see that their work has stood the test and the scrutiny. Of church history. Help please. Ah, technology. Their work has stood the test of church history And their work has been preserved while others have vanished, or not always they vanished, but they've been rejected by the Church of God. So, the fact that we don't have all of Paul's epistles shouldn't shake us. The reality is the ones we have were preserved because they recognized their scripture. You understand what I'm saying? The fact that we have books preserved from that time period that were rejected by the early church should not encourage us to receive them now. What those people understood should be rejected in their generation, we should recognize should be rejected in our generation as well. I wanted to make a few comments here near the end about how their works stood the scrutiny of the church. In the apostolic period, the writers witnessed that their own writings were the word of God. I think I've tried to sort of lay that out a little bit and try to emphasize why it is that Paul could authenticate Peter's work or Peter could authenticate Luke's work or something like that. Secondly, from 8070 to 8170. So, what we're talking about is kind of the end of the life of the apostles. Now we're transitioning into what we could call second-generation Christians. The people that had been, we could say, disciples, had sat under the very apostles themselves. All the New Testament books were cited in other writings of that period as scripture This is important. All 27 books that we have in our New Testament were cited during that time period as Scripture. That is very, very significant. These are the kinds of things that when they in 397 met together to answer the question of the canon, these are the kinds of things that they would have looked at. The Old Syriac, the end of the 2nd century, lacked 2 Peter, 2nd, 3rd, John, Jude, and Revelation, but no extra books were added. Now this is very significant as well. We don't have the entire Syriac completed. So the reality is they don't know if those books were meant to not be included or if we just have an incomplete copy from that time period. That is I think I have that actually in the notes, but I didn't put that uh on on the screen here The old Latin. This is around two hundred Lacks 2 Peter James Hebrews for added no extra books. So the unqualified candidates for the books to be included in the canon Were rejected during this period. Most of the New Testament books were received. Only a few were debated. What I want you to see is that as we remove ourselves from the apostolic time period, We start to get a little bit less clarity about some of the books. That is why they met together in 397 to discuss the issue. But let's not forget and let's not fail to look back at the way that it was received in that first century and second century during the times of the apostles. The Council of Carthage in 397 is generally agreed that this church council fixed the limits of the New Testament canon as including the 27 books as we have them today. I will also mention, I don't remember if I had this in a slide or not, but Luther had some things to say about the book of James, and that's something that people have debated And uh Charles Ryrie addressed that in the research that I work at. I think if you look at uh the back there, you'll see which book I'm talking about that I used. It's in the sources consulted section. But the point that Ryrie brings out is that Luther did not question whether or not James was inspired. But he questions, could we say, the value of the theological input in James as compared to the books of John's epistle and Romans, Galatians, and Ephesians. Luther loved Romans and he loved Galatians especially because of their emphasis on grace. And the reason that he struggled with James was not because James does not harmonize with Romans, but because he didn't understand the harmony very well. And uh we need to keep that in mind. Luther was a great man, but Luther had some problems. And uh it always intrigues me how maybe I'll put out a Luther quote and somebody will be like, oh but you know do you know what Luther said here and the the give me some quote and I'm like Please. Just let the quote that I gave stand on its own, okay? Thank you. So just wanted to make that that statement about Luther. The apostolic word in the written form of this word remains as the permanent document expression of God's new covenant. It may be said that only the twenty-seven books of the New Testament manifest themselves As belonging to the original foundational apostolic witness. They have demonstrated, and this is important, they have demonstrated themselves to be the Word of God to the universal church throughout the generations. The point, and this is made in the ESV Study Bible, their notes on this particular issue, the point that they're making is that the church received these documents. And the church rejected other documents. That's really what it comes down to. Now we can understand why they would have had so much more clarity in the early church. They had prophets and they had apostles in the very church itself. We can understand why there could have been a lack of clarity once we remove a few hundred years from that that particular time and why they sat down and discussed the issue and settled on those twenty-seven books that had once been viewed as scripture. We're still being viewed as scripture by many, but a few of them were coming into question by those in the church at the time. They demonstrate themselves to be the Word of God to the universal church throughout the generations. Here are the pastures to which Christ's sheep from many folds continually come to hear their shepherd's voice and to follow them. Some might ask the question What about some other books? I've heard about these books called the Apocrypha. When we talk about the Apocrypha, let's keep in mind that there are Apocryphal books that were written between the Old Testament and the time of the Apostles. There are also, we could say, some apocryphal books that were written during the time of the Apostles. There are some books that were called pseudopigrapha. You might say, well, what's the difference between these two books? Well, I'm not going to get into which books are this and which books are that. I just want to simply make A general statement about what Apocrypha and what pseudopigrapha means. Apocrypha book apocryphal books were books that were accepted by the Roman Catholic Church But rejected by the Jews, never created scripture by Christ and the apostles, and rejected by the Reformers. Now it's interesting, I believe it was the Council of Trent. In 1548, is that correct? Council of Trent. When you have the Reformation going on in Europe and the Roman Catholic Church decided to post a counter-reformation. What the reformers have said, we're going to say these things are wrong. The Reformers held to the scriptures as we see them today, the 27 books in the New Testament, the same Old Testament books. That is what they viewed as Scripture. And so what did the Roman Catholic Church say? Well we're going to stand against their position on this. So in 1548 at the Council of Trent, that is when they included officially the apocryphal books. And that wasn't the only thing that the Council of Trent was dealing with. It was dealing with a whole lot of other issues. But I just want to say that the Council of Trent took place a thousand years after the Council of Carthage. And that's fairly significant. But the apocryphal books were books that were accepted by the Roman Catholic Church, but rejected by the Uh by the Jews and not treated as scripture by Christ or the Apostles. Now, when we talk about apocryphal books, don't think that these are evil books, that these are like demonic witchcraft type books or something like that. The reality is that the apocryphal books were like history books of the Jews In fact, a lot of uh New Testament scholars study the apocryphal books because it gives them a lot of information about the ways that Jews thought during that intertestamental period give us a lot of understanding of of why Christ said some of the things that he said during his lifetime. Because there was a context in which Jesus was living in there in the first century. And so apocryphal books do give us some information about Israel's history. They do give us an understanding of the way that they taught. And the way that they thought and some of the things that were going on in Israel during that time period. And the apocryphal books are also helpful when you're doing uh word studies. Um I know when I'm doing Greek word studies and I want to see how a certain word uh was used in the Old Testament, what's the the Hebrew uh parallel word, if there is one, you know what I'm saying? Apocryphal books are some of those that can be looked at there. We also have this group called the Pseudopigrapha. These are books that were never accepted as scripture by any mainstream group within the Christian church. Occasionally you'll find someone today who'll bring the Gospel of Thomas or some other book and they'll say, look, this was written during the time of the apostles. This is scripture. This one got left out. This gives us a totally different view of the Christian faith. Well the fact is that books like the Gospel of Thomas were rejected as false teaching books during the time of the apostles. The early church rejected them. The reason we don't embrace them today is because of decisions that were made then and held firmly to throughout the history of the church. And so those are those two groups, the Apocrypha and the Pseudo-Pigrapha. I will make notice that Jerome, when he did his Latin Vulgate translation, did include apocryphal books, but he did put them in a different section within the Apocrypha The Council of Trent, 1548, the Roman Catholic Church officially recognized the apocryphal books as part of the canon. And then our English translations, for instance, Coverdale, Geneva in the King James Version, all of those included the Apocrypha but not within the text as scripture. They published those viewing them as important books to help people in their study of the scriptures. The first English Bible printed in America as in 1782 did omit the apocryphal books. So when somebody says they're KJV 1611, Plenty of that. Uh I guess they like the Apocrypha too. Because it was there. It was there. Um So question. Why should we reject? Now I reject sounds a little harsh on Some of this. Why should we not accept these apocryphal books as scripture? Okay? Okay. I don't want to give the impression that these are evil pieces of literature, okay? But they're not scripture. They do not claim for themselves the same kind of authority as the Old Testament writings. You know what's interesting? You read the Old Testament, how many times do you see the phrase, Thus says the Lord? Over and over and over again. You know, the the the Bible bears its own authenticity. When you read this book, you say, this is the mouth of God speaking here. When it says God said, that's what it means. These books don't claim the same kind of authority. They were never regarded as God's word by the Jewish people from whom they originated. It's very, very significant. I spent time dealing with that one on the other day, so I won't spend much time with that. 3. They were not considered to be scripture by Jesus or the New Testament authors. And four, and this is very important, they contain teachings that are inconsistent with the rest of the Bible. One of the dangers of reading some of these apocryphal books and viewing them as scripture Is now you have conflict in certain passages. You don't you don't have if I'm reading James and I'm reading Romans, I don't have conflict. I may not understand the resolution. But if I'm reading certain apocryphal books and I compare them to other, could we say Old and Old Testament books, there will be teaching inconsistencies. And so we need to be very careful about that. When people do read apocryphal books, not that many today outside of we could say scholastic world is really doing that, they'd have to keep that in mind. We must conclude that they were merely human words Not God-breathed words like the words of Scripture. They do have value for historical and linguistic research. They contain a number of helpful stories about the courage and faith of many Jews during the period of the Old Testament. But they have never been a part of the Old Testament canon. Let me put this conclusion. This is a quote from Wayne Grudham. We can rest our confidence in the faithfulness of God, who would not lead all his people for nearly two thousand years to trust as his word. Something that is not. God's truthfulness, faithfulness to his people convinces us that there is nothing missing from Scripture. That God thinks we need to know for obeying Him and trusting Him fully. The canon of Scripture today is exactly what God wanted it to be, and it will stay that way until Christ returns. I think one of the things that Pastor Jim was really emphasizing this morning That was very, very good is as he studies this issue of Old Testament transmission, he sees the hand of God in it If we study the transmission of the scriptures, if we compare the documents that we have for the Old Testament and the New Testament compared to the other works of their time period, it's staggering. And when we read those those those documents, and when we when we think about what has happened, and by the way, these are books that were vilified in their time periods. By the way, there were Jewish kings who wanted to get rid of the scriptures, vilified by evil kings. There was a man named Voltaire who said, the Bible is going to be removed from the planet. And what happened to Voltaire after he died? His house is used to print Bibles, ironically. William Tyndale, one of our one of the forefathers of giving us our English Bible, an incredible man, who died very young because he was martyr for the faith. William Tyndale, when he was killed, you know what they did? They burned his body and spread his ashes in the river because they wanted to convince themselves this man is evil and we're done with him. And guess what? Just a short time later, the Bible became mainstream. in in in in England. I mean it's really amazing. In just just a few years, a man like William Tyndale, who did the work to get the Bible into the English language, who was killed, martyred for the faith. There's evidence that his work goes on. And there's no end to the ways that God in his providence has preserved his word for us. So as we sit here today, let's not sit down and go, wow, do we really have the Bible that God wanted us to have? Absolutely we do. History demonstrates that History proves that. God has blessed his word and honored his word. We've experienced the change that it's produced in our own lives. And we rest confidently in it as we wait for the return of Christ. And so I hope that our study here on canonicity has given a little bit of help to some of these areas. What I'd like to do is I'll come down here, and if we have any questions, then we can we can kind of address this.