All right, tonight what we're going to be talking about, and at this point we if we somebody can hit the recording, that would be a good thing I try to do this every year and it just seems to be an appropriate time to do this before vacation Bible school, but I like to do a message or a lesson. on carefully presenting the gospel. And I think that this is really important because A lot of times, um, and we've we've seen this even in our church, how a lot of times people when they're young will make a profession of faith But they really perhaps they didn't really understand what they were doing or um or maybe they did, but and and I I want to say at the outset of this that I was I'm I was very young when I came to Christ. I remember coming to Christ. I really have never doubted too much coming to Christ. I mean little little fluttery doubts, but nothing significant. And when I came since I've come to Christ and it was a very young age. However, um that's not always the case. And uh there are often times we'll where people kids will make professions of faith at an early age And they really didn't really understand the gospel completely. And some of that is entirely out of our control. We can't judge people's hearts. But some of it is in how we're presenting it and what kinds of things we're emphasizing. It is important for us to really consider how to be careful in this matter of presenting the gospel. And really This also applies to presenting the gospel to anyone. Are there certain components that are absolutely necessary in order for somebody to truly come to saving faith? that must be there when presenting the gospel. And the answer is absolutely yes, and we're going to we're going to really hone in when we talk about the right message tonight. We're going to hone in on a particular the heart of the gospel and we'll see that in a few moments. So what I want to do is I want to begin by just pointing out some common problems from an inaccurate presentation, or maybe a better way of saying it would be an uncareful presentation of the gospel or careless presentation of the gospel. One is sometimes you will see an improper motivation in coming to Christ or rather in making a profession of faith. Or some let me ask you, what would be an improper motivation in in in um in making a profession of faith, Josh? Yeah, okay. Just just mere fire insurance of not wanting to go to hell. Now there's nothing wrong with not wanting to go to hell. But if that's the all there is, then we may have an improper motivation there Uh other other improper motivations to pro professing Christ as Savior. Desire to please a parent or something. Yeah. Yeah, desire to please a parent. That is that may be one of the most common ones for kids Yeah, everybody else is saved, so I might as well be saved. What's that? Yeah. Yeah, oh yeah, yeah. Uh someday. Yeah. Alright, so so improper motivation. How about misunderstanding? What are some things that might occur Uh as far as a misunderstanding because of an improper or inaccurate or careless presentation of the gospel. What are some misunderstandings perhaps that you've heard? Or Had. Yes, Harry. Yeah, so how you come to Christ, the method is well if you just pray a prayer and then you'll be you'll be saved. Good. What else? Um yes. Something a lot of people want to hear if it doesn't matter if you sin or if you keep sinning, you can get saved and then you're Yeah, so it's sort of a easy kind of a easy believe them just believe and then you don't have to keep then you can just do what you want kind of a is that what you mean? Yep. Right, definitely Another one is false assurance. So the the the this is probably one of the most dangerous things for a child. Uh and and for adult. Could be for an adult too. I don't reali this is not just narrowed only down to adult children. Uh that's on our minds with VBS coming up, but it certainly isn't just only that But false assurance can happen where somebody thinks that they're saved, but they're really not. Is that a possibility? Absolutely. Happens a lot. Misplace faith. They're actually placing their faith in the wrong thing. This is where praying a prayer, I'm placing my faith in the prayer that I prayed. Or in the date that I wrote in the front of my Bible There's or my dad's Bible or whatever. There's nothing there's nothing wrong with writing a date in the front of a Bible, but if you're if you're looking to that to trust, if you're you're look placing your faith there uh rather than in the finished work of Christ, which we'll talk about, uh that might be something. Uh just fear of of no salvation. Um there that the exact opposite is when there's a uh a carelessness about the gospel, about the present presentation of the gospel. On one hand, you may have a false assurance. On the other hand, you may have somebody that really never they they they're not clear on what the gospel is And so they don't really know if they're saved or not. So they're just this sort of living in a perpetual state of fear. You ever met somebody like that? So so these are all possible things. that happen, uh and there are others probably as well. These are just the things that are common that can happen because we are not careful in our presentation of the gospel. So I want to begin by looking at the motive. Why should someone come to Christ? And the answer is found in John chapter 17 and verses 1 through 3. It says, Jesus spoke these words. Speaking these words, lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hours come. Glorify your son, that your son also may glorify you. So what's the reason that he's going to give eternal life in verse 3? Why? Why is that happening? Well, it's to glorify God, right? And to glorify his son. Verse 2. As he has given given authority over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as you have given him. And in verse 3, this is eternal life. What's eternal life? That ye may what? They may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. What is eternal life? It's what It's knowing God. So motivation for eternal life, the biblical motivation is that I am separated from God. I am an offense. My sin is an offense against God. And I need to know him. And the way to know him is through Jesus Christ. And that is the right motivation for coming to Christ. First Corinthians 2, 13 through 15 say it this way, I had no rest in my spirit because Paul's talking here, because I did not find uh Titus my brother, but taking my leave of them, I departed from Macedonia. Now, thanks be to God who always leads us in triumph in Christ. And here's what it says: and through us diffuses the fragrance of his what? of his knowledge in every place. For we are to God the fragrance of Christ among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing. And the point that I want to make here is this So it's really talking about everything in our lives. We are intended to be the fragrance of the knowledge of Christ to people. So, folks, it isn't just That I give somebody or present a 15-minute gospel presentation, and it doesn't really matter what my life is doing, and I just kind of move on. Now it doesn't mean that the power of the gospel can't save somebody in a situation like that. It can. But God's, the way that God has set it up, we are to be living out the gospel and really collectively as a body of believers living out of the gospel as well. We are to be a fragrance of the knowledge of Christ. There is this, there is to be, when we're witnessing to people, there is to We're salt and light in another way of saying it as well, biblically, Matthew 5. We are to make them thirsty to want to know the God we know. And so that is the kind of thing that is a biblical motivation. Any questions about the motivation to coming to Christ? Let's move on then and talk about the message. What is the message? And I want to say it, I want to ask, I want to really A lot of times when you hear a presentation of the gospel, there are a lot of them. I've been through EE and uh Evangelism Explosion and Child uh and uh C E F and all kinds of different ways of giving the gospel the exchange program which we've done here. But I want to do it a little bit, and we usually start with God's character, you move to sin, and how sin is offense against God and separates us from God, then you move to The solution, which is Jesus Christ, both his person and his work, and then you move to the appropriation for that. So you have this sort of uh linear linear thought process. But I actually want to ask this question. What is the heart of the gospel? Let me put it this way. If you have a bullseye and you have different circles around the bullseye and you've got the center of the bullseye. What is the center of the gospel? What is the heart of the gospel? And I tell you, there's a lot of this is this is absolutely necessary. You miss this, you miss the gospel. You can't have the gospel without this. Does anybody want to venture a guess at what that is? What is the heart of the gospel? Nobody wants to say. I don't want to be wrong on this. All right. Okay. Well you can't say go wrong with saying Jesus. Okay, but that's that is a What's the word? It's more than just Jesus is the heart of the gospel. Okay? Because the heart of the gospel has to include both the person of Christ and what else? Is the person of Christ enough? No. It's got to be the work of Christ. So the heart of the gospel has to be is actually the heart of the gospel is the work of Christ which requires the person of Christ. So what is the heart of the gospel? Does anybody know? Josh? No, the resurrection is is is important, extremely important, vital, but it's not the heart of the gospel. Okay, that is that is what 1 Corinthians 13 says the gospel is. Okay? Close. You all are close, and it's good you're close, because I'd be really worried if you weren't close. Okay. The grace of his glory. Okay, that is the result of the gospel, but that's not the heart of the gospel. This is good. I'm glad I'm you you will know by the end of the night. I don't think you'll forget because we're all okay, so here's what the heart of the gospel is. Let me ask I'm going to move through this a little bit. Okay, here's the heart of the gospel. Greg Gilbert, I highly recommend this book by the way. Greg Gilbert wrote a book called what's the name of the book? What is the gospel? That's what it's called. Yes, thank you, Josh It's called What is the Gospel? Okay. I had Transforming Power of the Gospel in my mind, which is written by somebody else. Yes. What is the Gospel by Greg Gil Gilbert? He says sadly The doctrine of substitution, this is the heart of the gospel, is probably one of the most, one part of the Christian gospel that the world hates most. People are simply disgusted at the idea that Jesus being punished for someone else's sin. The heart of the gospel. Where is the verses about it? That's 1 Corinthians 13. Okay, the heart of the gospel is right here. 2 Corinthians 5, verse 21. For he made him who knew no sin to be sin for us, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Another one, these are really the best the clearest. Clearest verses that talk about the heart of the gospel. Who himself bore our sin in his own body on the tree that we having died to sins might live for righteousness. Folks, the heart of the gospel is the substitution. Of the work of Christ. He paid our punishment. He took on our sin on himself and died for us in our place. It is the penal substitution. Of Christ is the technical term. Now that is if you don't have the guy if you don't have that, you don't have the gospel. It is the fact that we are we are should be must be punished. And that Christ took our punishment on himself, the substitutionary atonement of Christ. Why is that necessary? Because it says in Exodus chapter 34, verse 7, by no means will God Clear the guilty. There is no clearing of the guilty. What does that mean? It means that there must be a punishment for sin. God is is not, and I've heard it said this way even in witnessing to people, well, I sin, but God is a forgiving God. Be careful there. Yes, he he he is a forgiving God, but he is a just God, and he m he cannot just clear the guilty. He doesn't he can't just say, okay, you sinned, you've been an offense against me, and it's all gone away. He can't do that. That is against his character. Romans 4. 5, but to him who does not work but believes on him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is accounted for righteousness. So that is the substitutionary atonement of Christ. Now, let's think about that. The substitutionary work. He is our substitute. Now let's think about that. Number one, I've already said it. Why must Christ be our substitute? Why? Somebody tell me. Why must He be our substitute? Because God will not do what? He's not going to clear the guilty. So we know why. So we're going to go through who, what, when, where, why, how. So we asked the answer the question why. Who? Who was a substitute? Christ. Why was he qualified to be the substitute for our sin? Because he was sinless. If he had to pay for his own sin, he can't pay for our sin. Very practically. So he's sinless. Um who's sinless in this world? No one. So who had to who was only qualified to die for our sin? God. Because he's sinless. He had the sinless, so the sinless Son of God had to pay for our sin. So we have who, we have why, we've already talked about what. Okay? Who, what, when, where, why, where, where was it? Certainly on the cross. So when you think of the gospel, if you will think of that bullseye of the substitutionary work of Christ You can then be uh begin to understand the gospel and construct it and say, well why? Well no one God's not gonna clear the guilty. I've sinned, I'm a sense again I'm an offense against God, I've got to be I've got to have the punishment's gotta be paid, Jesus paid the punishment And you're back to the substitutionary work of Christ. Who has to do it? Christ has done it for me because of his perfection. Does that make sense? That is absolutely necessary to understand. And if you're presenting the gospel and you miss that, then you don't have the gospel. Yes? Right. So I don't know if you're not going to be able to do that. So all he won't clear the guilty. What Brad is saying is absolutely right. He won't clear the guilty guilty. All have sinned. All are guilty. Therefore there must be a punish there m someone must pay the punishment, and Christ is the only one that's able to do that. All right, that is important to understand, and we need to understand this about that. Let me go to this point here. More than uh some people literally say it this way that m uh Greg Gilbert points out that more than one author has called The substitutionary atonement of Christ, in other words, Jesus paying for sins he did not commit, paying our punishment, it's called, they call it divine child abuse. And yet to toss substitutionary atonement aside is to cut out the heart of the gospel. Now, just think about this for a minute. You know why that several of you gasped. You know why you gasped? Because that is so foreign to you to think that that to think in those terms. But you know what? That's the way the world thinks. Okay? The world thinks that is that is just not right, that this is it doesn't satisfy their justice. It satisfies God's just. But the thing, the idea that the Father would kill his son for us makes no sense to the world. They consider it to be something of abuse. Because if you didn't commit the crime, you shouldn't do the what? So So keep this in mind because when we get into the method and pr presenting the gospel, this is going to become important. This is this is the offense of the gospel, that and the fact it's exclusive. But it's only through Christ that we come to Him You know, you take those two things and it becomes very offensive to to the world. Um yeah, Jeff? But the idea of job abuse for instance. Yeah. So I I would totally agree with that. So I think it's crazy for people to say that. But that is what they say. So yeah, I don't I don't it it doesn't make it it'll break down for sure. Yeah. Is that what you're saying you're pointing out? Yeah. But it is it is quite interesting. It does not fit well with the sensibilities of people. You simply cannot leave it out, he says, Greg Gilbert says in his book, or even downplay it. uh in favor of other images or else you you're you litter the landscape of scripture with unanswered questions. It's just no way of getting around this. Alright. Let's go to the method here. How does one appropriate the gospel? Let's ask that question. Okay, take your Bibles, if you would, turn to Matthew chapter, I'm sorry, Romans chapter 10. And we're going to see from God's Word how the gospel is appropriated or how is it applied to someone. Romans chapter 10 And if you look at verse 9, you'll see it there. That if thou sh if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus. And believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. So you have in this verse it says, first of all, you need to confess. It means to agree with God, to say the same thing God says about something. Is what those saying. And it says, confess with your mouth. It says it with your mouth. Now, does that mean that a mute person can't be saved? It doesn't. Why is it saying that you need to confess it with your mouth? It's saying that you can't it is something that you must understand in order you you know you could understand something when you're able to articulate it. Does that make sense? If it's just a idea now you don't have to articulate it perfectly by the way. You don't have to know the word substitutionary atonement, for example But you know you understand something when you're able to articulate it, at least on some level. If it's just a idea that's not defined, then you don't really understand it. In other words, to say, well, Jesus, um, I just asked Jesus into my heart, for example. It's a very nondescript thing to say. What does that even mean? Okay. And so that's just an example. Did somebody have a question back there? Yes, Jeff? intent to make it vocal or public or not just within yourself? There might be that intent there. It does say later on in verse 13, if you call upon the name of the Lord, you'll be saved. But that call i i I mean I think so so the question is does making it public is it necessary in order to be saved? We would have to say no Because then it's we're we're calling we're including self-effort, which of course we've got lots of passages that s that go against that. So I'd have to say if Is the natural response to saving faith, is that going to be that you're going to make it public? Yes. Is it something that's required? No. Does that make sense? Okay. Romans 10, 9. So let's let there are really three things in this passage. Number one, you've got to understand it. Number two, you've got to agree with it. And number three, you have to accept it. And this acceptance includes repentance. That means there's a change of mind that results in a change of action. Now let me ask you this question. Let's just think about this for a minute. Which of these three is the hardest? And I've asked this question before on several occasions. I do this every year. Which of these three is the hardest for an adult to understand? Or to what which one of these three is the hardest for an adult to apply to their lives? Which one do you think? It's three. The hardest is to accept it. Do you remember? It's an offense. Okay? It's it's it's something it's a stumbling block. It's something that is the exclusivity of it, the substitutionary atonement being something that is not doesn't make sense to them. This is something that they, is it hard for an adult to understand the gospel? It's not hard. This is not difficult to understand the simple gospel plan of salvation. But acceptance, that's hard, isn't it? For for an adult. Agreement is there too, obviously. They don't agree. Some cases is it possible to agree and not accept It is possible to have intellectual assent to something, but not actually to accept it. For your very own. And so that is the those two things are the hard things for adults. But let's switch this around and ask the question, which of these is the hardest for children? It's not number three. It's what? It's number one. Now think about that, folks. You can get a four-year-old who wants to please you, as Millie mentioned earlier, to pray a prayer. If you have an invitation and you get it all get peek you I mean you can I'm not against invitations but if you if you do this thing the right way you can get every child just about to accept it. Am I right about that? Especially if you go and ask them one-on-one, hey, would you like to pray to ask Jesus as your as your Savior? Okay. It's easy for a child to accept it. But it's hard for them to understand it. That means, oh brother. Well, I'm glad I'm almost done with this. Oh, there it's back. Okay. Um, now it's gone. All right. Anyway. Yeah, okay. Um it's easy for a child to uh to accept, it's hard for them to understand. So so in our teaching When it comes to whether it's VBS or Truth Trackers or Children's Ministries and our teaching folks to children, what should we emphasize? Understanding. That's what it's hard for them. If we will continually teach them the truth of the gospel constantly uh qu questioning uh helping them to uh to to to break it apart, to understand it, understand the components of it, how it all works, what it's not, what it is. We want the gospel to be permeating everything we're teaching with our kids. That's why we switched to a curriculum uh for junior church that really emphasizes Christ throughout the scriptures and emphasizes the gospel throughout the scriptures rather than a moralism in the Old Testament. That is often a real problem in churches. So we want to really underst we want our children to really understand. And let me ask you this question. I'm really going to bend the envelope here a little bit with you. Is it possible for a child to understand and agree and then on their own later accept? Sure it is. Do I have to see it? Now, is there anything wrong with seeing it? No. But do I have to see it? So let me make a couple of things, a couple of just the way we do things here, just as far as teaching children and how we handle this. First of all, one of the things that we do here, and we're we really try to try to be careful about this, is that when someone comes, when a child comes to to to um want to know more about Christ or want to accept Christ. If their parent is in our church, if they're a member of our church or or we are we know they're saved. Then what w what what do you think may be a wise idea? Let's get the parent involved. It may be a w uh i it it I I'm just gonna suggest it really is a wise idea and really should be done. In fact I have a y a young I have young, you know, Caitlin's here tonight. I have Krista and Julie. If Julie comes and wants to be saved in one of your classes, not because I'm the pastor, but I want you to come and get me or my wife. Or after the service or after the something talk, hey that's great you want to do that, Julie, but but let's talk, let's let's talk about, let's get your parents involved. Okay. Now, does that mean then that does that mean then that uh you know somebody can't come to Christ if no, it doesn't mean that But if we're emphasizing understanding and we want acceptance to be something something that's really true, we want to make sure the parents are involved. A parent, if there's anybody that can read a child It's going to be their parent. Does that make sense? Now I'm not saying a parent a parent's going to be 100% on it either. They're not. But they've got a better shot at it than you or I do. Right? So we want to think about that. A couple of suggestions. So the emphasis of the gospel in teaching children should be on understanding rather than making decisions. I'm not again look, I hope people come to Christ at BBS I'm just we s sometimes we're so emphasizing they made a decision they made a decision in some in some certain cultures or we got five salvations this week or twenty-three salvations that we just really need to be careful about this When giving the gospel to children, we should err on the side of caution when bringing them to a decision. Can a child who fully understands the gospel come to saving faith on the decision of the error? We're already asked that question, yes So let me make this suggestion. If you are talking with a if you're a Bible teacher, for example, in vacation Bible school and you have an opportunity, first of all make sure that somebody else is with you. Don't go alone. That's a child protection issue, but We we do need to be careful about that. So don't be alone with a child when you're when you're doing this. Be in an open area and have somebody else with you. That's just for your own protection. And I'm saying that, frankly, and I don't mean to be overly, overly cautious about that, but we did have a be a parent uh several years ago, and and it and this was a scenario, uh one of our leaders was in a sanctuary It was in like this, except the other one. And and you know, so it's a big open room and somebody came in and saw saw the person alone and So we want to really stay away from and said, wait a minute, that's not that's not they weren't that weren't weren't part of a church or anything. Said is is that part of your policies or you know and so we we have to be careful about that. Um So make sure you have somebody with you. What is the so here's what we want to do then. We want to focus it on understanding. Now how do we do that? We do it by asking questions By asking thought-provoking questions. What is a, generally speaking, what is a good question to ask a child who wants to come to Christ? What kind of question? Or let me say it this way, what's a bad question? What is a, or not bad, but what is a not as great of a question? Miranda. Yes. No, right. Okay? So one that's a 50-50 chance of being right, just by guessing. Okay? And if you have the right facial expressions, it's like goes up to about 85% chance of being right Okay. So a a a question that has a yes or no answer is a question that is not really going to help to see if a child really understands the gospel. So we're going to have to ask questions that do not end in a yes or no. Yes? Why they want to do it? Yeah, right. Good. So that that appeals to motive, which we first talked about. Why why that's one of the first opening questions. It like so let's say somebody comes to you a child comes to you And they ask they you know you give them the gospel and that and that and you're talking and she they come to to to want to be saved. And um that was fun. So anyway, and they want to be saved. And um and they come to you, well, uh um why did you come see me is a great question. Now you don't say why'd you come see me? I mean that would be bad. But But just say something like, um, hey, I'm glad you came back to see me. Uh uh can you can you explain why you why you did that? Something like that. Okay, let me go through that's a good one. Go ahead, let's let's let's get a few others on here. Other questions that might be good good questions to ask for comprehension. Lisa. So I have a question. How do you How do you ask them if this is something they come up with on their own or if the whole spirit Probably not a great question to ask them. No anyway. Um I'm asking. How do you discern that if it's really Okay, so let me ask you this. There is a sense in which we can't, to be honest with you. What we can do is we know there are three, so I'm going to go back to it and say, we've got we know there are three components to saving faith, right? Understanding, agreement, and acceptance. There's a large amount, I mean we we can't know whether the Holy Spirit's working them in them or not. There are evidences one way or the other, but we know that the Holy Spirit is really working in them Part of that is going to be they're going to understand, right? So if they don't understand, what are we then going to assume? It's not that the Holy Spirit isn't working, but they're at least not ready to be saved. They don't understand. Okay? I don't think there really is an answer to your question, Lisa. So to really be able to identify when the Holy Spirit's working and when it when they're not on something other than You know, I mean I think a parent might be able to know by motive that might help, um, but that's gonna be a tough one. Miranda? I think that first question of why do you want to say at least rule that's a good Right. Because then if they're coming up with kind of weird answers, kind of thing. I thought I'd get extra points, you know, something like that. That would be Right. Good. So let's go through a couple of these. What is the problem with with your sin? What do you say to the child if they say? Because My friend did. I mean, so uh it's very very simple to say, well, you know, I I'm I'm glad your friend cares about you um and wants you to come to know the Lord. But you know what I think I think it'd be a good idea for you to go back and make sure you're listening every every night And uh listen more to that's that's your answer out, by the way, all the time is uh unless it's the last night. Um but but uh answer you you know um Yeah, and you yeah, and and that's uh you can always I mean I'll take these opportunities every time to go through the whole gospel again. There's no reason to push them to an ex uh a decision But yeah, usually I'll just say, you know what, you I'm really glad you have some interest in this, but can you can you uh you you probably should go back and listen better. You know, listen more not better. Uh go go back and and and uh continue to learn, continue to listen to that Thanks. Um good question. Yes. Yeah. I think I think if you say something like that, you can't do that. Uh um I'm I'm here, I'm available to talk talk if you ever if you want to come back sometime. That's I think that's okay. I I don't know that I would say if you still feel the same way because we actually want them to feel a different way than they're feeling. But but I probably would say I I don't think it'd be wrong to say, hey look, I'm here to help you understand the Bible if you i if you have any questions, something like that. Um I don't think that would be a a bad thing to say. Jeff? Is it better to push them back to VPS to learn or is it better to try and use them through it and that conversation depth? I I personally feel like it would be best to leave them back to VBS. I mean I don't have any problem if you want to go through the gospel and some of the components of the gospel. Here's why. This is just my thinking. The Romans chapter 10, I think it's in that passage, it says that, and also says this in 1 Corinthians 1, there is a special, there is a particular method that God uses to bring people to saving faith and that's the preaching of his word. And so that's the public proclamation of the word. Now it doesn't mean that somebody can't come to Christ one-on-one and and and that is preaching actually if you're doing that. But it seems to me that that you you can bring stuff it's so easy, especially with children, to sort of drive them to a decision. If it's a one-on-one, okay, do you understand everything? Yeah, I get what you're saying Okay, now now I I think it's better if they don't understand to go ahead and and kick it back to the to the pub public group in a very kind way. Um but that's my that's kind of my personal opinion, but but anyway. the adultness case to mention the teacher like hey this person has some questions like can the teacher adds up or no Well the teacher's primarily gonna be the one involved in doing this actually, but but um the Bible teachers are. Um but yeah, I I yeah, alerting the teacher is not uh communicating communicating with teachers certainly a good Yeah, nothing wrong with doing that. So uh why did Jesus die and rise from the grave is another question. So if you ask what the problem with your sin is, and they say it's bad, we know it's not enough. You know, they don't really understand. Why did Jesus die and rise from the grave? Just do they understand that? And what why did that happen What is necessary in order to accept Jesus' gift? What's necessary? If they say I need to pray a prayer, maybe they don't understand. Do you want to know God? Just a question. Do you want to know God? Or do you want to have a personal relationship with God? Or something like that? Yes, if uh if yes, what do you think you should do? So you're asking asking questions that to see if they they have comprehended Message questions, which are most important probably. and in terms of method questions, how they're going to come to Christ, and ask those kind of questions to help them understand. At the end of the day, It lets just I'll just take my kids. At the end of the day, um my kids will come to Christ when they're ready and when God's ready for them to come to Christ. So I'm not at all worried. That if you don't, or I'm just using my kids for an example here, if you if they don't get saved at VBS this year, then I'm not at all worried about that I would much rather them have a clear understanding of the gospel and then come to a place where they now have an understanding and now they're agreeing and now they're really accepting the gospel. And it and I cannot say what age that that will work because I know I was very young. But but we I we want to emphasize understanding. That's really, really what we want to emphasize. All right. Does this make sense? Any other questions about this? Yes, Miranda. Yeah. Or comment. Letting a teacher know about their students. But I I would add that if there are two kids, then They should tell their parents, hey, your kids have a question. Because even you know, parents should be involved in the arts and sense, but sometimes they Good. Yeah, uh uh as much communication with parents as you can is what we want. We want lots of communication with parents. And I I would really you know I'm not saying that you would never allow somebody to come a child to come to a decision without their parents' knowledge. But in most cases the pref I I would I in most cases it's better if they don't. It's better to talk to the parents. And there's one very practical reason for that is they may have done this three times in four four B BBS Okay. Have you ever had that before by the way? I have. I'll just be honest with you. I have thought I led somebody to Christ, to the VBS in the past, and I go and tell their parents, their parents go, yeah, he does it at every VBS Okay. So so talk to the parent. Communicate with the parent on this. Make sure that uh that we're we're we're we we really want that to happen because of those original introductory problems of false assurance and those kinds of things. We want to make sure that the gospel is really penetrating hearts and minds. Yes, Rose? Sometimes it's we have to do one child coming over and over what sometimes instead of focusing on okay we've got to get to the decision. Maybe maybe not. So maybe they've already Yeah. Maybe they need to hear the gospel from not another another story from the Bible. Maybe lamb going astray and then he was like a lamp. With the guide for us will try different aspects. And I'm saying the same thing approaching like fifty different Yeah, because you actually have fifty different illustrations or more in the Bible and the gospel. There's lots of different different we've got a lot of different examples of that, and there's there's a reason for that. We want our children to be saturated with the gospel, not just understand a 15-minute rendition of the gospel Does that make sense? And if that if that's the case, because what is the power? The power is the gospel. Remember John or Romans chapter 1, verse 16? It is the power of God to bring salvation to those who believe. So we want the gospel to be able to have free course to do its work to bring people to salvation. Um the gospel is the power. It's it's not my persuasion, it's not my ability to get people down an aisle, it's it's the gospel that's really the power. And we want to make sure that we we place the power where it's uh where we we give the emphasis where it's supposed to be Any other questions or comments or thoughts on this? Alright, we we go over this every year, but I think it's just helpful for us to remember these things as we go into vacation Bible school. Again, I hope people come to Christ and If God I I hope children come to Christ. I'm not all downing that idea, uh, but I I do want us to be careful about this. I I started this when we had one, they weren't a member of our church. They were out coming out on the outside and helping with Vacation Bible School when I I listened to their gospel presentation several years ago, um uh the first night and I said, Oh, we have a problem. And I th he was a young young man, nobody in this church. He's a young man and um The next day I said, okay, have a seat. Here's what you're going to say tonight basically. And he and here you're going to repeat and I made him repeat it after me. And he was he was submissive to it and he actually thanked me, uh which was good. So he was that was a a good thing. But um anyway, so we want to be careful about that, uh just understanding how to give the gospel All right, let's go ahead and pray. If you have any other questions about this, please come and see me and and uh I am praying for a great great vacation Bible school coming up and and the gospel really would uh work do its work in the lives of kids and adults, hopefully