Many years ago now the passage that we're going to look at today became the focus of a Sunday school. series that I was a part of. This is probably over a decade ago now. And I have to admit that it was extremely influential then and has been extremely influential in my life to this day. It is this passage and the teaching from it that still lingers in my brain. It affects, it truly does affect how I live my life. Some of the words I use, some of the thoughts I have, some of the actions that I do they really do come from this passage. I can link back to to it to this And yet, with all the knowledge and with all the impact that this passage has had in my life, the truth is that it is still hard to abide to this teaching. Because this part of Scripture, like much of God's truth, is too easy to ignore when it is convenient, is it not? The principles in this message from Jesus are some of the clearest, yet some of the most difficult for me as his follower to truly follow. As much time as I have spent in this passage, it is still very much a work in progress for me. And if that's true for me, then it is likely the same for many of us. And with that in mind, I'll have to go to go to God in prayer and ask for his help on our time together. Let's pray. Father, I thank you for your word and I thank you for placing this teaching of Jesus in your word. Lord, I I thank you that The truth is there and it is clear to us and it is right there in front of us, and we have no doubts or misgivings or confusion as to what you have said. And so I pray, Lord, as we go to this, that you would open up our eyes and open up our hearts. I thank you, Father, that you've given us your spirit That illumines the word to us. And Lord, as as I preach, Lord, I ask for your help because I know that apart from your strength and grace, I cannot do this in my own strength. So I cast my dependence on you, and I pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Many of you know, maybe not all of you, but many of you know that I operate a side business. which involves metal fabrication and um and welding. And I've been doing it now for a number of years. I've been doing it long enough to where if if I have material, if I have metal that I'm familiar with and thicknesses that I am familiar with that I can simply just go to my machine and go to the settings that I know I like and just run with it. But if I've gotten a job that's a little more unfamiliar to me, metal that I'm not as familiar with and thicknesses that I'm not as familiar with, then I can go to the trusty manual, which will give me the default setting for that particular metal and that particular thickness. So I'm appreciative of that because it's either sometimes it's on the machine itself, sometimes it's in the manual. It tells me the default settings so that I'm set up for success and I don't do a really bad job. So, in that sense, the default setting is good. But let me ask you something. If we were to talk about the default setting for a person or a human being. at all. Would that be a positive connotation or a negative one? I'm hearing whispers even now. Yeah, it's it's gonna be negative. Right? Because when we think of default setting we we we think of no other influences on that person. We think of A person left to themselves, their own devices, right? And it's true. A default setting for us as people, whether we're believers or not, is not good. Well, in this passage, Jesus is letting us know in clear terms where people's default settings are. And because of our fallen nature and where we rest in without God's help, this passage is so helpful for us to show the tendencies. the the leanings that can go otherwise unnoticed in our lives. Now I should say at the outset here that our passage today is within a greater context. This is smack dab pretty much in the middle of the very popular sermon that many of you know, I'm sure, the Sermon on the Mount. And within this teaching as a whole, Jesus is showing the people that have been following him up to this point what it looks like to be a true disciple of him in this world. So with that said, let's go to our our text here and read verses, we'll read six uh 19 through 24. It says here, lay not up treasures for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt. And where thieves break through and steal. But lay up for yourself treasures in heaven where neither moth nor rough dost corrupt, and where thieves do not break through and steal. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. The light of the body is the eye. If therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light. But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness? No man can serve two masters For either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. So Jesus here depicts for us the first tendency that we have as people to live for. True followers of Jesus need to avoid living for the tendency of earthly treasures. We need to avoid the tendency of living for earthly treasures. He explains to us. That we have two options there. We can either live for heavenly treasures or earthly treasures. And those are the only two options. What does he say here? He says that that if we lay for ourselves treasures in heaven. That is where moth and rust will not corrupt, and where thieves will not break through or steal. It's kind of an interesting thought where we talk talk about moth and rust corrupting something. It's not something that we say every day for sure. But the idea of moth and rust moth Would have Moss would have had very uh many opportunities in certain time periods of the s the the seasons to actually go in where perhaps fine clothing would be and eat holes through it and basically devalue it Rust, I think we understand rust pretty well, is the idea of something eating into or consuming as as time goes on. The idea is is the wear and tear. And we we see this all the time, don't we? It is a very universal fact that is something that mankind has made. Something that we have created or given time, it will in a sense be corrupted. That new car that you got a few years ago or maybe many years ago is not so new anymore, right? Or that used car that you got is more used than it was when you got it. Things break down, things don't last, they are temporary. Jesus is saying, don't focus on those things. He is reminding us, because he's reminding us how perishable, how temporal all these things, all these earthly valuables are. Time eats away at everything. And then we see that in the creation as well. The creation, although when God made it was perfect and good, very good, he said, the creation has fallen, and it will it is perishing away before our very eyes. It's all in a degenerative state. All that we see, all that we hold dear, if it is possessions, if it is riches, if it is wealth, It's not going to last. And no matter how much we may love it, care for it, take care of it, it will eventually go away. And when we go, we don't take any of it with us. But compare that Compare those temporal earthly treasures, earthly valuables, compare those things with the things of value that time has no effect on. Think about that for a moment. Jesus makes this statement in this passage after he talks about the Different things that are corrupted, different things that time is eating away at. He's giving us this warning for this very reason in verse 21. Why should we lay up for ourselves treasures in heaven and not treasures on earth? Well, because, he says in verse 21, where your treasure is, There will your heart be also. What you value, that's where your heart is You know, I'm sure we've all heard the the statement. It's very familiar, I think, to all of us. Home is where the heart is It's a catchy phrase, sounds nice, probably good for a Hallmark card or a Hallmark Christmas special or something, but actually according to the Bible, home is not where your heart is. What you treasure, where your treasure is, that is where your heart is. What you consider to be most valuable, that is where your heart is. So that means the up the point of this warning, this command that Jesus has for us He's telling us so that we can have our affections, what we place true value on, on the right thing. Because our hearts can lead us places, right? Where we put our passion towards, our obsession towards, that is where our heart is drawn. And boy, we want the direction that our heart is drawn to be in the right place, the right goal, the right path. So he's showing us this tendency. This one commentator talks about this quote from Martin Luther. He says this: What a man loves, that is his God. For he carries it in his heart, he goes about it day and night, he sleeps and wakes with it. Be what it may, wealth or self or pleasure or renown. He says, Whatever your treasure is, you are carrying it with you wherever you go. And you don't necessarily have to have that treasure with you because you are focused on it and thinking about it. Well, at this point you may be thinking, you may be wondering, that while you may have many things that you are passionate about, you still believe that you have God supreme in your heart. Well, if that's the case, Jesus' next warning is showing us where we might have a pitfall if we believe that. He goes into this concept of the lamp and the light and the eye and darkness. Let's read those couple verses here again. Verse 22. The light of the body is the eye. If therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light. But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness? Now he uses a lot of terms and a lot of pictures with all this, and it can be kind of difficult to discern what he's saying here. Let's see if we can break it down. The idea here of your eye being the the light or or clear good in the KJV it says if your eye be single In other words, if your eye is clear from distraction, if your eye is singularly focused on something. on on the right thing. Not looking two ways. What this is talking about is having a singleness of purpose. And and let me tell you that that that concept right there is key to this whole passage. If you don't understand that, we can very likely, you may very likely stray in the rest of the interpretation of this passage. We're going to come back to that uh as we go through, but this indicates a singleness of purpose He says that if this is the case, then your whole body shall be full of light. So if you are focused in the right direction, where God wants you to focus on, and you are single single-mindedly that headed that direction. Then your whole body, your whole self will be full of light. Darkness will not be able to creep in. But it says here: if thine eye be evil, You contrast that with single. The idea here then is that this bad eye or this evil eye someone who is distempered or distracted or uh split in its in its focus. Looking in many places places Some of those places someone might be looking at that are distracted by are wicked and are evil. Some maybe maybe not morally wrong, but just distracted. He says that your whole body that whole body then will be full of darkness. And to our minds, that doesn't completely make sense. Well, because you know if you if you let's talk about liquids for a second. If you put in I don't know why you do this, if you put in milk and then you put in coke, well it's it's fifty percent milk and fifty percent coke, right? But we're not dealing with liquids. We're dealing with spirit-filled living. We're dealing with our pursuits and the direction that we go. And he says here that if your eye be evil, if you are you are focused in multiple places. Then that darkness takes over. Look at what he says next. He says, if therefore that that light is in thee be darkness, How great is that darkness? Again, how this at face value looks looks like a contradictory contradiction in terms. He's saying, the light that is in you be darkness? Well, I thought light was light and darkness was darkness and it doesn't go together. But what he's saying here is that someone has a split focus. Maybe two directions, three directions, four directions, however many it might be, that you may have the pursuit of what God wants you to have. You may be heading in the right direction, but these other distractions are clouding your path and eventually consume it. So that in this in our in Jesus' illustration, the light that you have, because you are split-focused, becomes darkness. It's consumed by the darkness. And that's why he says, how great is that darkness! It completely envelops your purposes and your pursuits. That light that is in us becomes consumed by darkness of our double or triple or even multi-purposed life. And let me ask you, at this point How many purposes do you have in your life? How many plans? How many ideas? How many goals? How many do you have And where do you prioritize them? Because that is the heart of which Jesus is getting at with this portion of his message. Those pursuits, those purposes that we have, if they are not of eternal value, have the potential to darken and consume the light in us. You know what he's saying? He's saying the opposite of what we think very often. What we think very often as people, it's part of our natural tendencies. Is that we can have our irons in multiple fires at a time and be equally focused on all of them. Jesus says you can't. Now this isn't this isn't talking about multitasking at work. This isn't this isn't Your daily function. This remember this is in the context of being a follower of Christ. Okay? If you're trying to be a follower of Christ, He's saying you cannot have equal parts all of these different plans and purposes. You cannot have equal parts all these treasures and valuables. First and foremost needs to be your heavenly treasures. You might at this time be asking, well, what are those heavenly treasures? We're going to get there. We're going to get there. Listen to one of the commentaries on this passage that I read. He says this: a man's inward purpose, scope, aim in life determines his character. If these not be be not simple and heavenward, but distorted and double, what must all the other faculties and principles of our nature be which take their direction and character from these? And what must the whole man and the whole life be but a mass of darkness In sum, having our hearts singularly focused toward heavenly treasures or things of eternal value throughout all portions of our lives is what Jesus calls us to. This is what he is calling us to in this passage. Having our hearts singularly focused toward heavenly treasure or things of eternal value throughout all portions of our lives is what Jesus calls us to. And we deceive ourselves if we think we can hold to other pursuits and earthly treasures at the same level as our heavenly treasures. We deceive ourselves if we think we c we do that and we are unaffected in any way. How and why is this? Well Jesus answers that perfectly with his next what he says next. Verse 24, no man can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. The idea of mammon It is a very strange word with with uh uh a fairly unidentifiable origin. But the idea, especially in this context of what he's talking about, is basically riches or wealth. You cannot serve God and your riches and your treasures and your wealth. Isn't it interesting, though, in this passage that he says serve? Think about that for a moment. Do we look at our possessions, our treasures, our valuables, and think that we serve them? No, not at all, right? No, in in fact, i we would think the role the the relationship is opposite, correct? We would think, no, they serve me. I'm in control. I'm the one making decisions with all my stuff That's how it goes. But Jesus says the opposite. Jesus says, no. You serve them. You have the option, serve God or serve your riches and your wealth. Well that's different. But when you think about what he said earlier, it makes sense. Remember what he said? Where your heart is, where your treasure is, rather, there will your heart be also How does this work though? What is to be our approach to our wealth and possessions? Is it possible to be wealthy and serve God as he expects? You know, we have many examples in the Bible, not perfect examples, but several examples in the Bible. That they were wealthy, they did have riches, and they were able to serve God. I think of some of the kings that that um that were in reign over Israel. I think of people like Job. Very wealthy. Says he was the richest man in that area. Abraham was also a very wealthy man. And while these people weren't perfect, they their their the body of their life was one that served and pleased God. You know, in our culture, I think we can all agree on this, by our world standards, I think it is safe to say that everyone in this room is wealthy. It's hard to avoid that when you look at some what some other people deal with. What other people do not have. You know, it is the American lifestyle that you and I live with that makes this command from Jesus one of the very hardest to abide by. I'm going to read to you uh a commercial, a transcript from a commercial that aired as probably a few years ago now. And I will say at the outset, the the commercial is It's engaging and I like it because it oozes with um American male macho-ness, okay? It really does. And I think as I read this to you you'll you'll see that. But it's uh it's a It's a commercial for a luxury car. Okay? And it starts out with this. It starts out with this guy turned away from the camera, and he's looking over his backyard with all of his things, this big swimming pool and all this stuff. Okay? This is how it begins. Why do we work so hard? For what? For this, pointing at all the backyard? For stuff? Other countries they work, they stroll home, they stop by the cafe, they take August off. Off. Why aren't you like that? Why aren't we like that? Because we're crazy driven hardworking believers, that's why. Those other countries think we're nuts. Whatever. Were the Wright brothers insane? Bill Gates? Les Paul? Ali, were we nuts when we pointed to the moon? That's right. We went up there and you know what we got? Board. So we left. Got a car up there and we left the keys in it. Do you know why? Because we're the only ones going back up there, that's why. And at this point he's gone from his he he leaves the room and comes back he was in leisure attire and he comes back wearing this tailored suit walking toward his brand new luxury car, right? And then he says this, but I digress You work hard, you create your own luck, and you gotta believe anything is possible. As for all the stuff, that's the upside of only taking two weeks off in August. And then in French he says, is it not? You wanna say that for us, Guillaume? And he says, there it is. Thank you very much. And as much as I enjoy watching the commercial because of the macho ness that it gets me going, all that testosterone I there's there's serious flaws with this thing. I mean serious flaws. You know, the commercial begins by placing a doubt in the viewer's mind. That if the stuff that we have is really all worth it, I mean, why bother? Why work so hard? But at the end, it screams That working as hard as we do for all this stuff is completely worth it, as he drives away in his awesome luxury car So just keep living the way you are, it's it's telling you. It demands no change in our lifestyle whatsoever. Keep living for the stuff is what it's saying. You know, for us it is so easy to get the next thing, whether it's expensive or inexpensive. And that without realizing it, our lives are revolving around those things. And if that is what we are truly valuing, heavenly treasures will not be able to take the top spot in our hearts My friends, we as followers of Jesus, we can make the mistake of believing that we can have our hearts in multiple treasures and still be adequately centered on spiritual things and what God wants. God wants our hearts, first and foremost, so that he and what is of him will be our treasure. Jesus says here, our hearts cannot be fully devoted to two separate treasures. Only one will be supreme in the hearts of a person at a time. You know, according to Jesus, in this passage right here, our treasures can be summed up into two categories: earth-bound treasures and heaven-bound treasures. Earthbound treasures and heaven bound treasures. And the examples um The examples of earthbound treasures from Jesus and these two verses, we can see that they fall under the category of our pursuits and our purposes. It isn't just about having the things or enjoying the things. It's about the pursuit of it and the purpose behind it. And I mean the the The scope of all that could fall under material possessions or earthbound treasures are a lot. And it's not always just physical, but let me let me list a few here for thought. Just the idea of certainly having possessions, making more money, seeking promotions, having position or status, fame, having a large bank account, your physical appearance. Goals, expectations for a spouse, your children, and the and what you're thinking about in the church is not exempt either. Earthbound treasures have a variety of forms and they could hook us without our realizing it. It is too easy to be focused on these earthbound treasures and little else. And when we do, we can miss what God has called us to live for. What about heaven-bound treasures? What do they look like? Well, some ideas that we could come under. They still fall under the category of pursuits and purposes. And they fall under the the category of being a part of a local church, involved in the ministries at sub-level, involved in other people's lives. And God has instituted the church for that to happen in. So it's not just enough to Rub shoulders with an occasional stranger. It's not enough to while that's good. It's not enough to have a couple relationships that are good at work and maybe will lead to spiritual things. No, it it's it's here. It's among the body of believers that it happens. Living a life that's worthy of the gospel. Wherever you are. Giving out the message that Jesus saves, telling others, this is part of heavenly treasures or heaven-bound treasures. Those things will last. Moss and rust can't touch it. I know that was a lot. It's a lot to take in. But Jesus doesn't stop there. That's only the first tendency, folks. There's a second tendency that we have that we need to avoid. And that ten that tendency is that we can live a life focused merely on our temporary daily needs. True followers of Jesus need to live free of need-based anxiety. That's our second point. True followers live for heaven-bound treasures and avoid living for earth-bound treasures. True followers of Jesus need to live free of need-based anxiety. What does he say here? He says in verse 25, Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, nor yet for your body. What ye shall put on, is not the life more than meat and the body than raiment? Behold the fowls of the air, for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor do they gather into barns, yet your heavenly Father feedeth them Are ye not much better than they? Which of you, by taking thought, can add one cubit unto his stature? And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow, they do not toil not Neither do they spin, and yet I say unto you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field which is to day and cast in the oven to morrow, shall he not much more Clothe ye, O ye of little faith. Therefore, take no thought saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or wherewithal shall we be clothed? For after all these things the Gentiles seek, for your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things Jesus is saying to his followers in this Sermon on the Mount, he's saying that he is noting the day-to-day tendency that all people have to be solely focused on our personal needs. and little else. Being focused on our personal needs and little else. Jesus is imploring us to not be concerned with the daily things that we need to survive, food, drink, and clothing. Now Just spoke to you about all our earthly treasures and so all the things that we have, and this is sort of the other end of the spectrum. What about the people that don't have as much? What about the people? Maybe you do have a lot, but the per that particular person or family has gotten into some trouble financially. Maybe it was their fault, maybe it wasn't, don't know. But it's at that time that we begin to worry about what we need. Right? We need enough money to pay for this and to pay for that. And I think if we were to poll everybody There is probably some point in everybody's life where maybe you weren't dirt poor, but you were in a position where you lost your job. Or you were out of work, or whatever it was, and the future suddenly looks grim. You look in the future and you don't have answers. It's just a fog. And you don't know you don't know what's going to happen. It's at that point that we either get very discouraged and depressed, or we trust. And Jesus is imploring us to trust. How does he do that? Well, he proves that we needlessly worry about these things By giving us two illustrations from nature. And he does that to show our worth to the Father. He first says to look at the birds of the air. Birds, they have no reasoning capability, they have no decision making, they rely on instinct. And he says they don't sow, they don't reap. They don't gather into barns. They don't do anything to prepare for the future, is what he's saying. Like people do. And yet, he says, your father in heaven feeds them. He doesn't just leave them to die. And then he asks this question. They're birds. Aren't you more valuable than just a bunch of birds? And the obvious question is, yes, you are. You are more valuable to the Father in that Then he says, consider the lilies of the field, the flowers, and how they grow. They don't toil, they don't work for what they're doing, right? They don't spend, they don't do anything to make themselves grow and be profitable and prosperous and be healthy. They don't do any of that. And he says here, if God clothes the grass of the field, which is there today and gone to morrow Used for another purpose, thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O of little faith? See, Jesus is using an argument here. He's saying It's basically from greater to less. You as people, we as people, we are of much more value to God. Than these other things. These are less valuable to God. But if God has ordered it so that they will be taken care of, the birds and the grass and the flowers. He doesn't suffer them to helplessly perish. He sustains them without any of the processes that people do. Will he then see his own children using all the means which reason dictates for procuring the things needful for the body? Looking up to himself at every step and yet leave them to starve No, my friends, that's not how God operates. It's not how God operates. Which does bring the question, though. Some people are in dire situations, and maybe you know some, maybe you don't. And what do we do with that? What about people who do actually starve and come into those places? And all I can say onto that point is that even Job himself trusted God enough that he said, Even if he slays me, yet will I trust him. That is the greatest form of trust I think we could have, apart from trusting him for our salvation. He says here also, for all these things do the Gentiles seek. What is he saying there? Well he's saying that even those those that were are without God, this is how they live They live for the day-to-day needs. They live for the earthly treasures. And he's saying, contrasting, you, you want to be a follower of me Well, if you're doing this, you're living like an unbeliever, is what he's saying. He's saying, don't live like them. You are called to live for something more. Now we skipped over a statement that I want to go back to. Verse 25. At the end of it, it says what? It says, Is not the life more than meat and the body more than raiment? It's kind of a curious statement. What is he saying there? What is he saying? What is he implying by this statement? He is saying, your life is a gift. You're not some cosmic accident. You've been given this life on purpose. And your life was meant for more than just scrapping for food. and looking for the next uh item to wear. The life that you've been given wasn't given to you to waste time on worrying for things that God has already promised He's going to supply you with And we must be of the firm mindset that God, no matter what, will take care of us care of us. And when that is established in our minds, when that is purposed in our hearts. It becomes a part of who we are. Yes, no matter what, God will take care of me. Or if you have a family, yes, no matter what, God is going to take care of us as a family. When that becomes firm belief, conviction in our hearts, then we are freed to live the life focused on what He wants us to be focused on. Our lives were never meant to be encompassed by these mere needs Or going back to the first tendency, it wasn't our life was never meant to be encompassed by these temporal treasures of this earth. But how many of us would look at our lives and realize that the scope of our life doesn't even go beyond what we are concerned about and what we treasure? Your life, my life, is supposed to be a whole lot more than that. The scope of our lives is supposed to touch well beyond the barriers of what we value on this earth and what we are concerned about. You know, it's like a king with a kingdom. Picture this with me, if you will. And he's ruling over this kingdom. And he's got subjects under him. And there's process and building and a lot going on. And he's assigned duties to help to many people to help further the progress of that kingdom. But one day the king finds out that some of the subjects aren't going along with the program. In fact, they're they're kind of going against what the king has said, because as he looks on, he finds out that they aren't going along with their plan because they're busy building their own kingdoms. So they can't focus outside of their own needs and wants to help the king be build his kingdom. Now, we look at that story and we think, man, that that wouldn't happen in a real kingdom, would it? Well, I don't know. It would be ridiculous to rebel against an all-powerful king, wouldn't it? But how are we any different when we can't focus beyond our temporary treasures and our personal life concerns? How can we why why are we are we any different if we can't get beyond the scope of those things Jesus says in this passage, you, you and your life was meant for so much more than that. Your life is to be more about food more than food, more than your needs, more than your concerns, and more than your temporary treasures. Now that isn't to say that we can't have earthly treasures. That isn't to say that we never get worried, never get concerned. Uh that we wouldn't be human if it was that was the case. But remember, Jesus says that what we truly treasure, that is where our hearts will be devoted to He is calling us to not be solely purposed on and merely pursuing those things, but to broaden the scope of our pursuits and our purposes, to include, to to to infuse in us the priority of living for his purposes and his pursuits Whether we have temporal earthly treasures and anxiety-based needs. And let me let me let me mention this just as a as a uh as a help. I find a as I talk with people, we either we usually tend to lean one way or the other. You know what I mean by that? Some of us I think have more of a leaning towards those earthly treasures and focusing on them. And can I just be honest, that's me. I have a lot of goals. I have a lot of plans. Some of them I don't know if any of them will ever happen, but but I can very easily, I've got to watch myself very carefully, because I see myself straying from these warnings and these commands that Jesus gives us. But but when it comes to worry and and and we've been my family and I we've been in positions where things have not been so secure financially and so forth. But when it came to those times, yeah, it was perplexing and confusing, but I never disbelieved that God wouldn't trust us. But maybe some of you are different. Maybe you could take or leave the brand new car, maybe you could take or leave the the cool stuff. But when it comes to worrying and and the future, maybe that's where you tend to ha struggle. Maybe that's where your tendencies lie. Think about it. Which is it? Where do you tend to fall? Maybe you fall to both, maybe that's true, but I see that that many times people lean one way or the other if they're going to falter in this. Whether we're talking about those temporary earth earthly treasures, whether we're talking about those anxiety-based needs that we focus on and worry about. It is so easy to limit the scope of our thinking and effort and direction in life to nothing more than those things. My friends, God has called us, Jesus is calling us to so much more than that Now Jesus is not saying here, don't go into work tomorrow. Don't buy clothes or food anymore. He isn't saying to he's he's not saying any of that. And don't don't misinterpret that. But he is saying don't limit the scope of your life to just those purposes and those pursuits. If that is all we're living for, then we're missing it. We're missing what God intended for us as his children. So with all that, what is it? What is God calling us towards? What is he calling his followers to really live for, to really be purposed towards? What are we supposed to have in the crosshairs of our scope? That's the last verse of our passage, verse 33. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. The answer is that God's kingdom and his purposes and his standards are to come first. And everything else, while there and necessary in many cases, all of that is secondary. The interesting thing is that seeking God's kingdom first, his purposes first, it isn't necessarily to the exclusion of the other pursuits and purposes we may have. We can pursue the kingdom of God every day in all that we're doing. Did you catch that? We can pursue the kingdom of God every day in all the things that we are involved in. The problem arises when we have it backwards. What do I mean by that? Well, the the problem when we have it backwards, it means that we cling to our own kingdom. We cling to our own building our little kingdom and we cling to those earthly treasures and we cling to those uh needs and concerns that we have And we're we're busy doing all of that every day, and then at the end, somewhere in there, we're gonna tack on, oh yeah, and I'm I'm living for God's kingdom too. Do you see the difference? It's stark the contrast. And what does Jesus say about that? I'm not making it up. He says it. He says your life is full of darkness. And how great is that darkness. So don't have it backwards. God's kingdom, his pursuits, his purposes, they are to come first. And that doesn't mean you abandon your life and what you're doing. But all that you're doing is for his kingdom. So I go to work. And I don't go work just to make money. I don't go to work to just Get by. No, that's a means to an end. Yes, it provides for my family, and I'm thankful for that. But man, God has me in that place for a reason. God has you in the places that you work for a reason. And it's not for you to build your kingdom. What lives do you touch that nobody else in this church touches? What lives does yours touch that maybe no other Christian touches? What opportunities do you have where you work, in your neighborhood, the people that you're with? You say, I'm a s I'm a mom. I don't get out ever. So this is just a bunch of baloney. And and you know what, if you're thinking that I can understand it, maybe not with the baloney part, but if if you're thinking that I can understand that. But my friends, if I could just speak to you just for a moment, don't devalue the responsibility and the task that God has given to you with your children. My goodness. What an opportunity that is. And my friends, God has gifted you mothers. With a love and a and and and a and a focus that we men often don't have. We need you. And maybe God gives you opportunities outside of that. Take them. And uh we we joke, my wife and I, we sometimes we we we think that No, if if if our kids just make it alive when they're 18, I think we've succeeded. And and that's good, and it's kind of more joking than serious. But seriously, it's a whole lot more than that. It's a whole lot more going on in the raising of these kids than just survival. And do you think that raising your kids is apart, separate, from living for God's kingdom? Oh, don't, don't think that way. That is an integral part to living for God's kingdom. Embrace it. Take it on. My friends, he wants all of you. He wants all of your life, not just the bits and portions that we're willing to give up. We are to live according to his standards, not our own. When we became followers of Jesus, we became citizens of God's kingdom. Then doesn't it just make sense that we would live for his kingdom? For the kingdom of the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. Focus on his kingdom every day. As we wrap up, as we conclude here. Are you living in any of the tenden in either of the tendencies that Jesus mentions here? Do you see yourself as a focuser on earthbound treasures? Do you see yourself as overly focusing on your worries and concerns, your needs? Are you worried that you're not going to be taken care of? Are your purposes and pursuits away from those tendencies? And towards God's kingdom. That's where we want to be. How do you know? How do you know what you're seeking first? Are you seeking God's kingdom first? How do you know? Well, I just have a few questions. You have to consider what you prioritize on a daily basis. Look at your life and what you prioritize on a daily basis. Do you prioritize God's purposes or your desires? Are you putting your kingdom in front of God's kingdom? Are you placing your rule of your life higher than God's rule in your life? Consider those. Look at as we go to our home groups tonight, think about those. I trust that That that will be a beneficial time as we unpack that this together in groups tonight. But as I mentioned in the beginning, this I have to admit, is still a work in progress for me. I don't abide by this perfectly. I don't know anyone that does. But boy, if I don't strive for it. And man, when when it's revealed to me where I'm not, it hits me so hard. It beats me up because I feel so much guilt for before the king who bought me with a price To not turn around my life and live for him as an act of service and commitment. You know, it is difficult for us to be honest enough with ourselves to accurately assess where we fall in all this. Our pride and our desires, they're going to war with this passage. So watch out for that. Watch out for the dishonesty that your heart might might build up within you. You know we need we need God's help to live for him the way he wants in this passage. So let's pray about that now, and then we'll close in a song. Father, I'm thankful for your working in our lives. I thank you, Father, that That you have not given us these guidelines, directions, commands, warnings in this passage, and then leaving leave left us to our own devices to obey them. Because if we were, we would be hopeless. But Father, the truth is that we can depend on you every day for the following of commands such as these. And so, Lord, I cast my dependence on you, I cast our dependence on you. Give us the strength, the grace, the awareness to follow, be true followers of Jesus Christ. Help us, Lord, to mark those tendencies that we may have in ourselves and be able give us the wisdom And the ability to know how to deal with it. Maybe it means getting rid of something. Maybe it means getting rid of something that's taken the place of you in our hearts. Lord, whatever it is, whatever you would have us to do, I pray that we would be people who act on it today. Pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.