Revelation chapter two. This is the final church in chapter two of the book of Revelation. It's the fourth of the seven churches that we have been looking at in our series on Christ's assessment of the local church. Actually seven local churches in Revelation chapters two and three. I don't know about you, but I personally have just It's been such a help for me to study this these passages, to see Christ's evaluation of the local church. There are all kinds of ideas, and I have mentioned this on occasion in the past, but there are all kinds of ideas about what the local church ought to be in the 21st century And there are all kinds of different groups that say it ought to be this way or that way. Um when someone goes into a new area to to discover a local church. They might visit a variet a variety of different kinds of churches and they all might have different polity and different personalities and different names. But I will just tell the say this that this is an unrealistic possibility that I'm going to suggest. But I sometimes I just wish we would get rid of all the names. And just say, this is local church number one, two, three, and four of this city. And just say, okay, let's measure ourselves based upon Christ's assessment. Now I know that's just never gonna happen and um so that's okay and I'm I'm not suggesting that I I'm ups I don't like our name, I'm not saying that at all, so don't think that. But I do think sometimes that uh that it would just really be good if we would evaluate the local church based upon Christ's assessment. And I will tell you There are so few resources that do this. There are, I mean, hundreds, if not thousands, of resources on and manuals on how the local church ought to be run, and only a very small fraction of them even address Revelation 2 and 3. And I think it's a serious gap in our understanding of how the church ought to work. Because what what is better than Christ's assessment of the thing? It's his church. And so in the beginning of the New Testament, you've got Christ saying, I'll build my church. And you've got at the end of the New Testament saying, Christ saying, here's my assessment of what's been built so far. within local church issue uh contexts and and you have here um it's where the rubber meets the road kinds of things here we're not just all talking about these pie in the sky esoteric kinds of things. Some of these things are very, very practical. And we're going to find that to be the case in in it's going to be no less the case in this Church of Diatira. Let me ask, parents out there, all of many of you are parents or have been parents. Some of you are grandparents. There is always a battle, I think probably for every parent that is really wanting to raise their child in even an appropriate way, if not a God-honoring way. between holding the line, between being a having justice in the home And having mercy in the home. And there is always, among parents, I think, this tension between these two things where Where you don't want to be so merciful that you just let your kid go. The Bible is very clear about that. If you do that, the Bible says a child left his own device devices will destroy himself. So you know you can't do that. But on the other hand, you don't want to be so so driven by by standards and law that there's no relationship involved And there's no a des no um there's no understanding of why you have these standards in your home, why you have these uh lines and rules. And so you have this end of the spectrum as well. And there is probably a healthy tension between those two things. I am thankful that I grew up in a home where it was a very loving environment. It was a very accepting environment. My dad was law and my mom was grace. And um and so you know who I would prefer to be spanked by. And um you know who I but you also know who I listen to two better out of the two of them. I my dad always said, if if it's between you and my mo your mom, you know who spanks hard. So that's a that's how that was our our household. But anyway But um that was just um uh I I know what it's like to grow up in an accepting, loving environment, and many of you do too, but that's not always the case It's not always the case that every every person grows up that way. And I don't even know what it would be like to not grow up in a loving, accepting environment Not we had very we had very strict rules, but I knew why they were there. I knew that they were what they were for. They were there to keep me safe, and they were there to show me right from wrong, so at an early age I understood sin And so and so I I had strict parents, but they were also very accepting and loving parents. But you know, I mean that's not always the case in every home. Now the reason I bring this up is that if you're a parent, you can understand that kind of a tension. But did you know that the tension is also in the church? A church ought to be very embracing of people and very accepting of people. My prayer and hope is that when somebody comes into this into our assembly that they feel loved and accepted and embraced. But there's also this tension of purity and that is needed in a body as well. And having all of that is not easy, it is a very difficult thing. How does a church have that? How does a church, on the one hand, be accepting and loving and embracing of folks? But on the other hand, not compromise in standards of doctrine and morality. How is it that that occurs? In a family, but particularly in our in our for our consideration today, how does that happen in the local church? And that's really what we're going to be looking at today is how is Christ's assessment assessment of Thyatira And asking ourselves that question, let's go ahead and go to Him in prayer. Father, as we go to you, as we come to you, we know we need your help. We know that ultimately mercy and truth reside in you. They have met together. In fact, they have kissed each other according to Psalms. When it comes to who you are and how you relate to to your people, you are just. We will stand before you in judgment one day. But you are merciful and gracious and loving. And Lord, we pray that you would help us to know that balance that only comes from you. Whether it be our homes, but specifically in this context, our church. Lord, we don't want to compromise in areas of morality and doctrine But we also want to be embracing and loving of folks. And I admit before you my own struggle with this and knowing where the line is sometimes. My need for wisdom and others, our other leaders in our church, and just every member, and every member having responsibility in these kinds of areas, Lord. I pray that you would help us today. As we look at your word and we see what you have to say about these things, that we would strike a Christ-like approach to this, both today and next Sunday. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well so far we have looked at Ephesus in the first church, and we Christ in his approach corrected loveless orthodoxy. And then in Smyrna, he comforted suffering faithfulness. And last week we looked at Pergamus and the fact that he confronted compromised morality. This particular church thyatira is a bit different though. It's similar in some ways, but it's different in other ways. As I began to study this text, it seems to me that you have a church that's divided. And it's really divided between two kinds of people. And we'll find the pro the root cause of the division in the chapter. We'll see that in a few moments. But Understand here that I think what you really have here is two different groups of people in this passage. I think there is no other way to get around this as you look at the passage And that there is a connection between those two, both are not, they're not uh neither one are going to be exonerated completely But as we go through this passage, I think it's going to be helpful for us to understand that. So in Revelation chapter 3, verse 18, Christ says this. And unto the angel of the church, and we have said before, we think that's the pastor, unto the angel or the pastor of the church of thyre tire, right, these things saith the Son of God, that's Jesus Christ. Who hath his eyes like unto a flame of fire, and his feet are like fine brass. Sciatira was a city that was did not have the opulence or the commercialism of these other cities that we have looked at so far. It didn't have the political power of Pergamus. It didn't have the the metropolitan feel of um of Ephesus And it really didn't even have that kind of a kind of um richness or or things like that in Smyrna Thyretyre was a much humbler city. You could view it as a suburb of Pergamus, although it was farther, it was 35 miles away, so it wasn't real close to Pergamos. But the reason I say that is it seemed to have gained most of its business from travel from one area through through Thyrotira to Pergamos, because Pergamus, as you'll recall from last week, was the capital city of the area. and had the political power. And in fact it became sort of a a s uh a place where um there would be um Kind of a if you wanted to conquer the area you would go to Pergamus, but you have to go through Thyrotira to get there. So there was some military outposts in Thyrotira If Sayatira was known for anything, it was really more known for commercial kinds of things like textiles. and metalworks and those kinds of things. You could say essentially that it would have been like a blue collar in our vernacular, a blue collar area. Something like Pittsburgh or what Baltimore used to be. I don't know if you'd call Baltimore a blue-collar area now, but you it was at one time. What back if you think of the of Bethlehem Steel being there years back when I was a kid and that's not there anymore, you you you would think of of of Baltimore or Pittsburgh or some of these cities that way. You could kind of think of it that way. And that would give you kind of a picture of Thyatira Thyataira would not be it have been a place that you would boast a lot about being there. When you were in Ephes if you were from Ephesus or or Smyrna even or Pergamus, you would have been kind of um they had a lot of esprit de corps and sort of a a value of being there and you would have been proud to be from from Pergamos or proud to be from Ephesus And even Smyrna would be the same way. But thyatira, not so much. You know, you're just from there. And so you wouldn't have had that uh kind of a kind of an attitude about things. And and so there was a sense of, you could probably assume that there was a sense of humility about this, about this, even about this church. And you're going to find that to some degree in the passage as well, at least among some of the people in this church. One particular uh industry that they were known for was bronze working. They were known for that in that area. In fact, there is a coin that is from Sayatira with on the front, I looked, I Googled it, on on the face of the coin the coin you could actually see there was a bronze worker, a metal worker And that is probably why in the passage here you have Christ saying, the Son of God whose eyes are what? Like unto what? A flame of fire. They would have understood what fire does to what? And his feet are like fine what? Well, it says in King James Brass, but what we're talking here is burnished bronze. And so what does fire do to bronze? Well, it makes it malleable and moldable And Christ is really coming and saying that you I am going to I'm going to I'm going to work you over a bit I'm going to uh I'm going to mold you. And it's going to be like a flame of fire to bronze. It's essentially more than likely how why he says this to this to this church. His approach to this church is going to be one of both commendation but then scathing condemnation. And the sin that this church was involved in and the compromise was really, I think, a step A step further in decline from the church at Pergamus. They had compromised. But this church is, at least the group the group that's compromising, is farther in decline Where Christ is going to pro going to take some he's going to say, look, I'm taking swift action on you. Unless you repent, it's coming And he's going to nail them. And there there seems to be more of a of a time that's gone on in Christ's patience. We're going to get to that really next week. This passage is actually has the most amount of material, most amount of verses of any of the other churches that we've discussed already. And so we're actually going to break this one up into two into two Sundays. Now, with all of that in mind, we now have Christ's assessment in verse 19 of Revelation chapter 2. And in verse 19 it says, I know thy works, and he lists Four things here. He says, I know thy works and thy charity, or love, and service. and faith and patience. Now I should note this that in in most in most other translations you have Service and faith inverted. So it would read love and faith and service and patience in nearly every translation except for the King James. And so that would be more than likely how we would take that. Not a big difference, but the order does kind of matter because you look at love and faith that that go together And then you have service and endurance that tend to go together in this context. So the first attribute that God, that Christ says, who knows? He says, I know your works, I know you. Christ can say this this way. He says, He says, I know you that you are a church that is characterized by love. Now this is a characteristic that was that was problematic in Ephesians, right? In the Ephesus church, you've got a church that was very strong in doctrine very strong in the the details of the Christian faith and was defending the faith and was not tolerating a false doctrine and yet they had left their first love. But here is a church who the very first thing out of Christ's mouth is that they are characterized by love All of us know what love is biblically, well most of us would, at least, if not all of us, would know what love is biblically to some degree. We know from the Bible that love is not just an emotion. Although love often emotion follows love and is related to love, it is not essentially an emotion. And we know that love is essentially in its essence the giving of oneself to someone else for their betterment, and it usually has something to do with self-sacrifice. Christ and his death on the cross is the perfect and the greatest example of love when he sacrificed himself. And the Father sacrificing his own son on the cross for us, that was in the uh that was the the demon the the prime in all of history demonstration of love. But for our concern today, and of course this is used all over the New Testament, I want us just to remind us of what love would look like in a local church. And I think what would help us is just to look at 1 Corinthians chapter 13 for a few moments. This is a very familiar passage of Scripture, but would you take your Bibles and turn there? And we're going to look particularly at verses 4 through 7 And I want you to imagine walking into a local church and rubbing shoulders with a group of people. And these things being characterized by, these things are true of these people that you are rubbing shoulders with. And just look at these things. So, first of all, it says in verse 8, love or charity, it says in the King James, love suffereth what? It suffers long and is kind. Love envieth not. It vaunteth not itself. It's not prideful. It's not puffed up. Does not behave itself unseemly or rudely, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked Thinketh no evil, rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in truth. Beareth all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. Now, of course, I could preach an entire message just on that passage, couldn't I? I mean love is One who truly loves God and loves others is one who is benevolent toward others. He is long-suffering toward others. He is not quick. to to cast judgment on others. He is patient with others. He's not easily provoked and aggravated by others. I mean that is the kind of love that you have in the pasture. It's someone who is constantly, he never gives up on others He's always hoping for the best in others. He's always looking for the best in others. He's not thinking evil of others. I mean that is what you have in this passage. You have this concept of love That that is characterized, that at least some of the churches characterized by these kinds of things. And it does cause me to ask the question of my own life: Am I characterized by these things? And is our church, is Bethel Baptist Church characterized by these kinds of things, this love? It is a good question for us to ponder. But let's add to that an additional kind of thing. In this passage, you find that herein lies three things: faith, hope, and love. And the second characteristic that we find that Christ assesses this church is having in Thyratara is faith. Faith is a dependency. And of course, he's speaking primarily to Christians here, so this is the kind of faith that where someone is dependent upon God for their life And depend upon God for their service. They are dependent people. They're not proud people. They're not puffed up people. They're dependent people. They're people who look to God for strength and realize That true motivation and strength comes only from God. These are people of faith. They're strong in their trust of who God is and how God works in their lives. These are people who both love and are people who are faithful. These sound like pretty good people, don't they? Not only that, these are people who are servants. These are people who serve. They serve selflessly. Now, what does that mean? Well, if you would, I want to see what that what that means in the cup. In fact, actually let me just describe this for you. If you want to turn to these various passages. But the first time you see this, or at least one of the first times you see this term service mentioned is actually in Luke chapter 10 verse 40, where Martha is said by Christ that she is comforted she is she is cumbered about with what's the word? With serving. That's this word. And later on you'll find in the book of Acts that this is said of what the real job description of deacons was. In Acts 6:1, it says in those days When the numbers of the disciples was multiplied, there arose murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews because their widowers were being neglected, their widows were being neglected in the daily ministration. The word ministration there is daily serving And meeting the needs of others. And in fact, the apostles and the church leaders in those days said we really need to elect, we need to we need to appoint or actually elect deacons. to take care of these needs so we can concentrate on the study of the word and on prayer and on those kinds of things. It's not reasonable that we should leave those things. So they elected deacons for this reason. That's the same word here. And you find also that there are people that the church in general can be characterized by this. In Acts chapter 11, verse 29 it says in the disciples, every man according to his ability determined to send relief. Under the brethren which dwelt in Judea. So in that context, you have a group of people that are that are in physical need. They're Christians that are in need And a church is going to send relief to help these Christians that are in need. So it's meeting the physical needs of others. In Romans chapter 12, verse 7, we have that this is actually a particular spiritual gift, a gift of ministry or serving. And in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 12, it tells us that pastors are to equip the saints to do this, to equip the saints for the work of the ministry. And what Christ says about the Church of Thyatira is that you are a serving church. But in addition to all of that great commendation, we find then finally that this is a church who has great endurance. The word there is enduring patience or patience, but what we're talking there is about endurance. Now, when we're seeing this word patience in the King James or the word endurance in most other uh translations What do we mean? Well, would you take your Bibles and turn to the book of Romans for a few moments? Turn to Romans chapter 5. And we're going to see exactly how someone gains this kind this particular character quality. And I want to note that this is the same word that is used in James chapter 1, where it says that let patience or endurance have for perfect work. This is a word that is commonly used in 1 Peter and 2 Peter in its term of in patience or endurance and really throughout the New Testament to mean something. And you're going to see something that's very important in this passage that is necessary for this particular character quality. Romans chapter 5, verse 1 Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God. That's, by the way, a position that you have with God. with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand and rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. Now how does this all work out practically And not only so, but we glory in what? Oh, there's that nasty word again. We saw that word several times when we looked at what church? Oh boy. We saw that several times when we looked at what church? Smyrna. Smyrna, right. We saw that word tribulations several times when we looked at the suffering church of Smyrna. Christ said, I know your tribulations. And this was something that was clearly characterized the church of Smyrna. They were an enduring church. They had endurance And you see here it says, knowing that tribulation works what? Patience. Do you realize endurance? Do you realize that in every Nearly every everyone that I could find. You do not find this term endurance without some sort of trial or tribulation in the context in the New Testament. You almost, if not always, you almost always see it directly in conjunction. Folks, do you realize that there is a certain kind of character you can't have without tribulation? Doesn't mean that you can't grow in Christ in various ways without trials and tribulation, but there is a certain kind of trial and a certain kind of character quality you can't have There is a certain kind of Christ-likeness you can't have without suffering. Folks, that is because Christ suffered. Christ not only suffered in his life, in his death, Christ suffered in his life. He suffered Greatly in his life. He suffered a persecution, of disdain, of false accusations, of physical suffering. He suffered, he had nowhere to lay his head He suffered of hunger from time to time. Christ was a suffering servant And he went through much tribulation. And there is a sense in which there is a certain kind of Christ-likeness that you and I cannot have apart from endurance. And folks, what that tells us is this is a particular church that did endure some kind of tribulation because it says of them that they were an enduring kind of people. Now this is a this is an amazing commendation of this church, isn't it? This is a church that if you were moving into a new area, you'd want to be a part of this church. This is a church that if you were to walk into, you would have an open, overwhelming reception of love and encouragement You would feel embraced by a church like this. This would be a church where you would just feel that there was a sense not of just of love of you, but of love of others in the body. This is a church of great hospitality. You would probably be uh be asked over the very first Sunday that you came to that church to ask over for dinner. I mean that's the kind of church that this is this church of Thyatira was But not only all of this, but this is a church that Christ says you're increasing in your service. Would you notice that in Revelation chapter 2 here? It says I know thy works and charity and service and faith and the patience and thy works and the last is more than the first. Or, in other words, folks, this is an increasing church It is in these attributes a growing church. Now, when you think particularly of service, you can only grow in two ways. The existing members of the church were constantly taking on new things of service to God, which is a possibility. Or the church in general was growing in its in its numerically, and each one of those were adding service abilities to the body. And the truth of the matter is there isn't any way of knowing which oneness is. But it is to say this that in the Christian life and in the church A growing and increasing, a moving forward is part of God's healthy local church. And is true of a individual who is a Christian. Folks, do you realize there is nothing, there's no, look, I believe there is no such thing as a Christian who is just flatlining. He is either in decline or he is he is growing in Christ And we need to understand that that is a characteristic of a Christian, one who is either growing in Christ-likeness or in decline. If you're in decline, God will do In his providence over time, things to bring you back to a place where you are growing. The idea of a flat-lining Christian is really almost absent in the New Testament. You don't see that. You either see an increase or a decline. And folks, what you're seeing also in this passage by way of application is that this church was increasing and developing. It was characteristic of this church. And all of these things Christ commends. He says, these are good things about you, Church of Tyatira. This is a church, like I said before, that you'd walk into, you'd feel embraced. You'd feel loved. You'd know that this church is not just a flighty church, a church of just, you know, just everybody just chilling. This is a church that's working hard. This is a church that has deep faith. And this is a church who has at least some members in it who have really endured and have spiritual maturity about them. This is a church that you would walk into and you'd say, this is a church I want to be a part of. But folks, do you realize that this church had a problem? It had a pretty severe problem, in fact. Would you notice what it says here in verse 20? Notwithstanding, Christ says, I have a few things against you. Because thou sufferest that woman Jezebel, which called herself a prophetess. To teach and to seduce my servants, to commit fornication, and to eat things sacrificed unto idols. Behold, I will cast her into a bed of them. Oh, and I gave her space. I'm sorry, I gave her space to repent of her fornication, and she repented not. We have here, folks, a church who had, there was at least a group of people that compromised greatly. Now I think it's very unlikely that you could characterize an individual as one who is enduring in the faith and compromising in this way. And that's why I would suggest to you that you essentially have two groups of people in this passage. You have those who are being faithful and those who are not. But there is a don't forget don't miss this. There is a problem with the faithful group There is a singular problem. You've got a group that has all kinds of problems with fornication and following false doctrine and following Apparently this woman who was very divisive in the church, you've got a problem with a group of people, but you've got a group of people over here that they do have a problem Even though they are characterized by love, faith, service, and endurance, there's a problem. And would you notice what that problem is? It's found in verse 20, nevertheless, notwithstanding, I have a few things against thee because thou what? Thou sufferest. That's the problem. The problem that this church has been characterized by love, faith, service, and endurance, they are tolerant. The word suffering there means to be tolerant of something. And what we're tolerant of, folks, is false doctrine and sin. Now, what does this word tolerance mean? It's not found very often in the New Testament, but there's one particular place that will help us understand what we're talking about here. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Acts chapter 5? And we're going to look particularly at verse 36 through 38 of Acts chapter 5. The word here means tolerant, but let's give some color to this word and understand the real problem that this church is having with the group of people That are that are being faithful, but there's a problem with them. For behold, these days rose up Theodus. boasting himself to somebody, to whom a number of men, about four hundred, joined themselves, who was slain, and all, and as many as obeyed him, were scattered and brought to naught After this man rose up Judas of Galilee in the days of it of the taxing, and drew away much people after him. He also perished, and all, even as many as obeyed him, were dispersed. And I now say unto you, refrain from these men. And let them alone. For if this counsel or this work be of men, it will It will come. Now, the advice that's being given to these people is they need to stay away from these particular people. That word refrain Is our word. That word is basically just stay away from them. Just leave them alone. Now, let's just think about these two groups of people. One group of people is faithful. And they're they're loving and they're doing all the right things in their service to the Lord. And in fact, you're going to find they really are doing all the right things because Christ says there's all he says later on of this group of people, he says Just keep doing what you're doing. But the one thing that he says here about these people is that they are tolerant of sin. And he indicts them for this. He says, you're just leaving them alone, and that's wrong. It would be like this. It would be like you're really wanting to serve the Lord faithfully and love God and love others, and you are doing your best to be faithful and serving the local church, and you notice some things. You notice that there seems to be a person in the church that's really just kind of swaying everybody else to himself And you notice that that person really, when he talks, what's coming out of his mouth is not particularly edifying. And in fact, it's against what I know to be true. It's really false. And that particular ch person is so influential that he's causing other people to think about false things as well and to believe in those false things. And actually those false things, part of which is just total promiscuity and total liberality to do whatever you want, and they're called there's sin and sexual immorality going on in this church. And you're looking around and you're wanting to be faithful to the Lord and serve the Lord, and your decision is: I'm going to keep my head to the plow, I'm going to focus on myself, I'm going to focus on what I need to do, and I'm just going to ignore this. I'm just not gonna I'm gonna look the other direction. I am not going to get involved in this. That's the problem. The problem with this church is they're very embracing of people. They're very accepting of people. They're loving of people. They're dependent upon God. They're serving of people. I mean they'd be the right the the person that they'd go right out for you and they we would do anything. They give you the shirt off your back. I mean that's the kind of church we're talking about here. But this is a church who when you when they saw sin, they would not deal with it. When they saw false doctrine or someone that was influencing cor incorrectly, they they would just Turn the other way, they wouldn't want to look. They wouldn't want they just stay to themselves. I'm not doing dealing with this. I'm just gonna hang I know I'm alright. I'm alright between the Lord, between me and the Lord. I'm good, I'm serving the Lord faithfully, I can't think of anything in my my life that's a problem. So I'm just going to stay to myself and I'm not going to tolerate it. I'm going to tolerate things. That's the indictment here on these people. Are we ever tempted that way, folks? I think we're very tempted. And what you have in many churches is one extreme or the other. Where one extreme is your not embracing and accepting of other. And Christ commends that, and we ought to be that way. And the other side is that you're tolerating everything and you're just letting everything go. And that's wrong. You know, the Bible actually says faithful are the wounds of a friend. And deceitful are the kisses of an enemy. And it's like the mature Christians in this particular church were just kissing everybody instead of wounding their friends who are falling into sin. And Christ is saying, you're tolerating it. Let me ask you a question How does a church keep this balance? Would you take your Bibles And when you turn to First Corinthians chapter five. First Corinthians chapter five. And what I want to do here is just let God's word tell us how to deal with with these kinds of sin. How did Paul instruct the church at Corinth with this? He says, 1 Corinthians 5, verse 1. It is reported commonly, I mean this is known. It's reported commonly that there is fornication among you Such fornication as is not as much as named among the Gentiles, that one should have his father's wife And ye are puffed up, and have not rather mourned, that ye have ye that hath done this this deed might be taken away from among you. For I verily, as absent in body, but present in spirit, have judged already, as though I were present concerning him that hath so done this deed. So folks, what is the church corn's problem? I mean folks, isn't it essentially the same problem? And in their case, the reason that they're having the problem is pride. It's they have so much pride in their church, they're not seeing the problems Now, I'm not sure that's the case with Thyatira. They seem to be actually a humble people, loving people, and those kinds of things. Pride doesn't seem to be a problem. In that situation, you're talking probably about just a lack of wisdom. And a lack of discernment and potentially just a wrong decision to ignore. And an imbalance. So you have two different problems here, but folks. Paul's instruction would stand regardless of the root problem within either one of these local churches. And he says here in this passage In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, when ye are gathered together in my spirit with the power of the Lord Jesus Christ, to deliver such an one unto Satan for the destruction of the flesh. Why? So that he can just be destroyed and just be destroyed? No, for a reason. That the Spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus. In other words, what he's saying is there's a possibility this person's acting like an unsaved person. You need to treat him that way. We don't know if he is. But when you if you've gone through the proper Steps. You cannot treat him as though he's part of the assembly when he is actively participating in these kinds of sins. And so he says to this church, you've got to do this for his sake, so that he realizes he's either really in the wrong or maybe he doesn't know the Lord at all. For the sake of his own soul, do what's right in demonstrating where he really stands with God Neither one is desirable, whether he's saved and under chastening of God, or whether he is not saved at all. But you've got to do the right thing to demonstrate to them this to them. If you're going to really show love, you've got to show this to this person In fact, that's exactly what you find over in Matthew chapter 18, where it actually says in the passage that when two or three have gathered my name, that's always taken out of context, it's right in the context of church discipline. That there I am in the midst of them. It's actually talking about the fact that that when we need to recognize when God is chasing someone, we've got to let them know this is happening. That God they're not needing approval with God. He says, Your glorying is not good. Know ye not that a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump? Purge out therefore the old leaven, that ye may be may be a new lump, as ye are unleavened For even Christ, our Passover, is sacrificed for us. Therefore, let us keep the feast not with the old leaven, neither with the leaven of malice. and wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth, I wrote unto you in the in the epistle not to keep company with fornicators Now, let me just ask you a question. I mean, just real practically here, just real practically. If someone came in here on a Sunday morning, And we knew that they were involved in sin, in this kind of sin, in fornication of some kind. Would we, should we embrace them, Or should we exclude them? Now be careful how you answer that. My answer is that we embrace them That we welcome the men. I mean they need to hear the preaching of the Word of God. Don't they? They need to see good, solid examples. When so anyone who walks through those doors, we ought to welcome them. They ought to feel that there's something different about us, that we really love them. Not like everybody else who might patty cake them, but we love them However, there is something that is a biblical application that That we use in order for us to embrace and love people, but also to not tolerate wrong behavior. Folks, what is that called? Nobody knows. Probably. Maybe you do. It's called membership. There is always a debate over everything. But there's a debate over whether membership is important or not. And whether membership is biblical or not. Some people say, well, I don't think membership is really biblical. I mean it's just kind of a man-made thing. How else are you going to follow this? How also are you going to be embracing of people but not tolerant of sin? Church membership provides that. You can't practice church discipline without church membership. I mean, we want people in here to hear the preaching of the Word of God, to get saved. I mean we want that, but at the same time we can't tolerate sin. Folks, the answer to that is that's why you have church membership. I'm just gonna tell you applicationally, there are some denominations they say we don't need it It's not necessary. We have expository preaching, we have good fellowship, we have a great community, but you don't need church membership. Then how on earth are they ever going to follow Christ's expectation of purity in the body? How are they ever going to follow Matthew 18? How are they ever going to follow you first Corinthians 5? I don't know in a f in a 21st century area like we have in our country how you would out how else you would ever do that Not correctly and biblically. That's why you have church leadership. It's why you have things set in place biblically to handle these kinds of things. And I would just say this, why am I saying all this? We have church membership here. Look, I'm not saying if you're not a church member, then I am no way pushing membership on anyone And I I believe that God will lead as He wants to. And that I believe please don't walk away from this and and say, well, I guess I he's judging me if I'm not a member, those kinds of things. Don't don't don't take that wrong take take this the wrong way at all. But I do, I think it's important as we go through Christ's assessment of the local church, how we apply this practically to our churches. And I would just strongly say to you that if you're if you ever are moving out of this area and looking for another local church, make formal church membership a prerequisite for going to that church Becoming a part of that body. The accountability in Scripture is clear in this sense Couldn't be any clearer or clearer. And it's repeated over and over in the New Testament. So I would just encourage you that way. Now let me ask you this question. How are we doing as a body? And I I thought about this for a little while. On both ends. And I kind of came up with three questions. One is, how are we doing as a church? How are we growing in our love, faith, service, and endurance? Isn't this, folks, isn't this a better measurement than numerical? I mean, hopefully we're growing numerically over time in God's way. But a better measurement is are we growing in love and faith and service and endurance? Are we growing that way? Well, number one, the most important thing is to do a look at our own lives individually. Isn't isn't that the case? I mean the sum of the whole is made up of its parts, and you've got to you've got to To look at yourself first. Am I growing in love and faith and service and endurance? If you're looking at your life and you're looking back and you're saying, I am not seeing growth in the last six months, you've got to ask yourself why I'm just going to be can enough that there have been a few times in my life where I felt as though I wasn't growing for a sustained period of time. I remember one time very clearly when I was in um in Pensacola uh I was in seminary and um I was driving from um one day from church to my where I was living, which is probably about 30 minutes away. So I had kind of a nice drive. And I was driving, driving and just praying and thinking to myself, you know, I am not growing. I just did not, I couldn't think of any character or quality that I was growing in. I took a time of sort of self-assessment and said, you know, I am not growing. Now, it may in i i in in a in an extreme case it means you're not saved. I knew that not to be the case, because I knew I had grown so far some. I knew I was grow- I had grown, but I wasn't growing now Do you realize, folks, that that is a necessary thing to ask yourself as your own self-assessment, how am I growing in Christ like this? Not have you arrived, because if you come to that conclusion, you're really wrong So am I. But am I growing in Christ's likeness? And what a great four character quality is to ask yourself. Am I growing in love and in faith, in service, and in endurance? And then the third question is: Am I guilty of tolerance? Are we as a body guilty of tolerating wrong behavior in our membership? And do you know that the responsibility doesn't entirely rest on the pastor's shoulders or leadership shoulders? I don't know everything. And I'm not suggesting that you become pro you know amateur police officers, little Barney Feist running around everywhere. I'm not suggesting that. But, folks, if you are growing in love and faith and service and endurance, and you see a brother who is going to stumble or could potentially stumble, you know, asking a simple question like, hey, are you okay? Is there a way that I can help you? Is there something I can pray for you about? Just a genuine loving question toward your brother and sister in Christ is something that we need to be a we need to deal with we need to do The Christian life cannot be in a vacuum. It must be, as we relate to each other, and know each other This requires a love for each other, a knowing of each other, a relationship with each other in order to be able to do this correctly. And And it requires of us that we know, folks, that we cannot just tolerate everything. Love does not tolerate everything. You never see that in Scripture. Are we guilty of tolerance? Now the truth of the matter is, let's just accept this. That when you are emphasizing love, there is a tendency to tolerate. I mean it's amazing to me that this church, this church has assessed this thing, or I'm sorry, that Christ has assessed this church and commended them for their love. And, you know, when you look at local churches, sometimes we are so down on local churches that are tolerant of sin. But Christ does not just do that here. He commends them. There are, frankly, there are churches way outside of our circles. That we would never really want to be a part of because they are too tolerant of sin, but we could learn something from them. We could learn to be more benevolent and more loving and more accepting and more embracing. We could learn that Don't throw it all out and say, well, okay, okay, well, they're throwers, I'm gonna throw the whole thing out, I'm not gonna look at anything they're doing. Christ doesn't do that here. What we need to do is say, you know, maybe that church down the road is really loving to people and they are serving and they are depending on the Lord and they are even enduring. I mean there's at least a group of people in there and maybe they've compromised But at least they're doing those things and saying, ah, they're uh you know they're uh they're not like us. Maybe there's some things we could learn. And I would encourage us to all do that kind of assessment. I'm going to be honest with you. I think that at some at some point I'm going to have us all do some assessment. I'm thinking about I don't I don't know what I'll do yet, but I'm thinking about somehow doing that But let's make sure we're growing in these areas. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you, Lord, for Christ's assessment. We know our mind is not yours and our ways are not yours. And we admit before you that Christ's view of these things are so different than what we would view them if we're looking at these different churches. Lord, may we gain Christ's perspective. May we see, may we be what He wants us to be, both individually and corporately. May our picture of what a what a Christ-centered church looks like be from Christ's own lips, from these passages? And may we just, may you find us faithful in doing our very best. We admit our faults. We admit that we are, that we fail in these various areas, Lord. I admit my own weakness in these areas. I pray, Lord, that you would strengthen us. so that we can be a church that makes, that is exactly what you want it to be for the furtherance of your kingdom. And we know it starts with us as individuals looking at our own lives. And Father, as we come into this time. As we assemble together as a corporate body of believers to partake of the Lord's Supper, we thank you just for the privilege of doing so. We thank you that you've given us this to be able to remember and to proclaim the death of Christ until you come. And we remember, Lord, today, just our own depravity, our own sin, that we would be eternally lost in a and And just in complete misery, had it not been for the redemption of Christ through his blood. Maybe there's somebody here today that has not experienced. They know about Christ's redemption through his blood, but they have not experienced it. I pray, Lord, that today as we partake of the Lord's Supper and celebrate it and value it. They would see just that it is the fundamental of the faith. It is the thing that that just causes us to worship you. That Christ sacrificed himself for you on our behalf, that we may be rightly related to you and glorify you. Pray that you would help us to remember that today. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.