John chapter twenty in the sunrise service we look at John's desc John's description of the crucifixion, which of course was very um Personal because John was an eyewitness to the crucifixion. He was actually there. And John is also an eye wit witness to the resurrection And we're going to look to today as well at John's John's understanding of the resurrection and what he wanted to get across. Let me begin by uh asking you a question. Would you agree that you draw strength from your relationships? Even your human relationships, that you can draw strength from them, that they are, that they can be encouraging and comforting and motivating. I would even venture to say that sometimes we even find our identity in our relationships A good illustration of this is I don't th this is dating myself and I actually don't even think this was during my generation when I was a teenager. It's probably like my parents or grandparents' generation as a teenager, but I think I've seen in the T V shows or movies or something where um uh you'll you'll see a uh young la a teenage girl who has a their uh who has a a boyfriend and she's got his coat on, like a sports coat with it's personalized and everything and she's kind of anybody else ever seen that before? Okay, I'm not the only one. All right, good. Okay. Um By the way, my kids are not allowed to date until they're 35, so they will not be having that kind of post coats on. I just want to make that clear. But anyway Um and and so there what they're what is the what is the girl doing? Well she is taking on her identity. She's making like her boyfriend her identity. And more than likely she it won't be forever. But anyway, um that's why my kids are waiting until they're 35, because then they can actually have enough maturity to be able to make a decision. 35 might be a little late. I I might we might go with second year in college or something. But anyway. That is there is the relationship though. That we should be employing to find our identity. There is one relationship that we should have that should make up our identity. And that is our relationship with Jesus Christ. The reality is, we can understand personal human relationships with other people and the value that they have. But it does take a belief and a trust that a relationship with God Requires, is more valuable than any human relationship. We can't see God the way we can see a person. We can't feel him or spend time with him in the way that we can with a person, although we can with the body of Christ. And so when we rub shoulders with other people that know Christ, we are getting to know God in that way. But it requires belief. It requires trust. It requires dependency to say that the greatest relationship that I can have. Is a relationship with God. The greatest identity that I can have is to find myself in Christ. And what we're going to find in this passage is that John, when he views the resurrection, he did this in the crucifixion as well, he views it from a very relational point of view. He does talk, he does note a couple of details about the bodily resurrection. We see that in the passage. We see some various things in the passage that are doctrinal. But the thrust of John in this passage is to highlight specific things that Christ said and specific occurrences in the narrative that will show us the relational aspect of the resurrection. And that's what we want to look at this morning. First, let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, as we come to you this morning, I pray that our hearts would be warmed as we look at John's. Description of the resurrection. He was arguably the closest disciple to Christ when he was in his earthly ministry. And he was arguably the first to see that Christ rose from the grave, or at least at least the second, the first man. Father, I pray, Lord, that today as we look at your word, that you would help us to see the great, awesome relationship that We are afforded because of the death, the burial, and indeed the resurrection of Christ. And I pray, Lord, that it would cause our hearts to ask the question. Do we have that kind of relationship? And to ask ourselves the question, do we have the kind of belief that is truly necessary? In order to have the kind of personal relationship that's described in this passage. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We pick up here with the reality of the resurrection, verses 1 through 9 of our text in John chapter 20. And let's read as Mary Magdalene comes and approaches the empty tomb, verse 1 of chapter 20. The first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early. When it was yet dark under the sepulchre, and seeth the stone taken away from the sepulchre, then she runneth, and cometh to Simon Peter And to the other disciple whom Jesus loved. By the way, that's John. When he says the other disciple, John is actually referencing himself. The other disciple, whom Jesus loved, and saith unto them, They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him. Peter therefore went forth and that other disciple and came to the sepulchre. So they ran both together, and the other disciple did outrun Peter, and came first to the sepulchre. And he stooping down and looking in, saw the linen claws lying, yet went he not in Then cometh Simon Peter following him, and went into the sepulchre, and seeeth the linen claws lie, and the napkin that had that was about his head, not lying with the linen claws but wrapped together in a place by itself. Here we have here Mary Magdalene who is the first to come to this this this tomb. King James Version calls it a sepulchre, comes to this open tomb and she finds as though she says her assumption is that that Christ has been taken away, that the body of Christ has been removed. This is probably a reasonable assumption, because if you recall Christ died in uh on Friday night, more than likely, I think it did anyway. And he died, and we find in Scripture that they were trying to get ready for the Sabbath, and so they hastily, quickly, more than likely, quickly buried him. as quickly as they could. And of course we know Joseph of Arimathea provided the tomb for him. But Mary very likely came to the open sepulchre and made the assumption that that was just a temporary location until the Sabbath was over. And so obviously somebody moved him to a more permanent location. But she didn't know where. And she didn't know what in the world to do. She wanted, she had this very close relationship with the Lord. With Christ when he was on this earth, and she just wanted to pay her respects and do the customary things and mourn over the loss of her friend Jesus. And yet she couldn't because she didn't know where he was. Didn't know where the body was. So she runs back to Peter and John, who had not yet gotten there. Peter and John were alarmed by this discovery, and so Peter and John they come And it says in the text that John outruns Peter. I don't think John is bragging here. That's not his way. He apparently was a faster runner than Peter, but he also was significantly younger than Peter at this well, always at this point, but he was at this point in in the future and before too. He was younger than Peter. And he comes and he he sees the open tomb there and he sees the clothing in a tomb. John doesn't go in though. John has a sense of respect about it. That's more John's personality. And so he sees the open tomb and he just sort of stands there. I could just imagine him sort of stunned. Like, yep, Mary Magdalene was right. Somebody had moved them and saw the clothing that was there and saw the separate and it was folded and saw the the a separate handkerchief with that was there and folded neatly as well and sort of was probably confused about that. It demonstrated that nobody had actually stolen the the body Um because that would probably wouldn't have done that, that would have been in haste and sort of was confused about the possibilities of what had happened. It wasn't long before Peter arrived on the scene, and unlike John, who showed respect for the tomb, Peter and his very impetuous nature, which we read about in the Gospels, goes into the tomb. and runs in there and sees uh the the indeed that this was this this was the case, that the butt that the the the clothes were there and folded. And so you have two solid eyewitnesses to the resurrection at this point. And the passage actually says in this passage that John He believed immediately when he saw. He saw things there, but it says in the passage that when these things occurred And he saw the clothing there. It wasn't Peter didn't do this, and we find actually in another account in Luke that Peter did clearly did not believe until he saw the body of Christ when Christ actually came and appeared to them. John was a little different though. John saw and perhaps was confused at first, but it wasn't long before he began to recall some of the Old Testament scriptures. In fact, he probably recalled some of what Christ had said earlier in his earthly ministry. I'd like you to take your Bibles and look there. And the reason I say that is because we're in the Gospel of John here. And just a quite a few chapters before in John chapter two. I want to go ahead and take your Bibles and turn there for a minute. We've actually looked at this text several weeks ago. I guess it'd be a couple of months ago now. In John chapter 2, Jesus has just turned over the money changers in the temple, and the people of it and the leaders of the Jews have questioned him. And so at this point, he says this in verse 19. Jesus answered and said unto them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. Then the Jews said, It has taken forty-six years to build this temple. And will you raise it up in three days? Then John gives this commentary in verse 21. But he was speaking of the temple of the body of his body. Therefore, when he had risen from the dead, his disciples, what did they do? Remember that he had said this to them. And they believed the scripture and the word which Jesus had said. So it's very likely when Christ, when John saw the empty tomb, Since he wrote this, that is probably the point where he believed, and not probably it is the point. And he probably recalled Christ saying this and it all kind of all put it all together. Look at what the passage says, you'll see you'll see it in the passage. Verse verse We'll start in verse four here. So they went, uh they ran both together, and the other disciple did outrun Peter and came first to the sepulchre, and he stooped down and looked and saw the one didn't go in. Verse seven Uh actually verse 8. Then went in also that other disciple which came first to the sepulchre, and he saw, and what did he do? And he believed. For as yet they knew not the sepulchre that he must rise again from the dead. John immediately believed. It all kind of came back to him. It's interesting that when Christ is going to later on appear to the different people, Remember the disciples on the road to Emmaus, for example, and he's going to appear in this text to Mary Magdalene first, and then to all the disciples in a in a locked room. He appears only to those people that believed on him prior to his death. Jesus did not turn his attention at this point. He doesn't turn his attention. to those masses of people who did not believe him. Now he is focused on all on only those people that believed in the light that they were given up to this point. John really is the front runner of this. He believed in Christ. He believed in what Christ came to do. He believed and had this close relationship with Christ. And so when he sees the empty tomb, he immediately believes. That Christ rose from the grave, and that Christ bodily did this of his own volition. And that is the belief that is necessary in order to have the kind of relationship that God offers It is this kind of belief. This is going to be a lesson for us, this passage, in what true belief is. It is a theme that we find throughout the Gospel of John. This necessary belief. And we see though here that with all of this taking place that God works this way. That God often reveals Himself a little bit at a time. Even to those who have not had a relationship with him, prior to them understanding all of what Christ came to do for them, sometimes seeds were planted in the hearts of people. Circumstances will cause people to reflect on who God is. Or their own need, their own sin need, or their own guilt. There will be different things in their lives. that God is working toward bringing them to a place where they truly trust Christ. Maybe it's others that know him already and others that have a close relationship with him so that you it causes them to look and say, you know, that person has something that I don't have. And as we begin to believe in the light that God gives us, God gives us more light and reveals more to us and awakens our heart to the point where we finally have true faith in Christ. And we believe in the finished work of Christ on the cross and the fact that he rose from the grave victorious over sin and death Even for us as Christians, those of us who have this close relationship with Christ, our growth in faith is not done, is it? In fact, in some ways, it's just beginning. And when God works in our hearts and works in our lives to draw us closer and closer to the Lord, we find this working requires more and more faith. and more and more trust and different aspects of our faith and different ways. He works in our lives through circumstances and difficulties. and also good things in our lives to bring us to a point where we are more and more dependent upon God through Christ. That is the kind of life. That's why it says in Hebrews, without faith it is impossible to please God. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Well, what kind of relationship was offered, was given or afforded to John, and really to all the disciples, and really to all of us Because of the resurrection. Well, we find out in the in as we continue in the in the text in verse 10. By this point in verse 10, John and Peter now are off the scene. They've left and they've gone to their own houses. Very specifically in the text that they've done this. Mary apparently was lagging behind, perhaps because she was so emotional, perhaps because she was so sad, because she was so perhaps even confused. That by the time John and Peter had left, then then Mary came and was in front of the tomb again for the second time. And she was distraught. She was emotionally confused. She felt very close to her Lord. She just wanted to offer uh the kind of condolences and the kind of traditional burial uh um ceremonies that that were that that were normal and and she just wanted to do this for her lord And she was very emotional about the whole thing. In fact, you see this in verse 10. Then the disciples went away against their own house, but Mary stood without at the sepulchre weeping. And as she wept, she stooped down and looked into the sepulchre, and seeth two angels white sitting. The one on the head and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. Now, let's pause and ask this question. Do you suppose that when Christ sees, or I'm sorry, when Mary sees this, that it would have sort of struck in her imagination that perhaps This was something divine that happened here. This was something that was miraculous that happened here. It's sort of strange to me, I'll be honest with you, I'll read the text, it's sort of strange to me that she didn't realize something was going on here. We've got Men in white robes in a tomb sitting down. Other uh other gospels like in Mark and Luke say that they were beaming, like they were light. There was light emanating from them. It was like beaming as if lightning was happening uh uh uh sort of a description of lightning beaming. There was a brightness about these people. Why in the world would Mary not recognize at this point that the resurrection had occurred? Well my suggestion, I don't know this for sure, but my suggestion is that she She was just really emotional. She was so distraught that she just became very confused. And emotional, being emotional will bring confusion, won't it? It clouds things. It brings it brings it come we come to the point where it's clouded. I'm saying and uh let me just clarify this. We're all emotional people. But when we get to the point of emotionally being distraught, it really clouds things, it clouds our judgment, and that's probably what's happening here in this text. At either at any rate these men ask a question, verse thirteen, and they say unto her, Woman, Why weepest thou? She saith unto them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid him. And when she had thus said, she turned herself back and saw Jesus standing. And knew not that it was Jesus. So these two men ask this question, and she says, They've taken my Lord. I don't know where they've laid them. She sees Jesus face to face now, and she doesn't recognize him. This is not abnormal. If you remember over when he appeared to the disciples over in the road to Emmaus, they didn't recognize him at first either. It actually says in Mark chapter 16 that his form was actually a little bit different. Although eventually they did recognize him as Christ when he chose for them to recognize. It seems likely that what Christ was doing when he was here was veiling it a little bit at first, anyway. At any case she didn't recognize him. Verse 15 says this. Jesus saith unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? Whom seekest thou? She, here's her response, she, supposing him to be the gardener, saith unto him, Sir, if thou hast borne him, hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away. So she asked Jesus where Jesus has been laid. Jesus saith unto her, now, what is he she said? Jesus saith unto her, one word, Mary. When when I read this, my my mind went back to another place in the book of John. You can tell I've got my mind in the book of John. a lot. My mind went back to John chapter 10 where Christ says, My sheep know my voice and they follow me. And when Christ spoke in that way to Mary, perhaps in a way that was familiar to her, she recognized it. She turned herself and saith unto him, Rabboni. It's basically the same thing as rabbi, it's just worded a little differently here. Which is to say master or teacher. Jesus saith unto her, Touch me not. Now notice what happens here. This is really interesting. Here's what he says here. Jesus saith unto her, Touch me not. Well let's let's let's stop here for a minute. There's a lot, believe it or not, there's a lot of commentators and a lot of different views on what he meant when he said, Don't touch me. More than likely he wasn't saying, don't lay a finger on me. More than likely what was happening here was Mary was already clinging to him. I think what was going on here was that when Mary realized what was going on, maybe she had been let knelt down and she was grasping onto her onto Christ's feet. Or perhaps she was standing up and she had just grasped onto her, but her intention was like, I'm not going to let you go again. The word touch can sometimes be translated cling. And so there's in this emotional clinging to Christ, she just grabs hold of him, and Jesus says to her, You don't have to cling to me. And the reason you don't have to cling to me is because I'm not yet going to ascend up to the Father. The grammar allows for that in the Greek And so more than likely, I think what he's saying, what she's saying, there's different views on this, believe me, but what I think this is very simple, and I think he's just saying, look, you don't have to grab on me. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going to ascend yet. So so hold on and you don't don't have to cling to me at this moment. And then he says to her this, he gives this command now. This is such John wants to get something across in these words of Christ. Look at what he says. Touch me not, for I am not yet ascended to my Father. But go to my what. Do you see that? What does he say? Go to my who? He doesn't say disciples He doesn't say servants. He doesn't even say friends as he did in John 15. What does he say? He says, go to my brethren. And say unto them, I ascend unto my father, and what? Your father, and to my God, and to your God. Do you see what's going on here in this passage? Jesus is now describing his followers, his disciples, as his own brethren, his own brothers. Certainly included in this is the sister in as well. We're talking here about a new kind of relationship because of the resurrection. where where Jesus is so close to his followers that he wants, he's calling them brothers and sisters. He's calling them brethren. He's never said that before, well at least it's never been recorded before, prior to the re prior to the crucifixion and resurrection. But now he's saying, go to my brothers. That's incredible. The Lord of the universe, the God of all creation, says that his disciples are his brothers. Does John not want to get across to us that there is this personal relationship that Christ can have with us? You say, well, maybe this only applies to the people that he knew, I mean the disciples. Except we have many examples in the New Testament of being having this kind of relationship with Christ for those who know him as their Savior. For example In fact, what I want you to do, I want you to see this. Here's what I want you to do. Take your Bibles and turn to Hebrews chapter 2. And I'm going to read a couple of other passages for you while you're turning there. I'm going to skip over Psalm 22, which talks about it But I don't want to skip over Romans chapter 8, verse 16, which says, and the Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit that we are the children of God. You're in Hebrews. I'm just going to read this for you in Romans. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ, if so be that we suffer with him, that we may be also glorified together. Galatians 2. 25 says, For ye are the children of God by faith in Jesus Christ. For as many of you as have been baptized into Christ, have been put on Christ. Ephesians 1 5 says, having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself according to the good pleasure of his will. And then notice in Hebrews chapter 2, and pick up here in verse 10, and notice what it says. For it became him for whom are all things, and by whom all are all things, in bringing many sons unto glory To make the capital of their salvation perfect through sufferings. That's the sufferings of Christ on the cross. For both he that sanctifieth and they who are sanctified are all of one. For which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren, saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren in the midst of the church. Will I sing praise unto thee? And again I will put my trust in Him. And again, behold, I am the children which God hath given me. This applies, this brethren term applies to every believer, everyone who is a part of Christ's church, everyone who knows Christ as their personal Lord and Savior. They are we Christ is our brother. Now that does not diminish the fact that he is Lord. And it doesn't diminish the fact that he is creator. But it does tell us something about the relationship that we can have with Him, this close, intimate relationship with Christ. Why can we have this relationship? Because Christ lives. He is not dead. He rose from the grave. He sits on the right hand of the Father. He makes intercession for us. He lives. That's why. And so, because of that, we can have this close relationship with Christ, where He can we can be called His brothers and sisters. His brothers and sisters. And certainly, of course, we are all, if we know Christ as our Savior, brothers and sisters as well. And so, verse 18, Mary obeyed. She goes, goes, and tells the disciples That he had seen the Lor she had seen the Lord, and that he had spoken these things unto her. Then we find in verses nineteen through twenty-five that Christ appears to them in a closed room. They are afraid of the Jewish people that could have could perhaps think that Christ that actually the the disciples were guilty of taking the body. So they close them they are closed away and talk the assembling together and talking about uh what is going on and Jesus chooses to go through the door and and to appear to them. And we find in the passage that he eats and that his body is one that we would that was recognizable when he wanted to be recognized And this was the glorified body of Christ, the kind of body that we will receive in the resurrection as well. What I want to do, though, is I want to hone in on verses 26. beginning in verse 26, which depicts a man who was not there at that particular appearing of Christ, this man Thomas You see, we've talked about this close relationship that Christ desires to have with those who know him as a savior, as their Savior. But there is a requirement for the resurrection. In order to experience the results of the resurrection, make no bones about it, there is a requirement. This requirement is not works. It's not self-effort. Nevertheless, folks, there is a requirement. And I want to make it very clear about this. We are not all born God's children. We are born into sin, the Bible says. Our sins separate us from God, the Bible says. We have a sin nature because of the fact that we were born into sin because of Adam's original sin. There is no question about this. And it, frankly, is very empirically verifiable. You look around, you look at the world, and you know it's a sinful world. I was talking to somebody who doesn't believe in Christ who doesn't have a relationship with the Lord. And I pointed out to them that all you've got to do is read the newspaper and know the depravity of man, which the Bible teaches. Just read it, you don't even read the Bible. Read the newspaper, and you know that man is depraved. That man is sinful, that there is inherent man is not inherently good, man is inherently bad. Now before the fall, before Adam and Eve blew it, then man was inherently good. But after that, everybody's born bad, according to Scripture. So there is a requirement. Somehow we've got to be made good. We've got to be made, in fact, we've got to be declared righteous by God. In order to have this close brother brother kind of relationship with Christ, we've got to be we've got to have we've got to have a certain thing done to us. We've got to have Christ's righteousness laid on us. And that really is the message of the cross of Christ. That Christ, when he died for us, he took on the sins of the whole world and placed them on himself, so that he could offer his righteousness to anyone who would accept it by faith alone. But it does have to be attained. In other words, you're not born with this righteousness applied to you. There is a transaction that's got to happen. There's an exchange that's got to take place. That's why in John chapter 1, verse 12, it says, But as many as receive him. In fact, prior to that it says, He came into his own, his own received him not. But as many as do receive him, to them gave he the power, or the ability, or the right, or the privilege to become the sons of God, the children of God, even to them that believe on his name. You see, it requires belief, but it requires a certain kind of belief. Did you know that? It's not just any kind of belief that will work. Some kinds of belief will not make it. We're going to look at that in just a few moments, but what I want to do is I want us to see here, folks. The kind of belief that Thomas has. And by the way, I think Thomas gets a bad rap. He's known as doubting Thomas. But we don't have any evidence that any of the disciples other than John would ever have believed on Christ If they had not, if Christ had not appeared to them, or at least at this point they wouldn't have believed. Thomas just happened to not be there. You know why Thomas wasn't there? Because God didn't want him to be there. God wanted Thomas to make a confession that is quite significant. Would you notice what it says in the text in verse 26? And after eight days, again his disciples were with were within, and Thomas with them. Then came Jesus, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and saith, Peace be unto you. Then saith he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands, and reach hither thy hand, and thrust it unto thy side, and be not faithless But believing. And Thomas answered and said unto him: This is one of the greatest statements of belief, I think, in all the Bible: my Lord and my God. Thomas looks. Doesn't say whether he actually placed his hand in his side or in the nails. Doesn't really say that. I don't think he probably needed to do that. He saw it with his own eyes. But either way, he is taken aback and he responds in saving faith, responds in faith by saying, My Lord and my God. Did you know that there is a kind of faith that is acceptable to God, and there is a kind of faith that is not acceptable to God? We actually find this in John's Gospel, in John chapter two, and verse twenty-three. He was uh he was had just tr turned over the money changers of the temple, he had just then he began to do some miracles And it said that there were some people that believed on him. And it says in the passage, now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover, the feast day, many believed on his name when they saw the miracles which he did. But that it says in the text that he did not accept their belief. He did not believe in their belief. There is a kind of belief that is unacceptable belief. What would cause a belief to be unacceptable and to keep us from having a relationship with God? Would you flip over to John 6 verse 26? You're going to find it here. Jesus is now going to indict the nation of Israel. He's going to speak to them. He had just fed over 20,000 people, 5,000 men, 20,000 people, and they're following after him, and they're trying to give they're trying to uh to get Get more food out of him and trying to get more miracles out of him, and here's what he says to them John 6. 26. Jesus answered them and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, ye seek me not because ye saw the miracles or the signs of his deity. But because ye did eat of the loaves and were filled. There is a selfish kind of belief. There is a kind of belief that really just wants a fire escape. There is a kind of belief that just really wants a escape escape. And folks, what what Christ is intimating in this passage is that that is the wrong kind of belief. It's not an acceptable belief. There has got to be something more in the kind of belief that is acceptable to God, the kind of reception or receiving that John talks about in John chapter 1. What is that kind of belief? Well, Thomas said it this way: my Lord and my God. By saying, by attributing Christ as God, he demonstrated that he believed that God, that Jesus is God and entirely able. That God was able, Jesus is able to take away his sin. But when he said, My Lord, He was saying, I am trusting you for your authority. He is saying, you are my authority. And folks, the biblical kind of belief that we find in the Bible is the kind of belief that not only says, okay, I want fire insurance, I want a ticket to heaven, I want good things, so I'll pray a prayer and believe No, no, no. The kind of belief that we see in Scripture says it is is the kind of belief that says, You're my Lord and my God. I am going to follow you. There is a belief that believes in the authority of Christ and says, you are my authority. Doesn't mean that there's self-effort involved? It doesn't mean that there is any kind of perf any kind of works involved. There isn't. But there is a response to seeing who Christ really is and what Christ really did, a response to that that simply says, Lord, you are God and you are Lord, and I'm going to follow you. That's saving faith. That's belief. So my question for you today is what kind of belief do you have? Sometimes the question is, do you believe or do you not believe? And you know, there's a lot of people that say they believe. But the question for you that I would have is what kind of belief do you have? Do you have the kind of belief that says, you know, I just really want to get what I want to get out of this Or do you have the kind of belief that says, I know who Christ is, I see what Christ did, and I am going to follow him with my life? I'm going to see sh demon I'm I'm going to believe that he is not only my God, but he's my Lord, He's my authority. If there is anybody here that says, you know, I'm really not sure about that, I'm not sure I've really made that kind of a decision before. You can walk out of here knowing. It's simply a submissive approach where you say, Lord, I'm going to submit my life to you You know what's amazing about a life submitted to Christ? It's a better life than we could ever think up on our own. I don't say that in any way to try to influence us or you or anybody. But bel but that still requires belief, doesn't it? Because you know, I really think my own life is I can do my own life better than anybody else. It requires belief for me to say that God can do my life better than I can do my life. That's the kind of saving faith that we find in Thomas. What about you? Like every head bowed and every eye closed this morning. I rarely do this, but I would just ask this question. With all uh the reason I'm having you close your eyes is just because there's less distractions this way. Uh Are you one who says, you know, I don't think I've ever really there I don't have that kind of belief. I certainly don't have that kind of relationship. I don't feel that close to the Lord. You can believe the day. The Bible says, But as many as received him, to them gave he the power to become the sons of God. to them that believe on his name. And here's what I'd just like you to do. You can just express your own faith to the Lord. Just tell the Lord, just do what Thomas did. Say, my Lord and my God. I believe that Christ is Lord and God, that He died to take the punishment for my sin, and He rose from the grave. Express your faith that way. As Thomas did. And if you have any questions about this, don't go away wondering whether or not you have a relationship with God. First John 5 13 says these things are Written that ye may know that ye have eternal life. God wants you to know. When you walk out this door and you shake my hand, pull me aside and say to me, Hey, you know what? I need to know more about this. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you more. You say, I'm not really sure about this. Pull me aside. I'd be glad. I'll drop everything and I'll help you with it. Or if you're not comfortable, maybe you know somebody else in our church, maybe somebody else you're more comfortable with, that you've seen their relationship with the Lord and you want to talk to them, by all means do so. God offers this wonderful identifying relationship with Him through Christ alone. And He wants us to receive it. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Let's pray to him. Father, we thank you for Christ's resurrection. We thank you that this results in having the kind of relationship that really blows our mind when we think about it. Why you would take the likes of a mere mortal man and elevate him to a place where he can be called a brother of Christ is beyond beyond really understanding at this point. But we're thankful for the intimacy and the closeness, and we do want to recognize you today, to recognize Christ as Lord and God. He is worthy of all praise. He is worthy of all adoration. He is worthy of all authority. All authority is given unto him because of the resurrection and the ascension. Lord, we thank you. And we pray, Lord, that as we go throughout our days, that we would understand that He lives. And that we can be complete in Him because of it. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.