Last night I solicited a bit of help from uh you Facebook folks out there to come up with some truisms. based upon our culture. A truism is a is a something that that usually a culture, and this is in different cultures, there's an observation about things that just seem to be true And um and they're so common that something a phrase tends to a arise in the culture. And we have many truisms in our culture Uh and so I I came up with a few of them. So so what I want you to do is I want us to to I'll read the first part of them and then I want us you you all tell me what the rest of it is, okay? So the first one is Uh what goes up must come down. Good. Cheaters never Wow, only like three people said that. Cheaters never Okay, I thought that wasn't I well by the way I should say this. Um some of you sent some this morning. Those aren't gonna make it in. And some of them I didn't know uh uh some of them I don't know like I didn't know them and I thought well if I don't know them then maybe others might not know them so anyway. Um so they didn't all make it in, so please don't be offended if yours didn't make it make the make the the cut. Okay. Um It's not whether you win or lose, it's which never under I never understood that one. What what goes around? Okay. The difference between men and boys are the prices of their Okay, all the men knew that one. I heard a lot of male voices on that. And Eric's back there thrilled that that made that in there. I actually liked that one. That was good. Okay. Life is like a box of chocolates. You never know what your Okay. Um life uh that I read that one. You can lead a horse to water but you see you guys know all these. This is great. If a f if at first you don't succeed Alright, so did you know that the Bible actually has truisms as well? For example, what you sow, you will reap. And the truism that is it's not in the passage, but it's clearly clearly illustrated in the passage is from Luke chapter 14, verse 11. Whoever exalts himself will be humbled. And he who humbles himself will be exalted. Whoever exalts himself, God will humble. And whoever humbles himself, God will exalt. Let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask him his help in understanding this. Father, we come to you and we pray that you'd help us. In understanding this very important principle from your word as we follow really the example of Christ. He humbled himself And became a man, and then further humbled himself to the death of the cross in obedience to you And set for us an example in doing so, that we might be able to be unified as a body of believers as we are humble individually. And also, we'll learn today that you can lift us up in your way, in your time. To glorify yourself. And so we pray, Lord, as we look at your word today, that you'd help us in this area. We pray these things in Christ's name Amen. Well, we have been in Philippians chapter 2. And I want to pick up just by way of introduction here to help us to understand where we are. It's so important in these letters to different uh from from Paul to different churches, there is always a flow of thoughts. And it's and the way that Paul writes, he's always writing in a continuous kind of a flow of thought. If you think of these letters as just segments of subjects, you're going to actually miss a lot of what God is trying to say in his word through these epistles. So I want us to notice first of all that in verses twenty-seven through thirty of chapter one, as we looked at in the past, that the two things that God that Paul brings out in that passage is really the he introduces the idea of unity, but he also talks about the emphasis, there's an emphasis on suffering. And he implores these people to let their conduct be worthy of the gospel. Verse 27, chapter 1 says, only let your conduct be worthy of the gospel of Christ. So that whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear of your affairs, that you stand fast in one spirit, with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel. and not in any way terrified by your adversaries, which is to them a proof of perdition, but to you of salvation, and that from God. For to you it has been granted on behalf of Christ not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake. having the same conflict which you saw in me, and now here is in me. And then we find in chapter 2, verses 1 through 4, We find that the Apostle Paul is now going to explain the right response to the kind of suffering that God actually says we are supposed to see as a gift from him for his purposes. And he notes that if we are viewing these things correctly, if we're responding to the suffering in our lives in the way that God wants us to, then we are going to notice the comfort of God. We're going to see the consolation of God, the encouragement of God. So he says in 2. 1, therefore, if there is any consolation in Christ, If any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any affection and mercy, or we could say it this way, since there is, or because there is. He says verse 2, fulfill my joy by being like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit, but in lowliness of mind. Let each esteem others better than themselves. He says the pattern for us How are we to have this extended kind of joy? It's through unity of the body. And how does that happen? It's when we're not so focused on ourselves. And we are extending ourselves to the interest of others. And then uh verse four, let each of you look out not only for his own interests, but also for the interests of others. Then the Apostle Paul, if you remember from last week, he is now going to give us the prime. the perfect example of what it looks like to live out a life of humility, and we're going to see this in the person of Jesus Christ. And in fact, we're going to he's going to point out that the way that Christ lived from the time he came down to earth and condescended to us and all of what he did on the earth is actually an attitude. It's a mindset. We find that in verse 5. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. We noted last week that this passage that we're into now is a doctrinally, theologically rich passage. But frankly, the point of the passage is for us to learn how to emulate Christ, how to follow after Christ and the example of Christ. He says, let this mind, this attitude be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery or a thing to be grasped, to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation. He emptied himself. Taking on the form of a bondservant, and coming in the likeness of men. And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death. even to the death of the cross. That brings us then to our passage this morning. Clearly we recall from last week that Christ Humbled himself. We learned about Christ's self-humiliation. He chose to humble himself. But you'll notice in verse 9 that there is a shift in subject The subject of verses of the previous passage is Jesus Christ. He's the doer of the action. He's the one that's choosing. to lower himself, to subject himself, to condescend. But now we see a new doer of the action in verse 9. And it is God the Father. Would you notice it says now in verse 9, therefore God also And you'll notice again in verse 11 to identify this as God the Father, you'll see to the glory of God the Who. The Father. The God in verse 9 is a reference to the Father. Now that is not at all to say that Jesus is no less God than That there is somehow less God than the Father. No, he is very God, and we learned that last week. He didn't think it a thing to be grasped to be equal to God. He is equal with God But in the three persons of the Trinity, we now see that verse 9 tells us that the Father highly exalted the Son. See that there? Therefore God also hath highly exalted him. And given him a name which is above every name. So in verse 9, we have God, the Father, highly exalting the Son. And I want you to notice the therefore again. Why is the the therefore so important? Because it tells us that this is the result Of what Christ did. What did Christ do? Christ humbled himself. What did the Father do as a direct result of what Christ did? Christ highly exalted him. Now, why is that important? Well, folks, it's important because as God highly exalts him, we find in this passage that this kind this idea of highly exalting is, you could almost say it this way, is a super exalting The Bible tells us in John chapter 17 that Christ asks the Father. prior to his death, that he would again receive the glory after his death that he had before the world was. And certainly that is half that happened. But there is no question, folks, that as you read this passage, what you find is that God even higher elevates Christ even higher than he was before. Now that's not to say that he is somehow more God than he was before. He always is God. He always will be God. But there is a kind of a status that we'll learn about today that is higher because of his choosing to be lower than he was even before the world began and before his own choosing to be humbling. his humbling experience. We clearly see from this passage that he highly exalted him and given him the name which is above every name. So what does that mean? First of all, I want us to really get this. Understand, folks, that the that the that the the ethic in Scripture is to humble yourself and let God exalt you. We find this over and over and over again in Scripture. Matthew 23, 11, but he who is greatest among you shall be your servant. Whoever exalts himself will be humbled. And he who humbled himself will be exalted. Luke 18, 14. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other, for everyone who exalts himself will be humbled. And he who humbles himself will be exalted. James 4, verse 10 says, humble yourself in the sight of the Lord, and he will lift you up. 1 Peter 5 says, Likewise, you younger people, submit yourselves to the elder, yet all of you be submissive to one another. And be clothed with humility, for God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Therefore, humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time. The extent of the exaltation we find is that God is highly, that God has highly exalted Christ. And we see here in the passage that it says, it's given him a name which is above every name. What is he talking about here when he says he's given a name which is above every name? Well, we know that God's goal was to exalt Christ with authority. In Acts chapter 1, verse 11, it says, And also men of Galile, men of Galilee, why do you this is the angel talking to the disciples, men of Galilee, Galilee, why do you stand gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus who has taken up from you into heaven will so come in like manner as you saw him go into heaven. Acts chapter 2, verse 33 says, Therefore being exalted to the right hand of God Having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he poured out this which you now see. And here. So God the Father intended for Christ to be exalted to a place of the right seated at the right hand of God And the passage tells us that he is given a name which is above every name. Now, this is very significant. If we think about the name which is above every name, what does that mean? Do you remember the book of Exodus when Moses asks the person at the burning bush his name? Do you remember what, and of course it was God, do you remember what God says? He says in Exodus chapter 3, verse 14, I am who I am. Thus you shall say to the children of Israel, I am have sent me to you. But beyond that, we find that there are many names, even in the Old Testament and through the New Testament, that are given to God. They're given to Jesus Christ particularly. Names like Emmanuel, Wonderful Counselor, Prince of Peace, the Almighty, Ancient of Days, the Door, the Chief Shepherd, the Good Shepherd, the Great Shepherd, the Word, The Light, The Lamb, the Bread of Life, The Rock, The Bridegroom, The Alpha Omega, the Son of Man. The Son of God. That's just to name a few, and there are more names that have been given to Jesus throughout, you know, prior to his incarnation, during his incarnation, and so on. There have been many names given to Jesus, but Paul points out that there is a particular name that's given to Jesus that is above every other name. That's significant, and we need to ask the question: what is that name? This is a new name. This is a name that he was not given prior to this point of exaltation. What is this name? Well, some would suggest that the name is the name Jesus. They take this from the very next verse where it says. . That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those in heaven and those on earth, and those under the earth. . But folks, the problem with that is that the name Jesus is not a new name. When was the name Jesus given to the second person of the Trinity? The name Jesus was given to the second person of the Trinity at the birth of Christ, the incarnation. Matthew chapter 1 verse 21 says, And she shall bring forth a son and shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sin. This is after the death of Christ, this is after the humiliation of Christ is complete, that God, the Father, gives Jesus a new name, a name that's greater than all of the other names. The other option, which I believe is the right option, is the name Lord. And that is certainly within the context. We're going to find in verse 11 that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is what? Is Lord to the glory of God the Father. The name that is given to Jesus is Lord. Now let's go ahead and demonstrate why that is. I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn for a moment to the book of Isaiah. Would you take your Bibles, turn to Isaiah And particularly chapter 45 as we look at the name of Jesus being Lord. Isaiah 45. And I want you to pick up in verse 5 here in Isaiah 45, it says, I am the Lord, and there is no other. There is no God beside me. I will gird you, though you have not known me. That they may know from the rising of the sun to its settling that there is none beside me. I am the Lord, there is no other. Folks, do you see the name Lord there? It's the name Yahweh, Lord. I am the Lord, and there is no other. Then I want you to notice, if you would, down to verse 18. of Isaiah 45. It says, For thus says the Lord who created the heavens, who is who is God, who formed the earth and made it. who has established it, who did not create it in in vain, who formed it to be inhabited. I am the Lord, and there is no other I have not spoken uh in secret in the dark place of the earth, I do not say to the seed of Jacob Seek me in vain, I, the Lord, speak righteousness to declare things that are right. Assemble yourselves and come, drawn near together. You have escaped from the nations. They have no knowledge, who carry the woop the wood of their carved image. and pray to to a God that cannot save. Now, just skip down and notice what it says here. Well, don't skip too much. Look at verse 21. Take, bring forth your case. Yes, let them take counsel together who has declared this from ancient time. Who has told it from the time, have not I the Lord, and there is no other beside me, a just God and a Savior? Oh A just God and a Savior, there is none beside me. Look to me and be saved, all you ends of the earth, for I am God, and there is no other. I have sworn by myself, the word has gone out of my mouth in righteousness, and shall not return that to me every knee shall bow. There's our text. Our text is It's a reference. Paul's referencing this text. Every knee shall bow, every tongue shall take an oath, he shall say, surely in the what? In the Lord I have righteousness and strength. To him men shall come, and all shall be ashamed who are incensed against him So folks, from Matt from Isaiah 45, we clearly see that the name that God gives, the Father gives the Son, after his humiliation, as a part of his exaltation, is the name Lord. Now that's very significant. It's significant when we think of the Philippian church. As you have recalled in the as you have learned in the past, we've learned together in the past that the Philippian Church is a church that was in a Roman uh a Roman city where you automatically were a Roman citizen and you took pride in that And there was a great emphasis on loyalty to your own Roman citizenship. In fact, they had a phrase that would that became a test phrase to see how loyal you were as a Roman citizen. It was the phrase Caesar is Lord. So you'd be walking down the street and you say to somebody, uh, Caesar is Lord. And the person on the other side would say turned back to you and say, Caesar is Lord. It was a way, it was a patriotic, if you will, way of expressing these things. But folks, it had in its in in it implied the idea of Caesar is deity, the emperor is deity. It also had implied the idea that Caesar is the master of all. He is he has full and all authority. When God gives Jesus this name, he gives him a name that is above all other names because he has given Jesus full authority. That's important for us to understand that he has the full authority of the Father. Now, then we turn and we're going to learn more about this as we go through. I'll just mention this, that this idea of authority Is clearly found in Matthew chapter 28, verse 16, where it says, All authority, or I think it's verse 18 actually, all authority is given to me in heaven and in earth. Christ said this. All authority is given to me in heaven and in earth. And so as a result of the humiliation of Christ He is exalted so that all authority is given to him everywhere. And that's exactly what we see in verse 10. That all the name that that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow of those in heaven and those on earth and of those under the earth, and every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Of course, we know that this is still to come, that there will be a day when Christ comes in his second coming that every knee shall bow In heaven and in earth and below the earth. Now, in a sense, it's not necessary to identify who's in heaven, who's in earth, who's below the earth. You've got the angels in heaven. You've got people on earth, you've got other kinds of people below the earth. I mean you have you it's the point is this collective of all people, all the whole, and I use the word in the in the cosmos. The whole cosmos. In 1 Corinthians 15, verses 24 through 28, this whole idea is said this way. Then comes the end, when he delivers the kingdom of God the Father, when he puts an end to the all rule and all authority and power. For he must reign till he has put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that will be destroyed is death. For he has put all things under his feet. Talking about Jesus But when he says all things are put under him, it is evident that he who put all things under him is accepted, that he is separate from the things that are under him. Now, when all things are made subject to him, all things, everywhere, the entire cosmos, all things are subject to him, then the Son Himself will also be subject to Him. Who put all things under him, that God may be all and all. And we're going to see that in this passage as well. That all is for the glory of God the Father. This includes all kinds of people. In Romans chapter 8, verse 19, it actually says that the earnest expectation of the creation eagerly awaits for the revealing of the sons of God. It actually says that all of creation is waiting for the day. Groaning for the day when Christ will come and return and will be Lord of all. He has all authority now. But he will execute all of his authority in the future in the second coming of Christ. Now there's an application here for us, and we want to be very sure that we apply this. Because Paul starts off by saying, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. So it is important that we apply this truth to our lives. And folks, the way that we apply this truth is very simple. Did you notice that Jesus, who did not think it a thing to be grasped, did not exalt himself? That the Father exalted him, that he chose to humble himself, to take, to be subservient to all, to even people in dying on the death on the cross. He humbled himself in every way imaginable. And the f and he didn't it doesn't then say he exalted himself afterwards. No. It takes Paul words this in a way to show that the Father chooses to exalt him instead, to exalt him entirely, to the fullest extent. Now I want to contrast that. And where I actually want to contrast that, and I'm having you turn your Bibles quite a bit today, but I want you to take your Bibles and turn to Isaiah 14 for a moment. I probably should have had you put your finger in Isaiah, because we're coming back there. We already were there. But Isaiah 14 in your Bibles, turn to Isaiah 14, and I want you to notice. a contrast to the to the person of Christ. And if you know your Bibles, you're probably already identifying the contrast as we turn there. It is this Lucifer. Now, what did Jesus do in order to receive the kingdom from the Father? In order to be set as Lord of all? He humbled himself. But what did Lucifer do? Notice what it says in the passage, beginning in verse 12. How you are fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning. How you are cut down to the ground, you who weaken the nations. For you have said in your heart, I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God, I will also sit on the mount of the congregation on the farthest side of the north, I will ascend above the heavens I mean he uses the word the word ascend here conjures up the idea of the ascension of Christ, which is exaltation. I will ascend above the heavens to the clouds. I will be like the most high Yet you shall be brought down to Sheol, to the lowest depths of the pit. Those who see you will gaze at you and consider you, saying, is this the man who made the earth tremble? who shook kingdoms, who made the world as a wilderness and destroyed its cities, who did not open the house of prisoners. All the kings of the nations, all of them sleep in glory, everyone in his own house, but you are cast out of your grave like an abominable branch. Like the garment of those who are slain, thrust through with a sword, who go down to the stones of the pit, like a corpse trodden underfoot. You shall not be joined with them in burial, because you have destroyed your land and slain your people. The brood of evildoers shall never be named. You see a contrast? There is actually a lot of contrast there. The fact that he and these people will never be named. They will not, Lucifer, the Son of the Morning, will will go, will eventually in eternity will be forgotten. as it were, at least in reputation. Folks, do you see here the contrast? What did Lucifer do? What was his mistake? What did he do? He exalted himself. He said, I will ascend. I will be like the Most High. I will go up. And this passage says, you are already fallen. I'd like to ask this question, how often do we lift ourselves up? How often do we build try to build our own kingdoms? How often do we exalt ourselves? How often do we ascend? And what does God say about that? God is so clear that when we choose to lift ourselves up, He's going to put us down When we choose to exalt ourselves, you can rest assured that God will make us to be abased in His time. This is diametrically opposed to the world system. You know, you know worldliness. What is worldliness? Worldliness, folks, is the mentality that when I lift, I will lift myself up. To become something. That is the core of the pride of life. But we are all, we all have that in our own flesh, do we not? We have this sense of self-importance. We have the sense of wanting to ascend, wanting to lift ourselves up, wanting to create our own kingdoms. I wrote down a couple of ways that we are sometimes guilty of building our own kingdoms. We are guilty of building our own kingdoms when we decide what we want our own lives to look like. Did you catch that? We are guilty of of building our own kingdoms when we decide for ourselves what I want my own life to look like, and then we uh we pursue that. It's very subtle. But this we are living in a day where that is embedded in the culture. The social media is full of this. People that have a whole profile with only the things that they want to be in their lives and they're constantly posting things that want they want to be there and they're never saying, you know, I I had a fight with my spouse on Facebook. You don't see that, and I really don't want to see that either. But but you there there we did this, we did that, we've got what you know that there it's like I'm gonna create my own life. I'm gonna see what I want to see about what I want my life to look like And then I'm going to shoot after that. Folks, if we're not careful, we're going to build our own kingdom that way. God says he that will lose his life will find it Another way we tend to build our own kingdom is when we allow what we do to define us. You say, wait a minute, that sounds What do I do to what you do do it does define you. That's why I hear all the time. That's a false truism. That sounds doesn't quite sound right. to have a false truism. But that is a truism that the world tells us that's wrong. What you do does not define you. If you know Christ is your Savior, Christ defines you. And you ought to find your identity in Christ. And not look to your identity as what we do. What we do should not define us. Our identity is in Christ Then we're in fellowship with him, and then what we do is fruit of that These are just some of the ways, folks, that we make a kingdom of ourselves that we have our own authority. Or we try to set up our own authority. We find finally then in this passage that we have verse 10, it talks about the name, every knee shall bow. There's going to be this homage and this worship to Christ. But then we find in verse 11, and that every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. The Father elevated Christ. By the confession of the entire world that Jesus Christ is Lord. This confession is the word hamalageo. It means to say the same thing God says. God names his son as Lord, and the people name his son as Lord. He is Lord of all. Isaiah 42, 8 says, I am the Lord. That is my name. And my glory I will not give to another, nor my praise to carved images. Now, when we think about practically, how is this practical? It's practical, folks, but because it is important for us to understand that this is embedded in the gospel. A few years ago there used to be sort of this, and it still prevails today, this debate over what is called lordship salvation. Do, in order to be saved, do you have to make Jesus Lord of your life? And there was great debate over this, and books were written on it on both sides of it. And the truth of the matter is, those who are arguing that you didn't have to make Jesus Lord of their life in some ways were missing the point. And some who were the other side who were saying you did need to make Jesus Lord of your life were missing the point as well. Folks, we don't need to make Jesus Christ Lord of our life. We can't make Jesus Lord, but we do need to recognize him as Lord. That's because that's who he is. The gospel is accepting who Jesus really is. and what he has done. It is both the person of Christ and the work of Christ that we must accept. And there is no question that God says you must recognize him as Lord. That's why it says in Acts 16, 31, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. It's not a rather matter of some sort of self-effort that I'm going to make Jesus Lord. We have no, we can't we can do nothing of ourselves to come to Christ. But folks, what we do have to do is recognize Him as our Lord and Savior. Acts 2:36 says, therefore, let the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made this Jesus, whom you have crucified, both Lord and Christ. So we must recognize him as our Lord. And when we do this, it tells us That that, by the way, the whole world will do this. The rule of Christ will be mediated to every everyone will follow Christ and name him Lord. But you and I, as Christians, have the expressed privilege of doing it now. And every day of our lives, we ought to live in light of the Lordship of Jesus Christ. Recognizing his lordship in our own lives. And we find in this passage, then, it says that the goal, the ultimate goal, is to glorify God the Father. We saw the same thing in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, that the ultimate goal is that all the authority is given to Christ and then in the end it will glorify the Father. And there is a sense from what we see in John 17 that they share in this glory together. Matthew 17, verse 5, it says, While he was still speaking, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and suddenly a voice out of heaven of the cloud saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, hear him. John 5. 23 says that all should honor the Son just as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. Then we find in verse 12, and I want us to see this, that there's this application here, therefore, my beloved. As you have always obeyed, not in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. And we're going to talk about that more next week, but I want to notice I want you to notice something about this passage that he is now again uh wanting us to apply what we have Heard, he says, work out your own salvation. The idea there is is as you are as you are living out your sanctification, remember there are three parts to salvation: justification, sanctification, glorification. He's talking primarily about sanctification and as you are growing in Christ and as you are living for Christ, keep this in mind, all of this, the idea of Humility and exaltation. Keep all of this in mind. Have it be something that is you're constantly aware of. You ought to have, as it were, the mind of Christ in this area. And it's interesting that when we think of the exaltation, we think of the resurrection. That's part of the exaltation of Christ. The ascension of Christ, that's part of the exaltation of Christ. The coronation of Christ, when he is seated at the right hand of God. And folks, we will do those things as well in a sense. We will rise from the grave We will ascend in the rapture. And we will also be, we already are seated in the heavenly, scripture says, but we will be physically seated in the heavenlies. One day as well. We will be exalted with Christ. So how much more should we not humble ourselves on this side of the exaltation? The overall tenor and application of this is that we must, if there is any principle in Scripture. That we ought to remember and learn in order to grow in Christ, it is to humble ourselves. If there, folks, if there is only one thing you could remember, About how to be like Christ and how to grow in Christ, it would be this. It would be the self-humbling of Christ, and that God wants us to humble ourselves as well. And there are different times in our lives where we have the opportunity to choose paths of humility. I was reflecting on this this past week and and I really can't help but think about my own life and just think through this. And I to some degree I should say this in giving this illustration that there have been many times where I chose the wrong path. I chose the path of self-exaltation. I chose the path of wanting a position or whatever. And God had to humble I remember when I was in Pennsylvania and had finished a very difficult ministry situation, and I was greatly humbled, not of my own choosing, but God used it And I had a choice on what to do next, and I had decided that it probably would not be best for me to go directly back in ministry because trying to be a wounded soldier and going back on the front lines is difficult. And I remember saying to somebody that I think what I'm going to do is I'm going to go to work at Chick-fil-A. And they looked at me like I had two heads and they said, I can't see it. I said, well what what can't you see? They said I I can't see you're a senior pastor. Why would I I can't see you going and working at Chick-fil-A? And I I just I I knew what they were saying, but didn't really take consider it much, and I talked with somebody else. I actually talked with a pastor, uh fellow pastor friend of mine, and they said the same kind of thing And I um I I understood what they were saying, but I really did not uh I uh I I it it just was a a path for me that I was not I just needed uh frankly I needed to work because I was uh But just that was important. And I just decided, you know what, I'm going to do this. And um I went and got a job at Chick-fil-A. It was a really bad economy and Chick-fil-A was doing well despite the bad economy and I had connections and so I did interview and within a you know a couple m weeks I got a job at Chick-fil-A. And I will tell you it was a bit humbling. It was something where I was doing all kind I mean they put me I had never cooked I mean I had never cooked more than more than you know eggs maybe I remember I couldn't even boil water right. I remember when I was first mar uh before I was married, I lived I lived by myself up in New Jersey for like six months by myself. It was the worst time in my life. I am not I I I'm telling you, it was like it was it was bad. I I did not I lost weight. I did. Because I am really not. So the first week my operator puts me in the kitchen And I'm working with a lady who really knows what she's doing. She's the head head um manager, the uh cook food manager, and uh she doesn't speak real clear English And I'm working with her and she's trying to tell me what to do. And I really have no frame of reference in anything that's going on. And she's not speaking super good English. uh and I don't speak any Spanish. And um she kept looking at me like, are you gonna listen to what I say? Like, yeah sure, tell me. Yeah But uh you're not listening I'd be like do it. I thought do what she thought like you're not listening. You're not listening very well. I'm like okay. Uh uh anyway, that was that was a rough week. Uh But I got through it and and then I learned how to do everything from the ground up. That's how they they just just teach you everything from the ground up. It wasn't long before I became a shift manager. But it was a humbling experience. I remember I remember another another time, but that was and that was a path that God wanted me to take. And it was the right pass I remember another time I was in I was in I was working at Chick-fil-A and I was also working on a some education and And uh during that time, I remember the path being very clear in two different philosophies of ministry. Remember one philosophy of ministry among the people that I knew, even pastors that I knew, was sort of, you need to make it happen. You need to be use pragmatic means to make the church grow, to grow the ministry, to make it happen. It's all about your own effort in making it happen. That was really felt to me like like a path of ministry. And there was another kind of path of ministry that I was confronted with and was learning from from my education that was an entirely different path. It basically said: no, you need to obey and follow what God says. Follow the preaching of the Word of God. Follow the fellowship. Just follow what God says. A church is supposed to be and a church is supposed to do the best you know how, and let God's providence do it. Let God do the work. You just obey and submit and let God do it. And I really for I wrestled with those two paths for probably a year. I had two paths in front of me. And I would go and look at a ministry with a couple hundred people, and it was clearly built by that kind of pragmatic method. of just of just finding ways to get something done and doing it my w doing it doing it my way kind of and and f trying to put forth all ki kinds of of effort in a pragmatic sense to make it happen. And there was this three years into this, there was this little church with 15 people. And um it it was something where God I had preached there once, and some of you, there are a few of you left that remember that, remember it. And And uh and after I preached there once, you know, I well I was actually asked to preach there and I heard of it and ham and I I did I turned it down the first time. I said I That's okay, I'm not interested. Somebody else came somebody came to me again and said, Would you please just go and preach there? They could really use some help. So I went and preached there. And um afterwards I thought, you know, God, could you just do something? I mean there's there's not I mean you know it's there's it's there's small and and um there's some faithful people here, but could you Could you just choose to do something your way? And that was Bethel Baptist Church back then And God has chosen in His way to just do what He wants to do. And it hasn't been that there's not been struggles, and it hasn't been that there has not been effort put in, and hard work, and those kinds of things. But there's a but I but I but I can look at it and I can look at the passage and just say, you know, God did what he wanted to do in his church. I didn't really I just preached the word and got some things in order and Try to do things as biblically as possible and let God do what he's going to do. Folks, there is a way that we just simply know the key to humility is: are you just obeying God? Are you following him one step at a time? Are you just that's what that's what Christ did. It says that he obeyed him. He obeyed the Father. So it says verse 8, and being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to death, even the death of the cross. There are two ways to live. You can either make your life the way you want it to be, your way, or you can let God do what He wants to do in your life and just obey one step at a time. Trust and obey, that there's no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and obey. You have a choice to make. There is a humble path that will will humble self And there is a path to exalt self. And which choice will you make Now I'd just like for a few moments. We all want I believe m you know most of us here would want to make the right choice, but sometimes we get so caught up in our own flesh that we We are just bent on making a different choice. And in a few moments, I'm just going to have us take a little time and silence before the Lord. And just to affirm that we just want to humbly obey God and let God do what God wants to do. Whether it's our church or just our own lives, it's important for us from time to time to get back to the mentality of Christ. The attitude of Christ. A few things we need to remember by way of application. Number one, the unity of Christ. Church depends on the humility of individual believers. The church will only be as unified as the individuals are humble. Number two, when we humble ourselves, God will exalt us for His glory in His time. When we choose to humble ourselves, Do we believe that when we choose to humble ourselves, God will lift us up in His time, in His way, for His glory Number three, we work out our salvation by following the example of Christ in humiliation and exaltation. We work it out by following the example of Christ in humility. And then God will lift us up. That is how you grow spiritually. You may be saying, you know, I don't really feel like I've grown spiritually in a long time. Have you chosen to humble yourself? Have you chosen that path of humility? I'd like to take a few moments just in quietness before the Lord, just in silence. And just to give you a few moments that perhaps just in the quietness of this moment and just in with everything going that we've learned, that we would just be in silence before the Lord and pray for a few moments. Just maybe you would say to the Lord, Lord, I need to follow, would you help me to follow this path of humility? Would I I want to humble myself before you and obey you and let you do what you want to with me? rather than having my own way. So give me a few minutes of silence and then we will we will sing together. Father, we come to you and we pray, Lord, that you'd help us Daily, daily to follow you, to obey you, to humble ourselves before you To not attempt to make our lives the way we want or to build our own kingdoms, but to follow your kingdom. To seek first your kingdom. And all these things will be added to us. Father, as we go through, we've been going through your word, may we have the mind of Christ in this matter. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.