Bibles, if you would, turn to the book of Revelation this morning, Revelation chapter three. We have gotten through one chapter of the book of Revelation. The last four weeks because we've been covering actually five weeks and then some breaks in there. But um we've been covering each one of these churches individually. as Christ has made his assessment upon them. And I'm d okay. Sorry about that. Hang on one second. Yeah. That's entirely my fault. All right. And so uh when we come to this particular uh chapter, we're going to find something quite interesting about it as we go through this I I hope that we have gotten some an impression about these different churches as Christ has gone through them and made his assessments. Number one, I I hope we have grasped the reality that Christ is very concerned about local churches. Back when we studied the book of Ephesians, we knew that Christ cared very much about, and he was the one who created the universal church. And although there were many applications for the book of Ephesians, Ephesians in uh uh for the local church in Ephesians. The emphasis in Ephesians is more on the universal church, and uh there's a very very important application for us in those. And those uh in that book. But it isn't as if Christ emphasizes the universal church in his His word to the exclusion of a local church. And what we see, because Christ addresses seven individual local churches, is that Christ cares very much About local churches. And he cares very specifically about the spiritual health of these churches. He is not overly concerned about the amount of people that are in the church, churches and the Individually, or about all of the things that are offered in each of these churches. I think we've really got to prioritize what is important in a local church based upon what Christ Priorities are when it comes to these, his assessment of these things. What it would do to a local church to always be thinking In light of these, as we assess things, to be thinking in light of Christ's assessments of these churches. Of course, we think of the Church of Ephesus. We remember that Christ said, You are you are solid doctrinally, but you have left your first love. And so Christ corrects uh this church for that for that reason that they have left their first love. And then we m moved to Smyrna and there he had nothing to correct for that church. He just comforts them Because they're a suffering faithful church. And then if you remember Pergamus, it was a compromise church, and he confronts them on their compromise. And then we came to Thy Tyra. It was a divided church where there were some that were very, very faithful in many good works, many solid things, serving the Lord and loving the Lord. And trusting the Lord. All those things that He said good about them, but they were tolerant of people that were clearly in clear, unverifiable sin And false doctrine and moral depravity, and they would not correct it. And they had a particular woman, if you remember, that was instigating all of this and causing people to be to run go astray for her false doctrine and And she was described as a Jezebel. We have in every one of these churches, at least the last two, the first two, we had no doctrinal error at all. We really had no moral error for the first two. two. We had a problem with the first one being love loveless uh it was losing its its or leaving its first love The second two, we had major doctrinal and moral problems in both those churches, in Pergamus and Thyotyra. We're going to come to a church. Now keep that in mind when we come to this church here, because you're going to find some differences about this church. Christ is going to give us a really direct indictment on this church, one of the most severe indictments, and yet this church, he doesn't point to any doctrinal error in this passage And he's not going to point to any moral problems. Now just think of it. We've got a church now where Christ indicts As being, I mean he says they're dead. And there's no doctrinal error to our knowledge, and there's no moral error. And so keep that in mind as we go through this passage of Scripture to determine to see exactly why Christ is so concerned about this church. Let me ask you this question. Well, let's pray first, and then we'll get into that. Let's pray. Father, we come to you today and we thank you for who you are. And we thank you for Christ. And we thank you for his assessment of these churches. And I pray, Lord. Lord, I pray that you would help us to see our own need. And I admit before you my own need as we go through this passage It is this is probably outside of the church of Ephesus. This is this is probably the next likely scenario in a church like ours. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us to be able to see the problem and identify the problem. and to identify the solution as Christ clearly gives in this passage. And Lord, well, may we apply this to our own lives as believers. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. I have always been fascinated with cars. I just have always liked them ever since I was a kid. Now, by the way, I had I came up with this PowerPoint before I saw Sam's Facebook message that he that he uh went on l that he was able to drive a Lamborghini yesterday. Um so that was a pretty you can talk to him about that later. But this I had this before that just so you know I'm not copying your or anything like that. But I did find it sort of coincidental um when I saw that. But I've always s sort of been interested in it. When I was a kid I would I would all I would memorize car. You know, I we're driving down the road and I would always notice a car and want to look at the back of it to see what the make and model of the car is. And I uh I how many of you all did that as a kid growing up or maybe do it now? I still do it now actually. I'm looking at a car I've never seen that car before. I look at the back of the what's that what's that car? Oh okay There's a new model coming out, okay. All right. So some of us that's how we occupy ourselves while we're driving, um, for good or for for bad. Uh but but um anyway I used to do that all the time and I would point out different cars and and I was just interested in I probably my dad was interested in that kind of thing and I was as well and always has had a fascination with cars. I like the Lamborghinis, that's a Maserati up there. Those are really fancy cars that I'll never hope to own um and and that's okay I've I've come to grips with that. Um but there is a car but I there was a car when I was a kid that was that I really wish we'd have done something with. It was in our neighbor's lot it was it needed to be restored it was a Nissan Z twenty eight and um like that one and it it we I wish we would have bought that car in just Just fix it up. It's a fast car. It's not like a Lamborghini, it's not like a Maserai, it's not like that, but it is a fast car. It is uh it it will really uh it it really will pin This one was a Z twenty eight turbo that that I was growing up. And the back window was was was all broken out of it and everything, but we could've fixed the thing up. It ran fine. But um and it was a and it was for sale so I tried to convince my dad of buying it but he for some reason didn't want to buy it buy the thing and uh so we never actually bought it. But I still remember it to this day and I'm scarred for life that we did not take our car and uh fix it up But imagine going finding a car for like uh a Nissan Z twenty eight in really good condition. I mean great condition and you go to take a look at it And it is just gorgeous. It's just beautiful. And they're going to sell it to you for $3,000. Even if it's an old one, I mean it's it's just pristine. And you're going, what is up with the The price of this car. This is just it's immaculate. It's the paint, it's been garage kept ever since nineteen eighty-six. It is just perfect on the episode. in every way and I man I'm gonna buy this car for three thousand dollars you say hey you're ready to make the deal you're like okay this is this is great this is a cheap uh great price you say hey do me a favor pop the hood real quick And when you pop the hood, you find this. There's no engine. There's no engine in the car whatsoever. And then you realize why on earth $3,000 is not actually that great of a price for an old Z28 with no engine. Do you know there are churches like that? They look great from the outside. They are just immaculate in every way. They've got everything there is to offer. They are just they're just wonderful. You walk into them and it's It just looks like a great a great a great great church. But they are engineless. The internal things are what are the things that are missing. They are just a skeleton of what really ought to be there in a local church, but they appear to have everything intact. Folks, that is what we are dealing with in this particular church, the Church of Sardis. And Christ picks up here in chapter 3, verse 1, and under the angel of the church In Sardis write, these things saith he that hath seven spirits of God and the seven stars, I know thy works. That thou hast a name, that thou livest and art dead. He's going to talk about a church that has a reputation, that is a great reputation. But this particular church, though it has a great reputation, it is by Christ's assessment dead. What was Sardis like? Well, Sardis was about 50 miles east of Smyrna. It was on the foot of a mountain. It was in a very fertile area, fertile valley next to the river Hermas. It was, because of its area being very fertile and everything, a very busy center of trade and traffic. It was not as as metropolitan as some of the other cities that we have talked about, but it really did hold its own pretty well It was the capital of the old kingdom, of an old kingdom prior to Cyrus's time, and then Cyrus ended up conquering it, and then it was conquered by Alexander the Great, and then followed by Antiochus Epiphanes In 8017, something catastrophic happened to the city. It was decimated by a massive earthquake. And and really had a hard time rebuilding. Do we know of any city like that in our country in our recent history? Yeah, right, New Orleans. Detroit. I don't think that was earthquake related. But anyway. Anyway, um but you've got you've got the the uh New Orleans was that way. Um And so this town was that way, and the way that the emperor at the time, Emperor Tiberius, dealt with it was a very intelligent way of dealing with it. He just withheld their taxes for five years. He said, You don't have to To pay taxes for five years and it allowed them to put the money back into the infrastructure. And they built the city up again to a decent amount decent city to the point where Greek geographer Strabo said it was a great city again So this was a good, solid, busy city. It was a nice city to live in and to do and to do business in and do commerce. Interestingly enough, Bishop Myelita, who was who died in uh 180 AD, just to give you an idea, he was in this city. He was a pastor. And he was one of the men one in fact he was the earliest commentator of the book of Revelation that we can find in church history. That's just a fun fact for most of us. Actually, most of you won't think that's fun. But I think it is. So uh so that's uh my my lead m uh my Lita did that. Um Milita But this other than the the geography and and some of the history of the city, we don't know much about that particular city, uh about the church itself, except for what we find in this particular passage. So what that means is we're just gonna have to take it at face value. Exactly what it says. We don't know much about the the the original church either from church history or from other passages of scripture like Ephesus we knew tons about. We don't know much about Sardis, so what is said in this passage is going to be very important. And what is what is assuming what is sort of what we would think would be missing is also very important. Because if a church is dead You would think that it would be either because of false doctrine or immorality. You would think one of those two things have caused this church to die But in this case, this is a church that Christ says nothing about immorality or false doctrine. The only indication that we might have some immorality, some slight immoral Uh indication of that is that he says there's a remnant of the church that is very, very pure. So there might be some inference there. But other than that, overall, you don't have anything morally or doctrinally about the church Because folks, what he has in mind is something entirely different than that, and by that he's calling the church dead. Would you look here at chapter uh verse two, chapter three? Verse 2 here it says he says, Be watchful and strengthen the things which remain that are ready to die. For I have not found thy works perfect before God And that's going to give us some of an indication of what we're dealing with here. So here's a church whose appearance is and reputation is that the church is very alive. It is doing well. In our vernacular, it means then that it has three things. It's got bodies, it's got buildings, and it's got bucks. Right? The three the three B's of a healthy church. Not. So it's got bodies and buildings and bucks and it's got programs and it you go in and it seems And that's the reputation that this church starts has. If you were walking down the street in Stardust and you mentioned this particular church, they would say you somebody would say, oh yeah, that's a great church. It does all kinds of things. It's a really alive church. But Christ said that church is dead And the reason that Christ says that church is dead is he said, I have found that in the sight of God your works are not complete. In other words, they are falling short of completion. So what is it about this church? Well, some of what we're dealing with here with this particular church is indicated by the remedy of the church, which we won't get to quite yet. But here is a church that clearly, though it may not be physically dead, may be very much physically alive, it is spiritually dead. And that is because, folks, what we see from above passage, it is because the motive of why they are doing what they're doing is not a pure motive. It falls short of the motive of doing it for God. So that in the sight of God, they're not doing it for God. They're doing it for human results. Whatever they might be, there might be, it may be well-intentioned, it might be to meet genuine needs. It might be to deal with certain issues or to help certain people. There may have been a motive to even bring people to discipleship But it fell short of doing it for God. Is that a danger in a local church Are there local churches who have all the bodies and buildings and bucks and programs, and they seem to be doing everything right But when Christ would look at them, he would look at them as dead because they failed to do what they do for him. And the reality is, folks, I think that speaks of many of our local churches. We begin with good motives and we do good ministries and we can get involved in good things and we have good we desire to have good results. We want to help people grow or we want to We want to help people have a good a good attitude or we want them to learn w God's word or those kinds of things. But maybe maybe as a result of burnout or maybe as a result of not seeing what we expect to see. from the results that we see them, we become diminished in our motivation. We don't follow through. Or we do follow through, and it becomes sort of a shell of what it ought to be, because we're not doing it for God anymore. And what we have here is that seemingly an entire church, there was a remnant that was not, but the majority of the church was not doing what it was doing for God. And that is a danger, I think, of any church. You can have all the right doctrine, you can have all the right activities, you can have all the right ministries. But you fail to do what is the right, do the right thing for the right reason. That's why Paul says, for example, in Colossians chapter 3, verse 25, three, and whatsoever ye do, do it heartily as to the Lord and not unto men And first Corinthians chapter fifteen, verse fifty eight, therefore, my beloved brethren be steadfast, unmovable always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as ye know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. Galatians chapter 6, verse 9 says, And let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. Sometimes the reason that we fall short of doing what we're doing for God is that we are preoccupied with the distractions of this life. And Paul warned against this to Pastor Timothy in 2 Timothy 2, verse 4, where he says, No man that wore it entangleth himself in the affairs of this life That he may please him who hath chosen him to be a good soldier. Did you see that? No man that warreth entangleth himself. Why? That he may please him. The danger of being distracted is that we pursue things that don't really please God. And that is the danger that Sardis found itself in, and Christ says, you're dead. How many times do we find in our own lives a decaying or a deadness, a spiritual deadness that begins to creep in? Because our motives have been moved from what is exemplary in doing what we do for God to doing what we do for man. Every one of us have have but have endeavored to serve the Lord in any capacity have experienced what that's like. And it is for us a warning. I wrote down just by way of application here The natural, what sort of naturally happens in ministry if we're not careful. Number one, what happens is in person Ministry is we become preoccupied with ministry activity. This is very common in local churches. We're no longer it isn't we're we're no longer focused on the God of the activity, we're focused on the activity. And we become preoccupied with the ministry activity that we're doing. We've got this that this to do. We got this schedule and that to schedule. We've got to go here and do that and do that. And at some point in the process, we begin to sort of realize that we're running around like a chicken with her head cut off and we've got to figure this out Right? I mean how many of you all can relate with this? Okay. And so and so we we we gotta figure this out. And we generally have one of three responses One response is we accept it. You say, you know, this is just the way ministry is, this is the way life is, this is the way God wants it. God just wants us to be busy for Him. And so we're just gonna get busy. And we just need to be busy, and we just need to do a lot. Because that's what God wants, even though we're not really thinking about God when we do it. We're really not doing it for God. We're just doing it because we think that's what God wants. And so we just sort of accept the busyness. Number two, we reject the activity. We say, well, I don't want to do that activity anymore. I'm burnt out of it. I'm not focused. I don't have the right goal. And so I reject the activity. Can I suggest to you that both of those are wrong responses in most cases? Now, sometimes we do take on more than we ought to do, and so I mean that does happen so some. Sometimes that's the case. But more often than not, both the acceptance of the idea of being preoccupied with ministry activity or the rejection of the activity are two extremes that are both wrong What we're going to find in this passage as we go into it is Christ's remedy is not, okay, well just stop doing what you're doing. He actually says, strengthen what you're doing. Strengthen the things that remain, he says. And so that's one po and so those are two possibilities. The other possibility is refocus And I would suggest to you that that is the right possibility. You see, the root problem is neither emotional nor desire. The problem has to do with focus. That was the problem with the Church of Sardis. The problem was focus. They were focused on man for whatever reason, and there were various possibilities of why they're focused on it. They may have been focused on it because they wanted these certain goals and objectives to happen, and they didn't happen. Or they were distracted by plea trying to please man rather than God. Or they were trying to Uh there might have been a myriad of reasons for this, but whatever it is, you have the majority of the church that was not focused on doing things for God anymore So the question becomes, and this is an extremely important question for us to ask: what is Christ's remedy? Aren't you glad Christ gives a remedy to this? I mean aren't folks I'll be honest with you. You ought to be, I'm just gonna be honest, you ought all to be all just be on the edge of your seat waiting for this remedy. Because it's Christ's remedy It's not my remedy. It's not somebody else's remedy. This is Christ's remedy. What does he say? And it might surprise you. He says, verse 2: be what? Be watchful. Does that surprise you? Be watchful? I mean what does that be watchful? What does that have to do with anything? I mean honestly when I first read that I said okay be watchful, how does that fit in? So what I really had to do was I had to look at this concept in the New Testament. I had to look, I looked at every passage of the New Testament on what this what this w I mean if this is it and obviously Obviously, this is very important to Christ that we do this correctly because he's going to say later on, he says, if you don't aren't watchful, you'll be destroyed. The main issue is you need to be watchful or you need to watch. Now, the question then obviously is: what exactly does that mean? And I want to take you to a couple of different passages on this for us to understand this because, folks, this is the remedy. This is the remedy for this problem that we might find ourselves in. Would you take your Bibles and begin and turn to Matthew chapter 26, verse 40? Matthew chapter 26, and we're going to look at verse 40. You probably know this. You're familiar with this passage. It is the passage where Christ is in the Garden of Gethsemane. Remember that? And the disciples have they've just all eaten a big meal and they're all a little tired, but Christ is looking ahead. He is looking ahead to what he is about to do, and he is very, very, he's overwhelmed by it, isn't he? And he asks his disciples to do something. He says, verse 40. And he cometh unto the disciples and findeth them asleep. He asked them to watch and pray with him, and they find them asleep. And said unto Peter, what could ye not watch with me one hour? Watch and pray that ye enter not into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. Folks, that tells us a lot about this watching, isn't it? What is the exact opposite of watching? Complete opposite. Sleeping. Sleeping is the exact opposite of watching. Watching it means to be alert. It means to be aware of your environment. In fact, it's really it's really an a very, very interesting word. The New American Standard translates this word be alert. Rather than be watchful, it's be alert in nearly every circumstance. The ESV says stay awake And the King James says, watch. The New King James says watch as well. The reason I bring these up is it sort of gives you sort of a more of a color of what's going on. He is saying you've got to remain alert. Don't be asleep, don't get lethargic, don't be unmotivated, don't be unaware of what's going on. You ever met somebody? It's just like their heads in a cloud They're just like walking around and they're not aware of their environment. You ever had a kid like that? Just not aware of their environment. They're not aware of what's going on. They're not alert to what is going on. Christ is saying you need to be alert. You've got to be watchful. You ought not be asleep. Now, let's develop this a little bit more by looking at a couple of other possibil uh a couple of other things about this. So for the disciples, he was saying, you need to watch Because something, the hour is coming where I'm going to die. But of course, that's already happened. That's not what we're looking to. Would you take your Bibles and would you look at Matthew 24? So you're going to go back now to Matthew twenty-four, and he Christ actually uses this word watch in this context. This is a prophetic chapter, and look at what it's in in But know this that the good men of the house had known it. uh what watch the thief would come, he would have watched and would not have suffered his house to be broken up. Christ is illustrating the nature of Christ's coming, his second coming. And he says, you need to be watchful of the coming of Christ. So that's going to give us a greater picture of what we've got to be watchful for, what we've got to look ahead to. We're looking to the coming of Christ. Well, what does that mean? Folks, what will happen when Christ comes? We know from the book of Revelation and and Thessalonians and several other places that Christ is going to judge, isn't he? He is going to weigh out those works, whether they good be bad, and what is his what is his go his assessment going to be based upon? First Corinthians chapter 3 are motives. So what he is saying is what Christ is saying in this passage, and what Christ later on says in Revelation is that if we want to Fix this problem, it's not that we just abdicate all ministry. It's not that we just reject the idea of being busy. What we've got to stay focused on is the coming of Christ. How often, Christians, how often are we so preoccupied with the next day that we very infrequently look to the coming of Christ? And God says you need to live in a way that you've got the coming of Christ in your sights, in your mind. This is going to continue actually. He's going to use this word again in 1 Thessalonians 5, verses 1 through 6. He uses it in 1 Corinthians 16, verse uh 13 through 16. In 1 Corinthians chapter 13 through 16, he says, um, or in Colossians he says, quit you like men. He says, watch like be a man and watch. Take your Bibles actually, go ahead and take your Bibles and turn to 1 Thessalonians. I want us to get this. First Thessalonians chapter five verse one Paul says, so where he's continuing the same thought of watching, and he says, But of the times and seasons, brethren, ye have no need that I write unto you. For yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord is coming so cometh as what? A thief in a night. For when they shall say peace and safety, then suddenly destruction cometh upon them as travail upon a woman with with child, and they shall not escape. But ye children Are not in darkness, that the day shall overtake you as a thief. Ye are the children of light and the children of the day. We are not of the night nor of the darkness. Therefore, let us not what Sleep, as do others, but let us what? Watch and be what? Sober. So we have another idea. We have another idea attached to this idea of watchful. He's saying you've got to be serious Sober means serious, it doesn't mean not drunk in the King James. So he's saying you've got to be watchful, you've got to be sober, you've got to be serious. You've got to look to the coming of Christ. You know, if you if you ever how many of you all have ever shot in a rif shot in shot in that's a great word, shot a rifle. Wow, we got a lot of rifle people around here. Okay, good That's nothing wrong with that. Okay? Alright. So if you shoot a rifle, what are you trying to line up? Well, you're trying to at least line up a sight at the end with what? With the target. How effective are you going to be at hitting a target if you never look at it? If you're so focused on the trigger and you're so focused on the on the site, and you're so focused on the gun and you got all that right and you make sure everything's right and you said, okay, alright, I'm just Okay, I got a general good general direction. All right, I got I'm I'm looking at the site, I got I'm staring at that site, I got that site. What's the likelihood of you hitting that target? Highly unlikely you're going to hit the target. You've got to be looking at the target. God says the way that you live life And motivated in the right way is that you focus on the coming of Christ and you're looking to when He's going to come and you want to please Him with what you're doing And you have an eternal perspective on things that way. Rather than looking just at the sight or just at what is in front of you or just the results that you expect to get, look ahead and see the coming of Christ and live for that. Folks, that is God's answer to this problem at the Church of Cyrus. The bottom line was this church was short-sighted. And it was re and it was causing, it was resulting in spiritual death. Now, how what exactly does he say? How exactly do you do this? Look at Revelation chapter 3. He's going to detail this more for us. He says here, he says that we need to strengthen the things that remain. What is he saying when he says that? He says, you need to strengthen what remains. Well, sometimes this is translated to establish. Or, sometimes it's translated to set the set your face toward something. So folks, when we think about setting our gaze toward the coming of Christ, he's saying so. He's saying, take the things that you're doing and strengthen them and do them for the right reason. Set your gaze on the coming of Christ. Be watchful and do it for Christ. Sometimes, folks, do you realize that what we really have got to do, what we've got to learn to do, is not to just give up on what we're doing, but we've got to learn to do it for the right reason Because you know there's a sense in which when you do it for God, you will have unlimited supply of strength. Did you know that? That's true. One of the things I find just in my own, one of the things the Lord has taught me personally in my own life, and I'll just say it this way. I'll just say it by way of personal testimony. Is that there was a point in my life where I always tried to sort of measure everything correctly. to make sure that that what I was doing was attainable. So I would want to make sure that I didn't fill my my schedule up too much Much. So I sort of wanted to make sure it was all kind of measured. I want to get my ducks lined up in a row and measure everything correctly. I was very much this way in college. Make sure I didn't over o do too much and had my co courses and had enough space in between my courses to study and had uh I I was really meticulous about making sure everything was scheduled correctly and all that was done done quite quickly. You could have said I was like a scheduling OCD person And I don't know, I don't know when it occurred to me. I think what happened was over time, there were just things that I knew God wanted me to do. And it didn't as though uh one of the things was uh I became the um mission prayer brand president, which I didn't have I wasn't like running for that office. I was like somebody just decided decide to put my name in. And and uh I thought that's different. So but I thought well this is if I can help in this area and missions and help help uh you know I help people pray for missions more effectively. Okay, so I'll so I got involved in that. And I just I mean I I could have rejected the idea, but I got I got involved in different things in college and and then I was involved very much involved in look in the local church. I was teaching every single Sunday for Sunday for the whole adult science school class. We have one adult science school class. I taught for that. And I the pastor was older, I was preaching for him and in um when he was sick, he got sick a lot, and he would call me and I'd preach on Sunday morning on top of a full classload in my junior year when I had Greek exegesis. I mean it was a very but what am I going to do? Tell him I'm not preaching I mean yes some people might do that, but I wasn't going to do that. And and I and I had the opportunity to preach and I knew that God had called me to preach. And so there were times where my schedule was just overwhelmed, particularly my junior year of college And I just had to rely on God. Do you know those are some of the best times of spiritual growth in my life? Instead of saying, well, I'm doing too much, and I can't Calculate everything correctly. Just to look at it and say, I can't calculate it, but somehow God will get me through this. And to see Him and His strength do it. Not because I was doing it for my own self-interest or my own, but because it really seem I I just wanted to please God. Folks, that's the way the Christian life is if you're living the you read missionary biographies just read them you're gonna find that God's gonna ask you to do too much And the key, sometimes, and the key is to do it for God. Now, let me just say this. What mixes the thing is when you feel that it is imposed on you by people. I try very much, I don't know if I'm good at this or not, but I try very much not to place, as a pastor, place pressure on people to serve. Because I don't want it to be do it for me or do it because they're they're just feeling pressure to do it. I want them to do it because they're doing it for God. That is really my heart's desire. When I see somebody doing it and they're doing it faithfully, and they're doing it with enthusiasm, and they're doing it for the Lord, it just brings so much joy to see that. And so I really, I don't know if I do it well, but I try, I really am focused on not trying to pressure people. So I want you to understand that's not at all what I'm saying, but I will say this: that if God asks you to do it, you ought to do it. That's true. That's one of what God is really saying here. Christ is saying, strengthen the things that remain. He says here verse 3, remember, he says, if you're going to re-refocus on this, you've got to do two things. You've got to do three things here. He says, remember therefore how that's received and heard, and hold fast and repent. If therefore thou shalt not watch, I will come as a thief. I will come to thee as a thief. You understand that language? You see it? He's going to come to them as a thief. And what does he say he's going to do? And thou shalt not know that hour will I come up come upon thee. Thou hast a few names, even in Sardis, which have not defiled their garments And they shall walk with me in white, for they are worthy. He that overcometh the same shall be caught clothed in white raiment And I will not blot out his name out of the book of life. I will confess him, his name, uh, before my father, before the uh his angel. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith to the churches. Christ says, You've got to strengthen what's there. You've got to you've got to stay focused on on the on and be watchful of the of pleasing God and and the coming of Christ That is what God is asking us to do. He says, remember what I've taught you. He says, receive. And he says, repent. Turn from the wrong method of what you've been doing and why you've been doing it, and turn to the right method. Do so by remembering and receiving and repenting And then he says this. He says, be watchful. And he says, there is a remnant, and they are worthy. He points out that there are people in that church who are worthy. Apparently, that did keep the right motive for doing what they're doing and doing it for God. And he encourages them to continue serving God in that way. Let me ask you a qu just a very simple qu a couple of simple questions. Are you lacking I just would honestly say are you lacking I just ask you to honestly say this. Are you lacking motivation for serving the Lord? And can I admit before you that there have been times where I lack it It's not as though just because you're pastor, you suddenly get an exemption from from fatigue. Or from lack of motivation. So I think the Lord, I think there's a sense in which the Lord understands when we do lack motivation. Motivation. But Christ's remedy for that is to focus on the coming of Christ, to live for his pleasure to look forward to the day where we're going to take what we do, our service to him, and lay it at his feet. If we would live that way, you know, it's kind of like, I mean, I think all of us can imagine I remember when I would go down to Bob Jones for uh classes And um I would come back and I would always get my kids something. I would be gone for like a week. And uh sometimes I often I'd get my wife something too. I'd get I go to the bookstore, um, which they significantly reduced for some reason. It's not that much stuff in there anymore. But anyway there was when I was there. And and I would get I would find something that I thought my kids my kids would like or I would find something that that uh Eli Elizabeth would like. And in some cases it's like I found it. I found they really like it. And And uh I remember one particular thing I thought my wife would just really like. And so on the plane ride home, I'm just I just can't wait to get home. It didn't it I it didn't take anything for me as Spend that money because I knew they'd love it. It it wasn't a drudgery, oh man, I'm gonna spend those 15 bucks to try to get my kids something. No, I knew they'd love what I was gonna get them, and so I mean that was the fastest 15 bucks I spent. And that's the difference between serving God out of a heart for Him and serving God out of an obligation that is somehow man-centered rather than God-centered. It brings back joy. It brings back a sense of motivation that is proper and right and energy. and strength. And it makes a church authentically alive rather than just alive in its form and its function. It is amazing to me when I look at this, the scathing and direct indictment that Christ makes on this church with no doctrinal error and with no moral And you know, no moral failure just because their activities seem to be less than pleasing to God. And it is a warning for all of us, isn't it, as individual Christians. To make sure that what we are doing, we are doing for God. Certainly it doesn't mean that we don't want to see individual results. We don't want to see we want to see people grow spiritually. We want to see people take steps of discipleship forward. But ultimately, even if that doesn't happen, we could do it for God. In the book of 1 Corinthians, one of my favorite verses is a pastor, because I'll just tell you this, I'll be very transparent. transparent with you and I've been pastoring long enough now that I see I see how sometimes results are like way later than you expect them to be in in serving a ministry. I remember there there have been times in my life where I've served and I've seen seemingly no good results at all. I'm really not talking about this church, I'm talking about others. And I I just felt discouraged, like like I was just hitting my head up against the wall, like nothing was ever happening, like like people were not getting anything. I I was teaching, I remember teaching Teenagers in in in high school and and and I felt like they nothing was getting through to them. But you know what? This verse really helped me. First Corinthians 15. fifty eight be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord For as much as ye know that your labor is not in vain, it's not empty. In the Lord. When you get burnt out, or when you feel as though you're not getting the ministry's results that you expect to get in the various services, or maybe it's even your kids, and you're not seeing the results you see in your own family. family, and you know you're doing the right thing, and you know you're serving God faithfully and you know you're doing it for Him, just take comfort in the fact that God God's results are much different and often much more delayed than ours. And our labor will not be in vain if we do it for God. Let's pray. Father, we come to you today and we thank you for this assessment of Christ toward this church. And we admit before you that we often fail in motivation. We admit before you that we do things for the wrong reason Maybe our motives start out to be pure, but we get derailed by by perhaps even the activity itself. I pray, Lord, that you would teach us the balance of this, the the the the perspective of you in this, Lord. It is so easy for us to get distracted or the or to respond incorrectly to this particular problem. And yet if we as a majority of believers do this in our church, we run the risk of being like Sardis. I pray, Lord, that you would help us in this area. Teach us how to be watchful of the coming of Christ. Remind us of this. I admit before you, Lord, that there are oftentimes I'm not thinking of your coming. I pray, Lord, that in this coming week, even You would help me personally to live each day, to wake up thinking of your coming and how I can best be ready to present the gifts of my service to you. I pray that all of us would have that kind of mindset. So that we can authentic, be a live church that is genuinely And authentically alive rather than just having the programs and bodies and buildings and bucks and all those things that make it look alive. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.