See everyone out this morning. Let's begin worshiping the Lord together by singing number thirteen. Number thirteen, bow the knee. Let's stand together as we sing. What a privilege to come into God's presence. Linger with the one who set me free as I lift my eyes and see his awesome glory I remember who he is and bow the knee. Bald the knee, bow the knee, he is king of all the ages, bow the knee. God alone on his throne, see him high and lifted up and bow the knee. He'll be for him, he'll be for him, all adore him or thou the knee. My fault In his in his hand, ready? In his hand he holds the power of creation. With his voice he spoke and all things came to be. Yet he hears. I bring before him when I humbly seek his face and bow the knee. Bow the knee, bow the knee. He is king of all the ages of the king, God of war on his road. See him high and lift it up and bow the knee Kneel before him, all adore him, as you live to love him more all the knee Please remain standing for opening prayer. Okay, let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do come here this morning, Lord, and we do bow our knee to you. We acknowledge, Lord, that you are King of King and Lord of Lords. And you are God alone, Lord. And we are thankful for that. Lord, we don't deserve the grace, the mercy, the love that you bestow upon us as mankind. We're sinful, Lord. All of us, Lord, we all are sinful. Only Jesus, only our Lord and Savior, was able to never sin, and that's why He was our sacrifice That's why he was the propitiation, Lord, and he makes atonement for us. And we're thankful for that, Lord. And we just pray that this church would always be focused on the gospel of Jesus Christ. On his love, his death, his resurrection, Lord, and the fact that he is coming again. And we look forward with hope, Lord, to that day. And Lord, we just want to thank you for your goodness to each of us individually and corporately as a body of believers here at this church. We thank you for where you've brought us to this point. And Lord, we look forward to our future with you. And Lord, we just submit to you as our guide, as our God, Lord, and we just acknowledge you. And we will not lean unto our own expectations or our own plans. And so Lord, we just pray for those who can't be out today. Lord, because of illness, it is such a blessing to have Lisa here with us today and we're thankful for your care over her. And Lord, for others, Lord, who have been ill and and And uh we just thank you for your protective hand. And we just ask your blessing on all that's done here in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Okay, you may be seated John chapter seventeen These words spake Jesus and lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee. As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him And this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. I have glorified thee on the earth. I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self, with the glory which I had with thee before the world was. I have manifested thy name unto the men which thou gavest me out of the world. Thine they were, and thou gavest them me, and they have kept thy word. Now they have known that all things whatsoever thou hast given me are of thee. For I have given unto them the words which thou gavest me, and they have received them, and have known surely that I am come out of from thee, and they have believed that thou didst send me. I pray for them, I pray not for the world, but for them that which thou hast given me, for they are thine. And all mine are thine, and thine are mine, and I am glorified in them. And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to thee, Holy Father. Keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one as we are. While I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy name Those that thou gavest me I have kept, and none of them is lost but the Son of Perdition, that the scripture might be fulfilled. And now come I to thee And these things I speak in the world that they might have my joy fulfilled in themselves. I have given them thy word, and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. I pray not that thou shouldst take them out of the world. But thou thou shouldst keep them from the evil. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth As thou hast sent me into the world, even so I have also sent them into the world. And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also might be sanctified through the truth. So we continue worshiping together when I'll sing our song of the month, the song of Moses. Let's stand together as we sing. For the Lord, our strength and song, highest praise to him belongs, Christ the Lord, the country king. Your name we raise, your triumph sing. Praise the Lord, Almighty Warrior, praise the Lord, our glorious one. By his hand is standing victory, by his name we overcome. Though the storms of hell pursue, in darkest night we worship you, you divide the raging sea. From death to life you safely lead. Praise the Lord, Almighty Warrior. Praise the Lord, but glorious one. By his hand he standing victory, by his name we overcome. All the saints and angel found all the heaven crying out. Glory, glory to the King, you ring through all early. Praise the Lord, Almighty Warrior. Praise the Lord, our glorious one. By his hand we send in victory, by his name. You may be seated. Now seeing number 128. Number 128, Grace Alone. Every promise we can make, every prayer and step of faith, every difference we He will make is only by his race every mountain we will fly every rain. Of all we cry every blessing blessing. Is only by his grace. Praise the Lord if God supplies. Strength alone, he will provide. Christ in us our corners, we will go for in grace alone. Every soul we long to read, every heart we fall to see, everywhere we care is Peace is only by his grace. Every lovely word we say, every fear we want. I go away, every sorrow turn to praise is only by his grace. Praise the Lord with sublice. Great alone, he will provide Christ in our corner store. We will go forth in grace of all. Good morning everyone. It's good to have everybody out today. It's been an interesting week, has it not? A lot of things going on in our country and world. And uh but it's great to be able to gather together to worship the Lord uh with like-mindedness and unity one with another and all centered on Christ and and what he has done for us and securing our redemption as he lived a perfect life and died to pay the punishment for our sin. So I'm glad we're all able to be here today. I want to mention just by way of announcement that tonight, this is sort of a very recent change of events. Glen Burney and Pasadena are going to combine their home groups at the parsonage. So Pasadena are going to come up to the parsonage with Glen Burney group uh tonight due to some sickness happening So um uh just be aware of that. I don't think you need an address, it's right here. So so so you should be fine. Um but I really I really would cur encourage you to come out and pray with God's people. It it's just so absolutely necessary. For us to do that, get to know people on a more close level and be able to express needs one to another and pray for one another as well as discuss uh the morning message uh and being able to flesh that out applicationally for our lives. So I really encourage you to come out to those. So the one will be at the Mullins House in Annapolis, the other will be here at the parsonage. Um I think that's all the announcements I have for now. Gentlemen, if you come forward for the uh offering. And let's pray together. Our Father, we come to you this morning and we are overwhelmed. By your grace, we are humbled by the fact that Christ prays for us We admit before you that our prayers are imperfect because we are imperfect. We admit before you that sometimes we don't even know what to pray. But we are aware that your Spirit and your Son intercede on our behalf. And pray for us, for our protection, for our unity. And it thrills our souls to look at the example of Christ's intercessory prayer in John 17. It focuses us on your plan, your your um far-reaching and expansive plan. to further your kingdom and to establish your kingdom in the world. To glorify yourself through all that you have created, and even to glorify yourself through those things that have been distorted by your creation. Your creation has been distorted. And Father, we pray, Lord, that today as we worship you, we would do so just in awe of who you are. That you are so gracious to be able to use us in spite of ourselves And we thank you, Lord, for the ability to be able to worship you. It's even hard for us to understand why you would love our worship. Why you would be pleased with it, why it would be a sweet smell to you. We are so low and you are so high. And yet you are close to us. And we thank you for that. And we pray that you would help us to worship you undistracted. There are so many things in our lives that invade our thinking. And I pray, Lord, as we sing these songs, as we uh listen to the, as we uh participate in the preaching of your word. I pray, Lord, that we would be mindful and focused. That we would glean the truth to be able to be more conform to the image of your son, to glorify you and to worship you this day. We do pray for our country. We ask, Lord, that you would you would in its leaders that they would make decisions. That we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. And Lord, we pray most of all That we would be able to glorify you in our world, to be able to spread the gospel, that you would use our church to reach out to people. For the sake of the gospel and in this community. And around the world, we pray for our missionaries all over the world as they plant churches and disciple people and bring people to Christ and evangelize. I pray, Lord, that we would not do pray for them without recognizing our own responsibility in our world as well. Lord, we thank you for the offering that you give us ability to be able to participate in. And I pray, Lord, that you would use it for the furtherance of your gospel. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. For our final song before the message, we'll sing number 442, 442. Let's stand together as we sing, and at this time, children can be dismissed to junior church. I will follow the my Savior where the pathway may go. Through the sword, or through the valley, or through great trials so long. I rest in thee, trust in thee, I place my life in thy hands, I will follow thee my My Savior, lead on my shepherd, lead on I will live for thee, my Savior The war and strife mark flow away. I'm so weak, but thou art mighty, so live through me day by day. I rest in thee, trust in thee, I place my life in thy hand I will follow thee, my Savior, lead on my shepherd. I surrender all my Savior, I hold nothing back from thee. Every part is It's line to use for lagrify speed. I rest in the trust in thee, I place my life in my hand. I will follow me my neighbor, mid all my everyone. He may be seen Take your Bibles, if you would, please, and turn to John seventeen. And one of the most amazing prayers in the entire Bible. Well it is a little bit more than a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a On a lot of different levels, at least for in my life. I don't know about you. Um how many of you watch any of the Festivities on the inauguration on Thursday. I'm curious how many oh okay, a good amount of you, okay. How many of you all noticed some of the opposition to the inauguration? That was fairly prolific on especially the major networks. And um and and then afterwards, the day after on Uh I think it was it no it was yesterday I guess. The the the what's going on down there, the hundreds of thousands of people going uh happen uh of what's going on there there Well my father was in the middle of all of it. Uh he's at home asleep. And rightly so. today. He uh he had to spend all he was there most of the night last night I think and came in this morning and uh and he said it was crazy. I mean it was just a m and he said it was really it was really quite uh particularly yesterday people were very rude and very um uh rude to him and I mean he was safe. God kept him safe through all of all of it. Uh the inauguration was it was more peaceful than yesterday actually. Tells you might tell you something. But there isn't any question in our country that we are it it it's a real mess out there. And our world is a mess. That shouldn't take us as Christians by surprise. Because we know the world's always been a mess, ever since the fall. Why would we expect any different? But Christ in his prayer prays something for the disciples That is quite incredible. He prays that the disciples and all us by extension would be able to have joy. In the midst, and really really as we are working our way through this world. Um, there are Christians that seem to think that The Christian life is something that is we must be um sad. It's sort of like the the the real godly people are sad all the time. Or sort of morose in their in their posture. And that oh that must be a real godly person. He's that way. Occasionally somebody will say uh to me um in public, I don't uh occasionally somebody will say, You look like a pastor. And I think it's an insult. I'll tell you. I don't know that I really want to look like a pastor, to be honest with you, sometimes. Uh because the the the mental image and culture that you get of a pastor is a guy who doesn't know how to jo enjoy life. It's like a guy who's Like in a monastery all the time and he comes out every once in a while. I you know, that sort of weirdness about what a pastor is that everybody's you know or if I say if somebody asks me what I do and I tell them uh the the the looks I get are just oh okay I better be careful what I say around you. I'll say I I sometimes I'll say I I have heard it all. If you want to be careful it's fine, but I have heard it all. But God, in the midst of all of this, has provided this thing called joy. And Christ, in his intercessory prayer, prays that we would experience, disciples and by us by extension, would experience joy. And I would suggest to you that it is one of the most unexplored concepts in the New Testament that we as Christians need to get a hold of. When you think and you just run your mind through the New Testament, you find many examples of and admonitions and comments about joy. The Book of Philippians says, rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say rejoice. And God Christ said many times in this past five different times in the new in the in the Gospels that He wanted our joy to be full First John says the same kind of thing that that it's written for us to have joy. God wants us to to have joy as Christians And so we pick up here in verses 13 through 16 where it says, And now come I to thee, and these things I speak into the world. that they might have my joy fulfilled in themselves. I have given them the thy word. And the world hath hated them because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. I pray not that those should as take them out of the world. But that thou shouldest keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world And folks, what we're going to do today is we're going to spend the entire message on this concept of joy. What does Christ mean when he says I'm praying that your jo that their joy might be fulfilled in themselves. My joy might be fulfilled in themselves. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, as we look at this subject, I pray, Lord, that it would cause us to do some reflection about whether we have the joy that is described in your word. This is a joy where we're going to find out that you give to every that you provide for every Christian. And yet we admit before you that sometimes we are not joyful. Pray that you'd help us as we discover what it is and what it is not. That you would convict us where conviction is necessary. You would encourage us where encouragement is needed. And I pray, Lord, that you would work in our hearts in a way that perhaps would even be indelibly marked on our hearts that we would evaluate our lives when it comes to this m this this issue of joy And that we would make adjustments in our lives so that we may have the joy of the Lord. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, the Bible tells us many all over the place that we are to have joy. Philippians 4, 4, rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say, rejoice. Christ, in his final discourse to the disciples, said in chapter 16, verse 24. Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name, ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be full. David Martin Lloyd Jones said this. The Christian is meant to be a joyful person, one who is meant to experience the joy of salvation. There is no question about that. It is something which is taught everywhere in the New Testament. And so it is our duty as Christians to have this joy and to be filled with it. That we must give ourselves neither rest nor peace until we have it. The reason that it's so important for us to have joy is as we find implied in this passage, is that you cannot glorify God unless you have it. As you'll recall from the beginning, the first five verses of this passage, Christ prays not only that the Father would glorify Christ and that the Son would glorify the Father But as we work through this chapter, we find that we are to glorify God as well. And in order to glorify God, he praised certain things. And this is one of the things he praised. It then implies, folks, that we cannot glorify God if we do not have joy. And so it is absolutely necessary for us to have it. Lloyd Jones says this And what we see here is that the one of the ways in which we as Christians can glorify Christ in this life and world is by being filled with the spirit of joy and of rejoicing. This is a fruit of the Spirit which our Lord singles out in particular in this prayer to the Father on behalf of his followers. And so we glorify him in a very special way by being partakers of this, his own joy. So, what is this joy that is being talked about in this passage? We've seen it here in the passage. We've looked at it in John 16 a little bit. We know that it's also in John chapter 15. We know it's throughout the book of John and throughout the Gospels. We know it's in the epistles. What is it talking about? And I want to begin this way. I want us to understand that what we're the joy we're speaking about is Christ's joy. For example, in John chapter 15, verse 11, it says, These things have I spoken unto you that my joy, my joy, might remain in you, and that your joy might be full. John 17, 13, and now I come unto thee, and these things I speak unto the world, that they might have my joy fulfilled in themselves. This kind of joy that Christ is speaking of, he claims it, he possesses it, it's his joy It then indicates then that when Christ lived on this earth and lived a perfect life, he always had this joy. This was his joy. If we are going to understand what this joy is, and frankly what this joy is not, we are going to have to look at the life of Christ. We're going to have to look at how he lived his life, what he did, and we are going to infer from his life what joy really is. And I want to begin this way as we as we understand that the definer of the joys talk about is Christ and his life himself. It is Christ's joy. So what is this joy? Well, we know the extent of the joy in chapter 16. Would you turn there for a minute in chapter 16, verse 31? I want you to see here, he says, he's talking to the disciples, he says Do you really believe? And then he prophesies that they're actually going to reject him. But I want you to notice that he says here verse 32, Behold, the hour cometh, yea, is now come, that ye shall be scattered every man to his own. And shall leave me alone. And then notice what he says. Okay, here's a man who all of his friends have left him. He is alone. There is nobody with him to encourage him, to help him, to give him moral support. He is alone. And he says this, and yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me. Why did Christ have the joy that he had? Why was it stalwart and unmovable and permanent? It was because he was never alone. And you and I need to realize that in our lives, that even when you f in the times of loneliness where you feel the most alone, you are not alone. What can rob you of your joy? Well, very frankly, a feeling of loneliness is one thing that's very common. As I have counsel with people and talk with people When you get that sense of loneliness, when you feel that inner sense of loneliness, it can easily rob us of our joy. And Christ it never did, because his father was with him Now, with all this in mind, we need to discover what joy is, but first we need to identify what joy is not. Number one, joy is not dependent on circumstances And we see this in the life of Christ. We saw it already in John sixteen. But I'd like you to notice that it's not dependent on circumstances because the the prayer that Christ prays He prays that we would remain in the world with all of its circumstances. He does not say when he prays, Father, take them out of the world that they may receive joy He says, no, leave them in the world, but give them, I pray, that they have joy. And in fact, he says, these things I spoke, that they have joy. So, joy is not dependent on circumstances. We see a perfect illustration of this in the life of Christ as he had joy even in the midst of storms. In a passage in Luke chapter 8, it says, But as they sailed he fell asleep, and there came down a storm of wind on the lake. And they were filled with water and were in jeopardy. And they came to him and awoke him. Here's he's asleep in the middle of a storm Master, Master, we perish. Then he arose and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water, and they ceased, and there was calm. Lloyd Jones says this He says, it is a joy that is entirely above the independent and independent of the world and of circumstances, and it is in no way produced by them. That, as we have seen, have just seen, is the thing that stands out so marvelously in the life of the Lord Himself. And that is what strikes you as you read through the Gospels. He was in the world, if not of it. He was independent of it. He walked through the middle of the storm, quite unaffected by it, for he had peace within It is set in the middle of a hurricane or a tornado. There is always a central spot which is quite peaceful, and our Lord was always there. How far did this joy run in its circumstances? Well, Hebrews chapter 12 tells us this. It says, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross Despising the shame, and was set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Christ did not lose his joy even when he went to the cross. The joy, in fact, that was set before him carried him through the cross. He knew on the other side of the cross that it would glorify God what he was doing to his father what he was doing That it would bring about God's plan in the world. And so he was able to even go to the death of the cross, even to separate himself from the cross from his own father for a time in anticipation of the joy that was set before him. This joy that is Christ is not dependent on our circumstances. And it's absolutely necessary for us to remember that. Secondly, I want us to notice this about this passage: the joy is not just an emotion. This joy, Christ's joy, is not merely an emotion. And frankly, it's not based on emotions. Now we know that because of this. Isaiah 53 tells us this, that he was despised and rejected of men, a man of what? You all know the verse. A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. Now, how is it that he could be a man of sorrows and yet be acquainted with grief and yet Have joy. Well, it may cause us to have to do some adjusting on what we think joy is, doesn't it? What do we what is biblical joy? It may be different than what we our conception of what joy is. How could Christ both have joy and also being a man of sorrows acquainted with grief. Well, we are going to discover how that is possible. I want us also to realize that joy finally is not something that we can muster up. It is not something that you can wake up in the morning and you can say, I am going to have joy today. You can't do it. Aren't you glad that it's not up to you We find in Galatians chapter 5 verse 22 that joy is actually a fruit of the Spirit. Love, and the second one is joy. And then peace, by the way. See Joy is not something that you can deter by your own willpower and your own determination, you can choose to be joyful, despite all the bumper stickers. despite all the signs and the statements that say that if you just will it enough, it'll happen. That is not what we find in the New Testament. Joy is not that way. Christ's joy is something that is actually a result. It is a fruit of the Spirit. And so we're going to and if you recall from John chapter fifteen, it tells us that if we'll abide in Christ, then we'll have joy. So it's important for us to understand those three things about joy. Well, now that we understand what joy is not, let's discover what joy is. Joy is coupled five times in the New Testament with another word that is is a word that's filled. Oh, and by the way, it can't be obtained by unsaved people and people do not write with the Lord as well. Joy is something that is often coupled in the New Testament with another word where it's the word full or the word fulfilled. It's the Greek word kara. This is a joy that is full. Probably one of the best ways to uh understand this is to to to to notice a couple of illustrations in the old uh and actually in uh the classical Greek when when how the usages of this word. One use is lungs being filled with breath. If you can picture taking a deep breath and your lungs being completely filled with breath, that's this word Another illustration would be an employee being paid in full. We like that idea, right? Don't you like being paid on payday? If you have a short in your paycheck, is that going to bring you joy? No? So that's a good illustration for us as well. Or having wine poured into a vessel till it's full to the brim. Not halfway, it's all the way full. You know, there's some people say, well, I have joy because I could see the cup half full rather than half empty. That's not biblical joy. I'm not saying it's a bad approach, but it's not biblical joy. Biblical joy is something that is all the way full. Can I say it this way? If I can think of one word that's not in the New Testament to describe this New Testament word, I think it's the word satisfied. Satisfied. How can Christ be a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief and yet Be joyful because he remained satisfied in his father. He was satisfied. It is possible, folks, for us to go through life and to experience every twist and every turn and every dip and every height. And still have joy. Why? Because there is an underlying satisfaction in our lives that can always be there that we never have to lose. It's not dependent on circumstances. It is deeper than that. And by the way, what is it in what what when you observe the world What is one word you might come to in summarizing the world? Unsatisfied. Unsatisfied. Nobody is satisfied in the world. We mentioned on Wednesday you have weekend warriors who d who who who just work to get through the week to live for the weekend. They are unsatisfied. And frankly, they're not even satisfied with their weekend most of the time. And they just live their lives. Unsatisfied with what they have, unsatisfied with what God's given them, unsatisfied with their lives. They're not satisfied. And God says we as Christians have the ability to always be. Satisfied. What a contrast it would be in our world if we looked at our world, uh, if the world would look at us and say, hey, those people, they are satisfied. They still go through the same trials we do. They still still go through the same struggles we do. They are in the world and they're working and they're they're dealing with the rat race. But there's a satisfaction there that they've got that I don't get. I don't have. I don't understand it. And you as Christian, you and I as Christians can't glorify God unless we have that satisfaction in our lives because that is one of the distinctive differences between us and the world. It is this joy. This satisfaction in our lives that we can have. Lloyd Jones said it this way: it is a state of complete satisfaction. He, speaking of God, satisfies my mind. He satisfies my emotions. He satisfies my every desire Should war come, should the atomic bomb descend, should I be thrown into the concentration camp, my joy must remain full That's the joy that is Christ's joy. We find, secondly, that this satisfaction is often associated with peace. John chapter 16 couples these two things together in verse 33. These things have I spoken unto you that in me ye might have Peace. In the world you have tribulation, but be of good sure, I have overcome the world. And we find throughout the New Testament you have times where peace and joy are coupled together. And really they're very, very similar in nature. But joy has its its its nuance is one of of gladness. There is a gladness to joy. Peace is sort of the absence of conflict in our hearts, not outside. Believe me. But a sort of absen the absence of uh of conflict in our hearts. Joy, there is this gladness And satisfaction associated with this word. And we need to have it. And thirdly, joy is strength. It is strength. On the brink of revival for the nation of Israel, as the nation of Israel were authorized to go back and to rebuild the wall under the leadership of Nehemiah. They read the Word of God with authority. They preached the Word of God with clarity. And in Nehemiah chapters 8 through 9, They proclaim the message of the Word of God, and in the midst of all of that, the verse is there that stands out, the joy of the Lord is your strength. You say, I am weak. I'm weak. Well, you're in good company. Because that's who God uses. He uses the weak things of the world to confound the wise. Say, I feel very weak. Well, you're in good company. Paul said, I glory in my weaknesses that the power of Christ may rest upon me. How does that happen? It happens because of this joy that we have. Joy is satisfaction and joy is associated with peace and joy is strength. If you are feeling weak, if you feel as though you can't go on, or you feel as though you're you're just discouraged, realize that you need to get back to this to this this provision of joy. And finally, this joy is both contagious and attractive. You know, we have all kinds of temptations in our world and in our church to do things that would be attractive to the world. And many of them would compromise our ability to glorify God. But not joy. We can have all the joy we want, but God has offered us and provided for us. And it is probably, and our love, that love and joy, are probably the two things that most are attractive to the world. in the right way that will appeal to the right part of them, the conscience. And so there is this this reality about our joy as that can affect others. Um is my wife in here? She's in here? There you are. I can never find her. See, we used to sit over here, now we're sitting over here. It's musical chairs. Okay. Alright, I can't uh I'm gonna say it. You're gonna have to cover your ears for a minute. Um not not literally. Um So so in the past two weeks, um we have uh once I was one I was there and another the past two weeks I was uh We were in Costco and there was a couple I mentioned this on Wednesday there was a c uh uh a couple with kids and the Costco we were eating cheap food and the Costco uh that's that's what you do at Costco And uh we were we were sitting next to like they have tables, but they're kind of joined. And so we're we were sitting next to this couple, and um And they just kind of started striking up a conversation with with us, and it was primarily Elizabeth. Elizabeth was talking to them, I was uh not talking as much, and she was talking, and they were kind of going back and forth. And they said and the and the wife said to to Elizabeth, Hey, you know, I I'm always trying to make new friends. Can can we be friends? I'm like, nobody ever does that with me. I'm just gonna tell you. Look at that like that's pretty cool. Um so s they exchanged numbers. I mean they seem like a a a a nice family and everything. The same thing happened the other day, like like yester was it yesterday Right. Friday? Where she's out where were you at? Um the the children's like play play area. Okay, the children's play area thing, yeah, pump it up. And and so and they were she was she was with um She and they sh she struck up this conversation and the same thing happened again. Like can can we can we just be friends? Uh right? Something like that? Sort of? She's like, yeah, sorta. Okay. You know Look, um I gotta tell you that I think there is a joy there. There is just sort of this underlying it's not it's not this gregariousness. It's just sort of this underlying sad like contentedness. And I think frankly people see that. And she's really embarrassed now. And so we better move on. But uh but I I couldn't help but notice that example. Um and I'm gonna get it when I get home. Anyway, uh so The joy does that. When we have this satisfaction in our lives, this contentedness, other people notice it, and it can be something that is very effective for the cause of Christ. So then the question, folks, is how do we get it? Don't you want this thing? How do you have this joy, this Christ's joy in your life? I want to begin by explaining what how you don't get it. Say, boy, you got a lot of negativity in this message about joy. Well, we've got to deprogram before we can program right. So how is it that you don't get this joy? Number one, your feelings are not a source of joy. Can you go to the next slide there? Um your feelings are not a source of joy. I think we need to get that We so much base our life on our feelings. We're so inclined toward that. Lloyd June says it this way: how then in practice do we have this joy? The first thing is to avoid concentrating on our own feelings. There are many Christians, Christian people who spend the whole of their lives looking at their own feelings and always taking their own spiritual pulse. their own spiritual temperature. Of course, they never find it satisfactory, and because of that, they are miserable and unhappy, moaning and groaning. Now that is wrong. Number two, your decision to isolate yourself from the world will not bring joy. We do not say, well, I'm going to isolate myself from the world in order to get joy. That is not what the passage says. He says, Christ is very clear about this. He says, don't take them out of the world. I'm not praying that. Protect them in the world. And so the Christian that is the isolationist that says the way to peace and joy in my life is to sort of go into a monastery or into a cave and just close my ears and close my eyes and just like like burrow through. Let's let's let's let's get a bomb shelter together and go underneath. I mean that is that kind of thing is not what Christ is talking about. And that is not a source of joy. Christ's kind of Christ was rubbing shoulders with all kinds of people. In fact he ate with publicans and tax collector public they're the same thing. Publicans and and uh and sinners Didn't he? And and so that's funny. So and so we see that there. I want us to notice this. Finally, your ability to cope is not a source of joy. Your ability to cope Now here's two ways we cope. Number one, we escape, or number two, we compare. I've even heard messages on this, like it's a good thing to do this. Like how do you get through life? How do you cope? Well, you need to find an escape. Or how do you how do you how do you do how do you have joy in your life? Well, you just need to realize that you're better off than the other guy That's not joy. Now I'm not saying that you can't be grateful for what God has given you. You can notice perhaps as you drive through the middle of Baltimore that God has given you more than that. I don't think that's wrong as long as you understand that you're not better because of it. But it isn't, that is not our source of joy. Our source of joy is not the ability to cope It's not the ability to distract ourselves. It's not the ability to escape. It's not the ability to find something that we just run to, except one thing that we're going to look at later. It's not those things, those are wrong sources of joy. So what is the source of joy? You know the source of joy, very simply, is the gospel. It's the gospel. Why is our joy not dependent on our circumstances? Because it's based on something that's not Swaying. It's based on the gospel. It's based upon our salvation. That's why David prayed, Restore unto me the joy of my salvation. That's why in Habakkuk 3. 18 it says, Yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will joy in the God of my salvation. Your salvation, your gospel is the source of your joy. And if you are finding in your life that you do not have joy, then somehow you're not applying the gospel correctly. Maybe you've forgotten that you don't deserve a lick of it. Maybe you're taking it for granted. Maybe you're looking at your circumstances and you somehow have believed the lie that God doesn't love you. God loves you because if you know Christ as your Savior, God saves you. And there is no nothing this side of heaven that should be able to rob our joy if we are rightly related to the gospel. It doesn't mean we don't grieve. It doesn't mean we're not sad. We could be well acquainted with that But there is the satisfaction that, based upon your relationship with God, that you need to constantly remain in Practically speaking, what does that look like? Well, first of all, understand God's great love for you. We find an example of this in this prayer as Christ prays this to his Father. Christ is about to go to the cross. He's about to suffer more than anybody has ever suffered. He's about to go through something that nobody else has ever gone through. He is about to, he is about to suffer Suffer the weight of the sins of the world on his shoulders to be separated from his father and to suffer physically. He is about to and with all of that in mind, he prays that his disciples would have joy What wondrous love is this, O my soul? We see this in this passage. And by the way, he prayed it out loud, didn't he? Christ praised this prayer out loud for a reason. He wanted his disciples to hear this. He wanted them to understand how they were being prayed for. Out of what? Out of great love for them. And you know, I let me just give you this practical advice. This is just something that I've been doing since I was a teenager, actually. When I get down Or when I feel lonely, there is this soul loneliness that's within our spirit. Um I just think it's a matter of a being a I I just I I don't know for sure about this. This is all my own thinking, but I think it has something to do with just being a fallen creature that you just sort of end up if you if you end up sort of numbing your mind, you end up going to a place of loneliness. And in those times of loneliness, often I like to go to Romans chapter 8 and the end of it where it says, Nothing shall separate us from the love of God. It gives all these different things about the love of God. All these different one thing after another, and it says, who can who we are more than conquerors than are in Christ Jesus? Why? Because God loves us and nothing can separate us from that And just let your soul be healed and enjoy that passage that speaks of the love of God. How do you know God loved you? Because He saved you. And if you're not understanding the gospel correctly, you're not rightly relating to the gospel, no wonder you don't have joy Realize that the gospel is the greatest expression of love of the Father that He could ever give to you. There is no greater expression of love that he could ever give than the love that he gave. So you should need no other argument. You should need no other plea. It is enough that Jesus died and that he died for me. The gospel is our source of joy. And I want us to notice then find and and another way we can apply this, not only the love of God, but we need to Set our affections on things above. Of course, we saw that Christ essentially did that. When he went to the cross, he looked on the other side of the cross. He saw the joy that was set before him, and he endured the cross. And we find in John chapter 14, he says, Let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in me. Why in my father's house are many dwelling places? If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go to prepare a place for you, I'm and receive it of myself that where I am, there you may be also. He says, look, there's a future for you. Don't be troubled. We need to have our affections set on things above, not on the things of this world. Colossians chapter 3 And then I want you to notice the second thing which really goes hand in hand with the first source is the Word of God. Jesus says in this passage, these things I write to you. Or these these things I've spoken to them that they may have joy. And he says the same thing in John 16. These things He is speaking essentially of his words. In other words, folks, it is the word of God that is a source of joy for us. You say, you know, I have like my fifteen minutes of devotions every day and it's not doing it. I I you know, I come to church, you know, uh, but I I I I s I'm still not doing it. I love what Martin Lloyd did. I know I've been quoting him a lot today. I it's so profound some of the things that he came up with I can't or not he didn't come up with, but he he he sees from the passage it would I I need to give him credit. Because I got it from him. He says this: we must learn to concentrate positively on these things. In other words, the secret of joy is the practice of meditation. That is the way to have joy of the Lord. You must meditate upon him, upon what he is. what he has done, his love to us, and upon it God's care for us who are his people You know, something that we have lost or are on our way to losing in the Christian church is this ability to be able to meditate. Anytime I have a brief moment of thought, I can fill it with a with an iPhone. I can check my email. I can go on Facebook. I can text someone. Frankly, none of those things are wrong, and I do them all. But folks, there are some times where we just need to just be quiet And to have no input from anywhere except the Word of God to our spirit. To meditate on the Word of God. And I would remind you and remind myself that the Word of God's emphasis on the Word of God is meditation, not cursory reading. I can't think of too many times where the Bible commands us to actually read the Word. I'm not saying don't do it. I'm just saying it doesn't find anywhere it commands us. You've got to read it in order to meditate on it. But it is replete with many examples where it says to meditate, and examples of David meditating. How much are you meditating on the Word of God in your life? You say, I don't really have time for that. No wonder you don't have joy. Meditating on the Word of God is absolutely crucial. Jesus Spoke the things he spoke to disciples so that they would have joy. But if the disciples never think about it, they never apply it, they're not going to have that joy that's there obviously available to them And of course, then all of this goes back to John 15, where it tells us that we need to abide in Christ, and then we'll have joy. Can I ask you, Christian, today, are you satisfied? Are you satisfied with what God has given you? Can you say with Job, the Lord gives, the Lord takes away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Are you satisfied with what God has given you, or are you unsatisfied? There is no reason for a Christian to ever come to the place where he is unsatisfied unless it's with his own sin. Should be very unsatisfied with sin. But folks, when it comes to what God has given us in the gospel We need to have this sense, this overwhelming assurance and sense of satisfaction in the love of God and the gospel of God, and it is going to carry us through the rat race of life, not above it. Not under it, not beside it, right through it. I'd like to summarize it this way. God wants us to be joyful and has equipped us with everything that we need to be joyful. We got all we need. It's a matter of our applying it. Number two, if we are not joyful, we need to ask why we are dissatisfied with the gospel. If you sit back one day and you say, you know, I am dissatisfied, that should be a check for you It should be, for me too, for all of us, it should be a litmus. It should be, we should sort of go, okay, I'm it's different than grieving. It's different than being sad. I want to be clear about that But if there is this underlying dissatisfaction in my life, that needs to be a warning to me And I need to be I need to say uh I'm not relating the gospel right some way. I don't know how I need to examine this I need to understand his love for me. I need to understand the security of the belief. There's somewhere I'm not relating to the gospel correctly. And we need to allow that to be a test in our lives. As to as to whether or not uh as to how we how we are relating the gospel. All of us folks have times where where we succumb to the flesh and it's probably one of the most subtle ways That we succumb to the flesh by just sliding into dissatisfaction in life. Sometimes a circumstance will plummet us to dissatisfaction. God wants us to be satisfied no matter what our circumstances are. Number three We are losing our joyfulness as Christians because we are losing our ability to meditate on God's word in order to live above or through really the rat race. Folks, we are Christians. There are we're losing our joyfulness. Can I can I just tell you I I hope I'm not getting on a rabbit trail here, but I think sometimes some churches are trying to like you don't have real they don't have real joy, so they're sort of trying to put it on. Maybe they use music to do it. Maybe they use drama or entertainment, those other kinds of things. And I I'm not going to get a soapbox on that, believe me. But let me tell you that Christians, you don't have to have those things. You can have joy from within. And when we use things that really aren't intended to be used to evoke things that should be evoked some other way, we never get the real thing. It's very important for us to understand this. It really comes to a point where we say to ourselves That we're complete in Christ. And nothing, I need nothing else but what God gives me, and I'm complete in Him. Then we will have the joy of the Lord, and it will be our strength. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you. And I would imagine that there would be someone here that would be convicted about the fact that they have sort of lost satisfaction in you. Maybe others are satisfied, but they're we're we're encouraged to be that way more. I pray, Lord, that you would cause us to recognize the joy that you want every Christian to have And when we don't have it, may we take the time to do some examination in our lives of why. Thank you for your salvation. Thank you for your gospel. Thank you for loving us. May we meditate on your word so that we can have the joy of you and so that it can be our strength. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.