Turn please to John chapter six, John chapter six If you look back on your life as a Christian, how often does God bring you to the place Through difficult circumstances and perhaps even impossible circumstances, or maybe frustrating circumstances circumstances. Maybe there are circumstances where you just feel like you're beating your your head up against a wall. Where God brings you to the place where the only place you can look is up. Where you look to Him. When I really reflect on my life as a Christian, just thinking back, I can think of many, many times where that's the case. And I can imagine that any of us who've been saved for any length of time, that really is something that you can think of, that God just from time to time brings you or Maybe, I mean pretty frequently brings you back to a place where you realize the only place you can really look is to him. You cry you keep trying to do it in your own strength or trying to figure it out or trying to Will it to happen your way until you realize all those things are not going to work, and you finally just decide that you're going to let God be God. And let God do what only God can do. I remember a particular time several years ago where I had a lot on my plate, and one of the things that I was doing was I was in the middle of my dissertation. And it was it's pretty intensive for those of you who've gone through it. Not that many people have gone through that and I don't really recommend it honestly. It's I'm not sure it's really worth it. But anyway. But um it it i i it's worth it for one reason and and that is to see God's strength in your life. Um But I remember getting I I was really just trying to get the thing done and I was trying to put out as much as I possibly can and and I had sent in my second chapter uh for the dissertation and I had received it back and I got a rewrite, which basically is a big fat F. They don't call it an F, but that's what it is. And they basically said rewrite it right across the And um and I remember going, man, I gotta rewrite the whole thing and um And uh so I I just sort of sat back and and I'm looking at the deadlines and I'm looking at everything and I'm looking at everything I have to do and looking at my family. Just looking at everything and I just sort of sat back and I said, Lord. At first I was very frustrated because I was really I was sort of just getting this thing done in my own strength, honestly. And I sat back and I just said, Lord, um, if you want this to h it's this doesn't have to happen. If this is just my will, if this is just what I want, if it's not what you want, it's okay. But Lord, if you uh if you want this to happen, I I'm just gonna keep going one step at a time. I'm not gonna get frustrated over it anymore. I'm just gonna take it one step at a time and I'm gonna look And uh if you want this to happen, Lord, would you just give add your increase to the situation? And you know, from that point I just sort of took the next step and took the next step and took the next step. And really from that point on, uh the process was much smoother. Sometimes I think we get our we get our own way in our own way. And um let me ask you this question. If I would have said, okay, Lord, I can't do this, you do it, and I just stopped doing anything. Would that dissertation ever have gotten done? Well, of course not. I mean, you know, when we pray, usually God doesn't come down with a pen in his hand and or type start typing the like I don't get I didn't get any papers from heaven. But on the other hand, if I had not prayed and asked God to and and and depended on him, might that dissertation never have gotten done as well? It's quite possible. So when we're thinking about what God is doing in our lives, what God wants to do in our circumstances is bring us to the place Where we look to him for provision. And then what we do is simply obey. We look to him to provide. And for him to add his increase, and what we do is we just obey one step at a time. It's sort of like that song That you learned as a child, trust and obey, for there's no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and obey We're going to be looking at a very familiar passage of Scripture today. It's the feeding of the 5,000. It is the only miracle that is accounted for in all four Gospels. If you didn't listen, if you didn't hear this story growing up um in in by in you know junior church or something like that or Sunday school, you probably weren't going through much of the Bible because I mean this is very, very common. This is a very common story. And yet there are truths in this story and in this lesson. There are lessons that God wants to teach us that I think perhaps Might be certainly an encouragement to us and a refreshment to us, but will cause us to reflect again on the goodness of our God. And remind us of his great creative power in our lives. We need his help for this, and let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his blessing on our time. Father, as we come to you, We pray, Lord, this morning that you would help us to see Christ for who he really is. That is the entire reason I believe you led me to go through the book of John. We just need to see Christ. And we admit before you that sometimes our circumstances and our lives cause our hearts to have a distorted view of who you really are. And it is passages like these when we see you in tangible ways illustrating your heart toward people That we begin to see again and rightly align with just the great God and good God and powerful and providing God that you really are. And I pray, Lord, today, as we look at your word, that you would help us with this, and that we would see just who you are today, and that we would learn to respond and know our role. as well. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well we pick up here in this very familiar story in John chapter 6, and we're going to pick up here and read the first six verses here. After these things Jesus went over to the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberius, and a great multitude followed him, because they saw his miracles which he had done on them. that were diseased. And Jesus went up went up into a mountain and there he sat with his disciples. And the Passover, a feast of the Jews, was nigh. And Jesus then lifted up his eyes and saw a great company come unto him. He saith unto them, Philip, Whence shall we buy bread that these may eat? And this he said to prove him, for he himself knew what he would do. Philip answered him, two hundred pennyworth of brow that's that's verse seven. So Jesus comes so the disciples are together and they're and Christ is with them, of course. He is the one that is performing all kinds of miracles for the people. He had been doing this and doing a lot of it. John tells us later on in the book, in fact the last chapter of the book, that Christ did so many miracles that there is nothing, no document that could contain every even the So by this point in Christ's ministry, he is really doing a lot of miracles. The Bible tells us in other parallel passages to this one that Christ was moved with compassion. And that's why one of the reasons why he was doing the miracles. And of course, that doesn't negate the fact that one of the reasons he was doing these miracles was as a sign. to them that he is truly God. And he wanted to display that to the people as we discussed last week. But what we find here in this passage Is that the timing of this is between chapter 5 and chapter 6, you're talking at least six months has gone by. Potentially, even a year has gone by in this time period. And so this is during the Passover season, and that's going to explain a lot of some of the reactions and responses that people have toward Christ in this miracle. This is the second Passover of three that Christ is going to experience while he's living on earth. And we're going to see some of the pic some pictures in this passage that we'll we'll take note of as we're as we're looking through this. It is interesting, one of the things that we see here in the fact that he is going to be dealing with bread, and he says later on in the passage that he is the bread of life. The last time that Christ did a miracle where he displayed his creative powers was the first miracle that's recorded in our Gospels at all, and that is when he turned water into wine. And now he's going to display his creative power again by multiplying bread. Do you see a connection between blood, or uh wine, I just kind of give it away. Wine And the bread in displaying his creative power. Because later on, after the third Passover, he is now going to break bread and give it to his disciples, and he's also going to distribute grape juice or wine, and he's going to give that to his disciples, and they're going to they're going to take partake of the first Lord's Supper, the first communion. Christ is explaining through his whole ministry that he is the one that they ought to be looking to to be their savior. He is their savior. He, in fact, if you recall in previous chapters, is the Lamb of God that came to take away the sin of the world. And so you do see some sort of overtoned pictures here. in the miracles that Christ chose to participate in and to perform, and why John would choose to record them as well. Now, with that in mind, what we find that begins this miracle is that all these people have now flocked to Christ. And we see here that it was the reason that they would have gathered in such great number. Probably we're talking about twenty thousand people. We have five thousand men, but in the Jewish uh custom there would have been lots of fruitfulness and multiplying. And so it probably a minimum of twenty thousand people were here. The Bible says that Jesus And his disciples went up on a mount and we know that now to be what is currently the modern day is called the Golan Heights. It's on the the east eastern northeastern side of the Sea of Galilee, which is also called the Sea of Tiberius. When it says it went up into the mountain, that might be a little bit of a you might get the wrong picture in your mind. But probably if you can think of this, I I the nice thing about technology now is I could go and look at all the different pictures. The Gowan Heights, and I found a couple of views on what it would look like for Christ to look at all the people in front of him. And if you can imagine, and there's a good parallel of this, how many of you all have been up to Gettysburg before? Okay, good. Then this illustration will make sense. If it was like only like three people then I just say well let's skip it and go on. But most of you have been one time or another. And if you went to Gettysburg, more than likely you went up on little little roundtop. And if you look at Little Round Top and you're up on Little Round Top looking down at Devil's Den and sort of seeing all of that, that's about roughly the By my estimate of my just pic looking at Golan Heights, that's about just the picture that you would have of Christ being up on the mountain. And the people being down below. Of course, in order for him to be able to teach, we find in other passages he's teaching a good amount during this time. And perhaps his voice would then be able to resonate across the crowd of people. But they were teaching into the he was teaching and doing miracles into the evening and basically what happened was it w there was twenty thousand people there and they were all hungry And Christ comes to, it says in other passages the disciples, but it actually pinpoints to the disciple here that he talks to in verse 5. When Jesus then lifted up his eyes and saw a great company come unto him, he saith unto Philip. Now why would he talk to Philip? Probably for two reasons, but one of the reasons would be that Philip was from this area essentially Well you've been closest to the area, so you'd have known the area well. And he said, What whence shall we buy bread that all these twenty thousand people may eat? Now, John hastens to say in this passage that Christ knew that this was not a logistical possibility under normal circumstances for that to happen, but he did so. He asked this question. To test Philip. And really, probably to test the rest of the disciples as well. Now, let me just pause and ask you a question about when it comes to God's working in your life. Do you suppose that God ever brings circumstances into your life to test you? And the answer, of course, is yes God wants to bring us to places in our lives where we look at what is going on and we look and we say, I am in a nearly impossible situation. Or I'm in a very difficult situation. The disciples never would have known that they were in such a difficult situation had Christ not asked this question. Christ does, God does bring us into circumstances where He wants us to look to Him and He wants us to realize that this is very, very difficult. The situation that I am in is difficult, it is nearly impossible. I am I am frustrated. I'm beating my head up against the wall. How in the world is this ever going to play outright? And I can really think personally of many situations where that has been the case in my life. I have a bottle of water right here, Pat. I just knew that's what he was doing. So thank you. I appreciate that. But um and so what we find here in this passage Is that God is testing Philip? I was thinking a couple of just very, very simple things in my life recently that this has happened. I was I'm most of you know that I'm planning to go to Hong Kong in May and I was been trying to get my passport And uh the US post office office system works just about like every other government um government run thing. It doesn't work very well At least within when it comes to passports. And I don't know if that's gonna be a problem that I said that and it's gonna go over the air go over uh st streaming, but I'm just telling you that I found it to be Not that great. Uh I uh you have to usually you have to make an appointment with these different post offices. I called three different post office and I called them I never got a call back. I called them again I never got a call back Okay, try trying to figure out how am I gonna get this pu you gotta make an appointment but nobody's ever called so it was just became very frustrating. And I and I also didn't have other things done and I needed to get done and I sort of said, Lord, I I I finally said, Lord You know, of course, every other thing, you know, it's not like you're just dealing with one thing in life. There's a thousand other things you're dealing with at the same time. And every time I thought about that, I was just frustrated that I couldn't get this passport. And I finally just said, Lord, if you want me to go to Hong Kong, would you just I I need to get this passport somehow. And so a after praying about it, I s I I in all my research and try to figure it out, I did recall that there was one place you could a library actually in Columbia. Which you could walk into. And so I chose to do that. I said, you know what? If I can't get an appointment, maybe I'll find a place I can walk in. So I went to the library. And libraries are apparently run better than post offices. processes and they are government run too, so I just uh anyway, so I walked in and maybe it was just the Lord that may have been more more likely. I walked in and I was the second person in line, I pro the whole thing processed without a problem. And literally in a week I I had my passport in my hand. And that's not usual. I expedited it in supposed to be three weeks and it was acting faster than I than I than I thought. That's just an example. It's a very minor example, you know, it's not like a life and death situation. But even in those kinds of things, God sometimes brings us to the place where you're try you're frustrated, you're trying to get something done, you're trying to do th things in your own strength and finally God brings you to a place where you say, Lord, if you want this to happen, can you just get it done? I can think of several other things in my life just recently where that's the case. Uh in our church I was just trying to decide whether, for instance, with Vacation Bible School whether we should have that this year or not. And I know that I'm all I'm just very concerned all the time with you know, you all are very good servants of the Lord and and and involved in many different ministries in our church and I I'm always just sort of concerned and I'm over taxing people and I don't want to do that and it so I'm thinking about that and Lord do you want us to have a vacation Bible school or not? And I decided we weren't going to use the organization organization that we used last year for a lot of reasons I won't go into. And and so I decided um I I I didn't know what to do. I said, Lord if you want us to have a V B S this year, would you just show So this missionary comes this a couple of weeks ago. I was just talking to him about that we weren't gonna have the organization that we had had previously and I didn't say anything about a need or I don't think I even said what I was gonna do this year We were it was just sort of in passing. And he emails me he gets back home, ease email mess me he's emails me and says, Hey, I'd love to teach kids. If you could if I could come up for a week, I'd be glad to help you with your EBS. My point in saying these things is that God does bring us to a place sometimes where we just need to stop for a minute and instead of saying this is a logistical impossibility We look to him and say, Lord, if you want this to happen, you can make this happen. Now it doesn't mean we don't do anything. But we do need to focus on the fact that God can do what we can't do. That's important for us to understand in this whole process. And so Christ. In all of this, tested Philip, and we find in the passage that Philip not only is concerned about this, but he starts calculating. By the way, do you ever do that? He starts calculating, literally calculating how many how much money it would cost to feed all these people. He comes up with two hundred denari. That's two hundred days that's eight months salary of the average person working He c comes up to feed all these people. Now, I don't know how you calculate twenty feeding twenty thousand people, but apparently Philip was good with math. And he comes up with this figure. You ever do that? You've got this impossible situation in front of you. and you're calculating how you're going to be able to get past this, how you're going to be able to do this. And you're constantly trying to figure out and calculating everything. That's what Philip is doing. I so much identify with this. I'm sort of going, man, that that's exactly how I would respond to this. If Christ asked me the same question, I'd be going, we've got twenty thousand people there. How in the world are we ever to do this? We won't have this much money. I'd be constantly doing that's exactly how I would respond Sometimes God puts us in places and in situations where we can't calculate anymore. And all we've got to do and all we can do is just look up and say, okay, Lord, I don't, I don't, I can't do this. I just need to trust you. And and that's in this man Philip and the disciples in all the situation. God also uses limited means to display his creative power. And we see this in verses 8 through 13. We'll pick up here verse 8. It says, One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, saith unto him, There is a lad here which hath five barley loaves and two small fishes. But what are they among so many? And Jesus said, Make the men sit down. Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down. uh in number about five thousand. And Jesus took the loaves, and when he had given thanks, he distributed to the disciples And the disciples to them that were in were set down, and likewise of the fishes as much as they would. When they were filled, he said unto the disciples, Gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost Therefore they gathered them together, filled the twelve baskets with the fragments of the five barley loaves, which remained over and above unto them that had eaten. So we have here basically the core of the story is right here in this part of the passage. Christ has everybody seated and calmed down. Another passage explains that he's going to To actually give thanks for the bread and and all that. And what he does here basically is he takes these five barley loaves and two fish. Another disciple points out to him that There's five barley loaves and two fish. And John's interesting, he uses the term barley here. We don't find that in the in in the other gospels, I don't think. The term barley he uses here to point out barley loaves or barley, these were probably more like cakes were very small and barley bread was bread that poor people had. It was like the cheapest kind of bread you possibly could have. And these two fish were fish that were it you know they're like little sardines or something. They were probably pickled, apparently, from what I can tell, from what uh the Commentators say. Not that they're always right, but um and they were really the side thing, the main thing was the bread. And the bread wasn't really a whole lot, and the bread was like cheap bread basically Now the question becomes, why in the world would God choose, or would Christ choose, to take this bread And these loaves, or these these bread and these fish, and to feed these 20,000 people. Couldn't Christ have just chosen ex Nelio out of nothing to feed all these people? Did he need this bread and these and this fish? No, he didn't. But Christ chose to do that anyway. Why? Well, one reason is probably because Christ usually tried to do things consistent with his with his father's creation rather than against his father's creation. That may be one reason. But folks, I think the primary reason is this. That got it shows something about God's character. That God chooses to use small things for his great purposes. He chooses to use weak things to confound the wise. He uses simple things. That's what God chooses to use. And folks, isn't it true that all of us fall into that category? We are all weak. We are all feeble. We are we that's what God chooses to use. I'm reading a very extended biography on Hudson Taylor, who's taking me a very long time to get through. It's two it's a two-volume set, and what we find is that Hudson Taylor does great things for God, but Hudson Taylor was a weak And sickly young boy. This was not a man who was robust and full of energy and vigor, and yet God used him in And perhaps the gr I mean, uh out of all the missionaries that I've read about, probably he used him in greater ways than any other missionary I could think of, honestly. And and uh there's other some other great missionaries that come close. But he uses the feeble things. Aren't you God about that? And any time that you begin to think to yourself, you know, I just really don't have that much to offer. I don't have that much to give to God. There are so much many other people that are far more talented than I am They can do a better job with such and such. Just remember, God uses the small things, and if He and if we'll allow Him to, through our obedience, He'll multiply them And he'll do great things. So that who gets the glory, folks? He does. God gets the glory. It is important for us to remember. The other emphasis that we find in this particular passage, portion of this passage, that is clear in this passage, is the abundance of provision that God makes for these people. Do you notice that in the passage? There's like bushels left over. He is it's not like he just had just enough for each one of these people to eat. It says, and when they were full, I mean they it's like they went to a buffet that was like m you know had everything was healthy on the buffet or something. Um I'm always a little concerned about the phase. I I am. I I'm I'm a ever since since I took a food safety class class uh class when when I was uh working at Chick-fil-A I look at Buffets in a whole different life. But anyway. Sorry, I by sorry if some of you like buffets, you probably I won't go any further. They're probably fine. I just don't. Anyway. But they I mean he was they were full. And then there was left over some. And you know what this tells us about God? As one commentator said, God chose in this situation to lavishly provide. Now let me ask you a question Is that how you think about your God? Is your view of God that God God chooses to lavishly provide for his children. He wants to do that. Or is your view of God that God would choose to just give you just enough? Just enough to survive. Just enough to. What is your view of God? Is God a benevolent God who loves to bless his children? Or is God the kind of God who just wants to give you enough to get by and to scrape by? And what we see in this passage, and there's a balance to this, and you'll get the balance in a moment, but do you realize, folks, that what we find in this passage is that what God wants to do Is the same thing that every one of us as fathers, as physical fathers, want to do for our children. We want to provide as lavishly and abundantly as we possibly can for our kids That's what we want. Right, dads? We want to give everything to our kids. Now, we know full well that giving everything to our kids is not always best for them, is it? Right kids? And so I don't give my kids a full carton of i ice cream when they ask for it. In fact, I often I say no as much as I say yes Because I know good and well that to give them everything they want is good for them. Why would God choose not to benevolently provide for us? Because He knows what's best for us. But I think we've got to remember this, folks, that that's God's God's heart is to want to live lavishly God's heart is to want to provide in a lavish sense for us, to provide everything he can for us. That's his desire. Don't we serve a good God? If you look at your life, isn't it true that God, for most of us, has given us far more than what we need? He's given us far more than that. And God did that for these people. He filled them to this full. I can sort of imagine that in this context, they were probably fuller than they've ever been full before. And there was more left over that they wanted. And what does Christ do with it? He saves it. There was more left over. Maybe he was saving it so that they wouldn't, they could be distributed later to save some for later. I don't know. But he does he definitely didn't waste any of it. And so we have this great picture of our God wanting to provide. Are you going through a circumstance in your life where you say, you know, I boy, I tell you Sometimes it's hard to make ends meet at the end of the month. Sometimes it doesn't look as though God wants to provide as much as He wants to provide. Now I want to be careful here. You've got a lot of preachers that are health and wealth gospel kinds of people, and uh you know I always want to be careful about them, and they're you know pretty much what they say is a false gospel But sometimes we go too far the other direction where it's like we think that God is just up there trying to give us as little as he possibly can. That's wrong too. God does love to provide what he can provide for his children, and he does so in this case for these people. And the emphasis in the passage is clear about that. Well, then we come now to how God continues to show his creative power, and he is going to do so in this passage as we look at it by demonstrating the response of these folks. Look at how we re- how they respond to this great miracle in verse 14. Then those men, when they had seen the miracles that Jesus did, said, This is of a truth, that prophet which should come into the world. So they responded, they said, wow, this man just fed 20,000 people. This has got to be, and it uses this term, that prophet. Now, they had just remembered that the people had just gone through a Passover. Many scriptures were read for them. Many scriptures were read out of the book of Deuteronomy, more than likely. And it is very likely that as they were being read, one of the passages that would have very easily popped up in their mind is this one that I'll read to you now in Deuteronomy 18, 15. Which says, The Lord thy God will raise up unto thee a prophet from the midst of thee, of the brethren like unto me. Unto him ye shall hearken. according to all that thou desirest of the Lord thy God in Horeb, in the day of the assembly, saying, Let me not hear again the voice of the Lord my God, neither let me see the great fire any more. that I die not. The Lord said unto me, They have well spoken that which they have spoken. I will raise them up a prophet from among their brethren. Like unto thee I will put my words in his mouth. And he shall speak unto them all that I shall command him. And it shall come to pass that whosoever will not hearken unto my words which he shall speak in my name, I will require it of him. That particular passage identifies this prophet that will come and will be make provision for the nation And so they made this connection. It's possible that what they had in their minds was when Moses, God used Moses, of course God is the one that did it, but God used Moses To bring about manna for the people. God gave manna for the people, and Moses had announced that the manna would come and provision. And so maybe they made that connection Either way, they did get it right. They got it right that Christ is the ultimate prophet, much more than the prophet, of course but the ultimate prophet, the Savior, that would make everything right. And everything was not right for these Jewish people. They were still under the Roman guard. And so they looked at the situation and they responded by identifying who Christ really was from these Old Testament passages. And so they were right in one sense, but they were wrong in another, they made a wrong response in the next verse. Would you notice what it says in verse 15 When Jesus therefore perceived that they would come and take him by force to make him a king, he departed again unto a mountain himself alone. So Jesus, of course, being omniscient, began to notice realize what was going to happen that these people were so zealous to have somebody overthrow the Roman government for them. And to restore the nation of Israel as a nation, that they began to they began to perhaps conspire, even verbally conspire. Of course, Christ didn't need to hear them, he knew what was going on. To take Christ by force and make him king. Now, does that sound a little strange to you? I mean just think about it. The man that's mo that is so powerful that he can multiply bread and bring 20,000 and feed 20,000 people. And yet these same twenty thousand people are going to take him by force and make him king? I mean for me it was sort of like I I was like, well that sounds not very logical. But at the same time, why did they want to make Christ king? And and there's a really key point of application here. Why did they want to make Christ king? Well, because Christ had but blessed them so benevolently. And they thought if if they could make him king, that he would bless them benevolently like they he just did. The focus came to the point where he they were looking to him for blessing. They weren't looking to him for who he it was, but what they could give him, what he could give them. And there is a great application for us in this passage as well, isn't there? Is it possible that God's benevolent blessing could actually turn our hearts away from God? To the point where we begin to focus on the blessing instead of focusing on the God of the blessing. That is a distinct possibility for all of us. You see, God wants to lavishly bless us. But God understands as well, and we need to understand, that God's blessing can actually turn our hearts. away from God to the point where all we want is the blessing from God and we're not looking to God anymore That is essentially what happened with these people. And if you and I are honest with ourselves, it can happen to us that God so benevolently blessed us. And he lays on one blessing after another after another. But if we're not careful, we start pursuing the blessing instead of pursuing God. It is a very dangerous thing for us. Has it ever happened to you? Where God blesses you in such a way, and then perhaps God withholds a little blessing from you? And you begin to turn and say, Wait a minute, where is the blessing? And before you know it, you're pursuing the blessing and you want to be blessed again instead of just pursuing God and let God bless you the way He wants to bless you. Bless you. Folks, what God wants us to do is take is remain focused on Him. And when we see blessing from Him, we stay focused on Him and thank God that He provides for us. And when God withholds from us, we thank God then too. And we stay focused on Him. God wants to bless us, but He wants the blessing to direct us to Him, not to direct us away from Him. And so we have here a very important application for us. There is, though, this final way that God chooses Oh let me let me just make the make a a couple of statements here, a couple more things here that I want to point out. Here's where we go wrong. We go wrong when we begin to look at life in terms of success and victory Rather than obedience. Jerry Bridges mentions this, and we mentioned this in the Bible and in the men's uh uh study last yesterday. It was very, very, very important. This is so important for us to get One author said this, it was D. A. Carson that said about this passage, their attention was focused on food and victory. Not on divine self-disclosure mediated from the incarnate Son, not on the Son as the bread of life, not on the realistic assessment of their own need. Jerry Bridges says this. He says, God wants us to walk in obedience, not victory. Obedience is oriented toward God. Victory is oriented toward self. This may seem to be merely splitting hairs over semantics. But there is a subtle, self-centered attitude at the root of many of our difficulties with sin. Until we face this attitude and deal with it, we will not consistently walk in holiness This is not to say God doesn't want us to experience victory, but rather to emphasize that victory is a byproduct of obedience. As we concentrate on living an obedient, holy life, we will certainly experience the joy of victory over sin. And that is extremely important for us to get. You know what happens to us? We get blessed by God and we see victories in our lives, and if we're and we're not careful, we begin to focus on those victories and we we miss the point. What we've got to do is return to simple obedience to God. One day at a time, we obey Him. And do you know what keeps us from obeying God oftentimes? Do you know what keeps us from doing it? The answer is fear. It is. And when I originally looked at this passage, I didn't notice, but the following set of verses actually are a continuation of the passage. John didn't set this up to be two different passages, even though the content looks a little different. It really is a continuation of the same passage. And so I want to read the rest of this passage for you, and you'll see what I mean here. Picking up in verse 16. And when even was now come, his disciples went down unto the sea, and entered a ship, and went over a sea toward Capernaum, and it was now dark, and Jesus was not come to them. And the sea arose by reason of a great wind that blew. So when they had rowed about five and twenty or thirty furlongs, it's about two uh three, roughly three miles, they see Jesus walking on the sea. And drawing nigh unto the ship, and they were afraid. And he saith unto them, It is I, be not afraid. Then they willingly received him into the ship, and immediately the ship was at the at the land whither they went. So Jesus finally escapes from the this throng of people that were about to force him to be king, and the disciples do as well. But we know from a parallel passage that probably what happened was Jesus went to be alone to pray with the Lord with his father. And the disciples got into a boat and began to row. It's very likely that Jesus sort of said to the disciples, hey, get out of here. I'll catch up with you. And Jesus escaped another way to pray with his Father. It's a great great lesson there as well. But the point of this particular passage that I want to make is this When Christ came and walked on the water, he did something the disciples were not aware of and were not familiar with. This was something that kind of really blew their minds. They didn't get it. I mean, these were many of them were fishermen. They were on the water all the time, and to see a man walking on the water was something that scared them half to death. They were, without question, greatly afraid They didn't recognize who was on the water more than likely, but just seeing a man on the water, it caused them to really fear. God, Christ, though, is going to use this in their lives to demonstrate something about himself. Because what he says is, he says, fear not. Why do you not need to fear? Because it's I. You and I, if we're not careful, really often the root of our disobedience is really fear. That's really often the problem. I want to illustrate it this way. Our natural response to fear is control. If I can control the situation a little bit more, I'm fearful, I want to control the situation. And control, if God is in it, He doesn't want us to be in control. And so it will end up in failure, which if we're on the wrong cycle will cause us to have more what? Fear. And we end up on the wrong cycle. Fear leads to control. Control leads to failure. You ever find that in your life? Is that never a is that never a reality in your life? Where you're fearful of the future. You're fearful of something. Maybe it's God has blessed you and He's sort of withholding blessing in an area. Or maybe there's some provision, whatever it is, we we have fears in our lives. And it And it causes us to want control so that we can solve it in our own strength, in our own solution And we think that that's going to alleviate the fear. But when we fail, the fear only gets worse. Now, let me ask you this question. What aspect of Christ's character was he displaying to these disciples when he said, It is I, and he is walking on water? I'm going to suggest to you that the aspect of God's character that he's displaying here is his sovereignty. Christ is God who is sovereign. He is sovereign and he, let me put it this way, he is in control. God is in control Control. It's as though Christ was saying to these disciples, hey, you don't have to fear because I'm in control. I'm walking on the water. I'm demonstrating you that I'm not limited by anything natural. I have no limitations whatsoever. That is only true of God and not true of anyone else. Only God is sovereign to the point where He is completely unlimited in any way by anyone in any circumstances. A. W. Tozer put it this way. God said to be absolutely free. God is said to be absolutely free because no one and no thing can hinder him Or compel him or stop him. He is able to do as he pleases always, everywhere, forever. And do you know what we've got to do? We've got how it was the answer to alleviating fear in our lives, it is to it is to respond in our with our fear, it is to replace it with a knowledge and an acknowledgement of God's sovereignty, His control in our lives. And so instead we have peace which produces trust in God's control, which causes our focus to be on obedience to God. Now, let me just put it this way. What we want to do in our lives is we want to control things. We have fears and we want to control. And that control end up ends up leading to failure. What God wants us to do is that when we have circumstances in our lives, what God wants us to do is He wants us to not be focused on fixing the circumstances. He wants us to be focused on obedience to him so that he's in control of our circumstances. We're obeying him. It's not as though we don't do anything. It's not as though we sit back and we just, okay, God, I'm just going to let go and let God. That is really kind of a very unbalanced statement. We need to let go, let God be in control, but we're going to actively obey God in the process so that our focus is on God and obeying Him and then letting Him do what He wants to in our lives. To put it another way, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added unto you. Can I ask you a question? Are you ever guilty of trying to take control because of fear? I can guarantee you if we've got honesty in this room, we would have a unanimous affirmative yes. All of us have that tendency. But what God wants us to do in our lives is He definitely, without question, wants us to trust that He is in limitless control. God is. But we've got to understand that what God wants is benevolent providing for us. You put those two things together and you've got peace that God benevolently wants to provide for us in His way in His time And God is in complete control in every way without limitation. You put those things two things together and you start trusting in those two things and you begin to have peace. Your only role is to obedience so you don't go against His plan. And that's why we end up with the way we started: trust and obey. For there's no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and obey. Three questions for us this morning. Is God putting you through a difficult or impossible situation? Stop relying on yourself and start relying on God. Number two, are you guilty of thinking that God is not an abundant supplier? Are we guilty? Don't we aren't we sometimes guilty of that, folks? I I have to tell you, there have been times I I I you know I don't think of God that way And this was a passage that was encouraging to me. You know, I sort of look at the you know you look at things on paper sometimes and you don't know how it's all gonna work out and you You start thinking, no, God, God, if He can with us, wants to abundantly supply for us. But He's in control too, and He knows what He's doing. We need to trust him. Realize that God loves his children and wants to lavishly supply for them. Are you fearful? You've got to trust in God's sovereignty. God is in control. We do his business, he does our business. We obey, he supplies. That's God's economy. And we find all of this clearly demonstrated in this passage. Let's pray together. Father, we do understand and we admit before you that our flesh is so inclined toward being fearful and then going our own way. And we forget so easily, our hearts are deceitful, and we forget that you are a good God. That chooses to benevolently supply for us and wants to. But you know what's best for us. And many times we understand that what's best for us is not a lavish supply. But we know what you want for us, and we you're you're a good God, and we thank you for that. Lord, would you help us to just trust you That you're in control. That you are unlimited in your ability to control things. May we relinquish our control to you and may we accept the mantle of obedience in our lives. One step at a time, doing what you want us to do. It is that kind of life where you're asking us to be faithful To be obedient, to take Christ's yoke upon us and learn of him, because he's meek and lonely in heart, we'll find rest for our souls. I pray, Lord, that you would align our focus and our thinking today, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.