And turn to John chapter thirteen. John chapter thirteen, and we'll be picking up in verse thirty-one. Perhaps one of the most emotionally heart-wrenching situations in the life of someone who is in the military. is when he has to be deployed to go off to war and he ha and he has to leave home his family with small children. And I think that the only way that a soldier can do that is to understand that what he is doing is actually to be helpful for his children. that his goal he's not just going for his country, but he's going for his kids, that they would be protected. I remember growing up, my grandfather was in the military, um Uh uh he was he was retired from military growing up, but remember my mom uh talking about military days and how when he went off to Vietnam he Uh my mom wanted to know how he was go why he was going and he basically explained to her that he was going over there for her and for her own protection. And um I I uh think that when I I think that that probably is one of the best illustrations I can give you. for what's going on in this text. Of course it isn't a perfect illustration. Everything is going to break the all illustrations break down, but when you really think about what Christ is about to do, he is not only about to die. He knows he's gonna be r he's gonna uh rise from the grave, but he's about to leave them And he wants to prepare them for this. And so if you can imagine a parent telling a child they're going to have to leave for a a lengthy time It's those kinds of discussions are going to include clear commands, you need to do this, you need to follow your mother's instructions, you need to listen to her. And also words of assurance and comfort. And you're going to have those things sort of mixed together, I would imagine, in a conversation of that nature. And that's exactly what you have here. And in fact, what you find in verse 33, he even said, he calls them now my little children, my dear children, he says. When he thinks of the fact that he has guided them and directed them and taught them for three and a half years now, he looks at the prospect of leaving them and he says, My little children, I'm about to leave. And the things that he is going to say here are going to be absolutely crucial for them to understand in order to prepare them for his departure. And so they are absolutely crucial for us to understand as we are also disciples of Christ, followers of Him. And the most crucial things that he says here are things that we need to always keep in the forefront of our minds as well. There are many things in the Christian life, many responsibilities that we have. It would take years to li I mean, it would take just an innumerable amount of time to list to list them all. But you can summarize everything into the command that Christ gives us here, and you're going to see that in a few moments. Before we do that, let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his blessing on our time together. Father, as we look at your word this morning, I pray that you would help us to see how crucial these um these words of Christ are to our lives. I pray also that you would see, help us to see the great caring character of God. As Christ works with these disciples, I ask, Lord, that you would help us to see this clearly today. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. The disciples had just partaken of the first Lord's Supper. And they had still an unresolved dispute, according to the Luke account, who was going to be greatest in the kingdom. And Jesus is now going has expressed his love to them in a couple of unusual ways. One was washing their feet in the most humble kind of position that he possibly could for that culture. And now he also expressed great love and honor to the man who was going to betray him, Judas. And after all of this, he is now going to tell them some things that they have got to understand. And he re-he wants them to realize that all of what is going to come about is the b is in the big picture going to ultimately glorify God. And he wants to remind them of that. And so he does so in verses 31 and thirty-two of this passage. He says, Therefore, when he was gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him. If God be glorified in him, God shall also glorify him in himself, and shall straightway glorify him. That causes then him to be able to have a more intimate time with his disciples. Judas is left, the betrayer is gone, and although he showed them great love and great support, or showed him great love and great honor, Um far beyond what we can really un hardly understand with the prospect of the fact that he's about to betray him. He now is able to turn to his dear children, and he's going to be able to say to them something that he just urgently wants to get across to them. He says, I'm gonna leave you soon. He said, I told the Jewish leaders this, but it didn't just apply apply to them. It applies to you too. I'm going to leave you, and where I go, you can't come And with that in mind, he then says verse four thirty-four, a new commandment I give unto you. This has got to be what he's about to say. is of great, such crucial importance to all of us, but it's such crucial importance to the disciples, he says, there is a particular way I want you to I want you to represent me and there is a specific way I want you to do this. By the way, my losing my voice is not for dramatic effect. Sound like a teenager up here. But anyway. Sorry, teenage voice. I probably just offended a few people guys. Anyway. But I was there once, so anyway. And you don't always sound like that after it changes over. It'll all be better later, okay? And all the girls will think you have a nice manly voice. Okay, I better get back to the passage. He says verse 34, a new commandment I give unto you that ye love one another as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. Now, Jesus could have said anything. He could have said, look, you've got to stay true to reading the Bible when you get it. When you write it after you write it, then you get it. You've got to stay true to to praying to me. You've got to talk to me. There's all things he could have said, all kinds of things he could have said. But the one commandment he gives When he leaves for us to make sure that we follow, and he says it's a new commandment, you've got to love one another. When the way the Greek construction here, which I don't like, you know, I try not talk about too often, but he says here, when he says, love one another, it's it's a it's the way he says this, it's a command. But it also has an intent of purpose behind it. In other words, he's saying, with this command you will fulfill your purpose. If you want to fulfill your purpose as my disciple, you've got to follow this. Love one another. Now the question then becomes, why is it that he says it's a new commandment? Did that raise, has that ever risen in your mind? Why would he say here, a new commandment? Because this is not, in one sense, a new commandment. For example, he said over in um In Deuteronomy chapter 6, verse 5, it says, And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might. Leviticus 19:18 says, Thou shalt not avenge nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people, but thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. I am the Lord. He doesn't say here, why would he say then this is a new commandment? When obviously in the Old Testament it was said. Well, a couple of reasons for this. One reason is probably because when Christ came, he tells us in his word that love is the fulfillment of all the demands of the commandments. For example, it says that in Mark chapter 12, verse 28-33, Christ says that himself. But it also says that in Galatians chapter 5, verse 14, where it says, For all of the law is filled Fulfilled in one word, even this. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. You want to fulfill the law, you want to fulfill God's God's expectations of you. It's all fulfilled according to Galatians chapter 5, verse 14 Love your neighbor as yourself. And in that sense, the Jewish people would never have thought of it that way. They thought of all of the 611 commandments that they had to follow meticulously And by the point that Jesus was on this earth, the Pharisees were had added additional commandments in order to keep them from violating the six hundred and eleven commandments. They were full of all kinds of commandments that they had to follow. And Jesus says, there's one new commandment you've got to follow. Love one another. Now he also says when he says love one another, by the way, he's not saying love everyone. Other places he tells us to do that, love your enemies, love your neighbor. But here his emphasis is not on loving your neighbor or loving your enemies. He's saying love one another, and the one another passages, as you well know, are talking about loving other disciples, other believers. He says, if you want to fulfill all the commandments, if you want to, you've got to you've got to love one another. Well, another reason that he says it's a new commandment we find in 1 John. Would you take your Bibles and turn there to 1 John chapter 2? And we're going to look here more at what it means when he says this is a new commandment. 1 John chapter 2 and picking up here in verse 7. He says this, Brethren, I write no new commandment unto you. Why does he say that? Well, because this is a commandment from the very beginning of the Pentateuch. But then he says, but an old commandment which ye have had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word which ye have heard from the beginning. Again, he says in verse 8, A new commandment I write unto you, which thing is true in him and in you, because the darkness is past. And the true light now shineth. Well, that helps us a little bit. The darkness is past, and the true light now shineth. What did Christ say he was in the book of John? I am the light. They, prior to Christ, were in darkness. Now, it wasn't complete darkness. They had revelation from God. They had the word of God. They had direct Prophets and all kinds, they have they had things. But Christ says, I am, you get the fullness of the brightness of the light in me. I am the light. He says in verse 9, he that saith he is in the light and hateth his brother. The word hate there is the idea of animosity. When we think of hate, we like to sit think it think of it in terms of only murder. But did you know that the same word for hatred and the same word for anger in the New Testament is the same Greek word behind both? So if you're angry or hate, if there's hatred or anger, here it says this. He that saith he is in the light. And hateth his brother is in darkness even until now. You're in darkness, is this. He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there is none occasion of stumbling in him Now that is going to be interesting as well. He says here, and keep this in mind as we go through this, he says that if you want to keep from stumbling, you've got to love your brothers and sisters in Christ. But that's going to be important later. Folks, reality is that if you look at this passage and it says here twice in verse 7, he's talking about the beginning, in the beginning. It's also in chapter 1. So would you look there, chapter 1, verse 1, and you're going to see the very first phrase in this book is that which was what? From the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our were our hands have handled of the what? The word of life. And the word of life, if you'll go back to John chapter 1, is who? Jesus Christ. Now here's what Christ is saying. Folks, there is a sense in which this is a new commandment, because never in the history of civil a civilization before have God's pet people ever, before this point, ever seen The example of love like Christ showed it. If you go back to the Old Testament, you see many men and women who were men and women of faith, according to Hebrews chapter 11. If you go to the Old Testament, you may have seen some that exhibited love for God, but there is no one ever in the history of God's people ever to display the love of God like Christ did. It is as though he almost, as it were, redefined love by his very presence. By his very three and a half years of activity. You want to see love? Look at the life and death of Christ And that's why it says in 1 John, herein is love. Not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son. That we should have the perfe that he may give us a propitiation for our sins. And so there's a sense in which this is a, at this point, when the disciples read this, a new concept. In other words How is it that we are ever to follow this? We've got to follow Christ's example. That's why we've got four gospels showing the life of Christ. It's because we need a clear example of what we are to follow. We're not good at this love stuff. In fact, the reality is you and I in our natural being, we do not have the capacity to love the way Christ loved. I don't know if you're aware of this. I'm sure you're aware of the term agape in the New Testament. What you may not be aware of is the fact that prior to the New Testament, this word agape was a word in the classical Greek that was barely used. It was a word with very little meaning. And God chose by his own providence to take this word and to use it for his own purposes and to fill it with meaning. And as we look at the New Testament, we find what love really is. And the Bible says that God commendeth, He showed His love toward us. And that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. You want to see love, you've got to see Christ. And in fact, when you turn back to John, you're going to see exactly that that's going to line up. with what Christ says here. So if you would turn back to John chapter 13. And he says this Picking up in verse um thirty-four. A new commandment I give unto you that ye should love one another, and he tells us the extent to which we we should love others. What? As I have loved you. What's the comparison? What's the extent to which we love? He says, as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. Folks, how far did Christ's love go? Was there any limit to Christ's love? Is there anything that you and I can do that will separate us from the love of God? And folks, the reality is that is a very tall order, is it not? It is truly impossible. You think the Old Testament commands were hard. Try loving people this way. One commentator said it this way. He said The standard of comparison is Jesus' love, just exemplified in the foot washing, but since foot foot since the foot washing points to his death These same disciples, but a few days later, would begin to appreciate the standard of love they would explore throughout their pilgrimage. The more we recognize the death of our own sin, the more we recognize the love of the Savior. The more we appreciate the love of the Savior, the higher his standard appears. The higher his standard appears, the more we recognize our own selfishness, our innate self-centeredness, the depth of our own sin With a standard like this, no thoughtful believer can ever say, this side of the parocia, which is talking about the coming of Christ, I am perfectly keeping the basic stipulation of the new covenant. You know what this should cause us to see when we see the standard of love that Christ has? To fall down and say, I can't do that. Because when we come to that conclusion, then we are ready for Christ's words, abide in me, which he is going to say later in John chapter 15, just one chapter over. And it tells us then if we will do this, verse thirty-five, the result. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one for another. You know why that is? Because nobody has love like that. Nobody has the kind of Christ love that God says that his people are, he requires his people to have. And that cause us to realize we can't have apart from him. Nobody has that kind of love. And when God's, when the world sees that kind of love, it says, that's how you know That they're your that they're Christ's disciples. They ought to look at us and see the love that we have for others. The world ought to look at that and say, That can't be this side of heaven Certainly for us a very tall order. Obviously, if you want to define love, you've got to look at the full example of Christ and his three and a half years on earth and then also factor in his death. And of course, we don't have time to do that all today, but we do have a passage of Scripture, I think, that well summarizes what love is, and we find that in 1 Corinthians chapter 13. And I'll just read for you a couple of verses. It says, Love suffers long, it is kind. Love does not envy. Love does not parade itself, is not puffed up. does not behave rudely, does not seek its own, is not provoked, thinks no evil, does not rejoice in iniquity, but rejoices in the truth Bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. Love never fails. That's Christ's kind of love. When the disciples heard these words, you would suppose on one hand that perhaps they would say to themselves How can we do this? Or if this is an impossible task? Or can you teach us more about this? But the disciples are actually preoccupied with something else he said. It's as though they didn't even hear what he was saying. It's as though as though they only heard, I'm going to leave you and you can't come. Now, folks, isn't it true that we could understand that? We can understand being preoccupied with the prospect of something and it distracting us from maybe what we're supposed to be doing. We can understand that completely. And Christ, and what we see here next is that the disciples are distracted. Now, John, what it does is he he focuses in on Peter's response. But I do believe that Peter's response is representative of all of the disciples, and we'll see this in a couple of different parallel passages. And what I'd like you to do at this point is go ahead and take your Bibles and turn to Luke chapter 22. And we're going to pick up here in verse 24. Luke 22, and we'll pick up in verse 24 here. And this will give us a fuller picture. And he says this picking up in verse 24. Now there was also dispute among them as to which of them should be considered the greatest. So we know, folks, that that is still in their minds. Remember in the past that they have gone through the triumphal entry with Christ, they have spoken to him as the Messiah, they have declared him to be the Messiah, and they're expecting him to conquer the Roman Emp. They're still expecting this and they're still expecting that to happen. And for him to say, I'm leaving you Makes absolutely no sense to them. Arguably it plunges them into total confusion. What in the world is going on He says in verse twenty six, but not so among you On the contrary, he who is greatest among you, let him also be the younger, and he that his governed, let him serve. Now, with that in mind, I'm actually going to have you take your Bibles and turn to Matthew 26. I want you to see this parallel passage, Matthew 26. Because in this passage, we're going to get another piece of the puzzle here, and we're going to see. The disciples and what Christ declares about them. And we're going to see a lot in this passage, Matthew 26, and looking at verse 30. Then Jesus said to them, All of you will be made to stumble because of me this night. For it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered. He says, You all, he not only says, You're going to leave, I'm going to leave you, he says, you are going to stumble tonight. You're gonna falter. You're going to fall tonight. What's their response? But after I have been raised, I will go before you to Galilee, verse thirty thirty-three. He actually tells them he's coming coming back after he's risen from the grave. Peter answered and said to him, Even if all are made to stumble because of you, I will never be made to stumble. Folks, what would you call that? That's an arrogance. Even if everybody else does, I will not. But let me ask you this question: is that not somewhat understandable? If somebody came and told you, look, you're going to disown Christ, which is what deny means, if you're going to disown Christ, you're going to do that, would you not be tempted to say, I will never do that? Peter says this, he says, everybody else will. I will not. I will not do that. And in his stubbornness, unfortunately, he is also exhibiting pride. He says here then verse 35, Peter said to him, Even if I have to die with you, I will not deny you. And then also, would you notice the next few words? And so said the disciples It wasn't just that Peter said these things. The disciples said, he was just their spokesperson. The disciples were all agreeing with this. Everybody else might stumble, but we will not, we'll die with you. Now, you know what's interesting about that? What's interesting is, and what Peter is going to say in John, is that I would lay down my life for you. What kind of love is Christ talking about? And that they miss the point. They're distracted by this. Now, with all of that in mind, I'd like to turn back to the book of John, and I'd like you to notice then, verse 13. What or I'm sorry, chapter 13, verse 36, what happens? You'll have now a fuller understanding of what is going on because of all of this. Simon Peter saith unto him, Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus answered him, Whither I go, thou canst not follow me now. But thou shalt follow me afterwards. Peter saith unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now? I will lay down my life for thy sake. Jesus answered him, Will thou lay down thy life for my sake? Verily, verily I say unto thee, the cock shall not crow till thou shalt deny me three times. And do you suppose at that point that Peter is quite humbled by that? We don't find any other response. He doesn't argue with him at this point. He just is Christ's words. And by this point, he's learned that you don't argue with direct words from Christ. And so we find the disciples at this point in confusion. We find them troubled. We find them anxious about what's going to happen. Christ has had to bring them to a place of utter confusion. And he has had to bring them also to the place of absolute humility. But I want you to notice something about our loving Savior. Do you know when Jesus then picks up the rest of his explanation of this concept of love and the responsibility that we have? It's not until John chapter 15, verse 9, where he picks up on this discussion of love. You see, Christ is so caring and so patient that when he sees the confusion on behalf of the disciples When he sees the trouble on the behalf of the disciples, he switches gears here. He moves from exp exhorting them about their responsibility after they leave. And he moves over and he wants to comfort them. He wants to give them some assurances. And that should show that should and that's why he then says John chapter 14 verse 1, let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. He moves. It doesn't it wouldn't make sense to us continuity-wise. He He you you would think he'd say, Okay, yeah, you're gonna you're gonna actually deny me. Now let's get back to the subject I want to tell you about loving uh about loving uh one another He does have more to say. We know that from John 15. But Christ doesn't do that. Christ is so loving and so patient with us that he will sometimes say, you know what? I think that person needs comfort more than he needs exhortation. And that's what he does here. He turns and he meets the need that they have of being troubled and being confused, and he deals with that before he is now then going to turn back and he's going to give them. Fuller their responsibility. Not only, folks, should that tell us something about the love that Christ has for us, it ought to give us an example of something that we ought to do for each other. There are times that what we're what people really need is not a mandate, but words of comfort. And folks, we've got to know the difference. We've got to know, we've got to have wisdom to know that. And very frankly, you and I can't have wisdom to know if we're not depending on the Lord. If we're not abiding in Christ, which is why we find later on Words about the Spirit of God indwelling us and words about abiding in Christ and being sensitive to the will of God, you find all of that later on because the the the mandate for us is that we've got to love one another But you and I can't do that apart from Christ's help. And Christ understands that if he's going to be able to impart any other kinds of information to them, They're just so preoccupied by the fact he's leaving. He better address this and he better offer them some hope and some words of comfort. And so he does so in John chapter 14, verse 1. And he says this, let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in me. He says, I don't want you to be troubled. Now the reality is Christ is troubled. He said through two times in previous passages that he is troubled. His soul is troubled. Christ is troubled. And so you would think he's the one going to the cross. And so you would think at this point, because he is so troubled and he's going to the cross, you would think at this point that the disciples would be comforting him. They're not the ones going to die. But Christ is so loving, and I mean, this love is just beyond anything we can imagine. He's not even preoccupied with himself. He's now going to express love to them and comfort to them Christ has no consideration for himself in his discourse. Whether it come when it comes to washing the feet of the disciples, to the Judah to betraying Judah Jewish betraying him. He doesn't care about himself. He just wants what God's will is and what's best for the people around him. He's not considering himself at all. And so he d isn't thinking about the fact he's about to die and be separated from his father at this point. He just wants to comfort his people. And so he says here, let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in me. He says, number one, if you're going to not be troubled, you've got to have faith in me. You've got to trust me. Our faith is weak, isn't it, oftentimes? We think we we're going along just fine, everything's good, and suddenly something we get we get hit with a curveball. And we think our whole world's coming to an end. And we don't understand why God is doing what we're what He's doing. And Christ says, if you're going to not receive my comfort, then the one thing you've got to do. You don't have to do a whole lot else, but you've got to trust me. Ye believe in God, believe also in me It may have been at this point, and I think it probably was, the disciples were on the verge of coming to a point of hopelessness. It's a very dangerous place for a person to be where they end up declining to a place of utter hopelessness. Where they have no hope. The Bible often refers to this as fainting or losing heart. And he wants us to understand that that's not his desire for us as well. He doesn't want us to lose hope How is it, what words does he say to his disciples to keep them from ever losing hope? He says this, verse 3. I'm sorry, verse 2. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. He says to them in a very sensitive, loving way, I can imagine, I'm going for you Now was he going to fulfill the mission of his father? He certainly was. Was he going ultimately to glorify God? He certainly was. But Christ is so amazing. here that he doesn't mention that. He's mentioned it many times before. It's not like they don't know that. But he says, look, this is for you. I I can just imagine this as a soldier going off to war and saying to his child, look, it's for you Yes, I'm going to fulfill my mission. I'm serving the country. But it's for you too. And he points this to the fact that I'm going to prepare a place for you. I'm going away for you. So that when I do, you will I will come again, he says verse 3. And when I come, there ye may be with me also. There will be a day. You have hope. What is the hope of the believer? The coming of Christ. And do you realize that if you know Christ as your Savior, you ought never have to lose hope completely. You know why? Because there's a day that's coming that's better than the day that's today. And what God wants us to do is meditate on the reality that there is a hope that is always going to be present that in the Christian's life because we can look to the day where Christ comes again. The person that doesn't believe in the coming of Christ is a heretic. That's why the Bible tells us, set your affections on things above, not on the things of this world. You see, the reality of our losing or the our or the potential of our losing hope is a real potential. Because the Bible says in the book of Hebrews, In Hebrews chapter 12, which is a the writer of the book of Hebrews is writing to people that are considering the fact that are being tempted to defect from the faith. They're being tempted to lose hope. And so he says, verse 2, looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher, the comer again. The author and the finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is sat down at the right hand of the throne of God, for consider him endured such contradiction of sinners against himself Lest ye be wearied and faint in your minds, lest ye lose hope. The Bible tells us in 1 John, it tells us verse uh Chapter 3, verse 2. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when we shall appear We shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is, and every man that hath this hope in him purifies himself even as he is pure. First Corinthians chapter 4 15 verse 19 says, if in this life we have hope in Christ, we are all of if we don't have hope in Christ. then we are of all men most miserable. If you don't have hope in the coming of Christ, you are going to be miserable That is the truth. So, what Jesus does here, before he gives them any more information, he says, you need your hope to be firmly fixed on my coming again. And you know if you go through the entire New Testament, you're going to find one epistle after another that constantly reminds over and over again the believers in those epistles of the fact that Christ is coming again. 1 Corinthians chapter 15 says it. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 says it. The whole book of Revelation says it. You got all kinds of places. The book of Ephesians talks about the coming of Christ. You can go through the entire entire New Testament and nearly every book of the Bible in the New Testament talks about the coming of Christ. Why? Because God does not want us to lose hope. And what he does want us to do is love one another. I'd like to just really continue just end by asking a few questions. Number one. Are you loving your brothers and sisters in Christ with Christ-like love? Number two, is pride or confusion or both distracting you from growing in your love for Christ and others? That's what happened to the disciples. It distracted them. Now Christ was so loving to just be patient, wasn't he? And that's a that's a great example for us When is the last time you thank the Lord for his wise, careful, patient love for you? Are you not glad that Christ is that way with us? Are you mindful that sometimes words of comfort must come before words of instruction can be accepted? We have a lot to learn a lot to learn from Christ from this passage, don't we? And it is our it is Christ's desire, number one, that we do love one another, that that is the responsibility that God gives us, and it's not one that we can do in our own strength But number two, what we find in this passage obviously is the fact that we get distracted and confused so easily as people. But Christ with great comfort encourages us by reminding us that He's coming again. For us, and that what we need to do is to trust Him. The level of your trust in Christ will determine the level of your love for one another. If you trust Christ, you can love one another. If you don't You'll not have the ability to be able to do that. And that's why later on he's going to say, abide in me, abide in my love. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you, Lord, that um just for the power of it. It's quite amazing to us that we can just go through the text of your word and trust that it is speaking to us. Because we have your spirit inside of us that reminds us of this. Lord, it is your desire for your church. Above anything else, we can have the right doctrine, we can have the right thinking, we can have the right orthodoxy, we can have everything right, but if we don't love one another, we're not demonstrating Christ. I pray, Lord, that you would help us. We admit before you our need. There is no way. That we have the strength to be able to love as you would love, as Christ did love. We can't do it. And it ought to just put us to our knees. And I pray, Lord, that you would then help us to love Christ and to love others, show our love to others, show our love to you by loving others May we we then fulfill this new commandment that you've given us. And I can imagine, Lord, that there are many out there that are struggling perhaps with disillusionment or despair or struggle or confusion. And I pray, Lord, that you would help all of us when we come to times like that to look on Christ and to recogn and to just remember He's coming back He'll set it all right. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.