And we come now to this church of Laodicea. And Laodicea This is a church that has a a very interesting message because there is absolutely nothing good that Christ says about this church. Most of the other churches that we have seen so far, we have seen a commendation of some kind. But in this particular church, you see no commendation at all, you only see strong warning. still getting feedback here guys. I I'm gonna turn my mic off soon if if we okay. Um and so so um y you see really s sort of strong warning here When it comes to this kind of thing. And so when we're dealing with this passage, it's important to realize that. Let me ask you. This question. When Christ let me put it this way. What um When Christ looks at our service and our ministry, what do you suppose that he sees? And what What criteria does he look at to know whether our ministry, our service is actually useful for him Him. And how different is that from the way that we would look at service and we would look at ministry and judge and identify its own usefulness. We are very prone in our ministry and service to the Lord to look at all kinds of of variables and look at all kinds of things and if a ministry has a lot of money and we talked about the you know the the three Bs, bodies, buildings and bucks, they've got those things that they They're a legitimate ministry and they they're doing well, and those who aren't aren't, and those kinds of things. But sometimes a ministry will get preoccupied, and I don't mean occupied But pre-occupy with just meeting felt needs of everyone. We've given this amount to the poor. We've given over half of our income to the poor. Or we have given over half of our income or A lot of most of our income to missions. We're a missional church just because we've given all our income to the to missions. When in reality, not always are you a missions minded church Or not all are really are you a a church that really helps the poor in giving them the gospel, which is what they're doing. Same as Christ's own judgment. And what we're going to see here in this passage is we're going to see Christ's judgment on the works, his assessment on the works of this This particular local church. Just think about this for a minute. Just think about the um what what do you think of when you think of this? You hot your construction uh let's say your construction um owner, you own a construction, you're a contractor, and you hire a construction worker and you tell them to put a wall in. And you explain to him in very detailed a very detailed description of how you want this wall to be built. And it's built horizontal and he go he goes and you come back and all the studs are horizontal. And you know good and well you did not tell him to build those studs horizontally. No nobody did does that. And yet he decided, you know, he said he said, well I just thought this was a better way of doing it. Or uh you're a truck driver and you decide You know what? Unleaded fuel is cheaper than diesel fuel. And even though this is a diesel truck, I'm gonna put unleaded fuel in the truck. Or you're a baker and you decide, you know, uh this whole white flour st stuff it's like over the top. It's like you know kind of unnecessary and you build a cake without flour. What is the commonality between all these well They're all kind of stupid. But other than other than that, what's the commonality between between all these they have the works are useless. They're useless. The bait a cake without flour is pretty useless. A diesel and uh unleaded fuel in a diesel engine is worse than useless, actually. It will destroy the engine. Horizontal studs on a wall are highly problematic. They're all they're not done right. And so when we look at what we want in our church as a body of believers, a local body of believers, and also in our in our walk with the Lord, in our service of the Lord We want to make sure that what we are doing, that it's not just under the name of ministry. It's not just, okay, I'm doing ministry. But we're doing God's work and we're doing it God's way. And if that's the case, then we know that we will never lack, as Hudson Taylor said, God's Supply. We want to see, we want to understand how to do God's work God's way, and I think we're going to really see that in this passage. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we come to you and thank you for who you are. And we thank you for Christ, who is the great God of the universe, and he knows all and he sees all. He sees our our down sitting and our uprising, as we learned this past Wednesday night and were reminded of. And when he makes assessments on things that They are accurate. They are perfect assessments. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us to see our service to you in the eyes of Christ. That we would look on our service and we would ask ourselves, does this meet your criteria? Not the world's criteria, not even other Christians' criteria. But Christ's criteria for what is truly useful service for your kingdom. Pray that you'd help us to understand that as we look at this text this morning. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Picking up in Revelation chapter 3, verse 14, it says this in Revelation And under the angel write, These things saith the Amen, the faithful, and the true witness, the beginning of the early. Christ points out, he calls himself the three things. He says, I am the Amen, which means he is the final completion. He is it it the the word amen means let it be so, let it be done. And he says he's the faithful and the true witness. And he also says he's the beginning of creation. He does in a in a previous passage he said he's the Alpha and the Omega. Well he kind of switches it here and he says I'm the end and the beginning. And so Christ and the middle. He says, I'm the faithful. And what he is beginning to do as he talks to this church at Laodicea, he is pointing Pointing out, he says, I am all in all. I am your everything. I am your beginning. I am your End, I am the faithful, I am the one that is going to get you from the beginning to the end. I am everything. Why does Christ talk to these this church at Laodicea, what was their difficulties? Well to understand a little bit of what's going on here, we need to understand what Laodicea was like Laodicea was a city that was very prosperous. It was forty miles east of Ephesus. This was a city. That was named by Ramsey a city of or um by Ramsey a city of compromise, and so we have some of those same problems we've had in some of the other cities of being compromised and having uh uh uh wrong doctrine in the city. We have immorality uh that's in the city as well. This is a city of it's sort of a high class city This was a city where Cicero lived, uh and um this was a city where a Probably planted the church in this particular city, the city of Laodicea, you can find and uh the apaphrist of Colossians chapter 1, verse 7 and 4, 12. Just to give you an idea of the resilience, the the the monetary resilience of this particular city. You I I mentioned several other cities that had problems with um with earthquakes in the past. And this particular City had a problem as well. But instead of going to the Roman government for aid, they needed no aid to rebuild the city. This city was built very quickly with no help From the Roman government at all. It was just they just did it on their own. They rebuilt the whole thing on their own. And with all that in mind, what we know about this city more than anything else is that this is When you think of Laodicea, you ought to think of a city that has lots of money. We have a city here with lots of wealth and lots of riches And if you lived in the city, more than likely you were wealthy. Because he's going to point their wealth out, and he's going to point their spiritual out And so with that in mind, we're gonna look here at this church and see what he has, what Christ has to be able to do. He says, I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot. I would thou wert cold or hot. So then, because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will spew thee out of my mouth. When Christ says in this passage that that the These people are lukewarm, but they are neither cold nor hot. What is he saying? Well, before we understand what he is really saying, I want to point out what he is not saying And this might surprise you. I have heard many messages on this particular passage. I have heard it suggested that we as we as a as a people, as and as a culture, are in The Laodicean age. How many of you have ever heard a message and that you've heard that preached before that we're in the Laodicean age? That works fairly well if you're in the United States, but if you go into a third world country, it doesn't work that well. Or if you And so I'm really not sure we could say that the entire world is in a Laodicean age. One of the other things that you often hear about this is that when it's Talking about this lukewarmness that that it's talking here about the fact that there is great apathy in this church and that we as a church are apathetic in our in our culture as well and we've got to get we've we've got to move from this apathy and I've heard messages uh on that in that regard. How many of you ever heard messages on that Well let me just tell you that I don't think that this is talking about apathy much at all. And I don't think what we're talking here about is a lack of spiritual fervor. Folks, the reason I say that is that Christ says he says You are lukewarm, but he says, I would that you be either cold or hot. And if we set up hot as on fire for Christ, and we set up cold as rejection of Christ. How in the world would Christ ever say to anyone, I want you to reject me? Folks, that's implausible It's not it's not at all what Christ ever says in the New Testament that he actually wants people to reject him. He came to seek and to save that which was lost. And so I would suggest I suggest to you that this interpretation with regard to the church at Laodicea that this is actually talking about about uh apathy and you need to be I'd rather you reject me than be in the middle here. I don't think that's what's talking about at all. We know that these people know the Lord because Because later on he's going to say to those whom I love I chasten. And so these people do probably know the Lord, at least most of them or some of them do. So what is he talking about when he says that they are lukewarm? Well to understand this, I think we need to understand that this is really terms What what he's talking about here most likely is in terms of water. Cold water or hot water. And in that first century In Laodicea, there was a town that was not far away. Hieropolis was the name, and it was known for its hot springs. And Colossae, which was not far away either Laodicea was not known for either. Laodicea was known for a lukewarm tepid kind of And when visitors came and drank of the water, if they were not used to it, they would spit in the city. It out. Now, with that kind of a background, it's going to give us a little bit of a different understanding of what this idea of lukewarm is. Let me just ask you this question. Is hot water useful? It's very useful. How many of you all had tea or coffee yesterday? Okay, it was a good tea day. soup. Okay? Tea, coffee, or soup? Put your hand up. Like nearly, I mean that's just about it, almost everybody. Okay. It's really hot, hot water is really helpful, isn't it, in times where it's cold and and rainy outside How about cold water on a cool ref on a on a warm day? Isn't that isn't that useful? Both of these are very very You've got hot water or cold water. But lukewarm water, I mean lukewarm milk is good for babies. That's helpful Right? I mean you don't want too hot, too cold. But water? Who wants lukewarm water? And some you know, some s smart guy out there is gonna say, well, you know, I mean it's a lot more healthy than Drinking really cold water on a hot day because you know your brain can freeze and those I mean you can get brain freeze and all those kinds of things. But lukewarm, I'm not talking about I don't mean your brain can actually freeze. I'm talking about, you know, the the brain not a smart guy if he thinks his brain's freeze. Is there a technical name for that? Probably, but I don't know what it is. So so anyway, you know what I'm talking about. But but you know somebody says that but the truth is you want it at least a little cool, right? I mean you want you don't want it really really lukewarm and with this in mind I mean if you take luke lukewarm water you drink it nobody wants it that way. It's really kind of it's really kind of something you just want to kind of spit out. No I don't know too many people. There might be there's got to be somebody out there, but too many people that you know when they get a glass of water, they actually like it lukewarm. The majority of us don't. Okay? If you're in the minority, that's fine. The point I'm just simply making this folks is that I'm going to argue here that what he's really talking about is a matter of usefulness. He is saying, you're not cold. And you're not hot, your works are not useful for me. Now, look at the text and see if that makes sense to you. Okay? Let's just look at it. Verse six um verse sixteen so then because thou art lukewarm and neither cold nor hot I will spew thee out of thy mouth because thou say and by the way spew I'm gonna be I'm not gonna sensationalize this this means spit. I mean I've heard messages that talking about God vomiting. I mean we're talking about spitting something out of your mouth here is what we're talking about here Verse 17 Because thou sayest I am rich and increase with goods and have need of nothing, and know it and knowest now that thou art wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. I counsel thee to buy and buy thee of goal. Anyway, we're going to go through this text and we're going to see that. Folks, the bottom line is that what we're dealing with here is we're dealing with a matter of usefulness Of service for God. Is your service, are your works useful? And he says, I would that ye be cold or hot But because they're lukewarm, I can't use them. Now let me ask you this question: What would make your service and my service useless to God. Do you remember over in Matthew chapter five? This is possible. Matthew chapter five it actually talks about salt in that passage. And if salt loses its savor, where Wherewith shall it be salted? And then what is it? What does it say there? It says that ye it it is good for nothing. But that it should be cast down and tried under foot of men It is possible that our service to God, what we do for God, could essentially be useless to God. And the question is Is what would cause it to be useless. And Christ is going to explain what that is. He says, Because thou sayest, I am rich and increased with goods, and have Have what? And have need of nothing. And knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable and poor and blind And naked. Why is it that this church was suffering from the problem of uselessness? It was because they were doing things. They were serving. It was not that they were not serving. It was not that they were not active, but they were actively serving and In their own strength. They looked at themselves and they said, I am self-sufficient. I am in need and nothing. I've got all my needs met. I am, and he says, they just need nothing Can you imagine an entire church and everybody thinks that they are self-sufficient? And everybody thinks that they can do it on their own. And everybody thinks that they don't need Anyone else? So they don't need Christ. They don't need his strength. That they are self-sufficient. I'll just pull myself up by my own bootstraps and I'm gonna make it on my own That's the problem with this church. And he and Christ says, if you're going to do it in your own strength, it's not useful for me. It's not useful for the purpose of the of the kingdom. And this is a serious problem in our culture. We are always looking to some sort of pragmatic Approach to ministry, looking at how we can best present ourselves, or how we can have the greatest program, or how we can have the best methods, and how we can do this, and how we can do that. And folks, there is common sense in ministry. There is, you know, you have to have things organized and you have to have things administratively helpful. I mean, God created actually all that it too. He created organization, he created administration, he created order. And we ought to have things orderly, but folks. When we begin to depend upon those kinds of things for our ministry, when we begin that hey, we got that we got the big bank account, we we can handle it. Oh, no problem, we got that. We can handle it. Uh you know what we got the collection We got the wisdom, we got the intellect, we've got those things, we've got it made, we got it hand, we can handle it. Do we look to our problems ahead? Do we look to our struggles ahead that we We see on the horizon and we say, I got money, I can handle this. Are we looking to our money for our security? See, it says here, it says, You are increased with goods. These are wealthy people, and you say, Well I I'm out. No problem there. But folks, do you realize that there is a sense in which everybody in this country is wealthy? Not everybody, but all all of us in this country are wealthy. That could Compared to a two-thirds world country or a third world country, we would all be considered wealthy. And the reality is nearly every one of us does not har starve for hunger, does not need We're not in in need of food. It's not we're not looking for our next meal. We are satisfied with our material possessions. We are s we're actually we're not satisfied, but we have And it causes us to have a a a measure of independence and self sufficiency and self-reliance and Christ says you serve God that way, it's useless. Now with that in mind, he then says This word wretched is not used that often He is lamenting the the flesh that's within him that ca that that draws him And he realizes himself and himself that he is he is wretched wretched. You might say he is helpless. He realizes his helpless And Paul sa or Christ says in this passage, you're rich and you're increased with goods, and you've got more and more and more and m and all kinds of material wealth. Everything made, but you are actually spiritually helpless. He says, and you're spiritually miserable. You're wretched and miserable. You're miserable Do you think it's possible to be miserable and not know it? I really do. You know how I know that? Because I think I've experienced it. There are some tim I mean I when I look at my my life, you know, my Christian life, every one of us, folks, can't we all admit this that all of us at tim sometimes or another go through drought In our Christian life. We go through times of where we are distancing, we are distanced from the Lord. But the reality is, folks, sometimes we can't see it. And we are we are we are we feel sort of benign toward the things of God, we sort of feel very very level and not particularly fervent toward the Lord And and and we're just going through doing the next thing in our lives and we're and we're really actually miserable. Like they got it all together. And actually, they're actually very miserable. These people, he says, you are Helpless. You are miserable. He then says, You are poor. And these are people that were monetarily rich, and he says, You're poor, you're destitute, you've got nothing. He's talking about about spiritually, isn't he? He says you're spiritually destitute. And he says you're blind. You can't see. And of course, folks He's talking here about spiritual blindness. He says, you think you can look ahead and get everything figured out, and you got it all settled settled ahead of time in your life, and you've got everything. You're blind He says. And he says you're naked. He says, You've got all the clothes in the world, you've got everything that you need as far as clothing, but spiritually you've got nothing There is a shame attached to this word. We're going to find out later in the text. He says, you are shameful. He's pretty hard on his church, isn't it? Isn't he? And yet, folks, we've got to be careful. It is so easy for us to think that we have got things figured out, that we can rely on our strength. Or our intellect, or our money. But God says, Let not the rich man glory in his riches, nor let the mighty man glory in his might, nor let the wise man glory in his wisdom, but let him that gloryeth glory in his And this that he understands and knows me. For I am the Lord who exercises loving kindness and righteousness in the earth The problem why what causes our ministry to be useless? What causes it to be useless is if we are relying on ourselves, ourselves Verse 18, he says, I counsel thee. Now this is really interesting. He doesn't say here, I command you. He doesn't give him a direct order, give them a direct order. And let me just suggest to you why that is. Someone who is self-sufficient and self-reliant and he they're gonna get the thing done if they say they're gonna get it done. I mean that's the kind of w kind of way they are. If if you if a an authority Commands them, what's gonna happen? They're gonna get it done in their own strength. That's not what Christ was looking for. Now I'm not suggesting to you that you ought not that that you ought to be you know less than dependable. Dependability is something that was we're losing in our society. People aren't following their word. They're not doing what they say they're going to do. They've got every reason in the world to do for excuses why they don't do what they say they're gonna do, and that's not biblical. That's not right. It's not good character. But Christ is not He is not primarily concerned concerned about our blind obedience or our obedience to the point where we are just doing things in our own strength and we'll get it done. He wants more than that. He says I counsel you. I'm trying to encourage you. He wants service for God and obedience to God, an authentic obedience to God from the heart He says, I counsel thee to buy of me gold. He says, you need to look to me for gold. You're looking at yourself for gold. He says, you need to look for me to me for gold, tried in the fire, something that's actually going to lie. Last, he says, that thou mayest be rich. Of course, folks, what he's talking here is about spiritual riches riches. There's no question He says, Look to look to me for what I can give you. Because remember, I'm the creator and I'm the thing that I'm the one that ends the whole thing. thing and I'm the one that's faithful and true in the middle, you've got to start looking to me And white raiment, he says. Of course they were very well clothed, and he draws the spiritual parallel. He says, put on spiritual clothes White raiment being purity, that thou mayest be clothed, and that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear And anoint thee, so he's concerned about that as well. So he says, in his purpose statements here, he says, number one, you need spiritual riches. Number two, you need to prevent the revealing of your own shame. See, what was going on in this church of Laodicea is they're working hard for God. They're doing things for God. In their minds, they're very useful, they're very self-sufficient. sufficient. They're doing everything. And Christ is looking right through them in into the internal the the the the discerner of the thoughts of the intent of the tents of the heart. He they're looking at he's looking inside and he's going That's going to come out eventually. And it's going to be of your shame. He says the testimony I think I think what he has in mind here is that the testimony of Christ is at stake here in this church. And he warns them before this happens, and he says, You've got to start depending and looking upon me for your strength and your sustenance. your spiritual and your spiritual well being you've got to start depending upon me. He says that ye may see He says, right now you are spiritually blind. You can't even see that your own service is useless. You can't even See that what you are doing has no rep no positive repercussions for the purpose of for the for the furtherance of God's kingdom. Open your eyes, he says, and notice the progression He says, number one, look to me for spiritual riches. That's the first step. Number two, that your externals might be intact and that you don't I mean that you don't do cause the the do shame in the name of Christ. And he says that you will not continue to be blind And will not continue to not be able to see your own spiritual destitution and the fact that you are not being useful for the cause of Christ. is really a s folks, this is a scathing indictment. He says you've got to put some eye salve on your eyes. It's probably a reference to the medical uh the medical uh practices of the of the day Being that was a medical community. He says here then, be zealous. He says, As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten This word zealous is also an interesting word. It really means in Acts 7 Verse 9, for example, it actually depicts the nation of Israel, the patriarch it says the patriarchs of Israel were zealous for Joseph, and that's why they they put him into the pit, talking of course about Joseph's brothers. What it meant was in that term it was jealous. They were jealous of them, but it caused them to be so uh earnest and focused. I mean they were preoccupied with Joseph. He was getting, it's like they couldn't live until he was put to death, or at least he was put out of the out of the way. And so they were focused And this word in that context is used in a bad sense. In this context, it's used in a good sense. He says, you need to get focused. That's what he's saying. Where? Focused where? On Christ. It is for Him and through Him And by him, that we live and move and have our being. We've got to get focused. We've got to realize that he is the goal and he's the means to the goal. And he says you need to repent. He says you've got to realize. You've got to take a you've got to turn the other direction. Stop depending upon yourself for everything, and you've got to start depending upon God for things. Now, here is what is amazing. Here's what's interesting next. He then says this. Well, you know, maybe you're asking this, folks, maybe you're asking this question. I don't know how to do that. Maybe you're saying to yourself, you know, I really don't know how to depend upon the Lord, the way that this that Christ is imploring these people to do this. And the answer to how is in the next verse in verse 20. He says, Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If any man hear my voice and open the door, I will come into him and I will sup with him. Now verse 20 is also a verse that is often used out of context. The majority of the time that I have heard this verse used, it is used in the context of Of calling someone to salvation who doesn't know the Lord. Folks, that is not the context here. This is written to a church With Christians. And he says, hey, who I love I chasten. They're saved. And he says, I'm standing at the door And he says, I'm knocking. And if you will let me in, I'll come in and sup with you. Do you know what he's talking here about? He's talking here about fellowship. He says to these this church, you don't have fellowship with me. He said, The reason you don't depend upon me is you don't have fellowship with me. This idea of supping together, this idea of family was. It was around the table. That was is the life of the family. That was where everything was shared and where there was was a and you were pr if you came to the remember Back in the Old Testament, 1 Samuel and 2 Samuel, when David, particularly with 2 Samuel, he he's calling people to his table. Remember when Mephibosheth he said, You will sit at my table, which was a great great place I mean that's the kind of thing that we're going that's going on here in this text where Christ is just over he He's just He says, Come and I'll be with you I w he's and he's active about this. It's incredible. He's not saying, hey, you know, I'm hanging out your door. If you want to let me in, you can. Take it or leave it, but if you want to let me in He's not doing that. He's saying, I am knocking. And if you will open the door, I will come in with you and I will sup with you and I and and you will And folks, it's a reminder to us this this reality that service must follow fellowship. Fellowship doesn't follow service It's really this simple. There are many people that they are serving God in order to get closer to God. And if you're doing that, you're wrong. No, no. You get closer to God, and then out of a gratefulness of that relationship that you have with God, you serve God. That is the approach to That Christ is saying, is is imploring these people to take here. And it is very common for us to just want to do this activity and that activity and that activity. And folks, look, I think especially Spiritually mature Christian is very active for God. I don't think there's really any getting you are you look at the f just look at Acts. Look at all they were doing. They were very active for God. But the These people had such a strong relationship with the Lord. They were so close to the Lord. They loved the Lord so much. They were so grateful for their salvation. They just had this fellowship with God and with their other brothers and sisters of Christ. That it just spilled out into service for him. And that's what Christ is saying in this passage. If you want to depend upon God, you start with fellowship with God. And if you want and if you fellowship with him and you have a communion with him and a closeness with him and an intimacy with him when you are sharing of him and you are knowing him and your walk with the Lord, your devotional life, your your your Your time just being grateful for all that he's given to you. When you when you're praying to him, when you are doing those kinds of things with God and you are in an in an intimate relationship Relationship with God, then you are ready then to move out into service for God as a result of your fellowship. That, folks, that is how Your works become useful for God. I'd just like to ask you a couple of questions, a few questions here. Do you have spiritual blindness Because you can't see your own needs. He is saying in the passage that you're blind, these people are blind, and they can't see their needs. Do you have Spiritual blindness because you can't see your own needs. There is a sense in which we all have this innate desire for Self-sufficiency. And I do think that there comes a time in our life, maybe several times, where we we just come to grips with the reality that we're not gonna be able to to this life is not gonna be useful if I don't depend On God. There's just something about that. And if you haven't experienced that, let me give you a very practical suggestion. Read Read biographies of great saints. Parents, you've got teenagers, have them read biography. Hudson Taylor and William Carey And Adam Arm Judson, have them read these folks. Jim Elliott and uh Elizabeth Elliott and um have if you read these biographies You these are these are Christians that God used mightily, but you know you're gonna find in every single one Andy Carmichael? You're gonna find in every single one of these people a de uh just a Clear dependency on God. And if you're struggling, and I'm I'm actually preaching to myself because I was reading through this and studying this myself, I thought, you know, I I want personally a greater dependency on the Lord and I want to know more what that looks like. I thought to myself I need to start reading. I need to I it's been a while since I've read a book a a missionary buyer. I need to start doing that again. Because you see what it looks like for a Christian to really depend upon the Lord Lord. And it and you can begin to follow that example. Number two, are you depending on Christ or your own intellect or abilities or wealth? Are you depending on Christ? Or are you saying, I'm gonna muscle it, I'm gonna outthink it, or I'm gonna just And all three of those in various parts of our life are great temptations for us. Are inclined to think that if we just have enough money, it will solve our problems. Or we are inclined to think that if we just think hard enough about this We can figure it out. Or we want to just, if I just have enough act of volition, if I just force this, if I just make it happen, I can make it happen. And God says, don't depend on those things. Well, you do that in ministry, and your works are lukewarm. And Christ tastes them And he spits them out. Number three, we must remember that the only service that is useful for Christ is done for Christ And done in his strength. Because then he gets the glory. You understand that? That's why it's useful. When I am depending on Upon Christ for what I cannot do for myself, whether it's in salvation or sanctification or service, when I am depending on Christ for what I cannot do for myself, He gets the glory. And very candidly, for those who know him as their Savior, if you're not in that place, God will put you in that place eventually. If you're in a place where you're depending upon your own self to get it done, God will put you in the place eventually where He you will have to turn to Him and Start depending upon him. And he'll take the things away you're depending on. God desires for us to completely depend upon Christ so that we can genuinely Say that our service is going to be useful for him. And we can stand before him one day, and he can say to us, Christ can say, he can look at our works, which he will And he'll sell say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. May we be a church who really is dependent upon the Lord. I mean that Not dependent upon anything, but just dependent upon Christ. And it's his church. It's his ministry. And may we individually do the same. May we depend upon Christ. Let's pray. Father, we come to you. And we really Admit before you that we are just so easily drawn to doing things in our own strength. Rather Than serving out of an abundance of fellowship with you and out of a gratefulness for all that you've done for us. I pray, Lord, that you would help us We are weak and frail, and we need your help. And we admit it. I pray, Lord, that in each one of our lives we would one day be able to look back and say with pa Paul, I fought a good fight. I've kept the faith, and there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness May we not lose our crown. May we be dependent upon you. May we be useful for you and for your service. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.