Um and uh so that's our facts. I want to say on a personal note that there are a lot of burdens in the ministry, but one of the blessings of the ministry is that I Occasionally I have people, I've had people throughout my ministry that I think the Lord has impressed on them the importance of praying for me. And they have told me that they pray daily for me by name. And some of them are in our midst this morning. I can't tell you how how much of a blessing that is. In fact, there are times where I'm trying to just asking the Lord for wisdom and wanting to know the best direction and what to do, uh or facing some trial and I think to myself, I think I know somebody's and I think of the person's name that's praying for me. I know they're But even more of a blessing is to know that the Spirit of God is praying for us And Christ the Son is praying for us continually. Isn't that incredible? I mean, just think about it. You know, you would think that they have something better to do. The God of the universe is praying for us. Romans chapter 8, verse 28 26 says, Likewise the Spirit also helps in our weakness, for we do not know what we should pray for as we ought. But the Spirit Himself makes intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. Speaking of Christ, Hebrews 7:30 says Therefore, he is also able to save to the othermost those who come to God through him, since he always lives and makes intercession for them. Christ it says of Christ in Romans eight thirty-four. Who is he who condemns? It is Christ who died And furthermore is also risen, who is even at the right hand of God, who also makes intercession for us 1 Timothy 2, 5, for there is one God, and one mediator between God and men, the man, Christ Jesus. So what kinds of things does Christ pray for us? We have an example right here in John 17. John 17 is the most thorough, most detailed example of an intercessory prayer. on behalf of his disciples and actually the entire church that would that was to come to his father And it is some it is quite an amazing thing that Christ continues this intercessory ministry on our behalf. In praying for us. And the Spirit of God prays for us. And certainly, folks, the Bible is replete with many, many commands. And admonitions for us to pray for each other and for kings and for all their author their authority for For the furtherance of God's kingdom, there is all kinds of places where it is clear that we are to pray for one another. So I have a question for you. Why? Why does God choose not to respond to our need through direct observation? I mean, can't God see our need? Can't He look down see what we're going through, and then just respond that way, and just provide what we need without praying. Isn't that a possibility? Well God is not really chosen. Now it doesn't mean that he never provides by direct observation, but God has chosen primarily. To provide for his people through the prayers of his people. And there is no better example of that than to look at the prayer of Christ here As he prays for something that was set in motion before the world began. I mean, why would you pray for something that's already like a plan that's already set in motion? Why? Because God is glorified when his people and when his son pray. I would like to suggest to you this morning that there's an implication for us. Is it possible, then, that God withholds his provision when we don't pray? God has He owns the cattle on a thousand hills, He owns everything, He's got all that is necessary, but is it possible that He withholds His provision for us? when we do not fervently pray for it. And I'm going to suggest to you that he does. If Christ had to pray in order for the plan of God to be carried out, his own father's plan, which they discussed in the council before the foundation of the world. How much more should we pray? Why? Because by God's decree, by God the way He set it up, He's chosen to glorify Himself. By providing when people pray. And when it's and you say, Well, I know God provides for me when I don't pray. But you know what? It may be that the Spirit of God prayed for you. It may be that Christ prayed for you. Now, I'm not saying I understand how all this works, but I do know this. That God has chosen to glorify himself through prayer. That is his main method of glorifying himself. And it must be that God's people make prayer the ultimate and primary priority. Christ in John chapter seventeen, you can break up this prayer into three parts. In seventeen, chapter seventeen, verses one through five, you have the prayer of Christ for himself. In chapter 17, 6 through 19, you have a prayer for his disciples. And actually then in 1720 through 26 you have a prayer for all of the church. I find it interesting how structured Christ's prayer is. Christ's prayer is not a stream of consciousness. It is not something that he just feels. It is something that is thought through. It is something that has great basis to it. And you're going to see this as we go through this prayer. This also, without question, is an example for us on how we ought to pray. And I think there are so many things we can learn from this lesson, we are going to spend some time, of course, in this chapter. for the next several weeks. Let's go to the Lord in prayer and ask his blessing and help as we unlock and unleash this prayer. Father, we thank you. For your choosing to record the prayer of your son, interceding on behalf of the disciples and of all of us that would be to come that would name the name of Christ. Lord, would you teach us to pray through this? Would we be, would you teach us how to focus our prayers? Would you teach us the importance of prayer? And Lord, would you help us to understand more of your plan and your will and how it is to be carried out through this prayer? We need your help. I pray, Lord, that this message would not just be something we listen to today, but it it its truth would transcend into our hearts. For days and weeks and months and years to come. I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We pick up here in verses six through eleven, which start this prayer on behalf of the disciples for Christ. Verse 6 says, I have manifested thy name unto the men, which thou gavest me, out of the world. Thine they were, and those uh and thou gavest them, and they have kept thine word. Now they have known that all things whatsoever thou hast given me are of thee. For I have given unto them the word which thou gavest me, and they have received them, and have known surely that I I came out from thee, and they that uh and they have believed that thou didst send me. I pray for them. I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given me, that they are thine, and all mine are thine. And thine are mine, and I am glorified in them. And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to thee. Christ now is going to explain, or he's going to, as he prays this prayer, he is praying on behalf of his disciples, and he begins by establishing the grounds for his prayer. It's interesting that he does this. The request is not going to come till after verse 11 or the end of verse 11. Until that point, he actually establishes a groundwork for his prayer. He establishes truth that would lead him to praying a particular way. And we find uh at the outset of this and application for us that when we pray, we ought to pray with truth in mind. We ought to pray thinking about God's truth and what he has done and his plan and then based upon those things, then we pray. We ought not assume that our focus is right when we come to God in prayer. We ought not assume that our thinking is right. We ought to assume that our thinking needs to be adjusted as we pray. And we ought to realize that we need to pray on the basis of scriptural truth and God's plan and the furtherance of God's kingdom while we pray. Praying our own desires apart from God's truth will mean, as it says in James 4, we will be asking amiss to consume it upon our own lusts. Even when we think our desires are right, they can be wrong. Our desires must be grounded in the truth Of the Word of God. And Christ does this. He grounds his prayer in the grand plan and truth of God as he prays. So he begins by pointing out. The role of the disciples and the selection of the disciples, you'll notice that he first says that he has manifested his father's name. What does it mean when he's talking about his father's name? And he says, I have manifested, I have shown your name while he has been here on earth. If you recall from Exodus chapter 3, when Moses was at the burning bush, he said, Indeed, when I come to the children of Israel and say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they say to me, What is his name? What shall I say to them? And God said, I am who I am. And he said, Thus you shall say to the children of Israel, I am has sent me to you. Moreover, God said to Moses, Thus you shall say to the children of Israel, the Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob. has sent me to you. This is my name forever, and this is my memorial to all generations. What is God's name? His name is I am. Folks, that simply means that his name is a direct reference to his character, to who he is. And when Christ came to earth, Christ's intent was to demonstrate and to display who God the Father is to the world. That's why Christ would later say I am the way, the truth, and life. No man comes to the Father but by me. And so he says, I have manifested your name. I have shown others your character. Then he says something that is quite interesting. He says that the men, he's talking about the disciples here, That he's giv uh were given from the Father out of the world. Now we noted from last week that there was, before the foundation of the world, established a plan. And this plan included the selection of certain people for the disciples to be able to do the work of Christ. And we find that. But I want you to notice something that is absolutely important for us to grasp. This is a plan that is throughout this passage. In fact, you find seven times This idea of the Father giving the Son certain people you have throughout this passage. For example, in verse 2. As you have given me authority over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as you have given him. I have manifest uh verse six, I have manifested your name to the men whom you have given me out of the world. They were yours. You gave them to me, and they have kept your word. Verse nine, I pray for them. I do not pray for the world, but for those you have given me, for they are yours. Verse 11 or verse 10. And all mine are yours, and yours are mine. Verse 11. Now I am no longer in the world, but these are in the world. And I come to you, Holy Father, keep through your name those whom you have given me, that they may be one as we are one. Verse 12. Well, I was with with them in the world. I kept them in your name. Those whom you gave me I kept. Verse 24. Father, I desire that they also whom you gave me be with me where I am. You have seven times Christ says, Father, you have given me certain people for your purposes, both disciples and for and all Christians. This is verified by Ephesians chapter 1, verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with all spiritual blessing and heavenly places in Christ. just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that he would be holy without blame before him in love. having predestined us to the adoption of his sons by Jesus Christ to Himself, according to the good pleasure of His will, to the praise of the glory of His grace, by which He has made us accepted in the Beloved. Now, let me ask you a question. Does God love the world? Well, of course he does. We find several places where it says God loved the world. But we find in this passage that God has a special plan for certain people. Let me ask you another question. Will God glorify himself through the whole world? Does God glorify himself through everyone? And the answer is yes. But God has a special designation for certain people. I would illustrate it, uh Martin Lloyd Jones illustrates it this way. I pulled the illustration from him. There are some people, can you imagine a child who has many toys and many um stuffed animals and dolls and those kinds of things But there's this one special toy or one special object or one something special Uh that that this that that he ha uh that they have. I know uh Kristen, my secondborn child, she had a uh is she in here? Where's she at? She's in the back. Bathroom. Oh. Okay. Um so so um she she she had this blue blanket she'd carry around everywhere. Remember the blue blanket? And she ca she had all kinds of blankets. She had all kinds of other things to carry around with her, but she just absolutely latched on to this blue blanket. Um and I don't know why she liked that blue blanket so much. I I what was in it with this blue blanket? I I I mean I always wondered what the what's up with the blue blanket? And uh uh have you ever noticed that about sometimes kids will just latch on to something and you go, why in the world are they latching on to that? That's the way it is with us. God, for whatever reason, if you know Christ is your Lord and Savior God, for whatever reason, has chosen you before the foundation of the world. You are an object of his special affection. Why? I have no clue. Do you know why? I don't know why. It says according to the good pleasure of his will. I have no clue why. But God has chosen it. What would happen to God's people if they got a hold of the reality that they are an object of God's special affection? Just as a blanket or a toy is an object of a special affection, even though there's lots of toys, lots of things to play with, there that is that is the relationship that God has with us. What would happen if we got a hold of this? Well, perhaps we would not feel inferior just because we don't have the abilities someone else has. Or the resources that somebody else has. Maybe we wouldn't feel slighted just because our opinion is not consulted. Or maybe we wouldn't feel uh the need to solicit the praise of men. Or maybe we wouldn't feel that we have to have the highest position or the highest pay. Or maybe we wouldn't despair when someone shuns us Because we are the objects of the special affection of God. It's incredible. That's why Paul says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in Christ. It's incredible. You are blessed of God, and so am I. And I don't know why, but we are. We are accepted in the beloved, Ephesians would go on to say. We are accepted by God, not by the merits of our own, but by the merits of Christ. He says then let me point something out that Lord Jones. Lord Jones says it this way. To me, the most wonderful thing of all is not that my sins have been forgiven, nor that I I may enjoy certain experiences and blessings as a Christian The thing that should astound me now and that will astound me to all eternity, especially when I get to heaven in glory and really begin to see it truly, is that I'm a child of God. One of God's people. Moses, it was said of Moses in Hebrews chapter 11 Choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the passing pleasures of sin Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt, for he looked to the reward David said this, for a day in your courts is better than a thousand. I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than dwell in the tents of wickedness. If you know Christ as your Lord and Savior, you are God's object of special affection And you don't have to know why. You can just be grateful that you are. We find then in 2 Timothy 2, verse 21, and in this passage, he says, You gave them to me. Why then would the Father give his object of special affection to his son? Well, it is because before the foundation of the world, as he made the selections We are unusable. We are not fit for the Master's use. Left to our own selves, we have no use for Christ, even no use for the Father. And so he says in this passage that he gives us to Christ, and Christ then redeems us. He makes something out of us He fits us for the master's use, according to 2 Timothy 2, verse 21. And ultimately he will conform us to the image of Christ, Romans chapter 8, verse 29. And then we will be able to be used by by God for his purposes. Thankfully, as we live this life, he is in this work of conforming us for the purpose for his purposes, and as he does so, we can glorify him in our bodies and in our souls. And this caused the disciples, though, to respond. I want you to notice this in verse eight. In verse 9, verse 8 particularly, that the disciples respond to the words of Christ which the Father gave him. They respond in faith. And there always is that balance. There always is that that other side, that that those that that boundary when it comes to this concept. Yes, God has chosen us before the foundation of the world, the Bible says it. But we must respond in faith There is personal responsibility to respond to the offer that is given. And we find he says: not only were these given to Christ, by the Father's decree, but also these also responded to him. And you always find those two things together, nearly always in Scripture. And so on one hand, that creates the balance for us. You say, well, wait a minute. If God chose us before the foundation of the world and we have to choose him, what happens if somebody doesn't? I don't know. I don't know how that works. Can somebody reject Christ? Yes. Well, does man have free will? Yes. How do we know that? The Bible gives us commands to obey. How else will we the Bible ski says that. So so okay, so he gives us commands, we have a free will, but God chose us. How does that all work? I don't know. It's called a mystery. Is that okay? Can't we conclude with Paul, where he says, who can know the mind of the Lord for his ways are past finding out? Folks, if we will just get a hold of this, though, let's not lose the blessing of realizing that God has selected us for his special affection and working. That we don't want to do, because there is such great blessing in understanding and realizing that. There is this mystery involved. I don't understand it, but I will accept it. And anybody listening that has not accepted Christ as their Savior, the offer goes out to everyone. And you must accept it by faith in order for it to be applied to you. Say, there is some contradiction going on there. Yes. But that's okay. Because God's mind is so much higher. Everything I said was scriptural. But God's mind is so much higher than mine. Let me let's just believe what God says. And maybe one day we'll understand it, and maybe we won't. I don't know. But we can we can we can thank God for His plan in our lives. And folks, what this ought to do for us is it it ought to cause us to just find this firm foundation in our position in Christ. I am accepted by Christ The basis of my value is not in what others think of me. It is not in what status I have. It's not in how much money I have. The basis of what value I have is I am Christ. I am his. I identify with Christ. That's why you find throughout the entire New Testament, over and over and over again, the term in Christ. If you know Christ is your Lord and Savior, you're in Christ. And you need no other value. You need no other acceptance. You are in Christ. Now then we move then in understanding this position in all of this. He says That I am I he says, they are yours and they are mine and all mine are yours and yours are mine And he says and it reminds me of the song that says I am his and he is mine That's the kind of relationship, the kind of position that we have if we know Christ as our Lord and Savior. But Christ then, with all of this in mind, he anticipates the reality that he's going to be leaving. He says in verse eleven, I'm going away, I'm going out of the world. And so now, with all of that in mind, he is going to offer up to his father a prayer in verse 11. He says, and now I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to thee, Holy Father. What a great expression of God. Holy Father. Holy depicts the awesome transcendence of God. And Father depicts the intimate relationship that we can have with God. The idea of Father was was the concept of God being our Father was something that was not developed in the Old Testament at all In fact, I don't think you can find it in the Old Testament. It might be there once. I think I found it once, but I you can't find it very often at all. But when you come into the New Testament and what Christ has already done all done We have this term where God is so awesome and transcendent, and yet God is our Father, our intimate provider, our loving Abba Father. And he goes to God, to his father, on the basis of him being holy father, and he says this. He says, Keep them in thine own name, those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one as we are. There are two things he prays for here. He says, number one, would you protect them? Would you keep them? Would you guard them in your name? He is saying here, would you keep them loyal to your character, consistent with your character? Would you keep them in your name? He recognizes, as it says in John chapter 10, that the followers of Christ are as sheep. And we are easily gone astray. So Christ prays for us. He prays for his disciples specifically, but we're going to see the same kinds of things repeated when he prays for the whole church. We see this idea that he prays, keep them in your name. I think of the songwriter who says, Lord, I'm prone to wander. Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave the God I love. Take my heart, take and seal it for thy tender courts above Our hearts are prone to wander. And Christ realized that. And so he prays for us that we would be loyal to the to the name of Christ or to the name of the Father. We would be loyal to the character of the Father. But then I want you to notice. That he prays, he says, that they may be one as we are. He prays for unity. Why does Christ pray for unity here? Out of all the things that he could pray for his disciples, And later on, he's going to pray for unity for the entire church that was to come. Why would he pray for unity? Well, it's connected with the consistency of his character. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Ephesians chapter 4, you're going to see this. Why is unity in the body so vitally important? It's important because we find in Ephesians chapter four, verse one, that it is our calling. Ephesians 4 1 says, I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you to walk worthy of the calling with which ye were called. With all lowliness and gentleness, with long suffering, bearing one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. It's your vocation, it's your calling to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Why? Because it's based on God's character. There is one body and one spirit, just as you are called in one hope of your calling, one Lord, one faith. one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is above all and through all, and in you all. Folks, the reality is that the body of Christ cannot glorify Christ unless they are unified because Christ is un God is un a unity. You see, our role is to reflect God in the world. And we can never reflect God in the world. If we are not unified, because God is a unity. No wonder the world is so confused about God. His people are fragmented. His people are s are are not or often do not display this unity. It's tragic. And yet, I think in terms of what Paul told Timothy, when Timothy was dealing with uh disunity in the body Paul says, hey, the Lord knows who is his. Isn't it wonderful to know that God knows who is his? God will Christ will build his church. It will come together. Our role is to make sure that we are unified, but you know what? We can't do that on our own, can we? And that's why we need to pray for unity. But frankly, Christ prayed for unity, didn't he? Isn't it comforting to know that Christ prayed for our unity? How in the world can you have a diverse group of people with various backgrounds and various uh ways of thinking and uh various approaches. How can you have unity with a group of people that's so diverse The Spirit of God. One Spirit. One God. And Christ prays for this kind of unity. I will tell you this that I don't think it's by by any accident at all that on this date We are going a across this section of Scripture where Christ prays for the unity for his people. Now, I want you to notice that in the passage what the danger is. Verse 12. While I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy name. Those that thou gavest me I have kept, and none of them is lost, but the son of perdition, that's the son of destruction, talking about Judas there. that the scripture might be fulfilled. And now come I to thee, and these things I speak to the world, that they may have that they may have my joy fulfilled in them. I have given them thy word, and the world hath hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. I pray not that they should be taken out of the world, but that they should just keep them from the evil or the evil one. So he says here, Christ says in this passage, that unity is threatened by worldliness. In other words, he says, Lord, Father, would you protect them? Would you keep them loyal to your character? And would you keep them loyal to your uh loyal to each other, unified together so that they can accurately reflect your character. In order for this to happen, Lord Father, would you protect them from the world? The world hates them, it says. Now, let me ask you this question. What does worldliness have to do with threatening the unity of the body? Where is that connection? Well, let's think about it for a minute. What is at its very core? If you want to know what the essence of worldliness is, What is the essence of worldliness? By the way, it has nothing to do with music and has nothing to do with dress. The essence of worldliness is hatred, or let's use the word hostility. You see that in the passage. The world hates them. You find in John chapter three nineteen verses twenty one it says, And this is the condemnation that light has come into the world, and men love darkness rather than light, because his deeds are evil, for everyone practicing evil hates the light And does not come to the light, lest his deeds should be exposed. But he who does the truth comes to the light, that his deeds may be clearly seen, that they have been done in God The world cannot hate you, Christ says, but it hates me, because I testify that its works are evil. So at its very core, when we're talking about worldliness, we are talking about hostility against God and the things of God, and frankly, the people of God. Now, we would then think in terms of the world being in hostility. The world is out there. And it's hostile toward the people of God. Why? What causes this hostility? That's the next question. What causes this hostility? Well, we find the answer in Ephesians chapter 2. Would you take your Bibles and turn there to Ephesians chapter 2? Paul is talking here about world. We have one of the most vivid descriptions of worldliness in this passage. We'll start in verse two. In which you once walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the Spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience, among whom also we all once conducted ourselves in what? The lusts of our flesh follow it fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath, just as the others Do you know what causes the world to be hostile in in in uh toward God and his people? Evil desires. You find that in the passage. They it is the evil that people want to do what they want to do. That's why it said the world hated Christ, because Christ, the light, exposed them, and men love darkness rather than light. Why? Because their deeds are evil. And you find here, why is their hostility, why is the world hostile? Why? Because they like what they like. And light and righteousness is something that they're going to be hostile against because they don't get to do what they want. Or they do, but they it hits their conscience. In fact, we find in Romans chapter 2 that even the unsaved person has a conscience. There is a moral law within them. And so the only way they know they're going to react is to be hostile against God's people. And you find throughout church history hostility from the world against the people of God. But that's not all that's possible. That's one thing. But what happens when hostility comes into the church? And we find an example of that in James chapter four. Would you know that would you take your Bibles and turn there? James chapter four So James, interestingly enough, is is it potentially is the first book or one of the first books written uh in the New Testament as far as the date of writing. James chapter 4 verse 1 says this. Where do wars? He's talking to a group of Christians, he's talking to the church. Where do wars and fightings come from among you? Do they not come from your desires? for pleasure that war in your members. Does that sound familiar? You lust and do not have You murder and covet and cannot obtain. Ye fight and war, yet ye have not because ye ask not. Oh, we have prayer there. You ask and do not receive, because you ask amiss, that ye may what? Consume it upon your own lusts. Adulterers and adulteresses, do you not know that the friendship of the world is enity with God? Whoever therefore wants to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. So it is possible, folks, that someone who knows Christ can have hostility toward the people of Christ and create disunity in the body. Because of their own desires, their own lusts. And he says, What's the other direction? He says, look, you have not because you asked not. You know the best, the absolute best anecdote, uh antidote to the problem of disunity in the body The best antidote to hostility in the body, worldliness in the body, as it's depicted here in James, praying. Praying individually, praying together, but not asking a miss that I could get what I want Praying that God's will will be done, that God's kingdom will be furthered, that God will have his way, that God will be glorified. That is the antidote to worldliness according to this passage. And by the way, that's why Christ prays. Christ prays that we would be protected from this hostility that would compromise our unity And he prays on our behalf as a result of that. I'd like you with that in mind to take your Bibles now and turn to John chapter 15, if you would. John chapter 15, verse 18. And what this is now going to do is it's going to demonstrate something. We must not disconnect the prayer that Christ prays in John 17 from the farewell discourse or the upper room door discourse. of John 13 through 16. It it all goes together. In other words, Christ prays and promises, or Christ promises, many promises to the disciples in verses 13, in chapters 13 through 16. And he teaches many things in those chapters, and then he prays as a result of his teaching and promises. It's like he establishes the truth. And then let's now pray based upon that truth. And I want you to just notice what he says in 15. If the world hates you, you know that it hated me before it hated you. Verse 18 of chapter 15 If you were of the world, the world would love its own. Yet because you're not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Remember the word that I said to you. A servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will keep yours also. But all these things they will do to you for my name's sake, because they do not know whom uh sent me If I had not come and spoke to them, they would have had no sin. But now they have no excuse for their sin. He who hates me hates my father also. If I have not done among the them the works which no one else did, they would have no sin. But now they have seen also, hated both me and my father. But this happened that the word might be fulfilled, which was written in their law. They hated me without a cause. But when the helper comes, the Holy Spirit whom I shall send to you from the from the Father. The Spirit of truth who proceeds from the Father, he will testify of me. And you will bear witness, because you because you have been with me from the beginning. Chapter 16, verse 1 then says, These things have I spoken unto you, that ye should not be made to stumble. They will put you out of the synagogues. Yet the time is coming that whoever kills you will think that he offers God's service. And these things they will do to you, because they have not known the Father nor me, but these things I have told you. That when the time comes, ye remember that I told you them, and that these things I did not say to you at the beginning, but I was with you. Jesus finally says in this in John 17 verse 15, I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world. But that thou shouldest keep them from the evil one. Brothers and sisters in Christ, you and I have got to remember every day of our lives that there is an evil one. That we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers and rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. We need to remember that there is a there is a mind there is a man behind the curtain. There is somebody that that that that is doing that that's moving the levers. It's Satan. And the world of hostility is his world. And you and I need to be aware of this. We need to constantly pray for protection for ourselves and protection for our families and protection for our church. It is absolutely important that we do this. If we have this unity in the body, that is the reason. Because we have allowed hostility in our in our hearts. I'd like to end this way. Let's just include several conclusions. Number one, God has set it up for his glory to depend on prayer. Christ prays, the Holy Spirit praise, and we must pray. Number two God's people can only bring God glory when they are unified. Christ prayed for it, and we must pray for it too. Number three, hostility against the Lord or others in the body of Christ will disrupt unity. Christ pray for protection. We must pray for protection. as well. I want to tell you just personally that this passage has really affected me. I'm so thankful for it. Aren't you? Aren't you thankful for a passage where Christ prays for the things that we need for the furtherance of his kingdom? I'm looking forward to 2017. I'm looking forward to the days ahead because I know Christ can keep us unified. I think we've enjoyed a level of unity uh over the last couple of years. But we ought not take it for granted. We ought to be villa vigilant about it. And frankly, we could be more unified. We could come together more. We could love each other more. We could develop in these areas more. And I pray that we will. I think we will, a God's grace, only by God's grace. But I'm looking forward to the days ahead, and frankly, I'm looking forward to what God is going to do in unifying us and bringing us together for the purposes of his kingdom. Let's pray together. Our Father, we do come to you and we stand awe. of the truth that we find in this awesome prayer of Christ toward his Father. We admit to you that we are not, we do not pray enough ourselves, but we're surely grateful for the Spirit's intercessory work and Christ's intercessory work in our lives. Lord, I know that you will you will but Christ will build his church. We know it to be so. But I pray, Lord, that that would include Bethel Baptist Church for many years to come. And so we would pray the same thing Christ would pray, that we would be unified. Not with a unity that's based upon administration, not with a unity that's based upon policy, but a unity that is based upon you. And your truth, and your word, and your spirit. Only then will we be able to glorify you to the world, that they may see your splendor. Lord, we want to be effective in this community. We want to show you to others. We would love for you to expand us according to your will But more importantly than all that, I pray that you would keep us protected from hostility and that you would keep us unified. We thank you in Christ's name. Amen.