John chapter five. I really enjoy going out into nature and hiking. The weather was so nice yesterday. I wish I would have been able to do that. I didn't, but I I wish I would have. But I really enjoy doing it. And one of the things I really enjoy doing is going up to to mountain peaks. We don't have compared to the west, we don't have mountains in this area, but if you go out to western Maryland, you definitely can see some good vistas and and peaks. peaks and even in the Tapscoe uh Valley area you can do that as well. So I like to go out and look and sort of be able to see for miles and look at at The majestic creation that God has made, and so you can sort of see that. But I also like hiking into the lowlands and looking at the details of things. Hiking through and looking at rocks and looking at trees and looking at different um different uh animals that you might see, looking at the details. I like hiking with my kids. I'm looking forward to spring It's been a l uh it's not been a long way. I can't have I really shouldn't complain at all, right? But um I'm looking forward to that. I've never I have never gone seen the Grand Canyon yet. One day I will, but that's sort of the major areas in the United States that you can go. And I I've seen uh pictures, my dad had a bunch of pictures that he's seen, and you can look at out of the Grand Canyon, you can see the see the greatness of God's creation and the and the the uniqueness there. But I also if I'm gonna go to the Grand Canyon, I'm gonna go and hike into the Grand Canyon if I can. I don't know if you could do that. Can you do that? Okay. We have a resident w westerner that says she can do that. So anyway, that's good. Um uh I'd like I wanna hike in there and I wanna do the the whole works, you know, the the uh the white water rafting in there. That's what I would want to do. I want to do both. Christ so far, as we've looked at his his um his earthly ministry in the book of John. He has declared himself as being God through his actions, but it's all been up till now sort of general. Sort of I am God because I could turn water into wine and it demonstrates things and and and I am God in the sense that I'm able to go and heal this lame man on the Sabbath day and that's not wrong for me to do that. He he w he went through generally and was declaring that he is God. And so you could see the greatness of Christ in sort of the overview of things. What this passage is going to do is it's going to make us hike into the details. We're going to have to go in and see the details of this. And what you find here is a very, for lack of a better term, doctrinally thick or dense passage of Scripture. that we're going to have to go in and look at and see the details. And I would just want to tell you that this is just as important as seeing the greatness of the broad brush strokes of the deity of Christ that we've seen already To go in and see the details is something that if we'll handle this right and approach this right, it will be of great benefit to us because for this reason. This is a passage that I would say, perhaps more than any other passage in the entire Bible, that depicts who Christ is in a it sort of in a comprehensive way, but in somewhat summary form as well. I mean there is a lot here. If you want to know the details of who Christ is, particularly in his relationship with his father, this is the passage. I mean you go no farther than this passage, and the reality is We will not be able to hit all of the details to the the extent that I would like to in our morning service this morning. And I would really encourage you, not just in the small groups tonight, in the home groups tonight, but also just in your time this week, get back into some of the details and do more study in here. We will not be able to cover all this in the details that I would like to. But I do want to say here that this, when you read through this passage, what you aren't going to find is something that's readily applicable. Like immediately you can apply it to your life. There are some passages that are that are that way, and we're thankful for those passages where you can look at a passage and you can see that this is an immediate application and I can apply to my life tomorrow. This passage may not be quite that way, but when it shows who Christ is in the way that it does, It really has infinite applications for us because we're supposed to live in Christ. Our whole being is to be in Christ. That's why Paul said, for me to live is Christ. And the dye is gained. And so even though there might be not immediate specific application, there certainly are applications, there is this overwhelming Life that we're supposed to be living because of who Christ is. And we're going to clearly, Lord willing, clearly see this in this passage this morning. And it ought to affect us. It ought to impact our lives as we look at this. And we'll get right into it after we ask the Lord's blessing on our time together. So let's pray. Father, as we come to you today, I pray that you would help us as we work through this passage. It is a passage where there are a lot of details about your relationship with your son. And we get to appreciate them. We get to look at them. We get to zoom in on this the the various aspects of your relationship with your son and I pray Lord today that it would affect us it would impact our hearts and our minds it would cause us to be more conform to your image, maybe not in a way that would be readily readily applicable, but over time it would actually change us. And that we would see the value of looking into the details doctrinally that we find in this text. And that we would you would sharpen our minds, that you would help us to have clear thinking as we work through this. We ask, Lord, that you would just bless it, that Christ would be exalted, and we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We're going to pick up here in verses 19 through 21, where Jesus now is going to explain. He has already explained that he is equal with God. He is talking to the Jewish leaders, and he is going to begin to explain in more detail what he means by that. And we pick up here in verse 19, it says this. Then answered Jesus and said unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, the Son can do nothing of himself. But what he seeth the Father do, for what things soever he doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise. For the Father loveth the Son, and showeth him all things that himself doeth. And he will show him greater works than these that ye may marvel. For as the Father raiseth up the dead and quickeneth them, even so the Son of the Son quickeneth whom he will. So how do you explain, how would Christ explain the his own deity To a group of people that have clearly established in their minds that there is only one God That is a clear, repeatable, over and over again precept in the Old Testament that there is one God, there is none other like him, there is not even any beside him. And we see that throughout throughout Scripture. Deuteronomy 4. 35, for example, says, Unto thee, it was showed, and thou mightiest know the Lord, He is God, there is none else beside him. How is it that Christ is going to explain that he is equal with God, that he is God, and yet not Immediately the Jewish people sort of recoil at the fact that he's saying he is God when God has clearly established in the Old Testament that there is only one God. What Jesus is going to do in a masterful way, he is going to begin by explaining the unity between he and his father. By doing so, he is not saying, well, I am a separate entity, I am a separate, I'm part of God, or I am another God He is clearly defining things as being, in the beginning stages of this, as being unified, completely unified with his Father. And so we see in the first verse here that he says that he can do nothing separate from the Father. He says, I can't do anything apart from the Father. And so we find in this passage that that is the case. It says here, the Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father do. For what things soever he doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise. That is, what it says in this passage is that Christ imitates the movements of his father. That he does the Father's will, that he complies to the Father's wishes, that what he does is exactly the way his father does it. And how he does it is exactly the same manner in which his father does it. That there is there is no distinction in the plan of his father and the actions of his father and the plan of Christ and the actions of Christ. That they are in complete unity when it comes to what he does with his father. And you find in this passage as well, in this first verse, that it seems to be that Christ takes direction from his father. And there is this inseparable link between the father and the son. So equality includes shared unity with his father. But also I want us to see this, that equality includes shared purpose with his father. Would you notice in verse 20 what it says? For the Father loveth the Son, and showeth him all things, that himself doeth, and he will show him greater works than these, that ye may marvel. God says in this passage, Christ says that the Father loves the Son, and he shows the Son all things. What does it mean when he says that he shows the Son all things, and essentially the Son just follows what the Father's plan is? I think to illustrate this point, I think it's helpful to think in terms of a news journalist. How many of you all have watched been watching the news and watching a news journalist report on the news? And while he he or she is reporting, he suddenly puts his hand up on his ear and he says, wait a minute, something is coming in. How many have ever seen that before? Most of us have seen that when And what we what you know to be the case is that most journalists just sort of have this earbud in their ear and I don't know how they do this, it would drive me nuts. But they have and this earbud in the ear and they're constantly receiving information, or not I don't know about constantly, but they can receive information. from from the powers that be or from people that are around in order for them to continue reporting the news in an accurate sense minute by minute, supposedly Well, in a similar way, in a much better way, of course, Christ has this direct access, he says, here, to the Father all the time. It's like he has this constant feed coming in. And so he's wanting to explain to these Jewish leaders that there is no distinction in the plan and purpose of his father and himself, that they are unified in their purpose and unified in their goals and unified. in themselves, in their actions. We find also then, furthermore, as we go through this, and let me just pause at the at this moment and just say this. I would encourage you to take notes. I've got a lot up on the screen here, and the reason I have that is because this is so detailed that I want to help you. And don't I mean if you're if you're done a note taker you're better just auditory or listening, that's fine. But if if it were me, uh I I like to just listen to some messages, but this is one that has enough details that you might want to take notes on this. It's just free. If it were me, I would want to know that ahead of time. And that's just something you might want to consider doing. It's interesting in this passage that it says this: For the Father loveth the Son. The very basis of God's plan is that he loves his son. D. A. Carson says this. This marvelous disclosure of the nature and character of God utterly depends, in the first instance, not on God's love of us. But on the love of the Father for His Son, and on the love of the Son for the Father, the achievement of the divine self-disclosure in Jesus Climax in the cross was supremely the outflow of the reciprocal love of the Father and the Son within the Godhead. You see, when it comes to God's shared purpose with his father, why is this all what's the sort of the glue that holds everything together? Why is it that the Father and the Son are so in unity with each other? Because they have reciprocal love for each other. The father has love for the son. And the son has love for the father. And they are doing, in a sense, each other's bidding. The father wants to benevolently give gifts to his son. And the son wants to follow the plan and purposes of his father. There is this inseparable link, this inseparable c connection this inseparable love between Christ and his Father. And that's really the basis of our redemption. In the first instance, God is redeeming us for his son because he loves his son. And of course, in the second instance, it is also because he loves us as well. What, though, is the significance of this? Why is this impactful for us that we understand the basis of this? I'd like you to take your Bibles and just maybe put your finger in John chapter five, but we're going to turn a few chapters over to John chapter seventeen And I want you to see something that is quite amazing in John 17 as Christ prays his intercessory prayer on behalf of the disciples and all of us. To his father. You see a lot of the father's plan and Christ's plan coming together in this chapter, but I want you to notice something particular about the love of the Father and his son and how we have the ability to be involved in that. John 17, verse 23. I and them, he's talking there about Christians. His disciples, first of all, but actually all that would come after him that are genuinely followers of Christ. He says, I in them and thou in me, that they may be made perfect in one. And that the world may know that thou hast sent me. Now, I want you to notice what he says. And hast loved them as thou what? Is that not incredible? The same quality of love that the Father has for his son, Christ declares that the Father also has for us. And even though in the first instant he loves his son and gives his son to uh give he loves his son and gives us to his son as gifts to his son, he has the same kind of love that he has for his son for us. And of course, redemption is not exclusive in the sense that it only benefits Christ and doesn't benefit us. Redemption benefits both Christ and us And so it is that the cross is this pinnacle of love for us, and love for the Son And love for the Father. So that we are joined in this love relationship that they have. We get to be a part of this love relationship. John chapter 17, verse 26 says this. And I have declared unto them thy name, and will declare it, that the love wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them, and I in them. Why is it that we can have this love we can we can be infused into this love relationship that the Father has with his own son? It is because Christ prayed on our behalf in this passage for us. So the basis of everything is the deity of Christ and his relationship with his father, folks. This is absolutely foundational to the Christian faith You don't get more foundational than this passage, really, when it comes to why we are redeemed, why Christ has done what he has done, why did God not just discard us when we sinned against him Why did he is he chosen to redeem humanity? This is absolutely foundational on every level. Now, then we find something else here that the supreme example of the kind of unity that Christ has with his Father, the point that he says To these people that he's talking to, these Jewish people, he says to them, You have seen the works that I have done. You've seen the miracles that I have done, but there is even more, so you're going to marvel You're going to marvel at the plan that I have and that your that the Father has and that we will be working together to accomplish. And we find this in verse 21. Verse 21 says, For as the Father raised up the dead and quickeneth them, even so the Son quickeneth whom he will. Now, the reason, folks, that this is so significant for these Jewish leaders is because of this. 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 7 says this. And it came to pass when the king of Israel had read the letter. That he rent his clothes and said, Am I God to kill and to make alive? And this man doth send unto be un unto me to recover, and a man his leprosy. Wherefore consider I pray you and see how ye seeketh a quarrel against one. What we find in that passage is a clear truth that it is reserved for God alone to be a giver of life It is reserved for God alone to resurrect life that is dead. That is something that God does. We can think all the way back to the beginning in creation where it says that God breathed into the nostrils of humanity the breath, or in Adam's nostrils particularly, the breath of life, and man became a living soul. This is this resurrection, life-giving ability, is something that only God has. And the Jewish people would have understood this. And so when Christ says, I am one who gives life, who quickeneth, who can give life, I am one who can do that, he is clearly claiming deity. Now at this point, I want us to pause for a moment and I want us to see something that may be apparent, but I'm going to bring it to light and answer an objection that some people have to the deity of Christ based upon this. You see inferred in this text the reality that Christ is subordinate to his Father. Have you noticed that in the passage? On one hand, he says that he is equal with God. On another hand, he says that he does the bidding of his Father. What what is how do you explain that? In fact, there are cults that are that really that is the primary subjection to their believing that the deity of Christ And that he is equal in value and essence to his father. Because it says in several passages throughout the Gospels that Christ does the will of the Father. And so how can he be equal with his father unless he does the will of his father? One day I was um sitting in my office and one of the benefits of having an office that looks like a house is I get certain people that walk by my office and think it's a house and they knock on their door and they want to witness to me And uh I always actually thoroughly enjoy it. And so I always invite them in. And there was this one time where uh uh two men came and they they knocked on my door and um They said, Hi, um, we have something from the Bible to share with you and I said, Well sure, come on in. And you know, they take about three steps and they look around at the bookshelves and the desk and they sort of are not expecting that uh when they come into the office, so that's always sort of an interesting interesting experience or sort of oh this is not what um and I sort of say, yeah I'm the past see that church over there, I'm the pastor of that church over there. But come on in and have a seat anyway So they come in and they sat they they'll they'll sit and we talk and and and and this particular subject came up, I really kind of brought it up, but Um I I I I talked about, I said, you know, I said, let me just kind of cut to the chase here. I mean you you have a lot of things that that you're saying here, but the real problem is that you don't believe that Jesus is God And they said, well, we believe that he is a God. And I said, I know that's what you believe. But you don't believe that he is God. And so they continue to take me to several passages of Scripture in the Gospels that explain that Christ was doing the will of his Father, and so then how could he be equal with God? And I let them talk for probably 15 to 20 minutes and just listened. Because I wanted 15 to 20 minutes to talk so that they could listen. And so I listened for a little while, and then I said to them, I said this, I said, let me ask you a question, are you married? And it turned out that both of them were married. One had probably only been married for a couple of years, he was a young guy, and the other one had probably been married for many years, he was an older older gentleman And I said to them, You're married. I said, let me ask you a question. Are you both the leaders of your household? And they said yes. They said, Yeah, that's the bot, the Bible says we need to be that way. I said, okay, let me ask you this question. Is your wife inferior in value to you? The young man said yes. And the older man said, no, no, no, no, no. And he looked at me and I said I s I looked at the young man, I said, Let me tell you something, your wife is not inferior in value to you. And so I went on to explain that that was really a perfect illustration of the relationship that Christ has with his father because we see that parallel in John's and Ephesians chapter five, where it says that just as Christ is the head of the church, then we find also in another passage that the Father is the head of Christ. In fact, you might want to actually note this. First Corinthians chapter 11, verse 3. You might want to write that down if you're taking notes. And if you're talking to a Jehovah's Wit uh I wasn't going to say the name If you're going to talk to a person who doesn't believe in the deity of Christ, you might want to know this. But I would have you know that the head of every man is Christ And the head of the woman is the man, and the head of Christ is God. It makes the connection. It makes the clear connection between the head of the woman being the man, the husband, And the head of Christ being God, the Father. And when I read that verse to them, they really had no answer. They said, we have never heard this before. And then they went on to ex ask why why nobody else has ever explained this to them before. And I told them that they're probably afraid of you. But anyway, I said it in a nice way. Um but uh I so I explained to them and I said they they actually they were very kind to me and they appreciated it. They said, wow we really gotta they're gonna go back and talk to somebody But here's the point. What we're talking here, folks, is is the difference. I'm gonna now at this point use a the two theological terms. You understand the concept, so don't get scared by the terms. But there are two terms that I would encourage you to just maybe jot down, and they are the terms economic trinity. And ontological Trinity. I didn't introduce those terms in the beginning because I didn't want to scare anybody. Okay. But these two terms are really exactly what it is. If you want to understand the Trinity. Well, first of all, you can't completely understand the Trinity. It isn't something that is completely logical. There is a sense in which we just have to trust all of what Scripture says and believe what it says. But when it comes to this particular thing, the in the economic Trinity, that is, God's economy with his Father, Christ with His Father. The function is that they are less in rank, that Christ is less in rank, that the Father outranks the Son. But ontologically, they are the same. They are one in essence, quality, and character. So you have on one sense you have a function, and on the other sense, you have the essence of a person Or the essence, um the essence of oneness that we have, that the Father has, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. They're all three in one. Now, this is very complicated. This is not something, I mean, this is this is getting into the details. But folks, this is important for us to understand. Because if you're going to share Christ with people, this will come up with certain people. And you've got to be able to have an answer for them when this comes up And this is helpful for us to think in this way. But if you come, this is the conclusion you should come to: that rank does not equal value in God's economy. Rank does not equal value. Now, the way that we think of it, we think of that of it that way. A CEO is more important than a factory worker. We think of it in terms of important. God does not think of it in that way. A general is more important than a corporal or something. God does not think of it that way. He thinks in terms of economy, he thinks of all men being equal and the Godhead being equal in value. And so you have, you do not have a difference in value just because you have a difference in ranking. And by the way, there's there are so many applications to this when it comes to marriage It is inaccurate for us to think that either spouse is less valuable than the other. But it is required of the husband to give the direction. It doesn't mean that the wife is less valuable in any way, but there is required by the husband to give the plan, to set forth a direction, to set forth the path. And for the wife to come to range herself under that path. There are all kinds of applications of this, all kinds of ways to think about this, but this is deep, isn't it? The point is that Christ makes here is that because of the economic, because of the function makes them so unified. There is no distinction in their plan or purpose or any of that. And so we do not need to think of them in terms of separate, except that they are separate in their functions and separate in their per in their persons. Okay? They have three separate persons and one God. Now, with all of that in mind, let's move on to the next next point that he makes here. Chapter 5, verse 22. For the Father judgeth no man, but he committeth all judgment unto the Son. That all men should honor the Son, even as they even as, and equal to, notice that, even as they honor the Father. He that honoreth not the Son, honoreth not the Father which hath sent him. What we find here then is that Christ explains, and this is this is this is completely new information. This is not any information that you're going to find in the Old Testament, I don't think anywhere. This is new information, of course, it's on the authority of Christ, so we can hold to it wholeheartedly. But what it says at this point is that the father is now going to delegate his judgment role to the son. I want to mention this by way by way of interpretation and application. When we think of Christ, sometimes we we think of him in terms of Terms of love and redemption and caring, but we forget that He is the judge of all. Are we not guilty of sometimes doing that? Why is it that in addition to the redemption that he gave as a responsibility to his son, the father also chose to give judgment to the son? What does it say in the passage? Why Because he wants his son to be honored in the same way as he himself, as the father, is honored. There does seem to be a connection that when we worship the Sun as an honored judge We are worshiping him with honor and respect and reverence that he truly deserves. What you find, and you can find this among Christians everywhere, someone who emphasizes the love of Christ to the exclusion of the judgment of Christ. Becomes imbalanced in their approach to their lifestyle. They do not reverence Christ as they ought to. They do not tend to have act, they do not tend to live in light of that. They often become permissive and tolerant. What Scripture says here is that not only is Christ love, but Christ is judge. And if we're going to have worship him in the way that God wants us to truly worship him, It is not just going to be with adoration and gratefulness, although that is certainly part of it. It is going to be with honor and reverence and respect for Christ because he is judge. That's why it says in Philippians chapter 2, verses 9 through 11, he says, Wherefore God hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name. That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow of things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth. And every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. How can we worship Christ in a way that is fitting for him? We've got to recognize, we've got to believe, we've got to know that Christ is judge. And there is There is an honor and a respect and reverence that he deserves. Then we move here to the final portion of this text in verses 24 through 30. And in verses 24 through 30, what we find is that Christ is going to really reiterate all that he has said, and now he is finally going to make personal application to all of his listeners. Verse 24, we pick up here, and it says this: Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life And shall not come unto condemnation, but is passed from death unto life. Verily, verily, I say unto you, the hour is coming, and now is When the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and they that hear shall live. For as the Father hath life in himself, so hath he given to the Son to have life in himself. And has given him authority to execute judgment also, because he is the Son of Man. Marvel not at this, for the hour is coming in the which all that are in the grave shall hear his voice And shall come forth they that have done good unto the resurrection of life, and they that have done evil unto the resurrection of damnation. Christ now in his description of his own relationship with his father and how this is all going to play out in God's ultimate plan of redemption. explains that that what is necessary to apply all of this is that he we must believe all of this by faith There is a belief that is absolutely necessary in order for us to understand what Christ really did and to receive it. And that belief is not just belief based upon circumstances. Or miracles in that day that He had done. It is based upon the Word of God True faith is not found in looking around at circumstances. Circumstances may direct us to true faith, but true faith is not found in looking around at circumstances True faith is found in looking at the Word of God and believing it even when it seems to contradict circumstances. And you're going to find that to be the case in life, aren't we? There are some times when you come to life and you look at the circumstances and you stay in your life. You say this is seems to be inconsistent with the truth that I find in God's Word. I don't get it. And what true faith does is they say is you it says, I'm going to believe in what God's Word says. And let my view of circumstances be conformed to the truth of the Word of God. Are we willing to do that in our lives? What God does in our circumstances is He draws us to Himself The trying of our faith works patience or endurance, and we must let faith have her perfect work, that we may be mature and entire, lacking nothing. In this passage, we see that the result of eternal life, or that we see the means of eternal life being faith, and we see the result of eternal life If is the resurrection of Christ, is the resurrection actually of the dead, it says here. Do you realize that that is the hope of the believer? That one day Christ will come and return. And those who have accepted him by faith in the way that is described in this passage will live forever with him. We so oftentimes, and this is just clear application for us as Christians, we so oftentimes we we look To things in this life as our hope. We look ahead and we say to ourselves: if only this happens, it will get better. Or if only this happens, things will get better We are so tempted to look at our circumstances and to look ahead and to say, okay, well if this happens, it'll get better. And we're hoping to the circumstance. And hoping to the circumstance Hoping that things are getting better. And you know what the book of Proverbs says about that? Hope deferred makes what? The heart sick. For the Christian, what we've got to do is we have got to find our hope in the coming and the resurrection of Christ. This is entirely applicable. This can be applied on Monday morning when you go to work and you find a circumstance that is absolutely beyond your control that you'd like to fix immediately And you'd like to see half something happen, and you're looking ahead at your circumstances, and you're saying, if this will only happen, this will only happen, then things will be better, and what we've really got to do is look at Christ and the resurrection, and we've got to say, that's the only time when things will get completely better. I was studying for this message, and a song came to my mind. The first verse in the chorus goes this way. A timeless theme. Earth and heaven will pass away. It's not a dream. God will make all things new that day. Gone is the curse from which I stumbled and fell. Evil is vanished to eternal hell. No more night. No more pain. No more tears. Never crying again. Praises to the great I Am. We will live in the light of the risen Lamb. Let me just ask you a question. In your life, in your circumstances, do you look ahead and do you see Difficulty and trial ahead. Or maybe now you're going through difficulties of life and struggles and stress and problems. We need to look to the day where there will be no more night, no more pain, no more crying, because we will be with the great I am Christ Himself. I can't wait. When you begin to look at the problems of this world We are tempted to look at our problems and hope for political revival or restoration. Or something. Or when we look at this world and we look at the how our how the curse of this world impacts our lives, how we struggle and toil and and and just have to trudge through life I can't wait till I'm no longer I'm no longer under the effects of the curse anymore. It's gone. Sin is gone. The struggle is gone. The curse is gone. The problems are gone. I can't wait. That's the hope of the believer. I guess I have to wait. I don't mean literally I can't wait, but you know what I mean. Are you living that way? You see, to live is Christ and to die is gain. Christ said, Take my yoke upon you and learn of me. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light, and you'll find rest for your souls. You want to be able to give your burdens to Christ. You've got to learn of Christ. That includes understanding who Christ is. It includes being reminded of the redemption of the plan of Christ. And folks, when you begin to see all this put together and you see the unity of the plan of Christ and you see that Christ, the Father, delegates the judgment of Christ to the Son. And you begin to see your own self, and when you look at the justice of Christ, when you look at who you really are, you are overwhelmed with a reverence and a respect and an honor of this God that we serve, Jesus Christ. And then you look at the love of Christ and you look at the redemption of Christ and you are overwhelmed with gratefulness for who Christ is. And you are so thankful that you are redeemed. And you're so grateful that your sins have been set away from you as far as the east, as far west, not to be held against you And you become grateful for the love of Christ in your life, but it doesn't end there. We look forward ahead. Even though we are positionally right with God, and even though we are more moving forward in our Christ-likeness in this life, there is a day in which it will all be solved for us. There will be a day where we will be with Christ. How can we not live as the most hopeful people in all of the world? There ought not be anybody, frankly, though we are tempted to, that goes to work on Monday morning and got your Head in the sand and you're down in the dumps. Why? Because this is not the end. What would it do? To the unbeliever that sees us with hope and a positive outlook with all the junk going on all over the place. And we're living above it. We're like rising above it because we know where we know the destiny. We know where we're going. What would it do to an unbeliever to see that kind of outlook for us? How would it influence them? There is great application here, isn't there? Because if we're going to live a Christ life, it is going to be as we know Him. And as we constantly remind him us, ourselves, of who he is, I have actually five questions for you. Number one Do you appreciate the depth of Christ's relationship with his Father? Are you willing to delve in deep to these things, to look at the details today? see all that Christ is and all that he says he is with his father. Are you willing to go in and let your mind be boggled for a moment and marvel as Christ intend intends for all of us to marvel at these kinds of things. You know, sometimes we need to go deep enough just to say, wow. I don't get it, and that's okay, and I'm just grateful that God is God, and I ought to marvel at who He is. Are we impacted by the love that we get to participate in? I mean, just think of it. The love that the Father has for his son. Are we impacted by that? That we get to be be joining with him in that kind of love? Do we honor Christ by recognizing him as judge? Is he judged? He is. We've got to recognize him that way. Now, praise God. We're redeemed from that judgment because of Christ. He has judgment and he has redemption. That God the Father has given to him? Do we know Christ and trust Christ so we can experience abundant Life in Christ. This eternal life is not just forever life. It's abundant life. It is the life that Christ intended for us to live. And it starts at the moment we come to Christ. And number five, do we live in light of the resurrection? Do we think about it when we get when we get into a place where we are just down in the dumps? or when we are just under a lot of stress, or when we are feeling as though our situation is hopeless, are we looking ahead to the resurrection? that our bodies will be redeemed. The curse of this world is going to be redeemed. I mean I no I I don't know how many times old people tell me don't get old. And I think, well that doesn't make any sense at all. But they know it doesn't make sense, and I know it doesn't make sense, and I know what they're saying. But is it great that you know you get old and then you go to be with the Lord and then you get resurrected body one day? That's the hope of the believer. You know, no wonder unbelievers are down in the dumps. They should be. But we should not be. Because we have the hope of redemption. Let's go to him in prayer. Father, we thank you, Lord, for Christ When we delve into the plan that you had with your son before the foundations of the world, That you carried out through the coming of Christ through the first time and will continue to carry out in the second or finish in the second coming of Christ And we see all that Christ is and what you intend him to be. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to fall down and worship him That we would marvel and be in awe that Christ would choose to save the likes of us. If there's anybody here, Lord, that does not truly come to Christ, I pray, Lord, that they would understand. That Christ is judge, that he will judge sin. And that he offers to all who will accept it entirely by faith, he offers it He offers redemption to us. I pray, Lord, that we would live the life that you intend for us to live in Christ. And we pray these things in Christ's name Amen. Well let's